Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2087-UNI
FILE COPY
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 26, 1979
West Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Naira (0)
US$1       NO.65
Ni       US$1.54
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights
and measures in this report are metric.
1 metric ton      =    0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)          2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)  =    0.62 mile
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ABU       Ahmadu Bello University
ADC       Agricultural Development Corporation
ADP       Agricultural Development Project
APMU      Agricultural Projects Management Unit for West Africa (World Bank)
APMEPU    Agricultural Projects Monitoring Evaluation and Planning Unit (Kaduna)
ARCN      Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria
ARMTI     Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
ASC       Area Service Center
ASP       Advanced Service Package
BSP       Basic Service Package
CDA       Controlled Droplet Applicator
CFU       Central Fertilizer Unit
CRIN      Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FDA       Federal Department of Agriculture
FDAR      Federal Department of Agricultural Research
FDRD      Federal Department of Rural Development
FMAWR     Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
FMF       Federal Ministry of Finance
FMG       Federal Military Government of Nigeria
FSC       Farm Service Center
IAR       Institute of Agricultural Research
IITA      International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
IPEC      Ilorin Project Executive Committee
IPMU      Ilorin Project Management Unit
IPTCC     Ilorin Project Technical Coordination Committee
KWSG      Kwara State Government
LBA       Licensed Buying Agent
LGA       Local Government Area
LGC       Local Government Council
MANR      Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MED       Ministry of Economic Development
MEU       Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (Benin City)
MTIC      Ministry of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives
MLG       Ministry of Local Government
MOW       Ministry of Works
NACB      Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank
NAFPP     National Accelerated Food Production Program
NCRI      National Cereals Research Institute
NEPA      National Electric Power Authority
NGPC      National Grain Production Company
NHRI      National Horticultural Research Institute
NIFOR     Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
NPMC      Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
NRRI      National Root Research Institute
NSS       National Seeds Service
OER       Official Exchange Rate
OFN       Operation Feed the Nation
REB       Rural Electrification Board
SER       Shadow Exchange Rate
SDA       Special Development Areas
TCZ       Tree Crop Zone (Project)
THU       Tractor Hire Unit
ULV       Ultra Low Volume
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.        BACKGROUND                 ................................................                           1
II.         THE  AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  ...................................                                       1
III.         KWARA  STATE  ....            .      ...........................................                      8
IV.         THE  PROJECT  AREA  . .................. ..                          ...............                10
A.   Physical  Features  .....................................                                      10
B.   Infrastructure  and  Social  Services    ...................                                  11
C.   Socio-Economic  Factors  . ...... . . . . .   .............................  .                12
D.   Land  Use,  Farm  Structure  and  Farm  Enterprises  ...                         ......       14
V.        THE  PROJECT                 ...............................................                        16
A.    Summary  Description  ...................................                                     16
B.   Detailed  Features               .................... .................                       18
C.   Cost  Estimates                     ........................................                  27
D.   Proposed  Financing  . ........                   ......  ............... . ....              29
E.   Procurement                    ...........................................                    30
F.   Disbursements                     .........................................                   31
G.   Accounts  and  Audits  .... ....  .......... . ...... . .   .................. .              32
H.   Programming  and  Budgeting  .............................                                    32
VI.         TECHNOLOGY            AND  PRODUCTION  SPECIFICATIONS  ...............                              32
A.   Crop  Development  ......................................                                     32
B.   Tractor  Services  ............. . ....................... .                                  35
C.   Land  Development  ............................ ...........                                   35
D.   Feeder  Roads                    ..........................................                   37
E     Buildings                 .............................................                      37
VII.         DEMAND, MARKETING AND PRICES .....................    38
A. Demand                                                   ......... 1, ...........   38
B.   Marketing  ...                           ........................                             38
C. Prices.... 39
This report is based on the findings of an IBRD mission consisting of Messrs.
Wilson and Ody (Bank) and Allison and Smith (Consultants), who visited Nigeria
from November 11 to December 16, 1977 to appraise the project.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                              Page No.
VIII.     PROJECT ORGANIZATION  .......................                 .    39
A.  Organization and Management             .    .                39
B.  Staffing -..........*....:41..
C. Farm Credit Administration                        .43
D.  Post Project Development                . .       .......    44
IX.     FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ..o .... o .... oo .....            . . ... .    45
A.  Financial Implications for Farmers.......    45
B.  Financial Implications to Government oo................    46
Co Cost Recovery   . .. . ....  ..  ... .....  . . -              47
X.     ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..... ... . ..... .. . ... . . ......    48
XI.     RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED                             51
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 1             Estimated Farming Population
Table 2             Summary of Project Costs
Table 3             Proposed Financing Plan by Expense Category
Table 4             Increases in Production and Yields
ANNEX I                       Agronomy and Farm Budgets
Table 1             Inputs and Estimated Yields
Table 2             Basic Service Package:  Crop Development Projections
Table 3             Basic Service Package:  Crop Production Projections
Table 4             Advanced Service Package:  Crop Development Projections
Table 5             Advanced Service Package:  Crop Production Projections
Table 6             Summary of Project Input Requirements
Table 7             Per Hectare Crop Returns under Manual Cultivation
Table 8             Basic Service Package:  Estimated Average Farm Income
Table 9             Advanced Service Package:  Mechanical Tillage:  5 Hectare Farm
Table 10            Advanced Service Package:  Minimum Tillage:  5 Hectare Farm
ANNEX 2                        Project Costs and Financing
A. Kwara State Component
Table 1             Summary of Project Costs by Section
Table 2             Summary of Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
Table 3             Vehicle and Equipment Costs by Section
Table 4             Building and Civil Works Costs by Section
Table 5             Salary and Wage Costs by Section
Table 6             Farm Input Costs



Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex 2 (Continued)
Table 7             Operating Costs and General Services by Section
Table 8             Detailed Financing Plan by Expense Category
Table 9             Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
Table 10            Illustrative Cash Flow - Kwara State Government
B.   Federal Component
Table 11            Costs and Financing of Federal Component
ANNEX 3                       Economic Evaluation
Table 1             Estimated Economic Prices for Production (Maize and Sorghum)
Table 2             Financial and Economic Prices for Production
Table 3             Economic Prices of Farm Inputs
Table 4             Economic Value of Incremental Crop Production
Table 5             Economic Valuation of Farm Inputs
Table 6             Economic Value of Incremental Labor
Table 7             Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
Table 8             Economic Rate of Return:  Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEX 4                       Federal Feasibility Studies
Table 1             Detailed Cost of Studies
ANNEX 5                       Working Papers in Project File
CHARTS
19044               Project Organization
MAPS
IBRD 13708R         Nigeria:  Agricultural Projects
IBRD 13494          Project Area:  Existing Agricultural Infrastructure
and Land Development Schemes
IBRD 13495          Project Area:  Proposed Development Infrastructure
and Land Planning Areas
IBRD 13496          Project Area:  Existing and Proposed Roads and
Electrical Installations



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Federal Military Government of Nigeria (FMG) has requested Bank
Group assistance in financing an agricultural development project in the Moro,
Asa, Ilorin, Irepodum, Ifelodun and Oyun Local Government Council (LGC) areas
of Kwara State. This report appraises a project designed to increase the
productivity, incomes and standards of living of the farm families in these
areas by providing a range of farm support services, promoting better farm-
ing practices and effecting infrastructural and institutional improvements.
Direct beneficiaries would be about 88,000 farm families, each cultivating
about 2.5 ha, who can be expected to adopt basic improved practices on at
least part of their farms, and about 1,800 participants in medium and large
group farms each cropping about 5 ha.
1.02      An Identification Mission visited Kwara State in October 1976 and
reviewed State agricultural prospects and population statistics and, in the
light of recent local government reform, made recommendations on a suitable
zoning structure for agricultural development administration. Following
field study and discussions with both State and Federal officials, full agree-
ment was reached on location, concept and preparation arrangements for the
project. Subsequently, under Loan 1164-UNI, FMG financed a team of consul-
tants, assisted by Federal and State counterparts, to prepare a feasibility
study. Field studies were completed in February/March 1977 and a final
report was submitted in August of that year.
II. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
2.01      Nigeria.  The Federal Republic of Nigeria comprises 19 States and
covers a total land area of 924,000 km . Total 1977 population is estimated
at roughly 79 million, which is nearly 20% of the total for the African con-
tinent. Average GDP per capita (estimated at around US$420 in 1977) is low
and unevenly distributed; income in rural areas is considerably lower.
2.02      Economic Trends.  The Nigerian economy is dominated by the oil
sector, which accounts for about 30 percent of GDP, over 90 percent of export
earnings and 80 percent of Government revenue. The increase in oil prices in
1973/74 enabled the Government to embark on a massive investment program and
this contributed to GNP growth averaging 6 percent per annum between 1973 and
1977. However, growth was concentrated in those sectors that benefited in
particular from the rapid expansion in Government expenditure, i.e., infra-
structure, education and large scale manufacturing, and performance of the
productive sectors, notably agriculture, has been disappointing.



- 2 -
2.03      The unprecedented rise in public spending (federal current expendi-
ture increased from US$1.1 billion in 1973/74 to US$4.2 billion in 1977/78,
and capital expenditure from US$1.2 billion to US$9.7 billion) quickly
exhausted the oil-produced internal and external surpluses, and Nigeria now
faces considerable fiscal and balance of payments constraints. The economy
was unable to generate goods and services at the rate demanded, and con-
sequently the domestic price level rose by an average of 26% per annum
between 1975 and 1977. Oil production in Nigeria is not expected to rise
much above the present level during the 1980's and overall growth prospects
for the economy are therefore considered modest.
2.04      Sectoral Characteristics.  Approximately 61% of Nigeria's population
is dependent on agriculture, which accounts for about 23% of GDP, 5% of total
export earnings and 62% of non-oil exports. Agricultural production is
almost ent:rely in the hands of smallholders whose levels of technology
and production efficiency are low.
2.05      Cropping patterns vary within the country's main ecological zones.
In the forest zones of the south, where rainfall is bimodally distributed
over a wet season of up to eight months, the agricultural economy is largely
based on tree crops with annual staples providing subsistence and subsidiary
income. In the Guinea and Sudan savannah zones of the north, rainfall is
monomodal within a six-month spread and production is based almost entirely
on annual crops. Between these two zones is an area known as the "middle
belt" supporting southern Guinea and transitional forest savannah vegetation
and a mix of annual and tree crops, though rainfall quantity and spread are
inadequate for successful economic exploitation of the latter. Little deve-
lopment attention has been directed towards the "middle belt" which forms an
important food producing reserve for the nation.
2.06      Growth of the agricultural sector has been disappointing, averaging
0.9% per annum from 1970-76, equivalent to less than half the average popu-
lation growth. This same period has been characterized firstly by rapidly
rising domestic food prices as demand, resulting from population and income
growth, outstripped domestic supply, and secondly by a marked decline in
traditional agricultural export crops apart from cocoa. During the same
period total exports (including petroleum) increased from N 852 million to
N 6.6 billion; meanwhile, importation of food and live animals rose from
N 50 million to N 440 million, and to N 790 million in 1977.
2.07      Federal Sector Institutions.  Agricultural development in Nigeria
is the responsibility of nineteen State Governments and the Federal Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Resources (FMAWR). FMAWR is responsible for coordi-
nation of agricultural development activities and national policy for the
sector and sub-sectors. Of the Federal funds for agricultural development 30%
are distributed equally among the States and the remaining 70% on the basis of
population. Additional subventions are made for special projects; for example,
25% of the total costs of Bank financed projects are presently borne by the
FMAWR. Within FMAWR the FDA (Federal Department of Agriculture) is concerned
primarily with tree crop development, the National Accelerated Food Production



Program (NAFPP), Operation Feed the Nation (OFN) and training, while the FDRD
(Federal Department of Rural Development) is responsible for the planning and
implementation of integrated rural/agricultural development programs. Each
department is headed by a Director who is responsible to the Permanent Secre-
tary, FMAWR. The FDA and FDRD have established project monitoring, evaluation
and planning units at Benin City and Kaduna, respectively, with Bank technical
assistance.
2.08      The Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank (NACB), which was
established by FMG in November 1972, is the first and only national institu-
tion organized solely to provide finance for agriculture.  Its initial author-
ized share capital of N 1 million was subsequently raised to N 2 million and
has been fully paid up. NACB is fully dependent on Government funding through
Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF) loans and Central Bank discount facilities.
It charges 5-7% interest to its borrowers, which bears no relation to the real
cost of capital in Nigeria nor to NACB's overall lending cost. Its lending
operations are normally restricted to large commercial farms and plantations
and to other financial intermediaries for onlending. As of June 30, 1976 it
had approved 91 loans for a total N 86 million. Long-term plans and policies
for NACB, particularly with respect to interest rate and direct involvement
in lending operations to small farmers, are yet to be defined. The Bank's
only involvement with NACB as a channel for farm lending is associated with
the Livestock Project (Loan 1091-UNI) which has not been successful. At this
stage it would be more prudent to administer credit directly at project level
(see paras. 8.10-8.16) until such time as NACB's operations are more flexible
and effective. Meanwhile, the Bank is maintaining a dialogue on agricultural
credit with NACB and Federal authorities, on the basis of ongoing sector work,
the object being to set the stage for possible direct Bank support to NACB as
soon as circumstances warrant it.
2.09      Government intervention in marketing and pricing of agricultural
crops has always been an important sector operation. Until recently, the
official marketing system for statutory crops consisted of the Northern States
Marketing Board (responsible for cotton and groundnuts), the Cocoa Marketing
Board and a number of State Marketing Boards integrated at the national level
with the Nigerian Produce Marketing Company (NPMC). In April 1977, these
were replaced by seven Commodity Boards, each dealing with one particular
commodity or groups of commodities. With this, virtually all major export
and non-export crops have been brought within the purview of the statutory
marketing institutions. The Boards do not enjoy monopsony powers, except in
respect of some export crops, and market participation is unrestricted. The
Boards are expected to operate a system of rural buying and primary assembly
similar to their predecessor Marketing Boards, i.e., through a string of
licensed buying agents and their sub-agents, and are also expected to ad-
minister government's minimum producer price program. However, guaranteed
minimum prices are usually lower than market prices which, together with
financial, managerial and logistic constraints, precludes substantial market
intervention by these bodies. Therefore, except for cocoa, coffee, rubber
and cotton, public sector participation in and impact on agricultural produce
marketing (and prices) is minimal.



-4 -
2.10      The universities of Ibadan, Ife, Nigeria (Nsukka) and Ahmadu Bello
(ABU) offer graduate/undergraduate courses in agriculture and conduct research.
Additionally, the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) at Samaru, the
Federal Department of Agricultural Research (FDAR) and the International
Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) at Ibadan, are engaged in food
crop (cereals, grain, legumes, oil seeds, root crops) and cotton research,
while the Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria (CRIN) at Ibadan and the Nigerian
Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR) at Benin are engaged in cocoa and oil
palm research. Generally the research programs of Nigerian institutions are
insufficiently geared towards solving the practical problems faced by farmers,
and there has been limited interaction with agricultural extension (see also
para. 3.05).
2.11      Development Strategy.  Government is aware of the need to improve
performance in the agricultural sector and to invest the substantial revenues
from oil, an asset that is being depleted, to expand and diversify the economy
in which agriculture will remain a dominant sector for the foreseeable future.
In the revised Third Five-Year Development Plan, a total of N 3.0 billion is
earmarked for the sector to support a targeted growth rate of 5%. The program
includes development of several major river basins for irrigation, dissemina-
tion of modern farming techniques to smallholders, improved input distribution
and marketing services and support for various integrated development projects.
Rural development will be promoted with complementary investments in secondary
and feeder roads, rural electrification, health facilities and other social
services.
2.12      Government's main short-term objective is to improve internal price
stability in basic foodcrops and to ensure adequate food supplies to the
rapidly expanding urban centers. Beyond this aim of assured domestic food
supplies, Government's longer-term objectives are to create a prosperous and
efficient agricultural industry that could reduce population drift to urban
centers,, and to revive the role of Nigeria as an agricultural exporter.
2.13      During the past two years (1977-78), the implementation of new local
government reforms has been taking place. The reforms are significant, both
politically and from a standpoint of practical rural development, and in
effect replace a more traditional local government administration at the
subregional level by elected Local Government Councils (LGCs). The reform
is thus intended to increase popular participation in the conduct of local
government. In undertaking this reform, the Federal Government recognizes the
importance of decentralized administration and the power of local opinion if
the long-term development effort is to be successful. The powers and respon-
sibilities of the LGCs are potentially considerable and involve all aspects
of development from agriculture, education and health, to roads and water
supplies. It is the intention that the LGCs will, in the long term, control
and operate agricultural extension services, and this will have an as yet
undetermined impact on the structure and role of the State Ministries of
Agriculture. While this development has far-reaching implications, LGCs
are expected, during the next decade, to face difficulties in securing the



services of sufficient numbers of competent and experienced staff. Further-
more, the lack of properly coordinated and planned policies, and deficiencies
in funding, are likely to prevent their smooth development. Nevertheless,
LGCs are a practical reality and agricultural development projects in Nigeria
will have to make allowance for their involvement and, where possible, provide
support for their development.
2.14      Development Constraints.   Undoubtedly, the main short-term develop-
ment constraint in the sector is the lack of effective agricultural support
services. Produce evacuation is hampered by lack of feeder roads, and many
farmers have to travel long distances to the unevenly distributed and unreli-
able sources of inputs.
2.15      At the present highly subsidized prices, the demand for farm inputs
(in particular, for fertilizer) is high and at times unsatisfied; in many
areas this has encouraged a thriving black market. However, even within
areas of relatively high consumption of purchased inputs, physical yields are
still low and it is likely that many farm operations would be unviable at
economic prices.
2.16      Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector, and present Government policies, inter alia on input
subsidies are not sufficiently geared to encouraging vigorous private sector
participation. It is, however, highly likely that given Nigeria's size and
massive development program and the existence of an economic system largely
based on private enterprise, Government will ultimately wish to divest
itself of responsibilities such as input distribution and produce marketing;
this would require creation of an economic framework appropriate to profitable
involvement of private entrepreneurs in the agriculture service sector.   In
addition, a greater effort is required, particularly by the Nigerian agricul-
tural research institutions, to improve the analysis of technical, economic
and financial aspects of farming innovations for adaptation to the different
social and ecological conditions of Nigeria. This information is an essential
background to a sound input supply policy and the development of appropriate
delivery systems.
2.17      Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a
background of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising
standards of education, both of which lead people to react against the poor
returns to labor and the drudgery associated with traditional agriculture.
Recent years have seen a marked drift of young people away from rural areas
and a sharp rise in wage rates for hired labor. Ultimately, a prosperous
agriculture industry, capable of reducing this drift, would only be achieved
through application of advanced farming techniques that would provide sig-
nificant increases in income per man-day. This is likely to lead to greater
mechanization and the utilization of modern herbicides and other chemicals,
that will increase yields and reduce labor requirement. Eventually larger
farming units, either group or individually operated, are likely to evolve.
2.18      The Federal Government is generally aware of these constraints and
of the need for further improvement in planning and executive capabilities at
both State and Federal levels. Furthermore, there is a dearth of technical



- 6 -
and managerial personnel at all levels, which suggests a need for greater
rationalization of the responsibilities of public agencies and also much
closer coordination in the activities of such agencies, if the effectiveness
of available manpower is to be maximized.
2.19      Bank Role and Key Sector Issues.  Total Bank commitments for agricul-
ture in 1971-78 are US$292.0 million and encompass 13 projects (See map IBRD
13708R). The first loans in Nigeria were for the now-completed Western State
Cocoa Project (1971, Loan 764-UNI, US$7.2 million) and the Second Cocoa
Project (1974, Loan 1045-UNI, US$20.0 million), which is being successfully
implemented in Oyo, Ondo, Ogun and Bendel States. These were followed by
three integrated agricultural development projects in the north: Funtua
Project (1974, Loan 1092-UNI, US$29.0 million), Gusau Project (1974, Loan
1099-UNI, US$19.0 million), and Gombe Project (1974, Loan 1164-UNI, US$21.0
million); a Rice Project (1974, Loan 1103-UNI, US$17.5 million) in Anambra,
Imo and Cross River States; a Livestock Project (1974, Loan 1091-UNI, US$21.0
million),; three Oil Palm projects: Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm
Project, Ondo State (1975, Loan 1192-UNI, US$17.0 million), Nucleus Estate/
Smallholder Oil Palm Project, Bendel State (1975, Loan 1183-UNI, US$29.5
million) and Smallholder Oil Palm Project, Imo State (1975, Loan 1191-UNI,
US$19.0 million). In 1977 the Bank approved two new integrated agricultural
development projects, Lafia (Loan 1454-UNI, US$27.0 million) and Ayangba (Loan
1455-UNI US$35.0 million) located in the important middle belt zone of Nigeria,
and most recently in 1978 the Rivers State Oil Palm Project (Loan 1591-UNI,
US$30.0 million). The projects have had varying degrees of success. The two
cocoa projects were successful during the development and establishment stage,
and over 100,000 acres of cocoa has been satisfactorily replanted. The oil
palm projects are now picking up after early delays in establishing management
structures and problems of lack of delegation of authority by the State Agri-
culture Administration. The livestock project has made a disappointing begin-
ning, having proved too complex and dispersed to be managed from the Federal
level. Overall management also proved weak and difficulties arose in effective
cooperation with NACB. Recently (December 1978) Government has contracted the
management of the project to a consultant firm, experienced in the field of
livestock projects in Nigeria and other parts of West Africa. Moreover,
FMAWR is taking steps to remove obstacles currently preventing NACB from
meeting its obligations to the project. It is expected that with these and
other proposed actions, the project will soon be reestablished and become
fully operational. The first three integrated agricultural development
projects (Funtua, Gusau and Gombe) have completed about three quarters of
their development period and are considered successful. Studies by the
built-in evaluation unit (APMEPU), a direct responsibility of FDRD, indicate
that these projects have achieved significant gains in production and social
development.
2.20      Experience of implementing existing projects has reinforced Bank
concern over a number of critical policy issues, resolution of which is vital
for medium and long-term sector development and which must be taken in con-
sideration in future projects. First: while under present conditions subsi-
dies on selected on-farm developments may be desirable, the current policy



- 7-
of subsidies on nondurable iniputs (fertilizer, insecticides, herbicides),
irrigation water rates, tractor hire charges, interest rates and other items
is encouraging inefficient resource use, discouraging development of farm
support services by the private sector and straining Government's fiscal and
administrative resources. Second: input procurement and distribution has
been centralized at the Federal level, resulting in inefficient supply to
farmers and a needless additional burden on the already overstrained agricul-
ture public administration. Third: State and Federal funding procedures are
not yet satisfactory, and this has created severe problems for project execu-
tion. Fourth: credit policies and the performance of NACB (para 2.07) have
not yet provided a viable financial framework for the development of either
smallholders' or commercial agriculture. Finally, the lack of experienced
manpower at managerial, administrative and technical levels is a major con-
straint in the planning and implementation of development programs, often
compounded by poor manpower utilization and frequent switching of staff.
2.21      The appraisal, negotiation and supervision of existing agricultural
projects in Nigeria has given the Bank and Government an opportunity for dia-
logue on key sectoral issues. The Government generally shares Bank concerns,
though some differences in approach remain, for instance over the question of
continuing input subsidies. Because the issues in question are politically
sensitive, and often administratively difficult to resolve, it would be un-
reasonable to expect their prompt and simultaneous resolution. An agricul-
ture-policy-oriented sector mission has recently returned from Nigeria and is
expected to produce additional factual material on which further progress may
be possible in the exchange of views between Government and the Bank. Mean-
while, Bank-assisted projects will necessarily involve special arrangements
in some areas such as Federal and State flow of funds, reimbursement of input
subsidies, credit and input procurement, all of which are deemed essential to
successful implementation of such projects.
2.22      As to management and administration constraints, the short-term
solution adopted in Bank-supported projects in Nigeria is international
recruitment, and the establishment of special project management units. A
long-term solution must necessarily involve the training of Nigerian manage-
ment staff and the restructuring of service institutions. To this end, at
the request of Government, and in addition to the already substantial training
component of ongoing projects, the Bank has appraised and negotiated an Agri-
cultural and Rural Management Training Institute Project. Concerning Federal
and State planning and monitoring capability, the Government views the Agri-
cultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluatioii and Planning Unit (APMEPU), created
under the Funtua AgriculturaL Development Project (1092-UNI) and expanded
under the Ayangba Agricultural D)evelopment Project (Loan 1455-UNI), as a first
step toward creating a planninlg an-d tmonitoring capability for rural development
in the Ministry of Agriculture. At this stage, APMEPU's planning capability
is in its infancy and is confined primarily to project identification, and to
providing assistance to State agricultural planning units. Project prepara-
tion is normally undertaken by consultants, and this will probably continue to
be the case for some years to come (see Annex 4). The monitoring arrangements
for the present project (para 5.23) will operate in close liaison with APMEPU.



- 8 -
III. KWARA STATE
3.01      General.  In its present form, Kwara State was created in the
reorganization of 1976, when three administrative divisions were transferred
to the neyly formed Benue State (see Map IBRD 13708 R). The State covers
60,390 km  (6.5% of the Federation), lying between 7014' and 1108' north and
3°30' and 6 50' east. The Niger River forms the northern boundary of the
State, and the proposed Federal Capital will be sited some 110 km to the north
of this boundary, thus providing a new market outlet. The state capital is
Ilorin and administratively the State is divided into 12 Local Government
Areas (LGAs) each controlled by a Local Government Council. Total population
(1977) is estimated at 2.54 million, 3.6% of 2he Federation's total popula- 2
tion; population density averages about 42/km but rises to well over 100/km
in more densely settled areas. Local agriculture is the main source of
employment, although some 40% of the labor force are believed to be wholly
or partly employed in non-farm activities, and there are significant labor
migrations to the southern cocoa growing areas.
3.02      Agricultural Sector.  Kwara State is unique in Nigeria in that
it experiences something of each major vegetation belt represented in the
country; this is naturally accompanied by wide variations in farming systems.
In Borgu LGA in the north, population density is very low, and the natural
rangelands are exploited by nomadic pastoralists. By contrast, the southern
fringe of the State supports a combination of annual and tree crops and has
the highest population density. The riverine areas along the Niger provide
valuable dry season grazing for nomadic herds and support an important agri-
cultural economy in which rice is a principal crop. There is considerable
irrigation potential in this zone, which includes Edu and Kogi LGAs, and
a large sugar estate has been established at Bacita; proposals for intensive
production of rice and other crops are currently being formulated by the
recently established Niger River Basin Development Authority. The riverine
zone is also favorable for forestry development, and large-scale pulpwood
proposals are now being implemented to feed the pulp and paper mill at Jebba.
Sandwiched between these zones is an area that is typical of much of Nigeria's
'middle belt', with subsistence agriculture based on food grains and root
crops plus occasional small stock and poultry.
3.03      Recent agricultural performance in the State, as in most of Nigeria,
has been disappointing. There is no indication of significant production
increases within the last 5 years, and records of scheduled crop purchases
show a steady decline. The uptake of fertilizer has so far been slow,
perhaps due to a combination of uncertainty of supplies, and the lack of an
effective promotional effort, and total sales in 1976 amounted to only 2,000
tons. On average, retail foodcrop prices have risen between 200 and 300%
in the last three years, but even so, returns to labor in agriculture have
generally failed to keep pace with those in non-agricultural sectors, due
to low farm productivity. Low farm incomes, coupled with rising education
standards and greater expectations, have encouraged a steady drift out of



-9-
agriculture and into the urban centers. To try to arrest this trend, the
share of agriculture in the state's planned capital expenditure was increased
from 13.9% in the 1970-74 development plan to 19.4% in the 1975-80 plan rais-
ing agriculture to the highest priority in spending plans.
3.04      Local Government.  Following the Local Government Reform of August
1976, a number of functions performed by the State Governments are to be
devolved to Local Government level. The previous 8 State Administrative
Divisions have been superceded by 12 LGAs, each under the control of a LGC.
Each LGA is made up from a number of old Administrative Districts whose
boundaries are largely unchanged. State Edict No. 8 of 1976 conferred on
Local Government responsibilities which include agricultural and animal health
extension services and veterinary clinics, rural and semi-urban water sup-
plies, rural roads, some health services, grazing grounds, fuel plantations
and control of land under customary tenure. LGCs have not yet taken over all
these functions, but are in the process of recruiting staff both externally
and from State services. The Local Government reform includes new financing
arrangements. Local Governments are allowed to retain all taxes and rates
collected within their respective areas, and also receive statutory alloca-
tions from the general revenue of the Federation and the State. Powers can
be conferred on Local Governments to operate commercial undertakings.
3.05      Research in Kwara State has been neglected in the past, and there
are no research stations or permanent experimental staff operating within
state boundaries. Due to its location between the geographical zones
served by the principal research stations at Ibadan and Zaria, current
research is not always directly applicable to the area. However, useful
information has been obtained from a series of MANR demonstration/trial plots
and from recently introduced NAFPP minikit trials.
3.06      Farm Credit.  MANR operates an onlending scheme for smallholders
using funds provided from the NACB. Total disbursements for the 1976 crop-
ping season totaled N 66,000 and were mainly absorbed by participants in Land
Development Schemes. Loans were provided for tractor hire, fertilizers,
herbicides and payment of hired labor. Credit is also available from commer-
cial banks, but little has been advanced to date due to problems over colla-
teral and a dearth of suitable applications. It is hoped that a new scheme
to provide central bank guarantees for farm loans may improve the flow of
funds from commercial banks.
3.07      Agricultural Training.  For degree and diploma training, the State
relies on the various universities and training colleges, including Kabba.
For lower level extension workers, MANR has an Agricultural Training Center
near Ilorin, which provides a 2-year course for field overseers and has
facilities for inservice training for staff. Dormitory capacity is 150.
Training for farmers takes place at 3 farm institutes within the project
area each having a capacity for 15 students. A good practical one-year
course is provided. Until recently, the students were all school leavers,
but lately the intake has also included already established farmers.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
4.91      General.  The project area (see Map IBRD 13494) covers some 11,775
km or 20% of Kwara State and includes 6 Local Government Areas (Moro, Asa,
Ilorin, Irepodum, Ifelodun and Oyun) in the central portion of the State.
The area was selected as a typical cross section of the middle belt; it also
encompasses many of the more densely populated rural areas of the State. In
consequence, administrative links and communications are relatively good,
which should expedite project execution and facilitate a possible later
expansion to cover the rest of the State.
4.02      Topography and Soils.  The area consists of gently to moderately
undulating plains between 300-450 m above sea level punctuated by occasional
residual hills and ridges of resistant rock which rise to over 600 m. The
area is underlain by basement complex crystalline rocks consisting predomi-
nantly of folded gneisses, schists, and quartzites most of which are of
pre-Cambrian age. The majority of soils are described as Ferric Luvisols in
FAO World Soil Map Terminology, and are deeply corroded and mainly grey or
reddish in color. They have bad water holding capacity during the dry season,
but some areas can become waterlogged in the wet season. Around Ilorin and to
the north, there are numerous rock and laterite outcrops with extensive areas
of gravelly lithosols to the east.
4.03      The surface horizons of the soils are slightly acid with a low to
very low clay organic matter content. Total exchangeable bases and base
exchange capacity are also very low, and there is a high degree of satura-
tion of the base exchange complex probably related to the high proportion
of scarcely weathered mineral fragments that are apparent in the complex.
Soil ph, organic matter content and total exchangeable bases decrease with
depth while the clay percentage increases. Surface soil depth is variable
but commonly shallow, often with gravely subsoils rich in concretions.
Agricultural potential is only fair, and under existing techniques the soils
cannot stand continuous cropping.
4.04      Climate.  Annual rainfall varies from around 1,250 mm in the south
to 1,100 mm in the north, most falling between March and October. Rainfall
distribution is bimodal in the south with a marked decline in August, but
this pattern of distribution becomes less distinctive in the north, which
experiences a more uniform accumulation of rainfall up to the September peak.
A more detailed analysis of rainfall patterns is contained in section Cl of
the Project File.
4.05      Radiation, temperature and sunlight hours peak in February and
are at their lowest in August when dull overcast conditions are experienced.
Absolute levels vary with latitude, being lowest in the south where daily



- 11 -
sunlight averages 3-4 hours in August rising to 7-8 hours in the dry season.
A noticeable feature of the latter is the harmattan, an intensely drying
wind blowing from the Sahara accompanied by a slight but distinct drop in
temperature.
4.06      Vegetation. The area lies within the broad savannah transition
separating the southern rain forests from the northern semi-arid Sudan zone.
This transition extends through Southern Guinea savannah in the north and
center of the area into derived savannah in the south. The vegetation in
the south is thus a preclimax induced by fire and cultivation, with some
high forest relics surviving in the lower and wetter valleys.
B. Infrastructure and Social Services
4.07      Roads and Communications.  The project area is served by road and
rail transport, the road network providing links between main administrative
centers and reasonable dry season access to farm land. Total length is
estimated at 372 km of Federal 365 km of State and 631 km of Local Government
roads.  Some 288 km of Federal and 18 km of State roads are paved, but Local
Government roads are mainly in poor condition and are often impassable during
the rains.
4.08      Power, Water Supply, Health Services and Schools.  Rural electri-
fication is proceeding rapidly in the state and by 1980 some 40 townships in
the area should have power supplies either from the National Electric Power
Authority (NEPA) or from Rural Electrification Board (REB) diesel generators.
Map No. IBRD 13496 shows existing roads and power installation.
4.09      Major towns and large villages throughout the area have or are
scheduled to get piped water supplies, but other areas rely on streams or
wells. Kwara State Water Corporation is responsible for the rural water
supply although Local Governments are, in some instances, concerned with
maintenance of wells. There are estimated to be some 900 wells in the
project area with new ones being sunk each year. The corporation has 5
well digging teams which construct some 60 wells per annum statewide.
4.10      Due to the proximity of Ilorin, city health services in the project
area are relatively good and include 19 hospitals and 153 health centers and
clinics. Additional facilities are to be constructed under the current 5
year plan. The most common endemic disease is malaria, with some bilharzia
and guinea worm.
4.11      The national program of universal primary education (UPE) is making
progress in the area. In 1974/75, there were 236 primary schools in the pro-
ject area with a total enrollment of 74,000 pupils, but the latter figure is
estimated to have increased 40% with the UPE program. Secondary and commer-
cial schools total 35. Training and technical colleges are available and new
facilities are being built for the University of Ilorin. Literacy rates are
low. Preliminary surveys indicate that some 63% of household heads have
received no education, and of the 37% who have been educated, only 5% have
attended secondary school.



- 12 -
C. Socio-Economic Features
4.12      Demography.  Population statistics throughout Nigeria are unreliable.
The 1973 census has now been formally abandoned by Government, and the most
recent published figures come from the previous 1963 census, which recorded
787,000 people in the project area. Anomalies are known to have occurred
even during the 1963 census recordings, but extrapolation from these records,
using largely unsupported growth rates, provides the only means of assessing
present day population. The present report uses official estimates made
by the Ministry of Economic Planning, which assume a 2.5% compound growth
in rural areas and 5% in Ilorin town; the latter has expanded rapidly since
the end of the civil war but though current growth is probably above 5%, a
uniform progression at 5% from 1963 should be representative.
4.13      These growth rates suggest a 1978 project area population of 1.4
million, or 55% of the State total. Using the same growth rates, the fore-
cast 1980 population would be 1.5 million, and this figure, with its admitted
limitations, has been used as the basis for calculations of project benefi-
ciaries. Current population estimates for each LGA are: Irepodun 218,000;
Ifelodun 183,000; Moro 167,000; Asa 168,000; Ilorin 496,000 and Oyun 161,000.
4.14      The project area lies at the northern extreme of Yoruba country and
Yorubas form the main ethnic group, through small but significant Nupe, Hausa
and Fulani minorities dwell in and around several of the townships. The
Yoruba share a broad common culture and language, but historically comprised
a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms which developed individual sub-cultures
and dialects. Religion varies across the area, Islam being dominant in the
north and around Ilorin, but giving way to Christianity in the south.
4.15      In common with much of Yorubaland, settlement is significantly urban;
the 1963 census recorded nearly 50% of the area's population living in town-
ships of over 10,000 inhabitants, though much of this total is accounted for
by Ilorin and Offa.  Town-dwelling farmers frequently trek long distances
to their bush farms, while neighboring farmers often cluster into hamlets of
thatched mud cottages to provide alternative accommodation during field work;
this latter practice is particularly noticeable in the northwest of the
project area. Estimates of 1980 population levels, numbers of farm families
and areas cultivated are given below:



- 13 -
Table 1: Estimated Farming Population (1980)
Total             Farming             Farm            Cultivated
LGA        Population 1/         Population        Families 2/           Area
No.              No.     _%           No.              Ha       %  3/
Ilorin       567,000           78,000    (14)       12,000           30,000   (29)
Oyun          173,500          60,730    (35)         9,340          23,350   (44)
Asa           181,250         135,935    (75)        20,915          52,285   (40)
Irepodun     234,250         175,165    (75)         27,030          67,575   (31)
Ifelodun      196,750         177,595    (90)        27,240          68,100   (19)
Moro          179,500         152,575    (85)        23,475          58,690
Total      1,532,250          780,000               120,000         300,000
1/   Projected from 1963 Population Census.
2/   6.5 persons per family.
/   Of gross area of the LGA.
4.16      Land Tenure.  The basic pattern of land ownership and usage in the
project area has been the so-called communal land tenure system, under which
traditional leaders are considered to be the custodians of all land in their
areas of jurisdiction, and are empowered to grant usufruct to individuals/
families. Theoretically, all lands could be repossessed by the community
acting through the chief and traditional elders on the death or departure of
the usufructuaries. In practice, however, lands are generally inheritable
through the family. At the discretion of the head of the family, land can
also be divided among family members, or leased out to other families or even
to strangers; however, sale of farmland is traditionally frowned upon, or
indeed prohibited. To summarize, for all practical purposes communal owner-
ship is effectively exercised only in respect of vacant, virgin or undistri-
buted land, and an individual or family, once granted a piece of land, would
usually enjoy de facto security of tenure.
4.17      The need for proper demarcation of holdings for farmers to obtain
loans or ensure security of tenure has encouraged the formalization of holding
arrangements. Proof of title can take the form of either a "Certificate of
Occupancy" or a "Right of Occupancy". The procedure for obtaining the former
is time consuming as it involves a survey by a chartered surveyor, and though
a few individuals have recently obtained Certificates of Occupancy the amount
of land affected has been extremely limited and mainly urban. Serious consid-
eration should be given to introducing a system of rapid demarcation of indi-
vidual holdings, possibly involving the use of aerial photography as practiced
in Kenya. Permanent investment of farmers, in land improvement would be en-
couraged by wider use of formal agreements, such as a leasehold for a fixed
period (20-50 years), which would define the terms of occupancy, and ensure
security of tenure. Under the new Land Act enacted in April 1978, all land
is vested in the State. At this stage, it appears unlikely that the provi-
sions of the Act will adversely affect the project, and they might, in fact,
facilitate arrangements for the proposed land development schemes.



- 14 -
D. Land Use, Farm Structure and Farm Enterprises
4.18      Land Use.  Air photo analysis indicates that cultivation is largely
concentrated in a close settled zone of around 800,000 ha within the central,
southern and eastern parts of the area and extending along the lines of
road and rail to the north. There have been no reliable large-scale surveys
which would allow accurate totalling of land under crops in the project area,
and aerial photographs are unsuited to this task. However, discussions and
general observation suggest that between 250,000 and 300,000 ha are presently
cultivated indicating an average holding size of 2.5-3.0 ha (para 4.15, Table
1). It should be appreciated that figures for farm size, cropping patterns,
farm incomes, etc. are present 'best estimates' based upon often incomplete
or unreliable data. One of the functions of project monitoring and evalua-
tion activities would be to provide more satisfactory information on these
subjects, and project design would retain sufficient flexibility to take
account of such findings.
4.19      Farm Structure.  Nearly all the farms in the area are relatively
small subsistence farms. Due to local variations in soil productivity,
cultivation is scattered, and frequently a family holding will be fragmented
into a number of plots. Few large farms are to be found in the project area,
and records show just 26 in the holding range of 10-20 ha.
4.20      Farm Labor.  The "average" farm family probably numbers 6-7 persons.
Much of the heavy field work is undertaken by men, while women devote most of
their time to food processing, home crafts and petty trading, though they also
participate in light farm work, especially at the harvesting stage. Tradi-
tional associations provide mutual aid for saving and financing (Esusu guilds)
and collective farm help (Ara guilds). There does not appear to be a general
labor surplus in rural areas, though farm operations are markedly seasonal.
4.21      The family is the major source of farm labor, although transient
labor is hired by some farms at peak periods. From prior experience, work
in adjacent areas and field observations, a farm family of 7 would have
sufficient labor to farm about 3 ha without any substantial need for hired
labor. Output figures indicate that farm efficiency is generally extremely
low which is due to a combination of poor organization, unsuitable implements
and possible nutrition/health factors. Simple improvements in these spheres
could yield very substantial returns (para 5.03). Labor rates for hired
workers fluctuate considerably. It would not be unusual for an able-bodied
male to earn N 3 per day, or even more, especially on non-farm work such as
periodic construction contracts. Government official rates in the area
(1977) were N 1.72 per day. Female farm workers on piece rates appeared to
make an average N 1.00 per day worked.
4.22      Crop Production.  The bulk of agricultural production comes from
manually cultivated rainfed crops. Important differences which occur across
the area are largely associated with changes in rainfall pattern and distri-
bution. In the extreme south, which borders the forest fringe, planted tree



- 15 -
crops provide important sources of cash income, whilst the central and
northern economies are largely restricted to annual crops. The extended and
more markedly bimodal rainfall in the south allows double cropping of short
duration annuals, while in the far north, where rainfall extends for little
more than 6 months, only one main crop is possible, though a late season catch
crop is often interplanted. A consistent pattern of intercropping or sequen-
tial cropping is, however, rarely found. The acreages eventually planted
of sole and intercrops are as much functions of opportunity and labor avail-
ability through the season as of prior planning. On average, probably around
40% of crops are planted sole, the balance falling within an intercropped or
relay mixture of 2 to 4 crops.
4.23      With the exception of small compound plots which receive night soil
and household wastes and may be continuously cropped, fertility and soil struc-
ture are maintained through bush/fallow rotations in which land is cropped for
3-6 years and then allowed to revert to a natural fallow. The length of the
fallow period varies; on the more fertile soils in the south the duration may
be as little as 2-5 years, but it commonly reaches 7-10 and may even extend
to 20 years in areas of low population density and inherently poor soils.
Fertility is occasionally assisted with inorganic fertilizer but usage is
small at present.
4.24      The principal annual crops are maize, guinea corn, yams and cassava
which together account for probably 85% of cultivated area. A wide range of
minor crops, including cowpeas, melons, okra and assorted vegetables are
often planted as intercrops or grown as short duration catcherops. In a few
localities, principally north western Asa and south western Moro, flue-cured
tobacco is of importance, the cured leaf being marketed through the Phillip
Morris Tobacco Company.
4.25      Most annual crops are grown on the uplands.  While the valley soils
are not widely cultivated, they have important local popularity, particularly
in the south. Early yams are commonly grown on these soils, but there are
also some irrigated dry season vegetable growing areas close to Ilorin and
occasionally large valleys are used for rice production. However, the valleys
are often narrow and their potential is, therefore, limited; it is also likely
that their cultivation is at least partially restricted by flooding and
natural growth of economic trees.
4.26      Livestock Production.  There is no true mixed farming practiced
in the State. Cattle ownership is almost entirely in the hands of Fulani
pastoralists, and small stock owned by agriculturalists mainly survive as
scavengers around the homestead and adjacent lands. The entire area is
infested with tsetse fly and trypanosomiasis is a major problem for cattle
owners. Although many of the herds remain in the State throughout the year,
none are entirely sedentary. Herd migrations result from a detailed knowledge
of natural grazing over a wide area and from a desire to minimize disease
risks from tsetse fly or contact with other herds. About 25% of the cattle
population are of the trypano-resistant Muturu type, but they require selec-
tive breeding to realize their production potential.



- 16 -
4.27      It is only during the dry season that a degree of integration
between crops and livestock takes place, when pastoralists' cattle graze crop
residues and are generally welcomed by the agriculturalists for their manurial
value. Some supplementary feeding is provided for small stock, but this is
usually in the form of spoilt grains or household waste. Changes in the
traditional pattern have occurred only in the case of poultry with the estab-
lishment of a few small to medium-scale egg production units, operating
battery, or deep litter systems, with stock obtained as part-reared pullets
from Government distribution centers.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
5.01      The primary objectives of the project are in accord with Federal
and State Government policies of increasing agricultural production and farm
incomes to improve the welfare and standard of living of the farming popula-
tion. The project, to be implemented over five years, would benefit some
90,000 farm families of which 98% would cultivate on average 2.5 ha. The
project would include:
I.   Kwara State Component
Farm and Crop Development
-    increasing production of the major subsistence and cash crops
grown by smallholders on about 74,000 ha by introducing improved
farming practices and providing extension advice, improved
seeds, fertilizer, crop protection measures and other support
services, including the expansion of Government tractor units
and promotion of private tractor entrepreneurs;
-    introducing more advanced techniques, including minimum tillage
and efficient mechanization, due to the innovative nature of
the proposals this would be on a limited but properly planned
area (12,000 ha);
-    establishing a planning and farm management service to under-
take land use and conservation planning on an individual and
watershed catchment basis in 5 selected special development
areas to complement the introduction of ecologically sound
land management systems;
-    establishing a land development unit to clear 9,600 ha of
light forest and to construct soil conservation terraces
(about 4,300 km) to protect the 12,000 ha included in the
advanced mechanized and minimum tillage schemes;



- 17 -
conducting trials to test the introduction of new technology
and farming practices;
providing a seed multiplication service and organizing out-
growers to ensure an adequate supply of high quality seed to
farmers; and
establishing a farm input supply system.
Civil Works
-    constructing 200 km of new feeder roads, improving 100 km of
existing feeder roads, and maintaining about 1,000 km of new
and existing feeder roads; and
-    constructing project offices, stores, workshops and staff
houses and constructing 11 and improving 9 Farm Service
Centers for distribution of inputs and services.
Institutional Support
-    providing for a management structure with the required tech-
nical and administrative staff, logistical support and funds
to implement the project; evaluating project progress and
providing guidelines for future projects;
-    providing funds for both formal and inservice training of all
levels of staff, including LGC employees.
Consultancy
-    providing Kwara State Government (KWSG) consultant services to
assist MANR to review state agricultural policies and strategies;
provide technical consultancy on agricultural management and
introduction of new technologies; prepare detailed plans for
management training and staff development programs; and assist
MANR in start-up operations for the project. A total of 60 man-
months has been provided for these tasks (costed at US$8,000 per
man-month).
II. Federal Component
-    providing FMG consultant services to assist FMAWR prepare 13
feasibility studies for the agriculture and rural sector, includ-
ing tree crops, food crops, irrigation, marketing and national
credit programs. A total of 65 man-years has been provided for
the studies (US$8,000 per man-month).



- 18 -
B. Detailed Features
Farm and Crop Development
5.02      Project intervention would improve cultivation practices on an
estimated 74,000 ha farmed by some 88,000 smallholders who would benefit
from the Basic Service Package (BSP), and on 12,000 ha farmed by 1,800
farmers participating in the Advanced Service Package (ASP).
5.03      Basic Service Package (BSP).  It is difficult, even after drawing
on the experience of other similar ongoing projects in Nigeria, to be precise
as to the numbers of farmers who will follow agronomic and farm management
recommendations offered to them. However, it is fairly clear that most
farmers, estimated at 75% of the total, would participate to some degree. The
majority will probably not follow all the crop recommendations, but only those
crop packages with particular appeal to the individual. The main benefits
would undoubtedly result from applying simple improvements to traditional
well tested systems of production, involving modest applications of inorganic
fertilizers, improved and dressed seed, increased planting densities, and
better attention to disease and weed control. MANR demonstration plots
indicate that significant yield improvements can be obtained for maize,
sorghum and yams, which together with cassava account for some 85% of total
cropped area. The local cassava crop frequently suffers severe attacks of
mosaic disease and bacterial blight, and positive improvements can be achieved
here by carefully selecting disease free cuttings or by planting the disease
resistant varieties which are now being released by the research institutions.
Details of inputs and estimated yields are at Annex 1, Table 1.
5.04      The main drive of the BSP would be through an efficient and wide-
spread input distribution network including 20 farm service centers, and a
greatly strengthened general extension service. It is expected that on
completion of the BSP portion of the project, basic improved husbandry
would be practiced on 12,000 ha of maize (36% of total area under maize),
6,000 ha of sorghum (17%), 15,000 ha of yams (30%), 20,000 ha of cassava
(40%), 15,000 ha of maize relay cropped with sorghum (30%), and 6,000 ha of
maize grown as a mixture with cowpeas (17%). These estimates of uptake are
based on a balanced assessment of the attractiveness of the individual crop
packages, taking account of relevant labor constraints. They also draw upon
experience to date on assisting agricultural development projects in Nigeria.
The increment in marketed surplus from BSP farms, excluding production
increases due to the natural population growth, and after deductions for seed
retention, storage losses and farm consumption, is expected to reach approxi-
mately 19,000 tons of maize (a 23% increase), 5,700 tons of sorghum (15%),
25,000 tons of yams (16%) and 54,000 tons of cassava (23%). Production
projections have been confined to the major crops due to their overriding
importance in the area's cropping patterns, but in practice the extension
service would attend to the full range of crops in the area, including vege-
table crops for which important but localized centers of production are found
in the vicinity of Ilorin. The project would improve the extension service



- 19 -
to smallholders by training extra staff and thus increasing the field staff:
farmer ratio from 1:1,200 to an adequate 1:500, by improving training of
existing staff, and by providing a strengthened system of logistical support.
The extension service would be administered through the Headquarter unit and
five area centers conforming to the Local Government Areas. Crop development
and production forecasts are shown at Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3.
5.05      Advanced Service Package (ASP).  The project would also offer an
Advanced Service Package, designed for adoption by farmers displaying the
management aptitude to handle more sophisticated techniques and cropping
systems. Aspiring participants would be carefully screened by staff both
of the project and of the relevant LGC. It would introduce an innovative
and stable farming system in the form of minimum tillage, which would make
farming a more attractive way of life both commercially and physically. By
raising incomes and reducing drudgery, this technology is expected to play a
crucial role in enhancing the status of agriculture and reducing the drift of
younger people from the rural areas into town.
5.06      The majority of traditional and even improved tropical agriculture
systems cease to be stable once the generous fallow periods are constrained
by population pressure on the land. Minimum tillage, which combines minimum
soil disturbance with a cover of plant debris to protect the fragile topsoil,
and thus reduce soil erosion to a negligible amount, is an innovation which
promises to provide the stability that has been lacking to date. Under the
system proposed, weeds and crop debris would be trashed by a tractor mounted
rotary slasher, planting carried out by hand directly into this mulch, and
weeds controlled primarily by pre- and post-energent herbicides.
5.07      A mechanized minimum tillage approach would involve an extension
of MANR's existing land development scheme, but would require fewer tractors
than a conventional mechanical tillage scheme, and would reduce wear and tear
and hence maintenance costs for the tractor fleet. However, while minimum
tillage is being introduced, and in view of Government commitments, some
conventional mechanical cultivation would continue, and soil conservation
works would be constructed on all cleared areas. Nevertheless, the eventual
aim would be to promote minimum tillage to the utmost once the techniques of
large scale application were thoroughly tested locally. These systems would
be introduced within the framework of sound rotations and husbandry practice,
and development would be supervised by a specially trained team of mangement
advisors.
5.08      Development projections have been based on the assumption that the
area cultivated per family would increase due to mechanization and the elimi-
nation of labor peaks and that grouping of farmers into units would make them
more receptive to technical inputs and management advice, and also offer
significant economies of scale in many operations. A total of 12,000 ha is
expected to be developed under ASP.   However, of the total, 4,800 ha in any
one year would be fallow and 7,200 ha under crops, out of which 2,400 ha
would be farmed using minimum tillage techniques.  Crops would be confined to
maize and cassava.  Agronomic data is at Annex 1, Table 1 under the tabulation
for advanced categories. Projected incremental production from ASP is esti-
mated in PY8 at some 7,500 tons of maize and 17,0(h) tons of cassava. Crop
development and production projections are at Annex 1, Tables 4 and 5.



- 20 -
5.09      Tractor Services.  To support BSP and ASP farmers, the existing
(heavily subsidized) tractor hire service would be reorganized to improve
its operational efficiency and cost effectiveness. Some new and replacement
units would also be acquired. Performance improvement would be achieved by
strengthening supervision and maintenance and by deployment of units to
designated blocks of arable land. Operational hours per tractor per annum
should rise from 200 in Year 1 of the project to at least 500 in Year 7 -
still a low figure by commercial standards. Work programs would be drawn up
in advance of the cropping season and performance and operating costs would
be precisely monitored. Private operators would be encouraged to buy tractors
and they would receive both training and assistance, including maintenance
facilities, from the project. Project cost and performance records would
provide a firm basis for determining viable charges for contracting. Farmers
would be charged for project tractor services at rates equivalent to the
costs of an efficient commercial service and assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations (see para. 9.05). The aim would be, over time,
to eliminate the need for present high levels of subsidies, by raising
operating efficiency. Proposed charges are detailed in the Project File
(section C4).
5.10      Land Development.  Proposals for crop development under the Advanced
Service Package would require a total of 9,600 ha to be cleared and stumped,
and 12,000 ha to be conserved through construction of graded terraces. A
separate mechanical land development unit would be established under the
project to be responsible for this work. Due to the small size of individual
areas to be cleared, land clearing by chaining would not be practical.
Instead, units based on single tractor clearing using special application
attachments are proposed, and a fleet of six 150 HP bulldozers would be re-
quired to complete the program. Follow-up soil conservation works would be
constructed by a fleet of three 150 HP motor graders; total terrace length is
estimated to be 4,300 km, plus an allowance for infield roads.
5.11      Tenure Arrangements.  Vegetation cover in the project area is rela-
tively light, and it is estimated that the land development program would
involve capital costs in the region of N 200-250 per ha. To protect Govern-
ment's investment, a stable land tenure system is essential.  Because farmers
participating under this scheme would be grouped, and as some are likely to
drop out to be replaced by others, it would be most appropriate for tenure to
be in the form of leasehold which, under the new Land Act, Government could
grant for up to 50 years. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
participants in the ASP would pay annual charges based on full cost recovery
for land development (see para. 9.05).
5.12      Special Development Planning Areas.  Project land development
proposals, particularly for the ASP program, involve heavy capital expendi-
ture in site clearing and soil conservation works and must be preceded by
detailed planning to ensure that the investment is used to best advantage.
This is not merely a question of proper site selection and layout of conser-
vation terraces but embraces the whole question of demarcation of holdings,
security of tenure, reimbursement of capital cost - in short, the incen-
tives for farmers to preserve and enhance the productivity of their plots.



- 21 -
5.13      It is clear that the planning of land development can not simply be
a matter between the project and the participating farmers, but must involve
the participation of community leaders, state authorities and Local Govern-
ment Councils. Land use planning will also raise the issue of road align-
ment and its relation to agricultural needs and soil conservation. The
project should aim to provide technical planning support to Local Government
Councils on a broader basis to encourage coordination of the full range of
development actions being injected into the rural areas.
5.14      The project would introduce land planning concepts through a
detailed planning exercise to be carried out within selected areas in con-
junction with the recently reformed Local Government Administration. To
facilitate sound conservation planning, the definition of such areas should
follow watershed boundaries; detailed mapping would be required both for
planning purposes and to facilitate communication with the local community.
Area boundaries would be selected taking account of the demand for land
development services and the interest and response from the community for
environmental planning on a wider scale. Tentative demarcation has, on the
basis of land use and capability analysis, been made and the areas are shown
on Map IBRD 13495.
5.15      Research.  The project would improve coverage and supervision of
existing national trials programs and would establish an applied research
station of some 120 ha where technology already developed on a small scale at
research stations would be tested and modified if necessary for application to
the framework of practical local farming systems. The project farm would also
provide visual demonstrations for farmers and field staff, and a source of
practical recommendations for project participants. Close collaboration would
be maintained with IITA in developing new systems. The exiting Erin-Ile Farm
Center would be used as a sub-station, and basic trials and demonstration
programs would be established there at Area Headquarters and on farms. The
project would provide farm machinery, equipment, stores, etc. necessary to
establish the project farm. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that at
least 120 ha. would be made available to the project, no later than December
31, 1979.
5.16      Seed Multiplication.  Seed production would be organized primarily
through outgrowers, who would supply 85-90% of seed requirements.  Bulking up
of new varieties and maintenance of existing mother seed would be done on the
research farm and its sub-station at Erin-Ile. Outgrowers would be concen-
trated on group farms to facilitate isolation and other controls. Field
supervision would be strengthened and facilities provided for threshing,
cleaning, dressing, bagging and storing the certified seed. Outgrowers would
receive a premium price as an incentive and retail sales would be handled
through the Farm Service Center network. Foundation seed for grains will be
obtained from the National Cereal Research Institute (NCRI) at Ibadan, and the
Institute for Agricultural Research at Zaria through the National Seed Service
at Ibadan. Improved composite maize varieties such as TZPB would be used, at
least initially. New sorghum varieties would need to be thoroughly tested
in the area before bulking was commenced. Planting material for excellent
varieties of yam, cassava and cowpeas can be obtained from ITTA or the tNational
Root Research Institute and bulked on the project.



- 22 -
5.17      Input Supplies.  The project would provide the necessary input sup-
plies to farmers through its Commercial Services Department (Annex 1, Table 6).
Currently, an annual 1,100 tons of fertilizer is used in the project area. By
project year 5, this is expected to increase to nearly 14,000 tons. Likewise,
sales of herbicides and of insecticides for seed dressing and protection of
stored grain are at present minimal. By PY 5, sales are expected to reach
N 0.7 million (unsubsidized value). Improved maize seeds are already used by
some farmers, but the project, through its seed multiplication scheme, will
increase the production of a variety of improved seeds from the current figure
of less than 80 tons to over 280 tons by PY5. Other items such as tools,
planters and sprayers will be available to the farmers. Distribution would
be effected through the network of 20 service centers (para 5.21). Map IBRD
13495 shows tentative locations of new centers, based on population densities
and crop development potential. Because of the high subsidy levels presently
applied to fertilizer, the need for credit is limited, though some credit
facilities would be available at FSCs. Details of the credit program are
given in paras 8.10-8.16. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
fertilizer procurement under ICB would be undertaken according to a strict
timetable agreed between FMG and the Bank, who would jointly monitor progress,
and that the system of procurement by CFU would be reviewed after two years.
Civil Works
5.18      Roads.  The existing road network in the area totals 1,568 km, of
which 372 km are Federal roads and 565 km are State roads, while the balance
of 631 km is the responsibility of Local Government. These LGC roads serve
as feeder roads to the State and Federal network, but their condition is
poor and most are passable only during the dry season. The reasons for this
unsatisfactory situation are: insufficient grading and compaction, insuffi-
cient longitudinal and offshoot drains, the absence of a proper crown to
ensure run-off into the side drains, inadequate maintenance and cleaning of
culverts and occasionally, absence of proper surfacing material ia localized
areas. The recent reorganization of Local Government is likely to result in
additional funds being channelled into their roads program, but technical
manpower will remain a serious constraint to feeder road development.
5.19      The existing feeder road network is considered an important cons-
traint to agricultural development and would require improvement under the
project. The objective would be to provide direct access from administrative
centers to Federal and State roads, ensure that farmers are within 5 km of a
reasonable road, and ensure that alignment selection for new roads is com-
patible with soil conservation practices and that roads are ballasted where
necessary. Using these criteria, a program of 200 km of new construction and
100 km of improvement works has been identified, to be accompanied by periodic
maintenance of these roads and the remainder of the LGA network, totalling
about 1,000 km; by the end of the project, it is intended that these roads
should have reasonable all-weather capability and that regular planning and
maintenance procedures would be firmly established in coordination with the
LGCs. Assurances have been obtained that no later than June 30, 1983, the
State Government would prepare and agree with the Bank detailed plans for



- 23 -
long-term maintenance of project area roads, including the allocation of
responsibility between MWH and the LGCs, funding procedures, and logistic
support.
5.20      The high cost of labor rules out road construction by labor intensive
methods, while contractors prefer large contracts or sub-contracts and are
unlikely to be interested in the program except possibly for haulage, or con-
struction of small drainage structures. As the possibility of contracting the
work is thus minimal, a mechanical roads development unit is proposed under
the project, and would comprise 2 bulldozers, 2 motor graders, 1 self-propelled
compaction roller, 2 wheeled loaders and 8 tippers. Design standards for road
are discussed later (para 6.19). During implementation, it is intended that a
Common Service Unit be established between the 6 Local Government Areas which
fall within the project boundary, which would be amalgamated with the project's
roads section and would be capable of assuming full responsibility for LGC
roads by the end of the five year development period. A central workshop at
project headquarters would service heavy plant and machinery required for road
construction as well as for land development.
5.21      Buildings.  A major building program would be required under the
project particularly in the expansion of staff housing. A site for the
project headquarters has been provisionally identified along the Igbaja-
Idofian road 12 km west of Igbaja. The site is adjacent to a perennial
stream and close to an existing airstrip; its central location would also
facilitate supervision, as most of the project area could be reached without
having to pass through the often severe traffic congestion in Ilorin town.
The project would construct 15 senior, 79 intermediate and 102 junior staff
houses, 20 farm service centers (11 new, 9 improved), extensions to the
existing area development centers, and contingent offices, buildings and
stores.
5.22      In line with recent Local Government reform measures, field
administration would be based on area headquarters at Ballah (Asa LGA),
Erin-Ile (Oyun LGA), Omu-Aran (Irepodun LGA), Oke-Ode (Ifelodun LGA) and
Lanwa (Moro LGA); rural areas within Ilorin LGA (which is largely urban)
would be administered from Lanwa and Oke-Ode using the Ilorin-Share road as
a boundary line. All construction would be undertaken by local contract,
supervised by a special buildings section under the project.
Evaluation
5.23      The lack of quantified information on the area creates a parti-
cular need for an effective Project Evaluation Section. This would provide
a dual service: to Project Management as a data collection, analysis and
advisory unit, and to Government and donor agencies as a source of informa-
tion for effective project supervision and impartial assessment of perfor-
mance. It is proposed that during the start-up year (Year 0), experienced
staff from the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
in Kaduna would conduct an initial 'thumbnail' farm survey of the project
area. Thereafter, the early program of the evaluation section would be
to undertake a more formal baseline survey, to provide precise definition



- 24 -
of the farming systems practiced in the different agro-ecological zones of
the project and to provide information on pre-development crop yields. A
detailed evaluation would also be conducted on existing MANR land development
schemes in the area. A continued survey of crop yields would be maintained
during implementation, but priority attention would be given to evaluation
of the Advanced Service Package, which involves heavy expenditure and which
can only be justified by positive evidence that real long-term benefits are
materializing. The Evaluation Section would maintain a central data bank
of basic planning and progress information, and would also keep a detailed
record of management decisions and reasons for any departures fromn orgLii-al
proposals. The Section would receive technical support in survey design and
in methodology, processing and analysis of large-scale evaluation surveys
from APMEPU.
Training
5.24      The project itself would be a massive training effort in improved
agricultural methods and rural administration and would provide a sound basis
of on-the-job experience and training under competent senior staff, where the
objectives of management and farm development would be clearly laid out.
Experience to date shows clearly that, under such conditions, Nigerian staff
have performed most effectively and learnt rapidly by experience. This in
itself however is not sufficient, and the project would supplement on-the-job
experience with formal training programs.
5.25     Technical training.  Specialized training courses would be estab-
lished to train all levels of staff in the agronomic and technical needs of
the project. It would be agreed with the State that the project would be
authorized to conduct its own training of field overseers up to State certi-
fied qualification. In addition, short courses would be developed for agri-
cultural staff, mechanics, book-keepers, storemen, salesmen, etc. Some
selected staff might be sent overseas for specific technical training in
fields where courses were not available in Nigeria.
5.26     Staff Development and Management Training.  One of the fundamental
problems of continuity of project activities relates to the dearth of manag-
erial, as opposed to technical, background among Nigerian agricultural staff.
The problem must be approached by a combination of formal training and guided
on-the-job experience. Much will depend on the numbers and caliber of staff
the state is prepared to second to the project. The senior training officer
would work closely with project technical managers to prepare staff develop-
ment programs for individual Nigerians in key positions, and for groups of
staff at medium and lower levels.  Consultants woild assist in preparation
of this program and in checking on annual progress. It is anticipated that
project staff would be enrolled in courses at the proposed Agricultural and
Rural Management Training Institute.  Overseas courses in ianageinent fields,
as in technical subjects, would be considered where no comparable Nigerian
course existed, but should be limited to relatively short courses with im-
mediate practical relevance to the staff member's responsibilities.



- 25 -
5.27      Farmer training would be carried out through group meetings using
audio-visual aids. Practical on-farm demonstrations would play an important
role in farmer training. The training section would assist, with outside
consultant help, in preparing teaching materials for extension staff to use,
including a reference manual to be issued to all extension workers.
5.28      Training Administration.  The senior training offt(er attaclhied to
APMEPU would work in close collaboration with the Ilorin Project Management
Unit (IPMU) in developing and monitoring new training techniques.   The IPMU
senior training officer would, apart from project training, also be responsible
for working with state officials in developing adequate training programs
outside the project area, in anticipation of an expansion of the project to
other parts of the state at a later date. He would work closely with the LGCs
in the project area to develop training programs for LGC staff, particularly
in areas related to project activities, e.g., road maintenance and adminis-
tration. An assurance was received at negotiations that the project senior
training officer would be appointed no later than December 31, 1979.
5.29     The project would utilize the Training Center at Ilorin, and the
existing training institutions within the project would, with minimal addi-
tional facilities, provide the basic training infrastructure required to
support the training program. It is anticipated that at one time or another
virtually all project staff, and many non-project staff, would receive
appropriate training.
Consultant Services
5.30      The project would provide KSG 60 man-months of consultant services
to assist MANR and IPMU in specific areas where local skills are not avail-
able, or where short-term supplementation is required. Specifically, the
consultants would:
-    review state agricultural development policies, priorities and
strategies. This need is particularly important at this timne of
financial constraint, if duplication of efforts, unnecessary and
uneconomic projects, and misdirection of effort are to be avoided.
The consultants would assist the State Government to develop a
policy and strategy paper for the period 1980-1989, within the
context of the overall policies of the Federal Government; in
addition, the consultants would identify and prepare a brief for
suitable livestock investments (10 man-months);
-    prepare a feasibility study for the second phase of the Ilorin
Project to cover other parts of the state, assuming positive
indications of the success of the project and the commitment of
the state to long-term development. The consultants (22 man-
months) would work in close coordination with MANR and with
IPMU and would take into consideration the recommendations
established under (a) above;



- 26 -
provide for technical consultancy (16 man-months) on a periodic
basis to review and make recommendations on improvement of basic
agricultural management, work methods and organization, and the
introduction of new technology. In particular, the consultants
should provide practical assistance with developing improved
techniques for minimum tillage and also in training extension
staff to assist smallholders to reduce labor peaks through the
application of simple work and method study;
provide assistance in establishing management training and staff
development programs for project and, where necessary, LGC staff.
The consultants (9 man-months) would assist the senior training
officer develop such a program within six months of loan effec-
tiveness, and would visit the project on a yearly basis to assess
the progress of staff training and development. Findings would
be reported to the state and to the Bank; and
-    assist the project for 3 months after loan signature to start up
project operations. In particular, and depending upon permanent
staff availability, consultants might assist in establishment of
accounting systems for the project.
Federal Feasibility Studies
5.31      A Federal Component of the project, entirely independent of the
Kwara state development proposals, would provide the Federal Government with
consultant services to assist FMAWR prepare feasibility studies for about 13
projects that might be implemented from 1982. Provision is made of 60 man-
months per study. Details are at Annex 4. The proposed projects were recently
identified by the Bank's agricultural sector mission, and are in principle
acceptable to the Federal and State Governments concerned. The studies should
result in a series of agricultural projects that would supplement existing
Bank financed projects, and would cover a significant proportion of the
infrastructural needs of Nigeria's agricultural sector. The projects would
be suitable for Bank financing and would include:
-    State oriented agricultural and rural development projects
with the primary objective of increasing food production,
in association with annual or perennial export crops where
appropriate, in Imo (2), Ondo, Bendel, Cross River and
Anambra States; and a livestock dominated project in
Borno State; and
-    national and specific projects for agricultural research,
agricultural credit, irrigation (2), fertilizer distribution,
Lagos markets, and a technical assistance project to support
particularly FMARD and allied agencies.
5.32      Consultants employed under the State or Federal Conponetits would
be recruited individually or through consultant firms. It is expected that
international consultants would provide the main input, but efforts would be



- 27 -
made to encourage local firms to participate where possible. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that for Niger State - IPMU, and for FMG - APMEPU
or MEU as appropriate would be responsible for preparing detailed terms of
reference for review by the Bank prior to engagement of any consultant, and
that the latter would be properly qualified and experienced, and would be
employed  .n conditions and terms satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Cost Estimates
5.33      Project costs during the five-year development period 1978/79-
1982/83 are estimated at N 41.8 million (US$64.4 million) of which N 17.5
(US$27.0 million) or 42% would be foreign exchange costs. If taxes and
duties are excluded, costs would be N 38.2 million (US$58.8 million). Base
costs are estimated on prices obtained during appraisal updated to reflect
baseline costs expected in mid-1978. Costs include: (a) physical contin-
gencies equal to 5% of base costs; (b) price contingencies for local construc-
tion and operating costs at 20% compounded annually, for local salaries and
labor employed directly by the project 13%; and (c) price contigencies for
foreign costs in accordance with the Bank's general guidelines, calculated on
base costs plus physical contigencies, compounded annually, and based on the
following annual rates of inflation:
1978     1979      1980-85
Vehicle, plant, equipment,
spare parts and farm inputs           7.0       6.5        6.0
Civil works, buildings and
construction materials                8.0       7.5        7.0
Salaries, consultants and
technical assistance                  7.0       7.0       7.0
5.34      Total contingencies calculated on the foregoing basis are equivalent
to 32% of total costs or 47% of baseline costs.  This high percentage reflects
the high level of inflation in Nigeria that is expected to continue during the
life of the project. Details of project costs are presented in Annex 2 and
the project file C5 and summarized below:



- 28 -
Table 2: Summary of Project Costs
-------N million-----  -----US$ million----          % of
Total Foreign Local Total Foreign Local Baseline Total
A. Kwara State Component
General Extension
Services              3.1     0.6      2.5    4.8       0.9      3.9       11        7
Advanced Farm
Management            1.3      0.4      0.9    2.0      0.6      1.4        5        3
Commercial Services
& Tractor Hire        5.5      2.0      3.5    8.6      3.2      5.4       20       14
Land Scheme
Development           2.5      1.1      1.4    3.9      1.6      2.3        9        6
Road Building           3.2      1.3      1.9    4.9      2.0      2.9       11        8
Research & Seeds        2.0      0.7      1.3    3.1      1.1      2.0        7        5
Training                1.4      0.6      0.8    2.1      0.9       1.2       5        3
Admin. & Support        5.7      2.2      3.5    8.7      3.3      5.4       20       14
Evaluation              0.9      0.3      0.6    1.4      0.5      0.9        3        2
Farm Inputs             3.1      2.1      1.0    4.8      3.3      1.5       11        7
Less Current
Expenditures         (4.5)    ...    (4.5)  (6.9)    ...    (6.9)    (16)    (11)
Baseline Costs         24.2    11.3    12.9   37.4    17.4    20.0           86       58
Physical
Contingencies         1.2      0.6     0.6    1.8       0.8      1.1                 3
Price Contingencies  11.2        2.7      8.5   17.2      4.2    13.0                 27
Total State            36.6    14.6    22.0   56.4    22.4    34.0                    88
Component
B. Federal Component
Feasibility
Studies -
Baseline              3.9      2.3      1.6     5.9    3.5       2.4       14        9
Physical
Contingencies         0.2      0.1     0.1      0.3    0.2       0.1
Price Contingencies   1.1        0.7      0.4      1.8    1.1      0.7                 3
Total Federal
Component             5.2      3.1     2.1      8.0    4.8       3.2                12
C. Total Project Costs  41.8    17.7    24.1    64.4   27.2    37.2                      100
5.35       Project costs and price contingencies have been calculated on the
assumption that the exchange rate between the naira and the dollar will remain
fixed at 1.54 throughout the project period. This closely reflects the expe-
rience of recent years during which time the exchange rate chatnged relatively
little despite a rate of domestic inflation in Nigeria which consistently ex-
ceeded international inflation by a significant margin.



- 29 -
5.36      The estimates of project cost in dollar terms would be affected by
a change in exchange rate policy. If, for example, there were to be a 20%
devaluation to compensate for the system of import duties and export incentives
currently in force and if the exchange rate were to be adjusted thereafter to
compensate fully for the difference between domestic and international infla-
tion projected for future years, then the local component of project costs
would be lower when expressed in dollar terms. Under these assumptions the
local component of project costs would amount to $24.4 million compared with
the $37.2 million estimated on the basis of the present exchange rate. Total
project cost would, therefore, amount to only $51.6 million (compared with
$64.4 million estimated on the basis of the present exchange rate) and the
share of total project cost financed by the Bank loan would be 52% (compared
with 42% estimated on the basis of the present exchange rate).
D. Proposed Financing
5.37      Of the total project cost of N 41.8 million (US$64.4 million), the
Bank would finance N 17.6 million (US$27.0 million) at the lending rate current
at the time of loan approval and for a period of 20 years, including a five
year grace period. The Bank loan would cover 42% of total project costs,
equivalent to the foreign exchange cost; FMG would finance N 11.3 million
(US$17.6 million) 27% of project cost, in addition to funding farm input
subsidies, and KWSG N 12.9 million (US$19.8 million) or 31% of project cost,
in addition to maintaining its existing expenditures in the project area.
A summary of this proposed financing plan is shown below:
Table 3: Proposed Financing Plan by Expense Category
(N million)
Total   IBRD    FMG    KWSG  % Distribution
A.  Kwara State Component
Civil works                        7.3      3.3    1.6    2.4           18
Vehicles & equipment               5.3      4.8    0.2    0.3           13
Salaries & wages                  11.0      2.3    3.6    5.1           26
Consultancy & Overseas Training  0.7        0.7    ...    ...            2
Operating costs                    8.1      ...    3.4    4.7           19
Farm inputs                        4.2      3.5    0.3    0.4           10
Total state component           36.6    14.6    9.1   12.9            88
Percentage distribution                   40     25      35
B.  Federal Component
Feasibility studies                5.2      3.0    2.2    ...           12
Percentage distribution                   58     42
C.  Total Project
Total N million                   41.8    17.6   11.3    12.9          100
Total US$ million                 64.4    27.0   17.6    19.8
Percentage distribution                     42      27      31



- 30 -
5.38      The Bank loan would be made to the Federal Government who would
onlend US$22.4 million (N 14.6 million) on the same terms and conditions to
KWSG under a subsidiary loan agreement drawn up between FMG and KWSG. On-
going projects are suffering from inadequate or untimely inflows of funds
from Government sources, and in order to address this problem, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that for the KWSG component: Bank disbursements
would be made directly to IPMU's commercial bank account; IPMU would be
authorized to establish overdraft facilities equivalent to six months' project
expenditures as estimated in the annual state approved budget and that the
overdraft would be guaranteed by KWSG; FMG and KWSG would provide their quar-
terly contributions to the project at least 3 months in advance, and in
accordance with the approved annual budget; and at least 4 months prior to
each fiscal year, the management of IPMU would submit the project's proposed
annual budget, as approved by IPEC, to FMAWR, State MANR and the Bank.
5.39      Farm inputs are costed on an incremental basis.  Fertilizers and
insecticides would be sold on a subsidized basis following established Fed-
eral and State policies. In order to ensure that the project has sufficient
funds to purchase the following year's inputs, it is essential that IPMU
receives in advance (September previous to the purchase year) subventions
from FMG and KWSG to cover the estimated cost of the fertilizer and insecti-
cide subsidies, and an assurance to this effect was obtained during negotia-
tions. In addition to the Federal and State contributions to project costs,
some N 7.3 million (US$11.2 million) would be required to cover fertilizer
subsidies if continued at present levels. Project operating expenditures
are incremental to existing government recurrent expenditures on agricultural
development in the project area, estimated at N 900,000 per annum. An assur-
ance was obtained at negotiations that, in addition to its contribution to
incremental costs, the State would maintain the real level of these existing
expenditures, through the project.
E. Procurement
5.40      Fertilizers, chemicals, motor vehicles, road making equipment and
tractors valued at about N 6.9 million (US$10.7 million) net of contingencies
would be procured through international competitive bidding and in accordance
with Bank guidelines for contracts over $100,000 and through competitive
bidding and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank
for contracts less than US$100,000. For contracts of less than US$30,000,
competitive shopping would be employed. Items for procurement would be bulked
to permit optimum use of competitive bidding. Domestically manufactured goods
would be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable import duty, whichever
is lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign manufacturers.  Experience
has shown that contracts for houses, stores and buildings, which are valued
at about N 5.3 million (US$8.2 million) are not attractive to foreign con-
tractors due to dispersed location, small size of contracts and competitive-
ness of local contractors; such contracts would be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding. Construction of roads, for which labor and



- 31 -
materials are valued at N 1.1 million (US$1.7 million), would be undertaken
by the project on force account, due to a continuing shortage of dependable
contractors able to undertake this type of work. A large part of the project
cost would be operating expenses and local salaries, valued at about N 8.6
million (US$13.2 million) which are unsuitable for competitive bidding. The
services of consultants and internationally recruited staff, valued at N 8.6
million (US$9.5 million) including the cost of federal studies, would be
obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. An amount of
N 13.7 million (US$21.1 million) would cover contingencies.
F. Disbursements
5.41      Expenditure would be fully documented and schedule of Bank Loan
disbursements is at Annex 2, Table 9. The Bank loan would be disbursed during
1979-1983 as follows:
Category I      45% of the cost of buildings, civil works, houses
and furnishings, totalling US$4.5 million;
Category II    100% of the foreign expenditure on directly imported
vehicles, tractors, roadmaking equipment and spare
parts (or if locally procured 90% of expenditure)
totalling US$6.6 million;
Category III   100% of the costs of salaries and allowances of
internationally recruited staff, consulting ser-
vices, training materials and overseas training
for the State Component, totalling US$4.2 million;
Category IV    100% of the expenditure on about 13 feasibility
studies for future projects in the agriculture sector
(federal component), excluding local transport, office
accommodation and subsistence costs, totalling US$4.6
million;
Gategory V      100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported
fertilizer, chemicals and other farm inputs (or if
locally procured 85% of expenditure) totalling
US$4.9 million;
Category VI    an unallocated amount of US$2.2 million.
Disbursements for works under Category I if undertaken on force account would
be made against certificates of expenditure, the supporting documents for
which would not be submitted for review but retained by I.P.M.U. for inspec-
tion by the Bank during supervision missions, and by the auditors. Structure
of the management and organization of the project unit (see Chapter VIII)
ensures adequate staff and controls for proper preparation of such certifi-
cates of expenditure.



- 32 -
G. Accounts and Audits
5.42      IPMU would keep records in accordance with sound accounting prac-
tices to reflect its operational and financial position and would have these
audited by a firm of independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank;
the audited accounts and the auditor's reports, including a statement as
to whether Bank funds had been used for their intended purpose, would be
submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
H. Programming and Budgeting
5.43      Annual budgets would be prepared by Ilorin Project Management Unit
(IPMU) based on appraisal estimates amended, where necessary, to reflect
changes in costs and projected development policies. These would be submitted
to the Ilorin Project Executive Committee (IPEC) for approval. IPMU would
prepare quarterly cash flow statements which would be submitted to IPEC, and
IPMU would operate on the basis of these statements unless informed otherwise.
IPMU would prepare, for prompt submission to the Bank, quarterly and annual
progress reports, including summaries of expenditures and use of funds. On
the basis of the approved annual budgets, the State and Federal Governments
would make budgetary allocations and thereafter would make available to IPMU
all necessary funds quarterly and in advance (see para 5.38). A separate
bank account for IPMU would be opened with a commercial bank, and an initial
deposit of N 1.0 million would be a condition of effectiveness.
VI. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
A. Crop Development
6.01      Crop development proposals for the Basic Service Package have been
based on the ecological and edaphic conditions in the project area, and
socio-economic constraints, including family finances and labor availability.
The technology proposed is simple and relatively inexpensive. Farm size and
tenure arrangements would not change to any degree. Agronomic recommendations
and yield projections (summarized at Annex 1, Table 1) are based on relevant
research (including local field trials), experience in other projects and
observed performance under field conditions. In brief the projections fore-
see substantial increases in the present low maize yields, justified by the
impact of improved varieties, increased fertilizer use and better husbandry,
conservative yield increases for yams and cassava, where new varieties are
also available, and moderate increases for sorghum. As furtlher information
becomes available from research stations and project trials and as farm
management standards improve, these recommendations would be modified and
upgraded.



- 33 -
6.02      The proposed technology would involve the use of improved planting
material (including cleaned, dressed and certified seed), appropriate iec-
tilizer use, insect, pest and disease control. improved and iaore timely cul-
tivation and post-harvest practices.  Planting material for root crops would
include improved strains of cassava resistant to leaf mosaic and cassava
bacterial blight and varieties of yams which are high yielding, resistant to
disease and insect pests, long storing and palatable. Yam setts would be
dusted prior to planting. To reduce post-harvest losses, provision has been
made to treat crops stored on farm against pests. In addition, some demon-
stration maize cribs would be built to introduce farmers to improved methods
of drying and storing maize which allow reaping during the rainy season.
6.03      More sophisticated technology would be introduced for farmners
participating in the Advanced Service Package. This would include, for
the conventional cultivation package, tractor plowing, hand planting, hand
controlled droplet application (CDA) herbicide spraying (with provision for
backup mechanical weed control), and tractor trailer assistance with harvest-
ing. The rotation would be three years maize and one year cassava, followed
by four years fallow.  Cultivation of cassava would include ridging.  Por the
minimum tillage package, the sequence of operations would be trashing of crop
residues and weeds with a rotary slasher, spraying with a blanket herbicide,
spraying with a pre-emergent herbicide (in certain circumstances, these two
spraying operations could be combined), hand planting and possibly mechanized
transport at harvesting. The rotation would be as for conventional mechanical
cultivation, but without a fallow period. Yield projections under these
systems are summarized at Annex 1, Table 1. These are conservative, but allow
for a development phase while farmers acquire basic manage.nleal: skills. Later
yields should improve dramatically, and legumes such as cowpeas or soyabeans
could probably then be introduced into the rotation.
6.04      Minimum tillage techniques have been used in many countries and are
extensively applied in the United States using conventional applicators which
require large quantities of water as a base for the herbicide. Application
in the project area would be more diEficult due to problems in transporting
large amounts of water, and a new appllication technique, Controlled Droplet
Application (CDA) spraying will be used.  The problems in adoprtig this are
miainly managerial although some technical problems remain. If the tractor
operations are efficiently organized, most of these operations present no
problems. Herbicides have been tested at PITA, and the recommended types and
rates are satisfactory, although capable of improvement; however, application
remains a problem and more work needs to be done on the utilization of hand
and tractor-mounted sprayers. These sprayers, as for ultra low volume insec-
ticide sprayers, apply a blanket spray of minute droplets, use very little
water as a base and generally need far less of the active chemical ingredient
than conventional applications thus minimizing adverse environmental side
effects. Standard sprayers would be available as a backup if necessary.
6.05      The project would adopt techniques similar to the IITA minimum
tillage plots and would endeavor to develop stable farming systems suitable
to the area. Initially, a simple but practical rotation of three years maize



34 -
plus one year cassava is proposed, with the cassava to be underplanted late
in the third maize crop. Adopting this rotation and using conservative
figures for yield increases and machinery output, it is estimated that the
increase in yield and acreage will raise average farmer net income (at present
N 600) to about N 1,400 if present subsidies are maintained and N 1,100 with-
out subsidy. Return per manday would be N 3.4 with subsidy and N 2.6 without,
levels which should make the enterprise economically attractive.
6.06      Since the large-scale application of minimum tillage farming to
Africa is a pioneering effort, the present design of the project is conser-
vative with only a minority of ASP farms assumed to adopt the new approach.
Conservation measures for the remaining ASP areas would follow conventional
physical methods including contouring, water-way construction, etc. The
intention, however, is to maintain flexibility of project design and should
the minimum tillage system 'take off' in the early years, project management
should naturally encourage wider adoption than assumed in this report.
6.07      The timely supply of farm inputs in adequate quantities is essen-
tial for the uptake of new technology. In the light of delays experienced
in the supply of fertilizer to the ongoing Bank-assisted projects, special
safeguards concerning fertilizer procurement were obtained at negotiations
(see para. 5.17). Details of annual fertilizer requirements are given in
Annex 1, Table 6.
6.08      The exact percentage composition of crops, particularly under
the Basic Service Package can only be a matter of estimation, and can be
expected to change with economic factors and technical advances. The overall
area under cultivation is estimated to grow at 2.5% in line with population
increase, but in areas adjacent to towns, where pressure on land is at a
maximum, the percentage of fallow land will probably fall. Comparative
production and yield estimates are shown in the following table:
Table 4: Increases in Production and Yields
Average      Yield Increase
Pre-project       Incremental      Production   from Full Adoption
Net Production   Production         Increase   Recommended Practices
 M '000 tons--------                    %                %
Maize        66.7               26.8               40               120
Sorghum      33.5                5.8               17                73
Yams        127.1               24.9               20                57
Cassava     180.0               71.3               40                85
Cowpeas       3.5                0.4               13                67



- 35 -
B. Tractor Services
6.09      At the levels of efficiency of tractor utilization at present
prevailing in the project area, mechani-zed cultivation must be regarded as
of ;lubious eco- )mic viability. By improved organization and control, more
careful training of operators and an efficient machinery servicing operation,
the project should be able greatly to improve tractor productivity, and on
this basis an expansion of machinery use is proposed under the project.
The comparative economics of tractor use should improve with time, due not
only to more effective utilization, buit also to higher crop yields, and the
increase in labor costs, which will probably continue to rise faster than
costs of equipment operatioa. An element of mechanization has the additional
oenefit of raising the status and reducing the drudgery of the farming life.
6.10      The developments proposed under the ASP would require a moderate
expansion of tractor services to cater for 7,200 ha annually by Year 7.
This would involve 25 more tractors, an increase of some 50% in the existing
tractor force, taking account of better organizatioa and management, whereby
each tractor (particularly with minimum tillage) should be able to service an
estimated 120 ha (involving 520 operation hours per annum).
6.11      Most of the operations carried out under minimum tillage (slashing,
spraying) will involve less wear on machinery than conventional operations.
However, the practical problems of applying the techniques on a large scale
will call for constant liaison with researchers and manufacturers, and the
ability on the part of staff to assess results impartially and modify equip-
ment where necessary. This will apply particularly to tractor mounted CDA
sprayers. Provision has accordingly been made in the project for a senior
mechanical engineer whose duties would include liaison with research, manu-
facturers and consultants.
C. Land Development
6.12      Proposals for crop development under the Advanced Service Package
would require a total of 9,600 ha to be cleared and stumped, and 12,000 ha
to be conserved through construction of graded terraces. A separate mecha-
nical land development unit would be established uader the projett Foc thts
4ork. Its role would be to develop arable areas to a state suitable for the
units of the tractor service to take over.
6.13      To date, land clearing for MANR Land Development Schemes has been
i_ndertaken by hand, using local contractors.  Costs, however, have been high
(from N 150 to N 325 per ha depending on tree densities), and contractors
have often proved unreliable. Soil conservation measures have not yet been
included on any scheme sites, and there is a general lack of appreciation of
the soil erosion damage that can result when large areas are opened up for
conrventional mechanical tillage.



- 36 -
6.14      The disappointing performance of local contractors resulted in
clearing work coming to a halt in April 1976, and the State Executive Council
has directed that in future all scheme land must be cleared by mnachine; MANR
is already operating 8 crawler tractors in the State, and a further consign-
ment of 8 are under tender.  It is expected that at the start oF the project,
at least 3 crawler tractors (150 HP) would be available in the area.
6.16      Plant performance to date, however, has not been encouraging; there
have been frequent breakdowns, extremnely low annual utilization rates, and
the work quality on these shallow and delicate topsoils has often been unsa-
tisfactory. Agency servicing and supplies of spare parts are most frequeartly
olamned for this adverse performance, but the main fault must rest with a lack
of experience in heavy plant operation and of the organization and adminis-
tration that must accompany this.  Although additi(TLial backup infrastructure
is being planned by MANR, technical ability in organization and operation
will need to be considerably strengthened if satisfactory field performance
is to be achieved.  Unless this occurs, paper calculations of the cost advan-
tage to mechanical clearing will not be realized in practice.
6.16      The most efficient system of large-scale mechanized tree clearing
would be chaining. Ilowever, for individual land sections of less than 100 ha
(the average under the project would probably be 20-50 ha), dozer tractor
clearing would be the only practical method to use. In most areas, surface
conditions after clearing would be suitable for agricultural machinery to
operate satisfactorily, though some manual labor wsould be required for final
cleaning up operations, and to level holes and remove any residual obstruc-
tions. In areas of especially dense vegetation problems could be encoun-
tered fro;n uneven ground and from residual roots within the cultivation zone
of agricultural machinery. Such areas would require a pioneer plowing by
crawler tractor with matched heavy duty disc plow.
6.17      All arable areas designated for conventional mechanical tillage
should be protected by storm drains or cut-off drains from storm water
collected above, and surface run-off should be directed away by graded
terraces into natural or artificial waterways. The terraces would be graded
to a slope of 1:250-350 and would average 4.5 m width and 20 ei dep,i:h;  hits
qould involve earth moving of about .20 cubic meters per meter run.  There
would be about 23 km of terrace per km of conserved land, or 230 m per ha.
Staff would also be trained to build terraces with st-aalard farm tractors and
implements. In the future, farm tractors should be used for construction as
they are more readily available and less costly. The initial use of heavy
machinery is justified by the need for rapid measures to conserve the area
cleared by the project and the backlog on land already cleared. Outline
planning of site and conservation works would be undertaken by the project's
Planning Section. Where possible, sites would be selected to allow drainage
into natural waterways, but some grassed waterways would be required. Terrace
and boundary lines would be pegged by field teams allocated to the machine
units.  Once pegged, the terrace lines should be marked with a suitable
implement.



- 37 -
6.18      The Planning Section would use the potential for development of
perennial water supplies as one of the principal criteria in evaluating the
suitability of any block of land for inclusion in the Land Developlnellt Sche,ne.
The type of water supply point will vary with locality, but the following are
possibilities: (i) perennial streams; (ii) wells; (iii) tank dams excavated
by land clearing units or farm machiniery; and (iv) small conservation dams
constructed with farm machinery. An allowance of N 10 per ha developed has
been included in project costs for water development.  Construction wo1ul(l
be undertaken either by the water corporation, by project machinery, or by
contract.
D. Feeder Roads
6.19      The project program for feeder road construction envisages simnple
lirt roads properly compacted with offshoot drains and culverts. It also in-
cludes one small bridge. Design standards for roads would vary witlh terrain,
expected volume of traffic and available building material. Primary design
considerations would reflect traffic utilization and drainage and would
include: ridge alignments wherever possible, a road width of some 5 m, a
profile crown of not less than 15 cm, continuous roadside ditches not less
than 50 cm deep, offshoot drains and culverts adequate for transporting and
disposing of flash flood waters, and adequate compaction and gravelling to
stand up to a forecast truck axle loading of about 9,000 kg during the dry
season and to allow year round movement of lighter traffic.
6.20      The high cost of labor rules out construction by labor intensive
inethods except where required for technical reasons, e.g., culvert trenching
or offshoot ditches running through farm lands.  Construction will, therefore,
be carried out by mechanical means. The project's road maintenance program,
in collaboration with the LGCs, would comprise periodic resaaping of the roads
and gravelling where necessary.  Efforts would be imade to introduce low cost
and simple (tractor-drawn) systems.
E. Buildings
6221      Staff houses would have floor areas ranging between 110 and 210 2
m ; the headquart rs would consists of an ofkLce coinplete totalling 2000 m
a workshop (450 m ) and a guest house (200 m ); the Aree Development Centers
and the Farm Service Centers would have stores oc 50 In (f600 ton) size in
addition to office space.  Fifteen percent of staFf housing costs have been
provided for furnishing and a lump sum for site and service development. The
above specifications are in line with experience gained from ongoing projects.



- 38 -
VII. DEM1AND, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Demand
7.01      Nigeria is already a net importer of food (para. 2.06) and a number
of studies project that the national deficit will be widening for the fore-
seeable future. The project area contains an unusually high proportion of
urban population; Ilorin and Offa towns are projected to reach 480,000 and
112,000 respectively by 1980, at which time the full-time agricultural popu-
lation within the project area is expected to be no more than 50% of the
total. No reliable data are available regarding quantities of food crops
produced or sold within the area but reports suggest a substantial net inflow
of grain (sorghum from the north and west, and maize from the south east)
partially offset by exports of dried yams or yam flour, mainly to Ibadan.
Given the high proportion of non-agricultural population, it is likely that
the project area is a net importer of food. This impression is confirmed
by the hypothetical food balance sheet for the project area, using mission
estimated data, outlined in para. 7.02.
7.02      At full development, from 1986 onwards, total net food production
in the project area (from both project and non-project farms) is assumed to
reach about 300,000 tons (with root crops included as grain equivalents).
Consumption, including that in the urban areas, is estimated to reach 320,000
tons assuming average consumption per head of 170 kg per year (grain equiva-
lent) for both urban and rural commodities, and a per annum population increase
of 2.5% for rural and 5% for urban population, so that a net deficit would
probably persist. Marketing of project output in such a deficit area should
present little difficulty, and any local surpluses which might emerge could
easily be absorbed by the expanding urban markets to the south. As well as
direct human consumption, project grain output could contribute to meeting
critical local shortages for animal foodstuffs.
B.   Marketing
7.03      At present, foodcrop marketing is almost entirely confined to sale
through local township or village markets. Cooperative societies participate
in processing and marketing of yam and cassava products (gari; yam flour).
In general the existing commercial structure is thought to function reasonably
efficiently. It is not yet clear how far the newly established marketing
boards will influence this pattern in the future through direct buying or
price guarantees. The project should not itself become involved in direct
trading, but should orient its work to establishing and promoting trading
links between producer and consumer and smoothing the various marketing
irregularities that at present confront both buyer and seller. This would
be achieved through coordinating the use of existing storage facilities,
promoting better on-farm storage (maize cribs, pest control, etc.), upgrading



- 39 -
produce inspection and marketing intelligence, improving transport and com-
munications and assisting the cooperative movement. The project would also
investigate the need for credit on small items of processing machinerv (
maize shellers).
C. Prices
7.04      In 1973, Nigerian cereal price levels corresponded closely to those
ruling on world markets, but since that time, the ratio has progressively
widened, and while world prices have eased, Nigerian prices have continued to
inflate to the stage where local prices of some traded cereal grains (maize,
millet, sorghum and rice) are far above the respective world price levels.
Reasons for this growing discrepancy are connected with the very rapid momen-
tum of overall demand inflation (not fully compensated for by exchange rate
changes) combined with severe physical bottlenecks in import capacity, rather
than specific Nigerian tariffs on cereal imports, which were largely remnoved
in 1975. These unusually high prices in domestic markets may be expected to
continue for some time to come, making world prices and official guararteed
ninimum prices largely irrelevant to farmers' planting decision and net
returns. In calculating project viability the economic prices for maize and
sorghuin were import parity prices based on IBRD forecasts for world prices,
but financial prices (for farm budgets) reflect local market conditions.
Both financial and economic farmgate prices for noa-traded ouAtputs, cowpeas,
cassava and yams were based on anticipated local market price trends. Esti-
mates for financial and economic prices for crops in 1978 constant terms
are given in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2. Based on these prices, the financial
and economic value of annual incremental project output at full development
(year 7) would be N 15.3 million, and N 14.8 maillion respectively.
VIII. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
A. Organization and Management
8.01      The project embraces a range of activities which are presently
thae responsibility of different ministries or ministerial divisions. These
activities, however, are all interdependent, and successful implementation
would require that they become the responsibiltty of a single management
unit which can operate with a degree of autonomy not normally associated
'Jttn Government operations.  An administrative structure ., therIefo)re,
required which can enable management to perform with efficiency and flexi-
bility, while at the same time allowing adequate representatilon and control
by the ministries associated with project actions.



- 40 -
8.02      The project would be implemented by a semi-autonomous management
unit within Kwara State MANR, the Ilorin Project Manlge(ne_i6 I 1  ft (1_  iJ),
wt4ich would be responsible to the Ilorin Project Executive Committee (IPEC),
IPMU and IPEC would have terms of reference similar to those establishled For
the ongoing projects of Funtua, Gusau, Gombe, &yangba arld Lafia.  KSG would
publish in its official gazette a notice establishing IPMU and IPEC with
terms of reference and composition acceptalle to the Bank, andl wih'.s \ould be
a condition of effectiveness.
8.03      The IPEC would be chaired by the Permanent Secretary MANR, and
would include representatives (not below the rank of Senior Deputy Permanent
Secretary) from the State Ministries of Finance, Economic Planning; Works
and Transport; Trade, Industry and Cooperatives; Local Government andl
Gommunity Development and a representative frolm tne Fi4WR; the Chairman of
the Central Joint Board of Local Government; representatives of the stx LGCs
and the project manager. The chief administrative officer, IPMU, would act
as secretary of IPEC. IPEC would determine overall project policy, exercise
budgetary and financial control, approve annual work programs, appoint senior
technical and management staff and determine their conditions of service and
ensure cooperation and coordination with all Kwara State ifinistries in matters
affecting project implementation.
8.04      IPMU would take over the MANR agricultural division (excluding the
fisheries and irrigation section) in the project area but [ANR forestry,
veterinary and policy divisions would continue to function independently of
IPMU. During the five-year development period of the proje(c,: TPT4J  oulld
adlminister the small existing LGC extension services. IPMU would have a
large degree of operational and financial autonomy but would liaise and
coordinate its activities with other relevant public agencies in the area to
mninimize duplication of programs and to facilitate post-project management.
Particular emphasis would be placed on liaison with the LGCs, and a se.riLO
-leadquarters officer would be designated to coordinate project - LGC coopera-
tion. The LGCs will be much involved in recruiting staff and establishing
procedures, and at this crucial stage the project could play a highly conls-
trlucLive role in contributing to staff training and providing advice and
assistance in areas such as planning and budgeting. Assurances were obtaitned
ac neslotiations that MANR would give high priority to IPMU staff recruitment
and as far as possible promptly accede to IPMU requests for secondment of M4ANR
technical and other staff to the project; and that responsih)flLiv For all
agricultural extension work in the project area would be transferred to IPMU
no later than April 1, 1980.
8.05      The project organization is shown on Chart No. 18849.  The apex of
IPMU would be the project manager's office, and this would include the key
administrative and financial divisions. Reporting to the project manager
would be five departments or tunits:
-    the Technical Services Department would be responsible for
smallholder extension, land use planning, farm inaage.al-Li:
alvisory services, seed multiplication, and applied research;



- 41 -
the Commercial Services Department would be responsible for
farm input supplies, credit administration, tractor hire to
farmers, marketing and cooperative development;
the Engineering Services Department would be responsible for
the construction of roads, land development, the supervision
of building contracts and the operation of project workshops.
the Training Unit would be responsible for training project,
cooperative and when necessary LGC staff, and for staff
development, and also for formal farmer training, and
production of training materials; and
-    the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit  would monitor and
evaluate project technical, economic and financial progress,
collect planning data, conduct land use surveys, and prepare
land planning data.
8.06      The Ilorin Project Technical Coordination Committee (IPTCC) would
be established once the project is operational. IPTCC would serve as a local
coordinating unit for IPMU.  It would comprise representatives of the LGCs
and other government agencies operating in conjunction with the project.
Selected farmers and project technical staff would also be members. IPTCC
would play a particularly important role in siting the land planning areas,
farm service centers and roads, and would establish guidelines for land
allocation (when necessary) and provide a forum to ensure coordination of
project and non-project activities.
B. Staffing
8.07      Nigeria is generally short of trained and experienced staff with
the capability of initiating and implementing a development program such as
is described in this report. Experience from ongoing projects indicates
that the shortage is particularly evident at senior and middle levels of
management. The problem is further aggravated by the disparity between
salary levels in the public and private sectors, and by State Governments'
reluctance to employ Nigerian personnel non-indigenous to the State. How-
ever, compared to some other states where Bank projects are under implemen-
tation Kwara State is comparatively well staffed.



- 42 -
Level 1/                State Total                     Project Area
Existing       Required       Shortfall
Officers                      23            3               19             16
Superintendents              55            30              41              11
Assistants                   140           47              99              52
Overseers                   315            49             141              92
1/   Normal qualifications for the various levels would be Officer -
university degree; Superintendent - diploma in agriculture (four
years' training); Assistant - secondary school and two years at
School of Agriculture; Overseer - primary school and one or two
years at Training Center.
8.08      No meaningful assessment of effectiveness of present staff develop-
ment has been possible to date, but it would appear that some redeployment of
the two junior grades would be feasible until crash training of junior staff
is effected to fill the shortfall. Personnel trained under crash programs
could be upgraded at a later date.  Some senior staff from Ilorin MANR Head-
quarters could be assigned to the project.  Recruitment of personnel for
many middle grade posts is possible in Ilorin (where there is a depth of
talent) provided salaries are sufficiently attractive.  In the past, for
ongoing projects, the Bank encouraged State governments to identify and
recruit suitable Nigerians for key positions but in nearly every instance
the results were disappointing.  The project has therefore provided funds (of
up to US$5,000 per man-month) for international recruitment of the following
key staff: project manager, senior training officer, senior evaluation
officer, chief technical officer, land use planning officer, farm management
adviser, senior agronomist, chief engineer, senior mechanization officer,
senior workshop superintendent, senior roads engineer and building supervisor.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that persons with qualifications
and experience, and on terms and conditions of employment acceptable to the
Bank would be appointed to these posts and that of chief accountant. The
appointment of the project manager and the chief accountant would be a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness; and the senior training officer would be appointed
no later than December 31, 1979.
8.09      The Bank's Agricultural Projects Management Unit for Western Africa
(APMU) has assisted State and Federal Governments in the selection and recruit-
ment of internaional staff for a number of projects.  A request has been
received from  SG that APMU provide the same services for the present project,
and advertising and selection procedures are already under way.



- 43 -
C. Farm Credit Administration
8.10      Neither NACB nor existing oniending entities (para 2.08) are
presently in a position successfully to administer a farm credit scheme in the
project area. Therefore, in the interim period (up to 5 years) whilst local
entities such as cooperative groups and farmers' associations are being
developed and NACB is establishing improved operating systems, IPMU would be
responsible for administering farm credit. During implementation, the State
and the Bank would address the problems of agricultural credit and would look
for lasting solutions.
8.11      Credit administration would be the responsibility of the project's
Commercial Department. Seasonal credits up to N 280 would be approved by
the senior credit supervisor, but all larger amounts and all medium and long
term loans would be cleared through Headquarters.
8.12      Seasonal Credit.  At present levels of subsidy, it is unlikely that
seasonal credit would be a prerequisite for basic crop improvements. However,
for farmers practicing advanced husbandry and requiring fertilizer, insecti-
cides, herbicides and tractor hire services, cash outlays would be substantial
and credit would serve as a useful incentive to adoption of advanced tech-
niques of farming. A credit unit would, therefore, be included in the input
sales organization, and would be responsible for building up a portfolio of
account customers at each FSC. This facility would normally be restricted
to Group or Land Development Scheme farmers whose identity and holdings would
be listed on project files and who would be subject to investigation by pro-
ject staff. Seasonal loans to advanced farmers are expected to average N 150.
8.13      Development Credit.  Conventional medium and long term credit
would normally be directly linked to capital developments under the Advanced
Service Package. Items under this category would include hand planters, CDA
sprayers, crop storage facilities, shellers and tractors. For the average
farmer, development credit should amount to N 280, but in exceptional cases
where shellers or tractors were being purchased, more substantial amounts
would be advanced. There would be a limit of N 10,000 on individual loans and
a limit of N 20,000 on loans to registered cooperatives but normally in such
cases borrowers would be encouraged to obtain credit from commercial banks.
8.14      Terms of Lending.  During the three year period 1975-1977 the
average Nigerian inflation rate was 26% per annum, and an average rate of
20% per annum is expected to persist over the next three years. NACB does
not, typically, lend direct to farmers but rather, through intermediaries,
and NACB's lending rates of 5-7% are thus generally subject to an additional
mark-up of 1-1/2 - 2% to allow for onlending costs. Commercial banks are
under FMG instructions to lend to agriculture at 5%, but in view of the much
more favorable rates in other sectors are reluctant to comply. Under the
project, seasonal loans for farm inputs would be repayable at harvest, and in
any case within 12 months. Medium term development loans would be repayable



- 44 -
within 5 years. It was agreed at negotiations that medium term loans would
bear an annual interest rate of 9-1/2%, or 2% above NACB's maximum current
lending rate, whichever is higher, and seasonal loans would carry a service
charge of 10%, or two and a half percent above the NACB rate. These formulae
allow for automatic adjustment in the event of any significant general upward
adjustment of the Nigerian interest rate structure. They are above the rates
of NACB or the commercial banks, and take account of the higher cost of
lending to large numbers of small farmers, and the additional risk in debt
recovery.
8.15      The operation of the Commercial Services Department from the outset
of the project would be established on a self accounting basis in order to
permit a possible eventual transfer to a fully commercial operation (para
8.18). The Department would clearly identify, amongst others, three accounts:
a trading account, and short term and medium term credit accounts. All goods
and services provided on cash or credit term by the Commercial Services
Department would carry an appropriate mark-up to cover administrative and
other costs.
8.16      If the project follows the trend established on other projects,
it is likely that the commercial banks and NACB will expand their operations
in the area. Indications are that the former are showing increasing keenness
to expand lending to the agricultural sector. IPMU would encourage alterna-
tive sources of farm credit to operate in the area and would provide technical
assistance when required.
D. Post-Project Development
8.17      The development proposals contained in this report are expected
to have a substantial impact on agricultural production and family incomes
during the 5 years of intensive development; such achievement, however, is
meaningful only if accompanied by sufficient institutional reform to ensure
that progress is sustained in the future. Although this is a subject re-
quiring a consensus within Government which cannot be prejudged at this
stage, certain guidelines have been proposed and will call for further
amplification by project management and Federal and State Governments during
implementation.
8.18      The fundamental requirement is that farmers have continued access
to supplies of the basic production inputs on which they will become increa-
singly reliant. At present, Government effectively monopolizes such trading
services which have become an increasingly heavy burden on public funds as
well as demanding a large share of extension staff time. The private sector
is not encouraged to participate in these activities and is indeed discour-
aged by the present structure of government subsidies, which deny the oppor-
tunity for commercial exploitation. It would be an important objective of
project management to seek ways in which the private sector could become
involved in agricultural commercial services, and Government would be en-
couraged to establish formal mechanisms whereby the private sector could
be compensated for loss of revenue resulting from subsidized sales at fixed
prices.



- 45 -
8.19      Activities of the Technical Services and Training Departments are
likely to remain a continuing government commitment to agriculture and have
been staffed at levels appropriate for the long-term development needs of
the areas. The project area is one of four logical administrative zones of
the State, and it would be feasible to consider a decentralized agricultural
administrative structure, under which each zone would come under the charge
of a Chief Agricultural Development Officer, whose responsibilities would
correspond to those of the Project Manager of this project. This is stressed
as it is important to view the project's administration as a possible spear-
head to long-term administrative reform. The proposed expansion of the Funtua
Agricultural Development Project to a statewide operation, currently under
preparation by Kaduna State with APMEPU assistance, would provide guidelines
for post-project organization in other states, including Kwara.
8.20      While it is not yet clear how areas of responsibility will finally
settle down between the States and the LGCs, an important role must also be
expected for the recently reformed Local Government Administration. There
is a need for a greatly strengthened mechanism for coordinating planning and
implementation of rural development activities. Appropriately staffed, the
Local Government Administration is the logical entity for this role and the
LGCs would receive technical support from the project as described above.
In particular the LGCs would probably take over most of the road responsi-
bilities of the project. Assurances would be obtained during negotiations
that the Federal and State Governments, together with the Bank, would review
project progress and plans drawn up no later than December 31, 1982 by the
Evaluation Department (in conjunction with the Planning Unit of APMEPU) and
would make recommendations for the future of project activities. Assurances
were also obtained that KSG would prepare, no later than June 30, 1983,
detailed plans for the long-term maintenance of roads in the project area,
including allocation of responsibility between MOW and the LGCs (see para.
5.19).
IX. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Financial Implications for Farmers
9.01      Basic Service Package.  The impact of this package on individual
farmers' incomes will vary both according to the combination of crops grown,
and also the extent to which recommended practices are adopted. Experience
on existing projects suggests farmers will often adopt improved practices for
one or two crops rather than across the board. Annex 1, Table 7 sets out the
impact of recommended practices for the different crops on returns per hectare
and returns per manday (with and without subsidies). Annex 1, Table 8, esti-
mates average farm incomes for the project area based on fairly conservative
assumptions concerning adoption rates.



- 46 -
9.02      The average family farm is taken to be a unit of up to 2.5 ha,
growing a combination of maize, sorghum, yams, cassava, cowpeas and assorted
vegetables. Family annual income before the project, using unimproved prac-
tices is estimated at N 600 (US$925). A farm family which adopted BSP improved
practices for all crops, while maintaining cultivated area, could expect to
increase net income to about N 1,230 (US$1,900) inclusive of subisides, a
doubling in income. (Elimination of subsidies would reduce the 'improved'
income to N 1,160, still a rise of over 90%). To achieve this increase,
however, would require an increase in labor input of some 60 days per annum.
More indicative, therefore, of the potential of the BSP package is the increase
of 37% in the average return per manday with adoption, from N 2.50 to N 3.43
(N 3.23 without subsidies). Astute farmers, who vary the proportion of crops
grown according to market fluctuations, could achieve higher incomes than
these. Those more cautious in adopting innovations would show less spec-
tacular results, and in calculating benefits from the BSP, an average increase
in income of 21% was postulated.
9.03      Advanced Service Package.  Annex 1, Tables 9 and 10, illustrate farm
models for conventional mechanical tillage (including a fallow period) and
minimum tillage, respectively, estimated on a 5-ha basis. The economic
advantages of the minimum tillage option to the farmer (quite apart from the
long-term soil conservation benefits) are threefold. Firstly, the need for
a fallow period, in which land is non-productive, is avoided. Secondly,
machinery hire charges per hectare are substantially reduced; however, against
this must be set an increased expenditure on herbicides. Thirdly, the avail-
able evidence indicates that, with the introduction of minimum tillage, yields
rise markedly from year to year, easily exceeding those on conventional plots
which tend to decline. The budgets in Annex 1 take account of the first two
factors, but are deliberately conservative in not imputing the benefits that
can be expected to accrue through progressive yield improvements. They thus
tend to understate the benefits due to minimum tillage. Inclusive of subsi-
dies, farm incomes would rise to N 1,380 (US$2,125) under mechanical tillage
and N 1,410 (US$2,170) with minimum tillage. In the early stages, the tables
show minimum tillage incomes to be highly sensitive to the subsidy element in
farm inputs (especially in view of present high costs of herbicide in Nigeria),
but with the build-up in yields, the minimum tillage system should show a
clear advantage over mechanical tillage, even excluding subsidies.
B. Financial Implications to Government
9.04      The project does not increase directly generated revenue to Govern-
ment as there are no taxes or cesses on farmers' produce. However, evidence
from the ongoing projects suggests that considerable secondary economic acti-
vity develops in the non-agricultural sectors in the project area, and there
is a marked increase in spending on the part of beneficiaries on consumer
goods and services offered by the private sector. Thus, considerable in-
creases in indirect taxation can be expected, but until more detailed
information is available, the quantification of the increased taxation is



- 47 -
not possible. The State Government cash flow (Annex 2, Table 10) is negative,
which is typical for such a project and is in line with the Nigerian policy
of expanding investment in the agricultural and rural development sector.
The average annual deficit over the 5-year project period would be N 2.4
million (US$3.8 million) in current prices. Thereafter the State deficit
peaks at N 4.7 million (US$7.2 million) in Year 6 as loan repayments commence,
and falls throughout the repayment period, finally settling at about N 1.9
million (US$2.9 million). These levels of investment are reasonable in light
of the resources available to the State, and by comparison with previous
financial allocations to less productive schemes in the sector. The cash
flow assumes continuation of present policies whereby the Federal Government
provides 25% of total project cost equivalent to N 9.1 million (US$14.0 mil-
lion), and subsidies for farm inputs equivalent to N 7.3 million (US$11.2
million) for the five-year development period. Furthermore, the Federal
Government would cover all local costs of the FMAWR controlled feasibility
studies with a contribution estimated at N 2.2 million (US$3.4 million).
C. Cost Recovery
9.05      Under present Government policy, farm inputs are highly subsidized;
fertilizer is subsidized at about 80% while improved seeds are sold at a
subsidy equivalent to about 50%, though as Nigeria comes under further finan-
cial constraint it can be expected that current subsidy levels will be
reduced. Notwithstanding these constraints, costs would be recovered where
practical. Under the project, seedlings, unsubsidized chemicals, maize
shellers, drying cribs and tools would be sold to smallholders at a price
which would cover all handling costs. Likewise, participants would be charged
a fair commercial rate for herbicide application and tractor hire. Partici-
pants on land development schemes would pay an annual charge on all land
allocated to them. It is intended that this charge allow for full recovery of
capital costs of development, including appropriate interest charges. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that the annual charge would be at least
N 15 per hectare for the first three years of the project and thereafter at
least N 21 per hectare, and would be reviewed periodically with the Bank.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all inputs and hire ser-
vices provided by the project to participating farmers would be charged at a
sufficient level to recover the cost of those inputs and services, except in
those instances where an official subsidy is applied. In the latter case, an
assurance was obtained that the Federal and/or State Government would advance
the project the anticipated value of the subsidy element, no later than
September 30 of the previous year (see para. 5.39).



- 48 -
X. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
10.01     Overall Project Benefits.  The project has two main economic objec-
tives. First by introducing improved techniques and making necessary inputs
available, to raise the productivity of project area farmers, thus improving
farm family incomes (limited data suggests somewhat more than a third of the
rural families in the project area fall within at least the relative poverty
group for Nigeria) and also expanding the food supply within Kwara State. It
is estimated that 75% of the 120,000 farm families in the project area would
benefit to some extent from the Basic or Advanced programs. Possible impacts
on family incomes are discussed in IX, A. An expansion in local food supplies
should improve nutritional standards and both directly and indirectly reduce
reliance upon outside supplies of food. The food balance within the project
area is discussed in VII A. The food deficit in 1980 is put at 80,000 tons
of grain equivalent on mission estimates. Successful project implementation
might reduce this to 20,000 tons by the mid-1980s. In national terms, project
incremental production of maize and sorghum would have an import substitution
value of US$5.4 million per annum at full development.
10.02     The second principal objective of the project is to pioneer a
system of farming new to West Africa, whose advantages on the available
evidence are fundamental. At present, 'modern' farming schemes in Kwara
State and elsewhere consist of mechanized conventional tillage schemes, with
no conservation measures, and with low average machinery utilization. Not
only do such schemes require heavy subsidies, with no promise of eventual
economic viability; worse, they contribute to an irreversible ecological
deterioration through soil erosion. The experience of other countries'
farmers, and of Nigerian research results, indicate that the time is ripe
for extending minimum tillage to the practical farmer. By increasing the
farmer's income potential (by expanding the land he can manage and raising
yields per hectare), by reducing the manual drudgery that lowers agricul-
ture's status in the eyes of younger Nigerians, and in the longer term by
checking the destruction of the productive base, the Advanced Service Pack-
age has an important part to play in reversing the stagnation of Nigerian
agriculture.
10.03     The Advanced Service Package must, however, be regarded as to some
extent a pilot scheme, since field scale application of minimum tillage
techniques is new to West Africa. In the early years of implementation the
economic viability will be constrained by the present very low levels of
efficiency of the tractor fleet, with low utilization rates resulting in
unacceptably high capital costs per hectare. Only by a substantial improve-
ment in this area will mechanized agriculture have a chance of economic
viability. In any case, given the high development costs for mechanized
schemes, it is probably impossible under current Nigerian conditions to
justify investment in such schemes economically on the basis of conventional
mechanical tillage followed by fallow, under which half the land developed is
lying idle at any one time. Thus, quite apart from its fundamental ecological
advantages, minimum tillage, by eliminating the fallow, acquires a powerful
rationale even in the most simple economic terms.



- 49 -
10.04     Increasing the number of employment opportunities is not a primary
objective of the project, since at peaks labor supply is already short, but
it would aim to improve the intensity of emnloyment by smoothing cycles in
farm operations. The mechanical package has been designed to expand the area
cultivated, and it should not therefore damage employment opportunities. At
full development annual incremental on-farm employment would be equivalent
to about 6,700 man years, some of this in the form of more intensive use of
existing workers. Multiplier effects on employment in other sectors can also
be expected.
10.05     The project has been designed to give high priority to training,
following the experience of existing projects in northern Nigeria. The Senior
Training Officer would be a key project staff member reoprting directly to
the project manager, and one of the first in post. Financial allocation to
training also reflects this priority. Training activities would not be
limited to project staff, but would also give particular emphasis to the
staff of the newly formed Local Government Councils. This assistance would be
accompanied by special technical assistance and consultancy to strengthen LGC
planning capability, to pave the way for possible decentralization of project
activities in the post-project period.
10.06     The significant component for federally controlled feasibility
studies will not only provide a direct benefit for future project implemen-
tation, but will impact on Government policy formation on a wide scale. It
will also provide an important stimulus and training exercise for Nigerian
consultant firms.
10.07     The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the overall project is esti-
mated to be 24%.  The ERR for the Basic Service Package, with an estimated
cost of N 30 million, is 31%; the ERR for the Advanced Service package, with
an estimated cost of N 6 million, is 11.5%.
10.08     The ERR was calculated on the basis of incremental costs and incre-
mental output. The following assumptions and methods were used: (a) Project
Life: assumed to be 25 years including 5-year investment period during which
development activities would be substantially completed; (b) Project Costs:
(i) all identifiable taxes and duties on goods and services were excluded;
(ii) price contingencies were excluded but physical contingencies were
included; (iii) all farm inputs were costed at full economic cost; (iv) the
opportunity cost for farm labor was taken as N 2 per day; (v) all foreign
exchange costs were adjusted by a shadow exchange rate of N 1.00:$1.23
(0.8 x O.E.R.); (vi) the costs of the Federal feasibility studies were ex-
cluded; (c) Project Benefits: (i) project benefits comprise the value of
incremental crop production, priced at economic farmgate prices derived from
import parity for internationally traded goods, and from domestic retail
prices for non-traded outputs; (ii) import parity prices were based on IBRD
forecasts for 1980-1985 in constant 1978 dollars; in estimating the Naira
landed value, the shadow rate of exchange was applied; (iii) no additional
benefits from improved roads and rural infrastructure were imputed; and
(iv) no residual value was attributed to assets at the end of the project's
economic life.



- 50 -
10.09     The Bank is currently reviewing the appropriate shadow exchange rate
and other relevant economic parameters for the economic analysis of projects
in Nigeria. If, for purposes of illustration, the project were analyzed with
a shadow exchange rate of N 1.00 : US$1.00 (rather than the shadow rate of
N 1.00   US$1.23 used above or the official exchange rate of N 1.00 : US$1.54)
the economic rate of return would go from 24% to 22%. The use of duties and
quantitative restrictions (including outright prohibition) on imports to
protect the balance of payments has increased considerably over the past year.
If Nigeria's inflation continues substantially to exceed the rates prevailing
among its trading partners one may expect either some exchange rate adjust-
ment, or still further increases in trade controls. The latter option would
imply an increasing gap between the shadow exchange rate and the official
rate, which would approximately offset the effects of differential rates of
inflation on the economic rate of return (as would progressive exchange rate
adjustment).
10.10     In conducting the economic analysis of the ASP the same general
assumptions as for the overall project ERR have been made. No contribution
to general project overheads has been imputed outside the costs specifically
attributable to land development, tractor hire and farm management. On
the other hand, no allowance has been made in the benefit streams for the
expected increase in yield per hectare under crop due to minimum tillage.
The estimated ERR of 11.5% for the ASP is, however, based on the assumption
that eventually (in the post-project period) all ASP land would go over to
minimum tillage farming - retaining conventional mechanical tillage would
lower the ERR due to loss of production from fallow. The relatively low
ERR is acceptable for a trial scheme of this kind. It partly reflects the
low initial productivity of mechanical units (se para. 10.03). Assuming
successful introduction of minimum tillage, later schemes should be able
to largely eliminate the precaution of mechanical conservation works, thus
greatly reducing unit development costs (by up to 80%) and raising the ERR
for above the present estimate.
10.11     Risk and Sensitivity Anlis.  Technical risks in the short term
for the Basic Service Package are minimal since the package is extremely
simple and would require no major changes.  In the long term, however, it does
not provide a solution to the ecological problem, because the system is not
stable once pressure on land reduces the fallow period. The Advanced Service
Package, on the other hand, has risks in the initial period, when a more
sophisticated minimum tillage program is being introduced. The risks at this
stage are those of lack of initial acceptance and possible technical difficul-
ties in introducing innovative techniques. In the long-term, however, the
advantage of providing a stable farming system which could check the appalling
deterioration of the Northern and Southern sub-tropical savannah belts is so
vital that it far outweighs the initial risks.
10.12     Sensitivity tests were used to evaluate the potential impact on the
ERR for the overall project, singly or jointly, of various possible adverse
factors. Among the factors considered were an overall delay of one year in
project benefits (rate of return 15%), increases in costs by 10% (rate of
return 18%), and 10% decrease in benefits (rate of return 17%). If overall



- 51 -
adoption rates were 80% of estimated targets, the rate of return would be 18%.
Adoption rates 55% of those assumed in this report would give a rate of return
of 10%. The sensitivity analysis is summarized in Annex 3, Table 8.
XI. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
11.01     During negotiations the following assurances were obtained:
(a) At least 120 ha for a project farm would be made available to
the project, no later than December 31, 1979 (para 5.15);
(b) fertilizer procurement under ICB would be undertaken according
to a strict timetable agreed between FMG and the Bank, who
would jointly monitor progress, and the system of procurement
by CFU would be reviewed after two years (para 5.17);
(c) KWSG would, no later than June 30, 1983, prepare and agree
with the Bank detailed plans for long-term maintenance of
project area roads (para 5.19);
(d) terms of reference for consultants would be prepared for
review by the Bank by IPMU (for NSG) and APMEPU or MEU as
appropriate (for FMG), and consultants would be properly
qualified and experienced, and employed on conditions and
terms satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.32);
(e)  Bank disbursements would be made directly to IPMU's commer-
cial bank account (para 5.38);
(f) IPMU would be authorized to establish overdraft facilities
equivalent to six months' project expenditures as estimated
in the annual State budget, and the overdraft would be
guaranteed by KWSG (para 5.38);
(g) FMG and KWSG would provide their quarterly contributions to
the project at least 3 months in advance, and in accordance
with the approved annual budget (para 5.38);
(h) at least 4 months prior to each fiscal year, the management
of IPMU would submit the project's proposed annual budget,
as approved by IPEC, to FMAWR, State MANR and the Bank
(para 5.38);
(i) IPMU would receive in advance (the previous September)
subventions from FMG and KWSG to cover the estimated cost
of farm input subsidies (para 5.39);



- 52 -
(j) in addition to its contribution to incremental costs, the
State would maintain the real level of existing recurrent
expenditures on agricultural development in the project
area (para 5.39);
(k) IPMU's audited accounts and the auditor's report, including
a statement as to whether or not Bank funds had been used
for their intended purpose, would be submitted to the Bank
within four months of the end of the fiscal year (para 5.42);
(1) MANR would give high priority to IPMU staff recruitment and,
as far as possible, promptly accede to IPMU requests for
secondment of MANR technical and other staff to the project
(para 8.04);
(m)  responsibility for all agricultural extension work in the
project area would be transferred to IPMU n10 later than
April 1, 1980 (para 8.04);
(n) persons appointed to senior positions on the project (list
at para 8.08) would have qualifications and experience, and
be appointed on terms and conditions, acceptable to the
Bank (para 8.08);
(o) the senior training officer would be appointed no later than
December 31, 1979 (para 8.08);
(p) medium term loans would bear an interest rate of 9-1/2%, or
2% above NACB's maximum current lending rate whichever is
greater, and seasonal loans a service charge of 10%, or
2-1/2% above the NACB rate whichever is greater (para 8.14);
(q) no later than December 31, 1982, FMG, KWSG and the Bank would
review and make recommendations for the future of project
activities (para 8.20);
(r) participants in land development schemes would pay an annual
charge of at least N 15 per hectare for the first three
years of the project, and thereafter at least N 21 per
hectare (para 9.05); and
(s) all inputs and hire services provided by the project would
be charged at levels sufficient to recover their costs,
except where an explicit official subsidy is applied
(para 9.05).



- 53 -
11.02     Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a)  a separate bank a.ccount for the project with an initial
deposit of US$1.0 million had been opened by the State
Government (para 5.43);
(b) IPEC and IPMU had been established with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (para 8.02); and
(c) the Project Manager and the Chief Accountant had been
appointed (para 8.08).
11.03     On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$27.0 million.



- 54 -
NIGERIA                         ANNEX 1
Table 1
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agronomy
Inputs and Estimated Yields
PHYSICAL
Fertilizer        Insecticide
Product        Yield    Seed    Compound  C.A.N.  Seed 1/    Store 2/
-------------------------------kg/ha_-----------------------------
Maize
Unimproved    Grain            750      15         --               -
Improved        "            1,500      20        150       -     0.08           2.2
Advanced        "            2,000      25        150      100    0.08           2.5
Sorghum
Unimproved    Grain            500      12         -        -      -             -
Improved        "              850      15         -       100    0.04           1.0
Yams
Unimproved    Fresh Tubers  5,000   1,500          -        -      -             -
Improved        "      "     8,000   2,000        200       -    20.00
Cassava
Unimproved    Fresh Tubers  4,000                 -        -              -
Improved        i     "      7,000                 -
Advanced        "      "    12,000     -          250
Maize/Sorghum
Unimproved    Grain        500/400   15/12         -               -            -
Improved        "        1,000/750   15/12        150      150    0.08          2.3
Maize/Cowpeas
Unimproved    Grain        750/150   15/15         -         -     -            -
Improved        "        1,500/250   25/15       150       100    0.08          2.0
1/  Basis Aldrex T for grains, Aldrin 2.5% for yam sets.
2/  Basis Gammiralin 20.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
BASIC SERVICE PACKAGE
Crop Development Projections
Before
Development      Year 1        Year 2       Year 3        Year 4        Year 5
-__ __________________________________ ha__________________________________
Maize
Unimproved          34,000        33,000       31,000       29,000        26,000        23,000
Improved             1,0o0        2,000         3,000        4,000         5,000         6,000
Advanced              -             -           1,000        2,000         4,000         6,000
Total               35,000       3535000                                                35 ,000
Sorghum
Unimproved          34,000       33,000        32,000       31,000        30,000        29,000
Improved             1,000        2,000         3,000        4,000         5,000         6,000
Total               35,000       35,000        35,000       35,000        35,000        35,000
Yams
Unimproved          48,500       47,000        44,000       41,000        38,000        35,000
Improved             1,500        3,000         6,000        9,000        12,000        15,000
Total               50,000       50,000        50,000       50,000        50,000        50,000
Cassava
Unimproved          50,000        50,000       49,500       48,000        42,000        30,000
Improved              -            -              500        2,000         8,000        20,000
Total               50,000       50,000        50,000       50,000        50,000        50,000
Maize/Sorghum
Unimproved          48,500       47,000        44,000       41,000        38,000       35,000
Improved             1,500        3,000         6,000        9,000       12,000        15,000
Total               50,000        50,000       50,000       50,000        50,000       50,000
Maize/Cowpeas
Unimproved          29,000       28,000        27,000       26,000        25,000       24,000
Improved             1,000        2,000         3,000        4,000        5,000         6,000
Total               30,000       30,000        30,000       30,000       30,000        30,000
Other Crops          50,000       50,000        50,000       50,000       50,000        50,000
Iotal Cultivated
Area               300,000
Total Improved
and Advanced         6,000       12,000        22,500       34,000       51,000        74,000



- 56 -
NIGERIA                                  ANNEX 1
Table 3
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Service Package
Crop Production Projections 1/
Before
Development    Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5
--------------------------------M. Tons--------------------------------
Maize
Gross Production             76,000       78,250       82,500       86,750       92,250        97,750
Storage Losses                7,600        7,825        8,250        8,675        9,225         9,775
Seed Retention                1,745        1,760        1,790        1,820        1,855         1,890
Net Production               66,655       68,665       72,460       76,255       81,170        86,085
Home Consumption             46,800       46,800       46,800       46,800       46,800        46,800
Market Surplus               19,855       21,865       25,660       29,455       34,270         39,285
Cumulative Incremental
Production                    -           2,010        5,805        9,600       14,515        19,430
Sorghum
Gross Production             38,375       39,250       40,650       42,050       43,450        44,850
Storage Losses                3,840        3,925        4,065        4,205        4,345         4,485
Seed Retention                1,025        1,035        1,050        1,060        1,070         1,080
Net Production               33,510       34,290       35,535       36,785       38,035        39,285
Home Consumption             23,400       23,400       23,400       23,400       23,400         23,400
Market Surplus               10,110       10,890       12,135       13,385       14,635         15,885
Cumulative Incremental
Production                    -             780        2,025        3,275        4,525         5,775
Yams
Gross Production            254,500      259,000      268,000      277,000      286,000       295,000
Storage Losses               50,900       51,800       53,600       55,400       57,200        59,000
Seed Retention               76,500       78,000       79,500       81,000       82,500        84,000
Net Production              127,100      129,200      134,900      140,600      146,300       152,000
Home Consumption             70,200       70,200       70,200       70,200       70,200         70,200
Market Surplus               56,900       59,000       64,700       70,400       76,100         81,800
Cumulative Incremental
Production                    -           2,100        7,800       13,500       19,200        24,900
Cassava
Gross Production            200,000      200,000      201,500      206,000      224,000       260,000
Storage Losses               20,000       20,000       20,150       20,600       22,400        26,000
Net Production              180,000      180,000      181,350      185,400      201,600       234,000
Home Consumption            109,200      109,200      109,200      109,200      109,200       109,200
Market Surplus               70,800       70,800       72,150       76,200       92,400       124,800
Cumulative Incremental
Production                    -            -           1,350        5,400       21,600        54,000
Cowpeas 2/
Gross Production              4,600        4,700        4,800        4,900        5,000          5,100
Storage Losses                  690          705          720          735           750           765
Seed Retention                  460          460          460          460           460           460
Net Production                3,450        3,535        3,620        3,705         3,790         3,875
Cumulative Incremental
Production                    -              85          170          255           340           425
1/           Storage Losses             Grains 10%, yams 20%, cassava 10%.  Yam and cassava yields are
expressed in terms of fresh weights.
Seed Retention             Refer to Annex 1 , Table 1.  Amounts based on following seasons acreage.
Home Consumption           In kg per head for 120,000 farm families averaging 6.5 persons
per family; maize 60, sorghum 30, yams 90 (fresh), cassava
140 (fresh), other grains and legumes 17.5, other roots and
tubers 30, total equivalent to 170 kg of grain equivalents.
2/ Includes only the production of cowpeas grown as a relay crop with maize.



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADVANCED SERVICE PACKAGE
Crop Development Projections
Before
Development    Year 1      Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7   Year 8
-- --------------------------------------------ha------------__________________________
Arable Area
Total Cropped       1,800      2,400       4,000     6,000     8,000     10,000   12,000    12,000    12,000
Cleared               600      1,600       2,000     2,000     2,000      2,000      -         -
Maize
14.
Minimum Tillage       -          -           -         450       900       1,800    1,800     1,800     1,800
Conventional
Mechanical           -        2,400       4,000     4,200     4,400       4,000    4,800     3,600     3,600
Unimproved          1,800        -           -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Cassava
Minimum Tillage       -          -           -         150       300         600      600       600       600
Conventional
Mechanical           -          -           -       1,200     1,200       1,200    1,200     1,200     1,200
Fallow                 -          -           -         -       1,200      2,400    3,600      4,800     4,800
oZ
( w



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADVANCED SERVICE PACKAGE
Crop Production Projections
Before
Development    Year 1    Year 2        Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 8
--------------------------------------------M. Tons----------------------------------------------
Maize
System A 1/                    -            -          -           900       1,800       3,600       3,600        3,600       3,600
System B 2/                    -          4,800      8,000       8,400       8,800       8,000       9,600        7,200       7,200
Gross Production               -          4,800      8,000       9,300      10,600      11,600      13,200       10,800      10,800
Storage Losses                 -            480        800         930       1,060       1,160       1,320        1,080       1,080
Seed Retention 3/              -             67         77          88           97         110          90          90          90
Net Production               1,350        4,253      7,123       8,282       9,443      10,330      11,790        9,630       99630  1
Production Foregone 4/         -          1,448      1,706       1,934       2,032       2,188       2,188       2,188        2,188 m
Increment                      -          2,805      5,417       6,348       7,411       8,142       9,602       7,442        7,442
Cassava
System A 1/                                 -          -         1,800       3,600       7,200       7,200        7,200       7,200
System B 2/                    -            -          -        14,400      14,400      14,400      14,400      14,400       14,400
Gross Production               -            -          -        16,200      18,000      21,600      21,600      21,600       21,600
Storage Losses                 -            -          -         1,620       1,800       2,160       2,160        2,160       2,160
Net Production                 -            -          -        14,580      16,200      19,440      19,440      19,440       19,440
Production Foregone            -            216        880       1,440       1,680       2,160       2,160        2,160       2,160
Increment                      -           (216)      (880)    13,140       14,520      17,280      17,280      17,280       17,280
Less Sorghum                    -             24         88         144          168         216         216         216         216
Less Cowpeas                    -              6         25          41           47          61          61          61          61
I/ Minimum tillage.
2/  Conventional mechanical.
3/  Based on 2 years retention, third year purchased seed.                                                                       a
4/  Includes an estimated production of 1,350 tons from areas already cleared.                                                   M X
U_, t-~



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Input Supplies
Summary of Project Input Requirements
Before
Units     Development    Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
1/
A. Agro Chemicals
Compound -  BSP   Tons            825         1,650    3,150       4,650      6,300      7,950
-  ASP    "             270            360      600      1,035      1,170      1,320
Total                           1,095         2,010    3,750       5,695      7,470      9,270
C.A.N.   -  BSP   Tons            425           850    1,600       2,350      3,200      4,050
-  ASP    "             180            240      400        465        530        580
Total                             605         1,090    2,000       2,815      3,730      4,630
Herbicide - ASP   Tons              2              7       12         17         20         24
Insecticide                        13            23        41         48         77         95
B. Equipment
Hand Planters      No.            -             300       200        100        100        125
CDA Sprayers       No.            -             300       200         50        350        200
Batteries          Sets 8         -           1,200    2,000       2,200      2,400     2,400
Maize Cribs        No.            -             100       100        200        200        200
1/ Calculated by multiplying crop development projections in Annex 1, Tables 2 and 4
by inputs shown in tables. Herbicide application rates from farm budgets Annex 1.



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Per Hlectare Crop Returns Under Manual Cultivation
Current 1978 Prices
4/
PHYSICAL                                                                                 FINANCIAL.
Fertilizer          Insecticide                     Gross          Basic Input Costs           Return per Hectare            Return per Mandav
Product          Yield    Seed    Compound   Can    Seed 1/  Store 2!    Labor 3!   Return             + Subsidy   - Subsidy    + Subsidy    - Subsidy    + Subsidy             - Subsidy
------------------------kg--------------------------             Md        ------------------------------------------N------------------------------------------
Maize
Unimproved    Grain               750        15        -                                         80          125             3            3            122          122            1.52            1.52
Advanced                        2 1,500     20        150        -      0. 08      2.2           99          249            12           40            237                                         3.63
Advanced         "              2 ,000      25        150       100    0.08        2.5           75          332           17            60            315          272            4.43
Sorghum
Unimproved    Grain               500       12         -         -       -         -             75          120             3            3            117          117            1.56            1.56
Improved         "                850       15         -        100    0.04        1.0           84          204             7           23            197          181            2.35            2.15
Yams
Unimproved    Fresh Tubers   5,000   1,500             -         -        -        -            178        1,080          324           324            756          756            4.24            4.24
Improved         "      '"      8,000   2,000         200        _    20.0         -            235        1,728          460          496           1,468        1,233            5.40            5.25           o
Cassava
Unimproved    Fresh Tubers   4,000          -          -         -       -          -           114          212            _                           212          212           1.86             1.86
Improved                        7,000       -          -         _       _          -           143          371            -            -             371           371           2,59             2.59
Advanced                       12,000       -         250        -       -          -           134          636            10           54             626          582           4.67             4.34
Maize/Sorghum
Unimproved    Grain           500/400   15/12          -         -       -          -           106          179             6            6             173          173           1.63             1;63
Improved                   1,000/750   15/12          150       150    0.08        2.3          133          346            18           68             328         278            2.47             2.09
Maize/Covpeas
UTnimproved    Grain         750/150   15/15           -         -       -          -            108         18                           8             172         172            1.59             ' 59
Improved                   1,500/250   25/15          150       100    0.08        2.0           127         340            21           63             319         277            2.51             2,18
1/Basis Aldrex T for grains, Aldrin 2.5% for yam sats.
2/ Basis Ganmalin 20.
3/  See Project File for detailed labor requirements.
4/  Excluding labor costs.



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC SERVICE PACKAGE
Estimated Average Farm Income _/
Year 0                                                       Year 5
Total Returns                 Labor                          Total Returns                Labor
+ Subsidy         - Subsidy         Requirements           + Subsidy          - Subsidy         Requirements
------------000 N---------          ---000 MD---           ------------000 N----------          ---000 MD---
Maize
Unimproved            4,148              4,148              2,720                  2,806              2,806             1,840
Improved                237                 209                99                 1,422               1,254                594
Advanced                  -                 -                 -                    1,890              1,632                450
Sorghum
Unimproved            3,978               3,978             2,550                  3.393              3,393             2,175
Improved                197                 181                84                 1,182               1,086               504
Yams
Unimproved            36,666            36,666              8,633                26,460              26,460             6,230
Improved               1,902             1,850                352                19,020              18,495             3,525
Cassava
Unimproved            10,600             10,600             5,700                  6,360              6,360              3,420
Improved                  -                 -                 -                    7,420              7,420              2,660
Maize/Sorghum
Unimproved             8,391              8,391             5,141                  6,055              6,055              3,710
Improved                 492                417               199                  4,920              4,170             1,995
Maize/Cowpeas
Unimproved             4,988              4,988             3,132                  4,128              4,128              2,592
Improved                 319                277               127                  1,914              1,662                762
Total                  712918             71,705            28,737                 86,970             84,921             30,457
Average Income per
Farm Family (N)           599               597                                      725                 708
Average Income per                                        
Manday (N)              2.50              2.49                                      2.85                2.79                          0 z
ox 
1/ Calculated by multiplying the crop areas in Annex 1 Tfoble 2  by the per hectare returns
and labor requirements in  Annex 1 Table 7.



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADVANCED SERVICE PACKAGE
Farm Budgets
Mechanical Tillage (5 hectare)
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4
With Subsidy                                                Without Subsidy
-----------------------N------------------------            -----------N------------------------------------
INFLOW
1/
Crop Sales       2,100          2,100           2,100          2,100          2,100          2,100          2,100          2,100
Medium Loan         100            -              -              -              100            -              -              -
Seasonal Loan       360            360            360            360            589            589            589            589
Subtotal          2,560          2,460          2,460          2,460          2,789          2,689          2,689          2,689
OUTFLOW
Rent 2/             160            160            160            160            160            160            16Q            160
Inputs3 3           193            193            193            193            366            366            366            366
Herbicides           56             56             56             56            112            112            112            112
Machinery           238            238            238            238            238            238            238            238
Tools etc.          105              5              5              5            105              5              5              5
Total On-farm
Costs              752            652            652            652            981            881            881            881
Medium Debt
Repayment &
Interest 4/          32             32             32             32             32             32             32             32
Seasonal Debt
Repayment &
Interest  5/        396            396            396            396            648            648            648            648
Subtotal            428            428            428            428            680            680            680            680
Net Income         1,380          1,380          1,380          1,380          1,128          1,128          1,128          1,128
Per Hectare          276            276            276            276            226            226            226            226
Per Manday         3.28           3.28           3.28           3.28           2.68           2.68           2.68           2.68
1/   3 ha maize, 1 ha cassava, 0.3 sorghum, balance other crops (yam, vegetables).
2/   Rent calculated on 8 hectares, including fallow land.  In farmer's first rotation rent would be only
half this figure. (Rent at average N20/ha)
3/   Includes input cost for yams and sorghum unimproved.  No loan is advanced for the inputs.
4/   At 9.5% interest.
5/   At 10% service charge.



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADVANCED SERVICE PACKAGE
Farm Budgets
5-Hectare Farm
Minimum Tillage
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 1       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4
With Subsidy                                        Without Subsidy
--------------------N---------------------           ------N--------------------
INFLOW
1/
Crop Sales              2,100        2,100         2,100        2,100        2,100         2,100        2,100       2,100
Medium Loan               100           -            -            -             100          -            -            -
Seasonal Loan             407          407           407          407           702          702          702          702
Subtotal                2,607        2,507         2,507        2,507        2,902         2,802        2,802        2,802
OUTFLOW
Rent                       80            80           80           80            80           80           80           80
Inputs 2/                 193          193           193          193           366          366          366          366
Herbicides                122           122          122          122           244          244          244          244
Machinery                 219           219          219          219           219          219          219          219
Tools, etc.               105             5            5             5          105            5             5           5
Total Onfarm Costs        719           619          619          619        1.014           914          914          914
3/
Medium Debt Repayment        32           32           32            32           32           32            32          32
Seasonal Debt Repayment
and Interest 4/           448           448          448          448           772          772           772         772
Total                      480           480          480          480           804          804           804         804
Net Income               1,408        1,408         1,408        1,408         1,084        1,084        1,084        1,084
Per Hectare                282           282          282          282           217          217           217         217
Per Manday               3*,5         3.35          3.35         3.35          2.58         2.58         2.58         2.58
1/  3 ha maize, 1 ha cassava, 0.4 ha yam, 0.3 ha sorghum, balance other crops (yam, vegetables).
21 Includes input costs for yams and sorghum unimproved. No loan advanced for these inputs.
3/  At 9.5" interest.
4/  At  10% service charge.
ax
C0



12/05/78
ANNEX 2
TABLE 1
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF FROJECT COSTS - STATE COMFONENT
BY SECTION
(THOUSAND NAIRA)
YEAR 0    YEAR 1         YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR 5
TOTAL         TOTAL        TOTAL        TOTAL        TOTAL        TOTAL         TOTAL  LOCAL          LOCAL  FOR.       EXCH.
COSTS    (X)          COSTS   (X)      COSTS
GENERAL EXTENSION                             60.4       1,009.6        510.4        529.2        525.9        4B8.9       3,124.4   81.5        2,547.3  18.5       577.2
FARM MANAGEMENT                                  -         433.0        395.5        163.0        163.0        132.5       1,287.0   68.7           883.6  31.3      403.4
TRAINING                                      99.5         352.2        346.7        218.2        218.2        178.7       1,413.5   58.1           821.3  41.9      592-2
RESEARCH & FARMS                                 -         622.5        137.1        138.1        181.0        137.1       1,215.8   53.6           651.3  46.4      564.5
SEEI' MULTIPLICATION                         23.8          216.2        100.5        179.4        154.7        141.8         816.4   80.2           655.0  19.8      161.4
INFUT DEVELOPMENT                                -        781.0         695.1        258.9        238.9        238.9       29212.8   72.3         1,599.1  27.7      613.9
MARKET S PRODUCE                                 -         322.1        124.3        109.7        101.3        101.3         758.7   76.6           581.2  23.4      177.6
TRACTOR HIRE                                     -         834.4        661.4        603.4        589.6        607.6       3,296.4   55.8         1,840,9  44.2   1,456.4
ROAD DEVELOPMENT                                 -       1,206.4        498.3        533.8        539.7        398.0       3,176.2   58.9         1,871.9  41.1   1,304.6
WORKSHOF                                         -         460.5        112.4        113.8         81.9         81.9         850.5   65.4           555.9  34,6      294.6
LAND DEVELOPMENT                                 -       1,025.3        375.6        413.0        375.6        338.6       2,528.1   57,7         1,459.2  42.3   1,068.9
BUILDING                                    182.8           77.7         77.7         38.3         21.9         21.9         420.3   54.8           230.2  45,3       i90.3
ADMINISTRATION                              292.5          859.3        227.2        166.7        237.1        223.9       2,006.7   60.0         1,204.5  40.0       802.2
FINANCE                                        5.1         242,0         58.6         58.6         58,6         58.6         481.5   76.6           368.8  23.4       112.7
FLANNING                                         _         715.2        107.5        103.3        103.3        103.3       1,132.6   49.7           563.4  50.3       569.3
EVALUATION                                       -         420.1        132.6        132.6        132.6        132.6         950.5   66.6           633.1  33.4       317.5
FARM INPUTS                                      -         401.4        667.9        679.4        670.1        669.2       3,088.0   31.8            981.9  68.2   2,106,1
MINUS EXISTING EXPENDITURES                      -         900,0        900.0        900.0        900.0        900.0       4,500.0  100.0          4,500.0      -
BASE COSTS                                  664.1        9,078.9      4,328.8      3,539.4      3,493.4      3,154.8      24,259.4   53.4         12,948.6  46.6  11,312.8
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                        32.3         435.5        208.3        171.3        170.2        153.4        1,171.0   52.7           616.6  47.3       554.4
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                          90.5       2,253.8       1,645.9      1,842.4      2,446.7      2,892.8      11,172.1   75.8          8,468.4  24.2   2,703.7
TOTAL COSTS                                 786.9      11,768.2       6,183.0      5,553.1      6,110.3      6,201.0      36,602.5   60.2         22,033.6  39.8  14,570.9



:12/05/78
ANNEX 2
NIGERIA                                                              TABLE 2
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS - STATE COMPONENT
BY TYFE OF EXPENDITURE
(THOUSAND NAIRA)
YEAR 0    YEAR 1        YEAR 2       YEAR 3        YEAR 4       YEAR 5
TOTAL        TOTAL        TOTAL        TOTAL         TOTAL        TOIAt         TOTAL  LOCAL           LOCAL  FOR.       EXCH.
COSTS    (X)          COSTS   (;3)      COSTS
BUILDINGS AND CIVIL WORKS                         350.4      4,035,4         835.0         52.6          40,2            -       5,313.6   59.9        3,181.3  40.1   2,132.6
SALARIES AND WAGES                                 80.1       1,863.8      2,161.7      2,232.7      2,214,9       2,076.1      10,629.3   83.5        8,875.5  16.5   1,753.8
VEHICLES AND EOUIPMENT                             79.3      2,340.2         525.0        359.9         315.8        217.3       3,837.5   22.7          870.6  77.4   2,968.5
OPERATING COSTS AND GEN SERVICES                   154.3      1,338.1      1,039.2      1,114.8       1,152.4      1,092.2       5,891.0   60.1         3,539.3  39.9   2,351.8
FARM INPUTS                                            -        401.4        667.9        679.4         670.1        669.2       3,088.0   31.8           981.9  68,2   2,106.1
LESS EXISTING EXPENDITURES                             -        900.0        900.0        900.0         900.0        900.0       4,50O.0  100.0         4,500.0      -          -
BASE COSTS                                        664.1       9,078.9      4,328.8      3,539.4      3,493.4       3,154.8      24,259.4   53.4        12,948.6  46,.6  11,312.8



05/ 08/78
NI:[tERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORiN 0GRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEN'T PROJECT
VEHIC.IE AND EQUIPMENT COSTS
BY SECTION
THOUSAND NA IRA)
YEAR 0    YEAR I        YEAR 2    YEAR 3    YEAR 4    YEAR 5
TOT'AL       TOTAL     'TOT'AL      TOTAL     0'I 'AL     TOTAL         TO'iT AL  LOCAL  LOCAL  FOR.    EXCH.
Cos's    (%)  COSTS   (7.)    COSTS
GENERAL EXTENSION                      8.2        13:.19      39.8         3.4                     -         183.3   34.1   62.5  66.0    120,9
FARM MANAG3EMENT                         -         33.5       36,1           -                                69.6   38.2   26.6  61.8        43.0
'TRAINING                              8.5         46.3         5.0                                 -         59.8   32.8   19.6  67.2        40.2
RESEARCH S FARMS                         -         92.8        3.0         4.0       46.9        3.0         149.7   23.8   35.6  76.2        114.1
SEED MULTIP'LICATION                    --         34,7           -       37,9                                72,6   30.3   22.0  69.7        50.6
INFUTr DEVELOPMENT                                1:17.4      42.9        36.0          -                    196.3   36.0   70.7  64.1       125.8
MARKET & PRODUCE                         -         44,()      20.1         8.4          -           -         72.5   32.1   23.3  68.0        49.3
TRACTOR HIRE'                            -        303.6      326.9      210.3       172.5      172.5      1,185.8   16.5  196.1  83,5    990.6
ROAD DEVELOPMENT                                  677.3       45.5        20.7       82.8       41.4        867.7   20.7  179.5  79.3    688.2
WORKSHOF '                                         94-1        0.4         1.8        0.4        0.4          97.1   32.2   31.3  67.8        65.8
LAND LIEVELOF'MENT                       -        523.9           -       37.4          -          -         561.3   16.4   91.8  83.6    469,5
BUILDING                              42.3             -                     -          -           -         42.3   36.2   15.3  64.1         27.1
ADMINISTRATION                        20.3         94,1         1.1          -       13.2           -        128.7   38.7   49.8  61.3         78.9
FINANCE                                  -         59.8           -          -          -           _         59.8   20.2   12.1  79.8        47.7
F'LANNINO G                                        32.9         4.2          -          -           -         37.1   37.7   14.0  62.5         23.2
EVAIUATION                               -         53.9                      -     -                -         53'9   37.8   20.4  62.3         33.6
TOTAL                                 79-3      2.340,2      525.0      359-9      315,8      217.3      3S837.5   22.7  870.6  77,4  2,968.5
I- §11
mx
L.) >C



9 i 743 t-}  
514034 SE 415.
I Elk:l tFN OGlE L;':l.lI..jILIREL l [. L'FE L .(F, Ml::Ni  F,RO.Jt::l;EC
ILCJI.)I.iN( I A . N D ILECI I V1 -   I0k IK EE    EDEfSI
iL y 'S 1". G  .1. t.) N
. il-lOWlJ AND  NO li 30
1 I: . h I 0   fEL iF : h       l.1.    . E. r3 1 2  r 1:. fi  S 3 EL AR  4  f   E   R 1
I 0tin-L         'I4 Tt.fIAl     .)..   12 Ai I Cl T-f,EL. EAt . )  i L. 1Tul,-L  IA.t   L1    Uid..C I    t:t F,:. U N                 FI XLUH
EDIFS I0    F 1'      rosr         z        j CESI S
GENERAl. EXTIiL:SION                            40.4            x47;9  2                                                                       Y1 6     6040        ]. ,I.   4;'. i70    0' Y
FIRM  MANA.G3F.MENT.                                            28  4              0 '                                                      490 4    600                            2942   40    96 2
FALENING                                        4 .4                           J  0i040             -             -                                    6 21.oti   i0  I 774.0   40, C,   87
ItLSEAfiRf.H  ~ I Cd' '1'                                        '02.S 2 4           *             *                                              - 32. 1i 14  *4 1iJ. i 7
SlED  MUti  lUL I I IF., LA. lI:T CCILIN                         '?F3.4                           I 216  h                    141               14L1    00.y          50 2    40 C, 4
INl:Il T' VEIE il tMENf N                                         310.0        451; 8E                                                      I 93 J0.   60 49       6';   39    ,        3C8b 5
MARKET  r I Rol     li I                                       209.)2                                   i -      --            -           215,        o G  6OU    E 29      40  0      i~,. O3
rRVi,fOR  NIJ  E                                                260.4                              -                                        .60 .4      40,        I 14,5  .    40.0    I04.2
ROAO  DEVE (OFP MEN 2I5. 3                                                      2 9                           I                 -3 4                    6 0         ' '        9 5    i47 .8
W)ORKSHOi                                                       276,4                -                                                      2:76 . (9    60 o 0     1 d) L  40         1100,
LOND DIt : LV E L. 1:FiME i - N                                 .1.66.4                                                                    .1.66.4      cvO.0        99 0   40  0        6o.o 6
BUI1_D:I:NG                                    9.1 2                                                                                        9.-  -: L . 2 h  YE1    54l8 3 9.?   .936 .4
ADMI NI SRI F01i 1247-. 2                                       388E0           34 0                                                         9' -, )9o  60,0       35   ff  400           738  4
F J. NANCE                                                      .1.25.               ---                                                     2 '2.8     59.9         70,.4   40. l         °0,4
PLANNING                                             -          228.-                 -                                                      .2.0    60.0          .1.0ho8   40.0        51.
E VL f L U ATT  ON                                              237 8                                                                       .     3       8 0h 0    1i42.7   400 90
'TUAfL                                         ;55 0 4       4p035.4  55            ,0          2 2.          40.2              *-          :IE36       119,9   3       I ;;  40- i           0
4, 9



1 IOR ul UT 
II   I U .Wfl  SI Di  I fl
1L-.iif!  0  ~ I I, i;  iI iI iitil  lI 8tl  ri t.l:h    Ti:.):  l--i Ni  1  t'
if-I&Af izY   -ANII WJA(i   8;J; A.'j
k.11 y E C7'I                                                                            8      j  i1:                                           L
YI.-iAR1  1   I  11  E                   :.1'1  I2 C            IY,                                           4     , ' I 10 i8                                     )' ti  R  5
r 4011   18I ,it,l  Ii                     I -r o  r  I 11) "L                        I [ci ...             I            t      ] r               Nv.                 - ofA  I   1                   0It .  F Of,  EXCH
C:)J- r          X;          C O>   J(i S f   Z. %       c   iiSI
(i,E Nl R'> f)      X I l~ iN  i. i.iN                       .1 1  L                 e.S6              4 '21 , e.,          4^i ;6  o O            16  0                4i xl^I?tk          2  1.f84                         0 J Y      2 7  0 .3  4  7  3  3. _-Y 9  I
lFARM9  Ti4i(lrlil~                                                               1./t                 1 3 0.(               i.L    O              1, St>3              :1.05S                  -1iv          -3+             }29            Iv             2
IRflN      (ic ,                                             15I6                                        0i.6/  96            967                   91R67 6Iv2                                  468.,6        /2 .             11, .4        290           L3i .
hEiEfEAn iHfl  IS  f       , 'l4,MS                                 -                   !1l               94l                    4 l   i. 1          94.1                 94,1                  4/iJ0,J K ./  68   0                          ". 4         i'iS21
SEE0I  iiUI  I I.FIL         IWN                                   --.             44-2 4'4oi J.                                                          2               ',6  2                251  0    I 0                21iL.O               -
INPU l(  IlF V E. l0I MEN                                         --              100, 4                                                                                                        lu ,',8 173 f  I A. 73  7 t-5  6  O1n0 I  cm   6
MARN;fE I  i&  P''ROINA"fit-                                       - I7                                  75  H                 ;' iJ                 7i51 755                                   3IJZ+-    300+i              3')95    1           --              --
I F! I I t . f-f I f11                                                           2f I9                 2                                           2-21                                                                          9 270  I  253  5  M7  8  1  I  I . 0  f22  i,-i2  5
Ro ti 18! E     fV 1 J. 0 F' N F                                                  13-4   1ic 2 I45i2                                               2'64 f                 /2 69 - a             O          i         S,  9      f  A. 9'   4  t 4           l-i  '5
WoRKNSHi-(                                                        --                9159 6415 6,4                                                                                               401 .               2         tk) 9  2,,8                    91   '
I A4ND  il E V    C) llil Ni                                                      16Oh   U             3 6 I  [rv              ti   7              Li 7                  1 281                 17861           8Ut           658,'           Il 8         148. 0
l El Il Nu                                                   :19.0) 9                                    6;i 30 2,  'C;                                                                         20264   3  20'4  43            09  9        4,;. 7           92 . 5
&TDMi NJ i41R1i]ff                                           29O3                 I9f Jv (.                                  f 19,v                J 19  0               19/.0 J.615                           o5.2 '         401 .3         54  8         214,5
I- IN J I N8 1.                                                                    34                    3'4                   ` .34  8                                   34  8                 f '4 1          u 0 81 791 
P' 1 A1 N 1 N11N                                                                   /(,4                                          0                   9 '0.4               90.4                  42."   0       59  1. 2I6    C              40  9          185  0
I:Vhl t.lf) U A  : C)N                                             -             :1 12 .s               1 1,2 15              I1. 2 . '             1. 12-5 l.          1. I 21 . I5',          5i6 25         72. 9         4 10            27, 1         152 r
EfOTg-'4f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E it.+                             fDt65+f 8'71 6  1                           2  232+                221 4  9                C, 7    J.        I  Y2>9§            B3.S'    t38 -9 i+'J           16   i     I  7-;3  8



05/09/ 78
N1I liLR Lh)
SWARA S1ATE
ILORIN fFlLTILU  FtlRAL DTEVEt UPME NI r RSIJf C
F ANM INPUT t 05n r'
I-r ITLQ/i 41N    NA TF )
YEAR 0        Yr Ai I            YthR 2 ,F,t.             3              fF..R 4           'EhAPRi 5
IN] I     arTY  llOTL        tIL    J ILlA       ILII  LOTAL        DTY  In TAL          t Y  TOliAI. Il Y fOTYN                   TOA L   LOL'A- C  LCI:AL   FOR,   EXCH.
COSTS      IZ)  COS T S    (1 Z    0CSS
ClIEMICALS (INCRErMN4AL.?
FERTILIZER    COtMPOULND    TON        0.226                        711. )  20N6.B  lr 31.0  391.  12    . I 7     439,6   LU 25 .0  40L ,2       800        406.          .84/.6    30, 0  554 3  70,0  1 293.3
TERTILIZER    CAN           IO(N       0. 18 7                      4:,4.0   90. *     " 10.0 iO.2        L11.0  10i2.4      815. 0  171. L    90 .0         16B.3         '52.;--    40.0 o      ,1 .   60. 0    451. 6
HERBICIDE                   TON       I 2.000                         5.0      0.o0      5.i0    60 0       5, 0    60.0        3 0    316.0       4.0        48.0         264.0    20 0    52. 8  80.0       ''i 2
INSECT1CILDE                TON        1 ,rLO0,0    10,                                  s.0    L8.0         7 .  ".,0 ?          )   /9.0)       18.0    t    8.0          .32.0   20.0    16.4  80.0         65.6
S00  TOTAL                                                                     1/7,5              54L,               yr19  .O           *37,3                  641. 1      .. 94r..   3J.4  9-4, 6  68.6  2,021.7
I LTI I PMaN r
1tAN. PLANLTES               Lh A      0, 050                       300.0    1 .o      2001.0    10, 0    1 00.0     5.0      ;0D0.0    5.0    ix25.0          6.3          41.3   20.0       8,3  80.0        33.0
CiA tPRhAYI-5                IA        0 040                        300 J0     1.0     200.0 ;    H.0      00.0     2.0)    3L 0.0     1 4.(0    200.0        8.0          44.0   ,0.0       1.5  80.0        35.2
rA TIFRIES                  SaET       0.00 102                    -'0.O       2.4   .000. 0      4.0    20.0 0.     4 . .. 4,0,1   4.01 2, 400.0              4.8           20,.-4   20.0    4.2   Ro.0       06.2
MAJhZ  CRIBS                 EA        0.045                        100.,      4.5     100.0      f.S   200 0        r      0  )().0    9.0      200.0         9.0            6 .0  100.0   36.0        -          -
SIP TOTAL                                                                       3 .6.               6                 20.4               32.t3                  2a.J          14  'L  40.4    S7,3  59.6         84.4
rQ1AL                                                                         401.4                   9 ,7 ,4                           670.1                  669.2       3,a)08.o    31.8  981.9  68.2   2 106.1



12/05/78
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPERATING COSTS AND GENERAL SERVICES
BY SECTION
(THOUSAND NAIRA)
YEAR 0    YEAR 1        YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR 5
TOTAL        TOTAL        TOTAL        TOTAL        TOTAL        TOTAL         TOTAL  LOCAL    LOCAL       FOR.    EXCH.
COSTS    (%)    COSTS        (7)    COSTS
GENERAL EXTENSION                     0.7         37,7         49.0         49.8         49.9          49.9        237,0   62,3    147,7       37.7      89.3
FARM MANAGEMENT                         -          7.7         23.4         27.0         27,0         27.0         112.1   62,4      69.9      37.6      42.2
TRAINING                             30.8        136,0        145.0        121,5        121.5        112,5         667.3   50,0    333.7       30.0    333,6
RESEARCH & FARMS                        -         53.2         40,0         40.0         40,0         40.0        213,2   40,5       86,3      59-5    126.9
SEED MULTIFLICATION                  23,8         38.9         56.3         69.7         76,9         8536         351.2   84.6    297.0       15. 4     54.2
INPUT DEVELOPMENT                       -         33.2         43.6         65.1         65.1         65.1        272.1   62,7    170.5        37.3    101.6
MARKET & PRODUCE                        -         11.4         22.1         25.8         25.8         25,8         110,9   62,1      68.9      37.9      42,0
TRACTOR HIRE                            -         52,5         87.6        138.2        154.2        164.2         596.7   65.0    387.6       35.0    209.1
ROAD DEVELOPMENT                        -         99.7        202.0        236.9        196,7        126,8         862,1   63,3    546.0       36,7    316,1
WORKSHOP                                -         11.1         16.1         16.1         16.1          16.1         7535   64.9      49.0      3531     26.5
LAND DEVELOPMENT                        -        174.3        209.9        209.9        209,9        209,9      1,013.9   62,0    629.1        38.0    384,8
BUILDING                             30.3         14.3         14.3         10.3          7.6           7.6         84,4   59,5      50.2      40,6     34,3
ADMINISTRATION                       68,7        266.7         73,1         47.7        104,9        104.9         666.0   59,4    395.6    *40.6    270.4
FINANCE                                 -         21.6         23.8         23.8         23.8          23.8        116.8   87,5    102.2       [2.5      14.6
PLANNING                                -        363.9         12.9         12.9         12,9          12.9        415.5   35,0    14536       65.0    269,9
EVALUATION                              -         15.9         20.1         20.1         20.1          20,1         96.3   62.3      60.0      37,7      36.3
TOTAL                              154.3      1,338.1    1039,2         1,114.8      1,152.4      1,092,2      5,891.0   60.1  3P539.3        39.9  2,351.8
m >1



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
State Component
Detailed Financing Plan-by Expense Category
(N'000)
Categories of Proposed
Bank Loan
Per Dis-
bursement
Year 0    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total    N'000    US$'0OO               Schedule
Civil Works
IBRD                     188       2,380       595         45           40        -        3,248    3,248       5,000        4,500
FMG                       98       1,221       307         23           20        -       1,669
KWSG                     137       1,714       430         33           29        -        2,343
Sub-total                423       5,315    1,332         101           89       -         7,260
Vechicles, Equipment,
Spare Parts
IBRD                      84       2,513       675        550         532       419       4,773    4,773        7,355        6,600
FMG                        4         121        32         26           26       20          229
KWSG                       6         170        46         37           36        29         324
Sub-total                 94       2,804       753        613         594       468       5,326
Salaries and Wages
IBRD                      45         437       468        500         491       312       2,253    2,253        3,475        4,200
FMG                       10         377       603        757         878       990       3,615
KWSG                      15         534       851      1,068       1,235    1,390         5,093
Sub-total                 70       1,348    1,922       2,325       2,604    2,692       10,961
Consultancy, Media,
Overseas Training
IBRD                      30         144       144          81         167       179         745       745      1,147
Operating Costs
FMG                       71         698       496         636         712       773       3,386
KWSG                      99         980       697        892         997    1,086        4,751
Sub-Total                170       1,678    1,193       1,528        1,709    1,859        8,137
Farm Inputs
IBRD                      -          401       709        765          801       848       3,524    3,524       5,430        4,900
FMG                       -           31        54          58          61        64         268
KWSG                      -           43        76         82          85        91          377                                              1 >
Sub-total                 -          475       839        905          947    1,003        4,169
Unallocated
2,200
GRAND TOTAL                787       11,768   6,183       5,553        6,110      6,201    36,602   14,543    22,407           22,400



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Table 9
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement for Bank Loan
(US $'000)
State Component        Federal Component             Total
Biannual  Cumulative   Biannual  Cumulative    Biannual  Cumulative
Year  1  1    1,000       1,000        ...         ...          1,000        1,000
II   2,050      3,050        615         615          2,665        3,665
Year  2  I    5,000       8,050        655       1,270          5,655        9,320
II   2,800    10,850         660       1,930          3,460       12,780
Year  3  I    2,150    13,000          705       2,635          2,855       15,635
II   1,500    14,500         705       3,340          2,205       17,840
Year  4  I    1,600    16,100          630       3,970          2,230       20,070
II   1,650    17,750         630       4,600          2,280       22,350
Year  5  I    1,700    19,450                                   1,700       24,050
II   1,450    20,900                                  1,450       25,500
Year  6  I    1,500    22,400                                   1,500       27,000



!N'RIaA
lWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICLJLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ILLUSTRATIVE  CASH FLOW  - KWARA STATE GOVERNMENS
(Naira '000)
Year 0-     Year I       Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Year 6       Year 7       Year 8      Year 9       Year 10       Year 20       Oard
CASH INFLOW
IBRD Loan                          -         1,981       5,065        2,370        2,110       2,045          974           -            _           -
FMS Subvention (1)                183        2,446        1,485       1,491        1,686        1,836          -
Sub-Total                         183        4,427        6,S50-      3,861        3,796       3,881          974           -            _           -            _             _             _
LOAN REPAYMENT
Land Charges (2)                   -            27           51          81          159          201         243          243         243         243          243           243           243
Tractor Hire Charges                -           40           67          101         116          144          124         124         124         124          124           124           124
Input Repayment                    -           -            248         562          905        1,314       1,725        1,838        1,838      1,838        1,838         1,838         1,838
Fit Fertilizer Subsidy (3)         -           254          778       1,390        2,059       2,780        3,273        3,466       3,466       3,466        3,466        3,466          3,466
Sub-Total                          -           321        1,144       2,134        3,239       4,439        5,365        5,671        5,671      5,671        5,671         5,671         5,671
Total Inflow                      183        4,748        7,694       5,995        7,035        8,320       6,339        5,671        5,671      5,671        5,671         5,671         5,671
CASH OUIrFLOW
Project Costs (4)                 787       11,762        6,615       6,841        8,396       9,250        9,083        8,049        7,532      7,532        7,532         7,532          7,532
Debt Service IBRD Loan (5)         _           102           75          47           31           15           3
Commitment fee
Interest                           -            69         316          576           733         878          950          916        849         781          713            34
Principal                          -           -            -           -            -            -            969          969        969         970          969           970             -
Total Outflow                      787      11,933        7,006       7,464        9,160       10,413      11,005        9,934        9,350      9,283        9,214         8,536          7,532
Net Casb Flow (Deficit)           (604)    (7,185)          688      (1,469)      (2,125)      (2,093)     (4,666)      (4,257)      (3,679)    (3,612)      (3,543)       (2,865)        (1,861)
Cumulative Cash Flow              (604)    (7,789)       (7,101)     (8,570)    (10,695)    (12,788)    (17,454)    (21,711)    (25,390)   (29,002)    (32,545)                _
Existing Expenditures (6)           -       (1,240)      (1,420)     (1,635)      (1,875)      (2,158)     (2,158)      (2,158)      (2,158     (2,158)      (2,158)       (2,158)        (2,158)
Annual State Financing              (604)   (8,425)        (732)     (3,104)      (4,000)      (4,251)     (6,824)
1/   25/. of project costs rounded.
2/  Years I to 3,N15 per hectare; thereafter, 1121 per hectare; minus existing rental on already developed land.
3/   Subsidized cost of farm inputs to be reimbursed to project by FMG.
4/   Includes contingencies, and total input purchases incremental to Year 0 use.
5/   Terms:  20 years grace period of 5 years on repayment of principal.  Interest at 7.0/. on outstanding portion,
Comnitment charge of 3/4 of 1% on undisbursed portion.
6/  All costs and inflows and net cash flow calculated on incremental basis, but State is in addition comnitted to maintain real level of
existing expenditures on agricultural development in project area (includes contingencies).



NIGERIA
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEDERAL COMPONENT
Federal Feasibility Studies (N'000)
Costs
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5       Total       Foreign exchange
Base Costs (including
physical contingencies)       607.8       1,215.6    1,215.6    1,013.0          -          4,052.0       2,431.2
Price contingencies                88.1         273.5       378.1       408.2       -          1,147.9          688.7
Total                            695.9       1,489.1    1,593.7    1,421.2          -          5,199.9       3,119.9
Financing                                          US$'000
FGN                              296.9          634.4       678.9       605.4       -          2,215.2       3,400
IBRD                             399.4          854.7       914.8       815.8       -          2,984.7       4,600



- 75 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Economic Prices for Production
(1978 constant Naira)
per metric ton
Maize      Sorghum
1980-85    1980-85
FOB US Gulf (US$)                      139        121
Freight and Insurance                   30         30
CIF Lagos                             169         151
N equivalent (with -S.E.R.)           138         123
Handling : Lagos                        20         20
Lagos-Ilorin transport                  30         30
Wholesale Ilorin                      188         173
Primary marketing costs               (18)       (18)
Farm-market transport                  (6)        (6)
Farmgate value                        164         149



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices for Production 1/
(constant 1978 Naira per ton)
Yams                 Cowpeas         Cassava      Maize      Sorghum
1980       1985        1980       1985       1980/85    1980/85    1980/85
Retail value                            318         341        438         455         180        218         300
Retail marketing                         49          51         44          45          18         22          30
Local transport                          10          10         10          10          10         10          10
Wholesale value                         269         280        384         400         152        186         260
Primary marketing                        10          10         20          20          10         20          20
Processed value, Farmgate               259         270        364         380        142         166         240
(Extraction/shrinkage factor) 2/  (0.833)                                         (0.375)
Equivalent, harvested value             216        225         364         380         53         166         240
1/   Farmgate prices derived from mission forecasts of local retail market trends.
For internationally traded products (maize, sorghum) prices for economic evaluation
are calculated at Annex 3, Table 1; present prices are for farmbudget purposes only.
For nontraded products, economic and financial farmgate values are assumed identical.
2/   Yams : shrinkage factor of 1.2:1.
Cassava : drying factor of 0.45; assumed peeling losses 1.2:1.                                                      a



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Prices of Farm Inputs
(Constant 1978 Naira per metric ton)
Calcium Ammonium Nitrate   Compound 20-20-20
1980       1985       1980        1985
     - - -         s - - -   US $
Price FOB Europe                      127         158        187         220
Freight and insurance                  45          45         45          45
CIF Lagos                             172         203        232         265
-         - -    N-  - - - - - - - - - - - -
CIF Lagos 1/                          140         165        188         215
Handling Lagos                         15          15         15         15
Lagos-Ilorin transport                 30          30         30          30
Project handling                       20          20         20          20
Value ex FSC                          205         230        253         280
FSC - farm transport                   10          10         10          10
Economic farmgate price             215        240         263        290
1/  Official exchange rate US$1.54   NI.00. Shadow exchange rate ( 0.8 xOER)
US$1.23:Nl.00.



NNIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Value of Incremental Crop Production
Year 1     Year 2   Year 3        Year 4     Year 5       Year 6       Year 7       Year 8
-     -     -     -     -   -     -     -OO N              -   -     -   -     -   -     -   -     -   -   -     -   _
Maize
BSP               330         952      1,574       2,380       3,187        3,187        3,187        3,187
ASP               460         888       1,041       1,215       1,335       1,575         1,220        1,220
Sorghum
BSP               116         302         488         674         860          860          860          860
ASP               (4)        (13)        (21)        (25)        (32)         (32)         (32)         (32)
Yams
BSP               454       1,685       2,916      4,147       5,378        5,603        5,603        5,603
ASP                -          -           -           -           -            -            -            -
Cassava
BSP                -           72         286      1,145       2,862        2,862        2,862        2,862
ASP              (11)        (47)         696         770         916          916          916          916
Cowpeas
BSP                31          62          93         124        155           162          162          162
ASP               (2)         (9)        (15)        (17)        (22)         (23)         (23)         (23)
Total             1,374       3,892       7,058      10,413      14,639      15,110        14,755        14,755             o|z
Note:  Physical production figures from Annex 1, Tables 3 and 5.  Economic prices from Annex 3,
Table 1, for imported goods (maize, sorghum) Table 2 for other commodities.



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Valuation of Farm Inputs (N '000)
Price N                                                                 Price N    Post-
(1980)    Year 1       Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      (1985)      Project
BSP
Compound Fertilizer          264    217.8         613.8       1,009.8    1,445.4    1,881.0         290       2,066.3
Fertilizer CAN               215      91.4        252.6         322.5       505.3       779.4       240         870.0
Herbicide                 14,400      57.6        115.2         172.8       207.4       253.4   14,400          253.4
Total BSP                          366.8        981.6       1,505.1    2,158.1    2,913.8                   3,189.7
ASP
Compound Fertilizer          264      23.8         87.1         202.0       237.6       277.2       290         304.5
Fertilizer CAN               215      12.9         47.3          61.3        75.3        86.0       240          96.0
Herbicide                 14,400      14.4         28.8          43.2        51.8        63.4   14,400           63.4
Insecticide                1,200      12.0         33.6          42.0        76.8        98.4    1,200           98.4
Hand Planters                  60     18.0         12.0           6.0         6.0         7.5        60           _
CDA Sprayers                  48      14.4          9.6           2.4        16.8         9.6        48           _
Batteries                       2.4    2.9          4.8           5.3         5.8         5.8         2.4         5.8
Maize Cribs                    45      4.5          4.5           9.0         9.0         9.0        45           -
Total ASP                         102.9        227.7         371.2       479.1       556.9                  568.1
Note:  All prices adjusted using S.E.R. on foreign exchange element.
U,L



- 80 -
NIGERIA                                        ANNEX 3
table 6
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Value of Incremental Labor 1/
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7
--------------------------------------Mandays------------------------
Maize
lISP                19         33          47         56          55          55          55
ASP                 10        112         154        195         227         278         202
Sorghum
BSP                  9         18          27         36          45          45          45
Yams
BSP                 86        257         427        599         770         770         770
Cassava
BSP                 -          14          58        232         580         580         580
ASP                 -          -           -         134         268         402         536
Maize/Sorghum
BSP                 40        122         202        283         365         365         365
Maize/Legume
BSP                 19         38          57         76           95         95          95
ASP Acreage
Forgone 2/         (22)       (79)       (130)      (151)       (194)       (194)       (194)
Total BSP           173        482         818      1,282       1,910       1,910       1,910
ASP           (12)        33          24       178          301         486        544
Total               161        515         842      1,460       2,211       2,396       2,454
---------------------------------'000 N------------------------------
Economic Value
BSP                346        964       1,636      2,564       3,820       3,820       3,820
ASP                (24)        66          48        356         602         972       1,088
Total               322      1,030       1,684      2,920       4,422       4,792       4,908
1/   Area figures from Annex 1, Tables 2 and 4.  Per hectare labor requirements from Project File.
Economic values calculated using a shadow rate for labor of N2.0 per manday.
2/   Participants in the ASP program reduce their original home grown acreage from 2.5 ha to 1.1,
a saving of 144 Md per ha foregone. Estimate of participants in Year 0 - 450.
BSP = Basic Service Package
ASP = Advanced Service Package



NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return (N'000)
Year 8
Year 0      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4        Year 5       Year 6       Year 7   thru Yr 25
COSTS
Domestic costs - baseline         365.5    4,299.5    2,099.8    1,777.1          1,756.1      1,673.5      1,089.5        786.6        485.7
Less taxes                         42.9       558.3       216.1       196.1         173.4        150.3         108.6        79.7         59.0
Domestic costs (net)              322.6    3,741.2    1,883.7    1,581.0          1,582.7      1,523.2         980.9       708.9        426.7
5% physical contingency            16.1       187.1        94.2         79.1         79.1         76.2          49.0        35.4         21.3
Total domestic project costs   338.7    3,928.3    1,977.9    1,660.1             1,661.8      1,599.4       1,029.9       744.3        448.0
Foreign exchange costs - base  298.8    4,378.2    1,557.8    1,079.6             1,063.8        808.7         520.0       390.9        325.0
5% physical contingency            14.9       218.,9        77.9        54.0         53.2          40.4         26.0        19.5         16.3
Total foreign project costs    313.7    4,597.1    1,635.7    1,133.6             1,117.0        849.1         546.0       409.5        341.3
Foreign costs x SER               392.1    5,746.4    2,044.6    1,417.0          1,396.3      1,061.4         682.5       511.9        426.6
Basic farm inputs                   -         366.8       981.6    1,505.1        2,158.1      2,913.8      3,189.7    3,189.7        3,189.7
Advanced inputs                     -         102.9        227.7       371.2        479.1        556.9         568.1       568.1        568.1
Incremental farm labor              -         322.0    1,030.0    1,684.0        2,920.0       4,422.0      4,792.0      4,908.0    4,908.0
Total farm costs (with SER)                   791.7    2,239.3    3,560.3        5,557.2       7,892.7      8,549.8       8,665.8    8,665.8
BENEFITS
Incremental production              -       1,374.0    3,892.0    7,058.0    10,413.0    14,639.0    15,110.0    14,755.0   14,755.0



ANNEX 3
-82 -                                 Tae
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return : Sensitivity Analysis
Rate of
Costs          Benefits         Return
K  (constant)  K               23.8
+10%             K              17.7
+20              K              12.1
-10              K              30.8
-20              K              39.2
K              +10%            30.2
K              +20             36.2
K              -10             17.1
K              -20               9.4
+10%            -10              10.9
K       One year delay          14.6
Adoption rate as % of target    Rate of Return
80%                     18.0
70%                     15.0
60%                     11.8
55%                     10.1
50%                      8.3
Shadow exchange rate              Rate of Return
K (Ni:  $1.23)                       23.8
-19% (Ni: $1.00)                     22.2



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
NIGERIA
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEDERAL COMPONENT
Detailed Cost of Federal Feasibility Studies (Constant 1978 Prices)
Local    Foreign    Total
A.   Cost per Man-Month US$
Consultant fees $200 x 25 days 1/          1,000     4,000       5,000
Vehicles, equipment, operating
cost, travel and per diem expenses       2,000     1,000       3,000
Total US$                       3,000      5,000       8,000
B.   Cost per study - average 60
man-months  US$'000 2/                       180        300        480
C.   Total Cost for 13 studies US$ million          2.34       3.90        6.14
N million equivalent 3/              1.520     2.532       4.052
1/   Assuming 20% Nigerien consultants.
2/   Includes allowance for physical contingencies (5%), but not for
price contingencies.
3/   Estimated rate of expenditure:
Project Year 1 - 15%, PY2 - 30%, PY3 - 30%, PY4 - 25%.



- 84 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGERIA
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEDERAL COMPONENT
Federal Feasibility Studies
1.e        Currently, some nine agricultural and rural development project
feasibility studies have been prepared or are being prepared for possible
Bank financing in 1980 and 1981. These studies have been prepared either by
consultants employed directly by the Federal Government or by staff of and
consultants to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, or
by staff of the ongoing Bank financed agricultural projects. It is fairly
evident that the manpower within MEU and APMEPU (FMAWR's two field planning
and evaluation units) is not sufficient to prepare studies on a wide scale,
and their efforts would be better used for identifying new projects and
supervising consultant firms retained to prepare feasibility studies.
2.         The Bank agricultural sector review mission, that visited Nigeria in
March/April 1978, identified at least thirteen potential projects as suitable
for Bank lending in the period 1982 to 1984. Six project briefs have been
prepared and the remaining seven, requiring further field work, should be
completed by June 1979. The proposed projects have been discussed with
State and Federal officials, and it is agreed in principle that consultants
should be commissioned to prepare full feasibility studies. It is accepted
that not all the studies will be commissioned at the same time, and for those
to be prepared later in the cycle, some substitution by yet unidentified
projects is possible and would be permissible.
3.         The projects identified include:
(a) Agricultural and Rural Development Projects. These projects
follow the classical approach of the ongoing integrated agri-
cultural projects typified by the Funtua, Gusau, Gombe trio;
the main objectives being to establish a minimum infrastruc-
ture of feeder roads, water supplies, extension and commercial
farm services to support an improved agricultural output of
the population as a whole. To date, seven of such projects
have been appraised by the Bank and five are in operation.
The next generation of these projects will include an expan-
sion of the ongoing, agricultural development projects (ADP)
activities to cover the state or states as a whole; and to
apply the same concepts to the predominantly tree crop zones
(TCZ) where currently crop specific, i.e. cocoa and oil palm,
projects are being implemented. The TCZ projects will pro-
vide similar basic support services, but will also have the



- 85 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
objective of improving the farm as a whole, and will not
longer solely concentrate on tree crops. The following
can be classified under the ADP and TCZ group:
(i) Ondo Tree Crop Zone Project would complete the
coverage of Ondo State. Currently a TCZ project
is being prepared for the cocoa areas of Ondo,
and an ADP has been prepared for the northern
transitional and savannah areas. Ondo TCZ would
therefore concentrate on the further development
of the high rainfall zone where the Bank is
already investing in an oil palm program for
smallholders and estates. The new project would
expand the development of oil palm and associated
food crops.
(ii) Imo Tree Crop Zone Project would cover the southern
high rainfall zone of Imo State. It is an area of
intense population pressure, very dependent on the
production of palm oil and root crops. The project
would provide a basic infrastructural package and
would extend the existing smallholder oil palm
production program. Special attention would be
paid to developing marketing links with the more
dominant food producing zones to the north of
Imo State (separate project) and the potential
food surplus areas of Benue and Gongola States.
(iii) Imo State ADP would be located in the three local
Government areas of Owerri,2Igianlangwa and
Afikpo - totalling 1,400 km and a population of
100,000 farmers. The main emphasis would be on
the production of yams, cassava rice and maize
where improved technology is available to
guarantee increased yields and on soil erosion
control. A basic package of support services
would be provided including the development of
feeder roads, seed multiplication, and some
social services. The project would be closely
linked to the propozed TCZ project in the
southern part of the State.
(iv) Bendel North ADP. Bendel has similar ecological
zones to Ondo State, and the Bendel North ADP
would follow similar development proposals for
projects currently being prepared for Oyo, Ondo
and Ogun States. Bendel North ADP would concen-
trate on the production of rice, cassava, maize
and yams. The project would cover four Local



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
Government Council areas having an area of 7,000 km2
and supporting about 100,000 farm families. As for
other ADPs a basic infrastructural program would be
developed, and some controlled mechanization, including
no till - minimum tillage - farming would be introduced.
The northern boundary of the project would be part of
the Ilorin project area.
(v) Cross River ADP. This project would be similar to
Bendel North. It would be located in the northern
part of Cross River State and would provide an important
surplus of food to the more densely populated southern
areas of the State. Some 100,000 farmers could benefit
and the usual infrastructural program would be included.
(vi) Borno State ADP. Borno State has initiated an extensive
statewide program, and given the poor natural resource
base of the State, any new project would require an
extensive approach. The State is a major livestock
producing area, and contains about 30% of Nigeria's
cattle population. An integrated cattle/crop program
would be developed with special emphasis on livestock.
The usual infrastructural program would be included,
with a larger than normal investment to the livestock
program.
(vii) Abakaliki ADP located in the northern part of Anambra
State would be a natural extension to the ongoing Bank
supported rice project, particularly in the Abakaliki
flood plain areas. The project would provide basic
infrastructural support services for all crops, but
special emphasis would be placed on swamp and irriga-
tion development. Some 150,000 farmers could benefit.
(b) National and Specific Projects:
(i) Research. Nigerian research institutions generally
do not provide the information to insure a long term
base for production improvement. When information is
generated by the research institutions, the means of
transferring the techniques to the farmers is normally
absent. A detailed review of Nigerian agricultural
research is required into its organization policy and
technical limitations. From this review, firm invest-
ment proposals should be established, and funds pro-
vided for implementation of a program that is farmer
orientated. Already it is apparent that any new
investment into research should include the establish-
ment of about four zonal stations that would, using



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
results from the traditional research agencies, test
out systems on a large enough scale for adoption at
farmer level. Particular attention would be paid
to affecting the improved technologies being
developed at IITA.
(ii)  Lagos Markets.  With the expected expansion of food
production being channelled into the expanding urban
markets and that of Lagos in particular, a study is
required to review the marketing, wholesaling,
retailing and distribution constraints in Lagos with
a view to establishing a more effective marketing
system to service the people of Lagos. Subject to
further identification and preparation, major invest-
ments in market structures and storage is required.
(iii) Agricultural Credit. Following an identification
mission in December 1977 it is clear that, now that
improved services are being developed under ADPs
and TCZ, there is a need to strengthen Nigeria's
central agricultural credit institutions such as
NACB, and to further exploit the possible expanded
utilization of the commercial banks. By 1982/83
it would be possible to make full use of a major
inflow of credit resources through these institutions
for both, small and larger commercial farmers. A
feasibility study is required to look at: improving
the credit flow to farmers, providing better technical
support services to the larger "commercial" farmers,
and to improving the operations of NACB in particular.
(iv) Irrigation Projects. Studies are required to establish
more clearly the long term future and investment
requirements of a selected -- but yet unidentified --
existing large irrigation project in the dry arid zone
of Nigeria; and a full feasibility study on a small or
medium scale conventional irrigation scheme, possibly
in Kano State. Further identification is required.
(v) Fertilizer Distribution and Marketing Project. To com-
plement the proposed fertilizer factory project, invest-
ment is required to enable effective distribution of
factory output within Nigeria. The scope and details
of the necessary infrastructure program cannot be
assessed until a detailed study has been made of the
existing distribution system and recommendations made
on the improvements required to handle projected future
supplies. In addition, pricing policies will have to be
reviewed with a view to encouraging competition within
the distribution system.



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
(vi) Technical Assistance Project. The exact scope of such
a project needs clearer definition before a feasibility
study can be undertaken. However, there are areas where
a TA project could have spectacular benefits including
amongst others, technical and macroplanning support to
FMAWR, support to the Grains Marketing Board for developing
a market intelligence system, the Cotton Development
Board in organization and administering cotton buying,
and the strengthening of Technical Committee on
Producer Prices (TCPP) to insure sounder development
of producer pricing policies.
4.        Terms of reference for the studies are under preparation.  It would
be the responsibility of FMAWR's APMEPU and MEU to finalize the TOR for review
by the Bank. Consultant firms would then be requested, following Bank guide-
lines, to prequalify and submit proposals. The final contract, conditions of
service and qualification of consultants would be acceptable to the Bank.
5.        The consultants would be drawn mainly from international companies,
or from local companies who normally would submit proposals jointly with
foreign firms. Special effort would be made to encourage Nigerian partici-
pation, and it is estimated that the latter would amount to about 20%.
6.        For cost estimation purposes, it is assumed that the average consul-
tant input per project would be 60 man-months, ranging from as low as 25 to
30 man-months for the simpler ADP, technical assistance and credit projects
to as much as 100 man-months for irrigation. The average consultant fee is
estimated on a 25-day month at US$200 per man-day. The all-inclusive cost
(including physical contingencies) per consultant man-month equivalent is
estimated at US$8,000 of which 60% would be foreign costs. Details are at
Table 1.



- 89 -
ANNEX 5
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORTN ACRICULTLURlL DEVELOPr4ELNI PROJECT
Working Papers in Project File
rgricultural Background and Potential
A.   Environmental Appraisal
B.   Minimum Tillage
C.   Crop Agronomy
D.   Production Technology
E.   Production Economics
C2   Extension, Development and Planning, Research and Seed Production
A.   Extension
B.   Development
C.   Research
D.   Seed Multiplication
C3   Livestock Development
A.   Background
B.   Current Development
C.   Development Possibilities
C4   Physical Works, Construction and Tractor Services
A.   Roads
B.   Land Development
C.   Buildings
D.   Tractor Services
C5   Detailed Project Cost Tables



-90 -
NIGERIA
KWARA STATE
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
F EDERAL                                       EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                                  KWARA STATE
AND                                         COMMISSIONER MANR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
LOCAL                       ILORIN          L            OTHER
APMEPU              GOVERNMENT    _           PROJECT EXECUTIVE  |_ _IIISTATE
COUNCILS                   COMMITTEE       |             MINISTRIES
ILORIN                  I LORIN PROJECT
[PROJECT MANAGEMENT    -   TECHNICALCOORDINA_
LIAISON                                              UNIT         |         TING COMMITTEE
FINANCE                PROJECT MANAGERS              ADMINISTRATIVE
DIVISION                     OFFICE                      DIVISION
_ ~     ~      ~         ~        ~~~ ~~ MAAEMN                WORKSHOPS 
MUELTPICA                    NSTRUCTION 
VA       TRAINiNG                  SERV   s                                           D~~- NDAPLIE  - OEELPARMENT
) MONITORINA  A                                                                                             M FARM INPUTSOP
-AND NG                 STAFF                   AND CREDIT -CO            EXTENSEON X       NROA DS    WO
2~~~~ET PTF                    ETO                      LANNING            -| BUILDINGS|
SECTION     AK                      STA IOCTION ND
|   |                                 | ~~~~~~~~~~~AND APPLIED|:   DELOMN
'   '                         '      | ~~~~~~~~~RESEARCH|
Line of Command
--- _    _ "Advisory
,........a Technical Liaison
See text for abbreviation
World Bank - 19044



k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                                                                                                                                        IBD  siNe  ERIBDAsitdAgricultural Projects
_N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\---                                                                                                                                                                      a        6Existing, Appraised and Under Preparation,
~~~~~~N  _/nof                                                                                                                                                                     Ag,icult,il Deoelop-enl
I                                                                                                                  -                          RAI~~~~~~~-fESTNG
I                                                                                U                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LoSe (Loon 1454-JI
K,-'-                  ~~~~AyorgEo >o- 145 5-UN!)
F?   N   U                                               G~~~~~Ao ,~  -no  (Lon 1099-UNI)
Gnome (hone 114USNI)
55i0O0R.    /                  ~~~~APPEAlS ED'
ELki  m,  (Odo.Sn N-kn
/                 ~~~~UNDER PREPARATION
D  N             B   A    0    C                                                                                                        K.J~~~~~~~en  R  o,,, Sire
n  ,,  A  N   o-"         I                                                                       A                                  Gonoo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.,   mest ien
APPeRISEG
\~(ChJAD                           Agno-lonI and R,,ro
~~~~~  '---5  Room                                                                                                                                                       C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c--nIT(Loa- 764 vI-UN
O,d. 01I Pole ULoo 1192-512 
0                                                                                                                         t                                         B-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odo] Gi Polo Loon 11RilUNI)
RDI                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APPRAISES
K,,i,. Al.  s., t,    ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~3'UNDER PREPARATION
B  N   Li   E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ j   nniRTe-si
pd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-%~~~~~                                         ~-                    -         1T                                                                                                                        rngct- tormioct
Soesgir                 + EWe,                               -J                              o                                                                             0'    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rn- (Loo  1103LUNI)
8~~~gbl                             F~~'L'   En                                                o-                           -           sipsAttLA.o 0,O                                           -           oomn                 o  1591-UN I)
VeR   ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~oi9itAP                                                   Pls       ISOS    Not o-I Li-ssio, Pnodo-,o  Co R-k-r
1xj-  Oooo,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                        ornm4nn/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Nonnh PE-I, Co R-nons
/0   'P9RT                                                                                                                            Rococo                  Wesleno 1 oestoS~7  F Co  -po R-he
<n~'lCt  ___                                                     - psot~peesooses                    -',-%  'OZAI           P
i3:o/r   of    <-j'rca ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~    3gh                         -                                  ---                       o    -                          iOy-- ',--                               Ainl Psoolnsigne   onr



'_ RD 13494
r f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N  G E R  hSA PRa19
j .-                       -~~ 9\\ <....ffILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing  Agricultural Infrastructure and Land Development Schemes
/ l'*iJebbai                                                                                                 /                                                          Project boundary
9 A F R  C A/~l  *                                                   aX                I      /            t0~t                                                 - -   Seronary roads
if  z _ -i /> V /1 { ,r~~~~~~~K                                                                                                           Other roads
/Fi~ ~ ~>-1   \  ndu 'Thai                                            2[  F;jfili-r  heds
/ '                                                                                                _ > v t'' . .!' /' J \ % 't * Vi lage -stres
(          p           *F  edgar                                                                                       A   THU  -orksho-s
Algiene L      -                                                                           a0 \  Iis'o sal eateeron olf nos
-0 '||' g                                              jeSanynme:          6/                                            \VIIage extens,ar off res
1                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aqr jIt~raI training rente
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                                                          Shr 94                                       Fa in ire2;2a1stitotes
ye'~                               y 6                     vf\                                                  L s--- < lj i 3 2 i 00 Lerte-k  rpro-noent ond breeding certer
O,sf      !      K_ L,   /                                         /               fa g   r*d de-.peI       s eent ckem e
tA~~~~~~                                                            alic j/>                           2/                  _/   /ft       < t/           ___ 
I   azeortooru ue suc;: i fd8bdeate                       '
_* __
-            '      5<'-'.         4~~~~~~gb   -ok
NW  /                            / /       I  /               /                 CReEd. 'P.41S
K                                                                  9-                                   "
6           7>                &         ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q 0                    '- *           N
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0i
'a  A Osse lye   OGre        gb9  d         -                                                                  .ks, si  re  AyrI 
0  2C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 13495
1-tRIN AGRICLULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Development Infrostructure and Land Planning Areas
Pr1-.,er irnrrrad-y
!s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f/n o:Cf   u                                                                                                                           rol trardare
,5  : S i   8                    t                      '      j X          - 9                                                         :      Of F~~~~~~~~----------C/r nar 9rnrads
,~~~~~~       ~~                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tee moortRIe
>7,  I                                                                                                                            *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R~~~~~~Oa~,r- d
i   t-t      /; M                       jv  5   ,   ttSaa= Soli- Li                                                                      Are-, sert me crathers
|   ,'  ., J/ 0 ,- -~~~~~<--                                 O                          '          'N  f,0  C/r                                                                         FOrn c0 e aloe cen ters
'21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
r'9-  -                 (-  a                                                                         *       rF>per mental  -usbandry   form
---        f            >           12  .---~~~~~~~~~~~- -  fbi/ogor      tr ;                                                                               Raesarcn sbstatcrn
-             1/                                                         r           Nb.\                                                    d    r
a/9/0lreoe           -  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0                                        ~-Hedq-t-em
[  /   /   -i   :  :  (;(/  :.   >X.kF  lle                  ..                           Form  ra-ning ente-
,'')                                     .r                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Area oAf..a
fS/   f/        / 2"         ; i S  g; r;~< <     Ng               '           <      /                                                   M  lar  roob/osr
i;  I'                                                      c                                 CJf   1  / A  ¢   {   I^>   ;:   )  /  >   ;     Spec al de relop-mert aeas, loand p90rrrirry
r-'.,-' 2<ttXS 1iJO N1                 9Y/   5  ,    /    f!2 '
0     g~  L  /: -:o                     E            S$;/f J                                    /      q9                           \/9Bblf 
Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,t
-r   ~                                                                                                0   \f  \       2O.  :c             
C~   ~                                                                                           N                               o->ot  C:                                          l
X   =0   $   ., 05., . -- .... , . 0 , .\t 'A>kt, D?,
Raburb0-
< ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     - >itkC KCs .ax..r  .Sr  i1s*-VF /-t .0 @Et01t {  ° 
A I,()
L  CPF s....  ..   . e ... s e e        .1 _



IBRD 13496
APR L 9 8
ILORIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*  ,   -                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing and Proposed Roadls and  Electrical Installations
P  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ Ie~~~~~~~JbbO 
Pro ect boundary
Divsi-nl lb-udores
'90                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Federl roads
~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State roads
State roads 5chedoled fo, _pg-ding
GnA roads robe mairtaised by project
LGA ro.ds to be constrorted by project
.2   Puce Sod.c  '                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
". i-, '                         i."d crS \ E 9g aWS i > Boundary of close settled zones
" "                               >i                              -                                              " Ang                                  Kat -~Eidogrsa  E ecri  Poo Dens Actbor ty
-  -      ,.                             Llbostomo                                                         B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orn  E!otr, Board
A  I p
,  X >  \       y ,j       /                            <   rti>§ ~/ c.
-            /   'I19-<,  /    ,t.          ,. X -° '    \                         }!4,;  I
I             ',                          '1,st$   j/     
0~~~~~~
Idof  0M.Ika~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,pso, Oykl
>~~~~~~~~~~ ig er                                                               tV                                                      o~ Ago0fi
\                                                                                                                                   W1O An  O    r
7lL>OA '                                                P Irao  Ow                             a      Igji
w</~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                  ` t n dofial<Mooog     OrAg,yekl
t  \t                <                                                                                              c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odofin gbanw' %wt
0          5 10       15                      20                                            rn 3  r
'911MtithS   A   0< ,p9rl   i   lle
O       S rrrI,r2,n r                                              / c.,n,c             ' ncpvn>.ryr.Crn                                                                                 Oboll



