Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.7951
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(LOAN 2095-IN/CREDIT 1209-IN)
JUNE 30, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and maN be used by recipients only in the performance of
-  -       -       >    vw  be                W



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC       -  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
BIRD       -  Bankers Institute for Rural Development
CAB        -  College of Agricultural Banking
CALCOB     -  Committee on Agriculture Loans through Coi_ercial Banks
CBs        -  Comnercial Banks
COTELCOOP  -  Comittee on Term Lending through Cooperatives
CRAFICARD  -  Comittee to Review Arrangements for Institutional Credit
DCBs       -  District Cooperative Banks
DOM        -  District Oriented Monitoring
EAPD       -  Economic Analysis and Publications Department (of NABARD)
IRDP       -  Integrated rural Development Programe
NABARD     -  National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
PACs       -  Primary Agriculture Cooperatives
PLDBs      -  Primary Land Development Banks
RBI        -  Reserve Bank of India
RDPCs      -  Rural Development Project Courses
RRBs       -  Regional Rural Banks
SCBs       -  State Cooperative Banks
SLDBs      -  State Land Development Banks



IO oUVICIAL U ONLY
Tlo WOftL BANK
Wahwqton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oke Wd 0w.- Gw4
OpseaImM IEUbauA
June 30, 1989
DIORANDUK TO THE MECUTIV  DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on India
Fourth Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Credit Project (ARDC IV)
(Loan 2095-IN/Credit 1209-IN)
Attached, for iaformation, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on India - Fourth Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation Credit Project (ARDC IV) - (Loan 2095-IN/Credit 1209-IN)"
prepared by the Borrower, with an Overview prepared by the Asia Regional
Office.   No  audit  of  this  project  has  been  made  by  the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its :ontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



AL .
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(LOAN 2095-IN/CREDIT 1209-IN)
Table of Contents
Pare No.
Preface ..# .. . ................................................                     i
Basic Data Sheet              .............................................          ii
Evaluation Sulnmary              ...........................................         iv
OVERVIEW
General ..........................................                     1
Project Objectives and Achievements  ....              ..........      2
Financial and Economic Returns .....               ..............      4
Loan Recoveries and Eligibility Criteria .... .....                    5
Lending to Small Farmers under IRDP ....               ..........      6
Regional Rural Banks  (RRBs)  .....             .................      7
Rehabilitation Programs for Weak SLDBs  ....             .......       8
Project Impact on Institutional Development    ......                 10
Financial Performance of NABARD ..................                    11
Lending Procedures, Supervision and
Monitoring by NABARD ......             .....................      11
Bank Group Performance  ......             .....................      14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.    INTRODUCTION  .....................................                   15
II.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...........................                   18
III.    PROJECT BENEFITS  .................................                   28
IV.    ROLE OF PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS  ....               ...........    31
Annexes
I.    Table   1 - Cost of the Fourth ARDC Credit Project
Appraisal Estimate   .....           ..............     43
Table 2 - Cost of Project - IDA/IBRD Slice:
Appraisal Estimates ....................                44
Table 3 (a) and (b):
State-wise and Purpose-wise Disburse-
ments Under the Project ................                45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pate No.
Table  3 (c) State-wise and Purpose-wise
Disbursements Under IRD Program ......    47
Table  4 -  Cumulative Disbursements of Funds
Under the Project...                    ..................    48
Table  5 (a) and (b):
State-wise Details of Actual
Project Costs ............               49
Table  6 (a) U.ats of Minor Irrigation Financed
Under Non-IRDP Schemes ...............    51
Table  6 (b) Units of Minor Irrigation Financed
Under IRDP      .       . . ...... ... .  52
Table  7 - Groundwater Potential in States (19S2).    53
Table  8 (a) Diversified Investments - Units
Financed Under Non-IRDP Schemes ......    54
Table  8 (b) Divwrsified Investments - Units
Financed Under IRD Program ...........    55
Table  9 - Project Cost and ARDC Disbursements
in Less Developed Areas ................    56
Table 10 - NABARD Disbursements in Less
Developed Areas ........................    57
Table 11 - Small Farmers Coverage .................    58
Table 12 - Staffing Pattern of National Bank
Composition of Staff ...................    59
Table 13 - Composition of Staff -
Technical Service ......................    61
Table 14 - Staff Position of National Bank
as of June 30, 1984 ....................    63
Table 15 - Resources Mobilization by
ARDC/NABARD ............................    64
Table 16 - Cash Flows .............................    65
Table 17 - Condensed Statement of Income
and Expenditure ..............             66
Table 18 - Condensed Balance Sheets ...............    67
Table 19 - Financing Agency-wise Position of
NABARD Disbursements ...................    68
Table 20 - Total Borrowings of LDBs -
Debentures Floated During the Financial
Year (April-March) .....................    69
Table 21 - Lending by Land Development Banks
Cooperative Year (July-June) ...........    70
Table 22 - Land Development Banks -
Recovery Performance at Primary Level..    71
Table 23 - Summary of Land Development Bank
Recovery (1974-1984) ...................    72



Pat* No.
Table 24 - State Cooperative Banks and Central
Cooperatives Banks Sumary of Overdues
of Agricultural Advances...
as at the End of June       ...    73
Table 25 - Direct Institutional Finance for
Agriculture          ... .....    74
Table 26 - Indirect Institutional Finance for
Agriculture        .......... .            75
Table 27 - Bank Group-wise/Population
Groupwise Distribution
of Comercial Bank Offices in India ....    76
Table 28 - India Scheduled Commerclal Banks:
Agricultural Advances Overdues -
All Loans ..............................   77
II.   Pilot Project Studies for Quality Control of
Agricultural Pumpsets ...........................    78
III.  Training ..........................................    92
IV.   Important Policy Decisions During the Project
Period ............................................   103
V.  Table  1 - A Study of Minor Irrigation
Scheme in Allahabad District of U.P ....   119
Table  2 - A Study on the Working of the Deep
Tubewells in West Bengal, Hooghly and
West Dinajpur ..........................   120
Table  3 - Public Tubewells and River Lifts in
Orissa .................................   122
Table  4 - Public Tubewells and River Lifts in
Orissa .................................   123
Table  5 - Minor Irrigation Scheme in Rohtas
District of Bihar ......................   124
Table  6 - Evaluation Study of Dairy Development
in Malerkotla Area of Sanorur District,
Punjab .................................   125
Table  7 - Evaluation Study of Dairy Scheme in
Surat District Gujarat .................   126
Table  8 - Evaluation Study of Dairy Development
in Bharatpur District, Rajasthan .......   127
Table  9 - Evaluation Study of Marine Fishery
Scheme for Mechanized Boats in Bulsar
District, Gujarat ......................   128
Table 10 - Evaluation Study of Inland Fishery
Scheme in Krishna District of Andhra
Pradesh ................................   129
Map - IBRD 15972R1



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(Ln. 2095-IN/Cr. 1209-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Fourth
gricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Credit Project in India,
for which a Loan and a Credit in the total amount of US$350 million was
approved on  February  23,  1982.    The  Loan  and  Credit  were closed as
scheduled on June 30,  1984.    They  were  fully  disbursed  and the final
disbursement was on November 20, 1984.
The PCR was prepared by the Borrower (NABARD, previously ARDC) and
is supplemented by an Overview prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division, Country Department IV, of the Asi_ Regional Office.  The Overview
draws heavily on NABARD's report, and is based also on reviews of the Staff
Appraisal Report, correspondence with the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda
on project issues as contained in relevant Bank files, as well as on
interviews with officials both in the Bank and in NABARD who have been
associated with the project.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on March 27, 1989 for comments by
May 8, 1989, but none were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COWLETION REPORT
uSDIA
FOURTH AORITCLTURAL REFDMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
COWORATION CREDIT PROJECT (AROC IV)
(LOAN 25-IN/CREDlT 1209-IN)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Prol-et Date
Appraisal     Actual or      ActmaI as X of
Estimate   Estimated Actuol Appraisal Estlmte
Total Project Cost (US3 Million)        2,JJB.2         - 5/
Total Project Cost (Re M)               l6,d96          - !/
Eligible for IDA/11RD Flnnncing (USS U)   1,317.4
Eligible for IDA/IBRD Financing (Ru U)    1,5C4        12,61C            119.7
Credit Amount (SON U)                    139.6          139.6             191
Date of Board Approval                                 2/23/82
Oate of Effectivene                                    6/25/82
Loan Amount (USS VillIon)                199.0          196.4             100
Dats of Effectiveneos                                  5/25/82
Date of Credit/Loan Agreemnt                           2/24/62
Closing Dats                            6/30/84        6/36/64
Economic Rates of Return (%) t/        30Y-61Ub    Negative to 5641
Financial Rates of Return (X) t/        2ex-48x        lox-6ex
ubuebr of Direct Beneficiaries        1.4 million    2.2 million          167
STAFF INPUTS
(stff wobs)
FY75  FY76 FY77 FYt7  FY7t  FY6  FY61 FY62 FY8S FY84 FY85 FY86 FYO7 FY6"  TOTAL
Preapproisal               .1        1.2        6.7 19.1                                            26.2
Appraisal                                            66.8 36.6                                     92.6
Negotiations                                              22.6                                     22.6
Supervision                                                6.0 29.4 24.6   .3          6.6   .68   .$
Other               .1                                 .6  2.3                                      3.2
TOTAL             .1    .1   .0  1.2   .0  5.7 75.7 67.9 29.4 24.6   .3   .5  6.6   .6  211.6
CUtMLATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY62       FY6S       FY64       FY6S
Appraisal Estiate (US3 Million)             .0        190.t      3U.6 34a.4 St
Actual (US2 Million)                       40.6       156.0     34.5       348.9
Actual as X of Estimate                    161.5       82.6       97.3       97.4
Oate of Finai Disburssemt of Loan         11/20/94
Date of Final Disbursemet of Credit        6/26/63
aI  Tle ARDC IV project was described as la two-year time-slice" of ARDC's ongoilg
lending program (par& 4.30 of SAR). Total project costs (estimated at Rs 16,690
million) were based on aggregate costs of all field-level investments supported
by ARDC refinance including equity contributions of borrowers and portions
financed by other banks. Actual total costs of such investments comparable to
SAR estimates, are not available at ARDC; however total ARDC refinance during
FY83 and FY84 amounted to RS 15,950 million against SAR estimates of Rs 11,887
million. Project costs do not include large-scale inv-stment subsidies provided
by central and state goverlments (for examp'.e, 2j2 to 331 of capital costs for
IRDP beneficiaries--SAR par&. 5.15).
b/  Based on samples of typical on-farm investments.
c/  Both Loan and Credit were fully disbursed.   The apparent under-disbursement is.
due to conversion of SDRs to USS equivalent.



-1ii-
No. of   badays   specializations  Portooc                  Types of
Date    poerons  in field  Represncted 3/         Rating 5/  Trend  Probl 4_
( olr)
Pr peratiem            11179       1           3       A                    VA          A       yA
Review of rto3jet      6-7/81      2          10       3,3                  VA          A       VA
pr ratioo
Appraisal              4-S/81      7         19        A,5,C,D,F,C          MA         I        I
Subtotal                                 m
Supervision 1          2/82        2           7       A,5                   1          2       1,0
Supervision 2          5-6/82      3          35       A,B                   1          2       1,0
Supervision 3          10/82       2          24       8,D                   1          2       1,0
Supervision 4          2-3/83      2          35       B,C                   2          2       1,0
Supervision 5          5-6/83      2          20       B,C                   2          3       1,0
Supervision 6          10/83       2          13       B                     3          3       1,0
Supervision 7          1/84        3          18       8,E                   3          3       1,0
Supervision 8          3-4/84      2           8       B,E                   3          3       1,0
Subtotal                                160
Total                                   369
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                         Government of India
cuiiing  Agncy:                   Agricultural  aef mmnce And Develop ent Corporttion (now NALA3I)
Fiscal Year of the Borrower:    July 1 - June 30
Nam  of Currancy                  Rupee (is)
Currencr FschOtge Rate:
Appraisal Reprt                 US$1.00 - Rs- 8.0
Appraisal Year Average          US$1.00 * Rs 10.2
Intervening Years Average       US$1.00   R is 10.8
Completion Year Average         US$1.00 - Rs 11.6
Follow-on Project:
ono SeeABARD-I Credit Project
Loan u br                       Loan 2635-IN
Loan Ahouat (US$ million)       375.00
Date of Bard Approval           2/25/86
3/  specializations represented:  A a Agriculturalist; B * Agricultural Credit Speciali:c;
C u Financial Analyst; D a Loan Officer; e - Fisheries Specialist; P - Economics;
C - Irrigation Speialist; H - Cooperative Specialist.
4/  Performance Rating:  I - Problem-free or minor problems; 2 * Moderate problems;
3 a Major problems.
5/  Trend:  1 a Improving; 2 - Stationary; 3 a Deteriorating.
6i Types of Problems: F a Financial; M - Managerial; T * Technical; P - Political;
O a Other.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(LOAN 2095-IN/CREDIT 1209-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The  Fourth  Agricultural  Refinance  and  Development Corporation
Credit Project (ARDC IV) was the fourth in a series of national agricul-
tural credit projects supported by the Bank Group in India. The project
was intended to finance a two-year time slice of ARDC's lending operations
covering the period July 1, 1982 to June 30, 1984. Total project cost,
estimated at US$2,086 million, was supported with an Ir Credit of US$160
million and a Bank Loan of US$190 million.
Objectives
2.       AF      mately 45Z of ARDC's lending  during the project period was
expected to i for minor irrigation systems, 33% for pumpset electrifica-
tion and farm mechanization and the remainder for a wide variety of on-farm
investments,  including  plant.tion  crops,  dairying,  poultry, fisheries,
storage and market-yards. Bank Group funds under the project were to sup-
port these investments with the exception of pumpset electrification, farm
mechanization and forestry which were not eligible for reimbursement under
the ARDC IV project.   Fifty-five  percent  of the Bank/IDA funds were ear-
marked for loans to small farmers and about 1.4 million farmers were
expected to benefit under the project.
3.       In order to address  the  principal  problem of poor recoveries in
agriculture credit, the project contained provisions for: (i) stricter
criteria for eligibility of refinance from ARDC based on recovery perfor-
mance of commercial and cooperative banks, it was hoped that such stricter
measures would provide the incentive for the banks to focus on their re-
covery performance, and (ii) measures to implement rehabilitation programs
to strengthen weak LDBs in six states (Maharashtra, Karnataka, Bihar,
Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and  Gujarat).    US$4.0 million of the IDA/Bank
funds was also allocated to provide continued support for ARDC's training
programs in agriculture credit.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.       The project  was  implemented  largely  as  planned;  Bank and IDA
disbursements were substantially completed by the original closing date of
June 1984 (although some final disbursoments were allowed until November
1984 under the project).    As  indicated  in  the  PCR prepared by NABARD,
except for the training component, most of the targets under the project



- v -
were met or exceeded. ARDC's refinance for small farmers amounted to 77X
of its total lending and the number of beneficiaries under the project is
estimated at about 2.2 million. Analyses by NABARD of a sample of scheme-
lending models indicate that vith the exception of public tubewells,
investments supported by NABARD were financially and economically viable in
the range 152 to over 50X.
5.       Results on overall institutional  developments, however, were less
favorable: agriculture credit continued to suffer from poor recoverics and
the enforcement of revised eligibility criteria for ARDC refinance had no
sustained or perceptible impact in  this  regard.   While ARDC and the LDBs
went through the formal procedures to prepare rehabilitation programs, it
became clear that State Governments were unwilling to bear the full burden
of financial rehabilitation nor to take politically unpopular measures
required  to  instill  better  financial   disciplines  in  the  banks  and
borrowers. ARDC/NABARD also found it difficult to deny its refinance to
non-performing banks for lending under Government priority programs and
schemes.
6.       ARDC's targets  (for  loans  to  small  farmers  and total benefi-
ciaries), for example, were exceeded mainly because of a rapid and signi-
ficant expansion of lending under IRDP during the project period. Under
the interest rate structure (fixed by GOI), banks are allowed a margin of
3.5% on IRDP lending which is grossly insufficient to carry staff-levels
necessary for effective supervision of a large number of loans. While the
involvement  of  GOI  district   officers   combined  with  procedures  for
"automatic-loaning' enabled the banks to meet IRDP lending targets, this
was achieved at ,he cost of overall "quality" considerations in agriculture
lending.
Sustainability
7.       Lending for agriculture in India is supported essentially through:
(i) commercial banks which are required to lend at least 16% of their total
advances to agriculture, and (ii) State Cooperative Banks (SCB/DCCBs) which
mobilize deposits (and i.-ceive state government resources) to finance
mainly short-term (crop) loans. NABARD's role in this structure is mainly
to supplement these resources by channelling GOI/RBI funds at reasonable
costs to refinance part of the agriculture term lending of commercial
banks, Land Development Banks (LDBs) and Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) and to
provide lines of credit for short-term operations of SCBs/DCCBs. The Bank
Group funds in turn provided part of the resources required for ARDC/
NABARD's refinance of term-lhiding operations.
8.       NABARD obtains most  of  its  rerources  from  RBI and through the
recycling of previous advances to the banking system and credit remains an
important instrument for the Government to accelerate capital formation in
agriculture and to expand food  production.   Purely in terms of sustaining
its total resource base, IDA/Bank funds while important are not critical.
Greater impact of Bank Group involvement has been to give support to
NABARD's efforts to bring about improvements in the institutional framework
for agriculture credit.



- VI -
Findinits and Lessons
9.       As an apox-level institution NABARD has been effective ir ensuring
that GOI and Bank Group funds are utilised for lending in agriculture
through the existing network of commercial and cooperative banks. Nost of
the physi-al targets under the project were set or exceeded.
10.      The main lrassons under ARDC IV (and indeed previous ARDC projects)
has been that ARDC/NABARD alone  cannot  bring about sustained or permanent
improviments in pelicy and institutional environment for agriculture credit
through its powets to sanction  refinance  facility.   This requires a full
support and a h'gher level of commitment by the Central ard State govern-
ments and top -.anagement of institutions engaged in agriculture credit. It
also impinger on some difficult and sensitive issues which need to be
tackled, suzh as irterest rate structure for agriculture, margins allowed
for credit administration and supervision, formulation and implementation
of government sponsored programs for poverty alleviation, role Ct credit
and subsidies in such programs, lending and supervision procedures of
NABARD and primary lending banks and functions of various government and
banking institutions in agriculture credit as a whole.
11.      In  the  context  of  the  above  lessons,  the  follow-on project
(NABARD-I:   Loan  2653-IN)  contains  provisions  for  GOI  to undertake a
thorough review of agriculture credit and credit institutions and to intro-
duce key policy and institutional reforms to strengthen the agriculture
credit in India.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL RYFINANCE AND DEVELOPMMNT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(LOUAN 2095-IN/CREDIT 1209-IN)
Bank/IDA Overview of the Project Completion Report Prepared by
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) 1/
General
1.      The Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Agricultural
Refinance and Development Credit Project (ARDC IV) was prepared by
NABARD.2/      This overview, prepared by the Bank's Regional staff, supple-
ments NABARD's review of the project with the Bank's assessments and observa-
tions, focussing on areas not fully covered in the review.
2.      The ARDC IV project was the fourth in a series of Bank/IDA projects
beginning with ARDC I (IDA Credit 540-IN, for US$75 million, 1975-1977),
followed by ARDC II (IDA Credit 715-IN for US$200 million in 1977-1979), and ARDC III
(IDA Credit 947-IN for US$250 million during 1980-1981). ARDC IV was fol-
lowed by NABARD-I (Bank loan of US$375 million), which became effective in
September 1986.
3.      PCRs for the first three ARDC projects have been reviewed by OED; the
latest Project Performance Audit report for ARDC III was issued by OED in
September 1985 (Report No. 5857).
4.      These agriculture credit projects followed the Bank Group's decision
to provide country-wide lines of credit through an apex organization instead
of establishing separate credit lines to individual states, ten of which were
fi.:nced by IDA between 1969 and 1975. The decision took into account the
high manpower requlremenLa for supervising separate state projects and the
fact that ARDC/NABARD, as the apex-level organization, could perform the
supervisory functions for channelling credit funds to states.
1/ This supplement has been prepared by South Asia Regional staff. The
original version of the PCR prepared by NABARD (previously ARDC), with
minor editorial changes, is attached to this overview.
2/ ARDC IV was financed by an IDA Credit (US$190.0 million) and an IBRD Loan
(SDR 139.0 million). References in this overview to the Bank include
both IBRD and IDA.



-2-
S.      The PCR reports favorably and adequately on utilization of Bank/IDA
funds and attainment of physical targets under the project: the funds were
disbursed over two years as scheduled; investments financed by NABARD during
the project period were in line with appraisal targets with significant
support to small farmers (77% of projects funds). In fact, financial assis-
tance to small farmers was in excess of appraisal estimates of 55Z. However,
as in the case of ARDC III, the PCR does not deal adequately with the
problems facing agriculture credit in India during the project period: con-
tinued high level of overdues, insufficient supporting services to agricul-
ture production, inadequate staff and infrastructure at primary lending
units/branches for effective supervision and administration of credit to
farmers, further weakening of financial viability of lending units, par-
ticularly the RRBs and cooperative banks, and a decline in credit discipline
generally in many rural areas.
6.      While an attempt was made to address these problems under ARDC IV,
NABARD's efforts in this regard proved to be less effective than envisaged.
Later, these chronic problems became the principal issue in the follow-up
project (NABARD-1), which included as a significant component financing of a
major review of the Agriculture Credit in India. The review is expected to
analyze, among others, the above problems, and outline specific recommenda-
tions to strengthen the credit system in the country. Many of the Bank
Group's concerns and principal issues during implementation of ARDC IV were
very similar to those under ARDC III. Bank's attempts to address these
problems through measures such as eligibility criteria, rehabilitation of
weak lending units, etc., should be viewed as a continuous process under
these two projects. Moreover, under tne ongoing NABARD I, steps are being
taken for institution building and for improving the performance of the
banking system dealing with agriculture.
Project Objectives and Achievements
7.      By and large, the project achieved its overall objectives by expand-
ing investments in agriculture and by supporting small farmers. Hcwever, in
the area of institution building, project results were less than expectation
at the time of appraisal. The project aimed at supporting a two-year time
slice of ARDC's ongoing refinancing program in minor irrigation and other
diversified lending in farm mechanization, dairy, livestock, horticulture,
fisheries development, and for storage and market yards for agriculture
products. 1/
1/ NABARD's refinance of agriculture loans proceeds on the basis of invest-
ment schemes which are prepared by participating banks (commercial banks,
Land Developments and Regional Rural Banks--See para 33-41 below for
discussion of schematic lending).



-3-
8.      Total investment in agriculture supported by NABARD over the
two-year period was expected to amount to Rs 16.7 billion (SAR para 4.30).
Of this, Rs 10.5 billion was forecast as eligible for refinance under ARDC IV
(Rs 7.9 billion in minor irrigation and Rs 2.6 billion in other diversified
activities). NABARD's own disbursements for investment eligible under
ARDC IV were projected to amount to about Rs 8.2 billion. 1/ Against these
targets, actual investments for eligible purposes amounted to Rs 12.6 billion
(201 higher) and NABARD's disbursements for such loans of Rs 9.1 billion were
about 11% more than SAR estimates. About 78X of NABARD's disbursements were
expected to be for minor irrigation and 222 for diversified lending whereas
actual total disbursements (Rs 9.1 billion) were about equally divided
between these two categories. The increase in lending for diversified pur-
poses was partly due to rapid expansion of lending under the Integrated Rural
Development Program (paras 17-19).
9.      Other quantitative targets set under the project included the follow-
ing:
(a) About 1.4 million farmers were to benefit from the program throughout
India;
(b)  About 60% of the beneficiaries were small farmers and at least
55% of Bank Group funds was earmarked for reimbursing loans to such
farmers;
(c) About half of NABARD's lending was to be directed to less developed
states (Assam, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, J&K, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa,
Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal);
(d)  Investment  supported by NABARD was expected to result in incremental
production (mostly of foodgrain), valued at about Rs 5,200 million,
and to generate additional employment of 134 million mandays per
year;
(e) NABARD's training programs were expected to benefit 22,000 staff of
participating banks.
10.     As stated in the PCR, except for training, these targets were sub-
stantially met or exceeded: (a) total number of beneficiaries under the
project was estimated at 2.2 million (of which 890,000 were for minor irriga-
tion and rural development projects); (b) 77% of NABARD's refinance was in
respect of loans to small farmers; (c) disbursements to less developed states
1/ NABARD's lending for pump electrification, farm mechanization and
forestry projects was not eligible for financing by Bank Group funds
under ARDC IV.



-4-
amounted to 49Z of NABARD's refinance during the project period; (d) total
value of incremental production, in 1983-84 prices, was estimated at Rs 10.4
billion (Rs 3.6 billion for minor irrigation and Rs 6.8 billion for other
diversified projects). These investments have generated permanent employment
equivalent to 411 million mandays; and (e) NABARD continued to improve its
training programs; however, the total number of staff participating in its
training courses (5,911) was short of the appraisal target and NABARD util-
ized only US$2.8 million of the project funds for training against the
original allocation of US$4.0 million under the project.
11.     Given the large number of loans financed and limited staff capacity
at the primary lending units, participating banks did not submit regular
progress reports on physical completion of investments financed. In the
absence of such reliable and complete data on physical completion of invest-
ments financed, the above statistics on impact of projects refinanced by
NASARD are derived partly from samples in ex-post evaluation studies under-
taken by NABARD. Where such sample data were not available, estimates of
investment costs, production and employment impact were based on unit costs
and "norms" established under each scheme at the time of approval of schemes
by NABARD.
12.    On balance, it would appear that NABARD's estimates of project
impact are probably overestimated since they do not take into account invest-
ments not fully completed or funds which were diverted for other purposes.
In many of NABARD's monitoring and evaluation studies, incomplete or infruc-
tious investments and diversion of funds are often given as the main reasons
for a scheme's failure to achieve its objectives.
Financial and Economic Returns
13.     SAR estimates of financial and economic rates of return  of invest-
ments financed by ARDC were based on 18 investment models built from data
collected in NABARD's ex-post evaluation studies. These models indicated
FRRs of 23% and 48% for investments for minor irrigation, and FRRs in the
range of 20Z-43Z for other models (coffee, dairy, fisheries and land develop-
ment). A sub-set of 11 of the 18 models indicated economic rates of returns
of between 32% and over 50%.
14.     The PCR attempts a comparison of SAR estimates with FRRs and ERRs as
estimated for sample beneficiaries in ten other es-post evaluation studies,
with the following results:



Scheme                     State                FRI               ERR
Ainor Irrigation Scheme         Uttar Pradesh            25X               392
Deep Tubewells                   West Bengal          above 50Z        above 502
Public Tubevells                   Orissa             negative       negative to 4Z
Minor Irrigation                Uttar Pradesh            40X               472
Minor Irrigation                    Bihar             above 502        above 50X
Dairy Development                  Punjab                35X               362
Dairy Scheme                       Gujarat               252               36Z
Dairy Development                 Rajasthan              202              292
Maritime Fisheries                 Gujarat               15%               n.a.
Inland Fisheries                Andhra Pradesh           282              n.a.
These results indicate that with the exception of public tubewells,
investments supported by NABARD were financially and economically viable.
Loan Recoveries and Eligibility Criteria
15.     As under previous ARDC projects, poor loan recoveries remained one of
the principal concerns during the appraisal of ARDC IV. Criteria for
eligibility of participating banks for access to NABARD refinance were first
introduced under ARDC I and continued through subsequent projects. The main
objective of such criteria on a sliding scale, was to provide an incentive
to banks to improve their recovery performance by linking future refinance
to their collection performance. At the time of appraisal it was felt that
the criteria applicable at that time had not had the desired impact and were
therdfore revisad under which: (a) lending units were allowed unlimited
access to NABARD refinance if collection were 752 or more of demand, 1/
(b) refinance to branches with recoveries of 60X-75Z was limited to the level
of their average lending in the preceding five years or average collection
in the preceding three years (whichever was higher), and (iii) refinance to
branches with recoveries of less than 60X was not to exceed actual recoveries
1/ Defined as all repayments overdue at the beginning of the year plus
principal and interest falling due during the year.



-6-
in the previous year or average annual recoveries in the three preceding
years (whichever was higher).
16.     Application of the above criteria was expected to focus greater
attention by the banks on improvement of their recovery performance.
Experience under the project, however, showed that expectation in terms of
improved performance was too optimistic. While the PCR claims that there was
some improvement in recoveries, this was at best, short-lived and probably
tha result of rescheduling of loans, and/or reduction in demand through State
Government contribution or "blocking" of old overdues. There was no evidence
of sustained, significant improvement of actual cash recoveries from bor-
rowers and under the follow-up project (NABARD-I), the criteria were further
revised to make them more restrictive for branches with poor recoveries.
Lending to Small Farmers under IRDP
17.     Under ARDC IV, NABARD continued its emphasis on Lending to small
farmers.  In fact, as noted above, about 77% of NABARD's refinance during the
project period was for loans to small farmers (against the target of 60%).
Total number of beneficiaries (and total employment created) also exceeded
SAR targets mainly due to rapid expansion of lending to small farmers. As
under ARDC III, the main driving force for this expansion continued to be
through lending under the Integrated Rural Development Program. Commenced in
1979 through amalgamation of several poverty alleviation schemes, IRDP has
since remained GOI's principal national level program for reduction of rural
poverty. Share of IRDP lending in ARDC/NABARD's total disbursements
increased from 1% in 1979 to 16% (under ARDC III) and then to 26% by the year
1983/84. IRPD currently absorbs about a third of NABARD's total refinance.
NABARD's refinance of IRDP loans constituted 38.8% of total refinance
eligible for reimbursement under ARDC IV. While this rapid expansion has
enabled the implementing authorities to meet lending targets set for IRDP, it
has at the same time raised concerns as to the overall quality of lending.
It is unclear whether such loans are being implemented and supervised as
intended, and whether the program is yielding the full benefits as intended.
18.     IRDP's objective is to identify each year, 600 families below the
poverty line in each of India'-s 5,011 blocks and to provide these selected
beneficiaries with productive investments which would enable them to cross
the poverty line. Block, District and State plans are drawn up annually
identifying types of investments, costs and share of financing by participat-
ing banks and NABARD. Selection of beneficiaries and preparation of
individual investment proposals are handled by the District Rural Development
Agency (DRDA). Investment proposals and simplified loan applications are
presented to local branches of participating banks which theoretically have
the right of refusal; in practice, however, bank branches do not have the
staff resources to examine each application in detail and meeting the targets
often becomes the overriding factor in banks' approvals. IRDP borrowers
generally receive subsidies of 25Z-33% (50% for scheduled tribes) which is



-7-
channelled through the participating banks. Banks are allowed a margin of
3.5% on IRDP lending which is insufficient to carry staff-levels necessary
for effective supervision of a large number of loans. Branch field officers
typically handle 1,500-2,500 active borrower-accounts. Several evaluation
reports of NABARD and GOI indicate that many IRDP investments do not yield
the full benefits as envisaged because of inappropriate investments selected,
insufficient financial assistance for the selected investments, or inadequate
supporting services for the investment. For example, the most important
investment financed under IRDP is dairy development. Viability of IRDP loans
for this purpose is based on borrowers purchasing at least two milch cattle.
Many of NABARD's field reports, however, point out that a significant number
of borrowers did not or were not allowed loan for a second buffalo. Findings
such as these have in fact led to the conclusion by NABARD that at least 20%
of IRDP loans have been misutilized and incremental benefits have been less
than envisaged under the program.
19.     On the positive side there is now a greater consciousness of the
problems of IRDP on the part of GOI, NABARD, and participating banks. These
problems which became increasingly obvious during implementation of ARDC IV
were addressed during NABARD-1 appraisal. NABARD is also now instituting
internal procedures to ensure a greater participation by lending banks in
formulation of di.trict plans, selection of borrowers, etc. It is also
expected that the Agriculture Credit Review under NABARD-I will make recom-
mendation in this regard. It should be noted that unless lending units are
allowed required staff to administer and supervise a large number o! bor-
rowers, improvement of overall quality of lending under IRDP is likely to be
impaired.
Regional Rural Banks (RRBs)
20.     The status of RRBs 1/ demonstrates the adverse  effects on financial
intermediaries resulting from a rapid expansion of small-farm credit without
the required financial support for their operations. As of June 1980, there
were 73 RRBs operating through 2,678 branches. ARDC refinance to RRB's in
FY1979/80 amounted to RS 90 million, about 2% of ARDC's disbursements in that
year. The SAR for ARDC IV noted that while small, RRB participation was
growing rapidly and that "as it grows, it may become a major channel for
development loans to small farmers" (SAR para 2.37).
1/  RRB is sponsored by a: Commercial Bank which contributes 50% of its capi-
tal and provides management assistance; GOI and State Government provide
35% and 15% respectively of its share capital. Inspired by the Gramin
Bank model, RRBs are set up specifically to provide banking services to
small-farmers and weaker section of the rural population.



-8-
21.     RRBs expanded rapidly in the first half of 1980s and by June 1985,
there were 183 RRBs with over 12,139 branches, 14.8 million deposit accounts
and 6.3 million borrower accounts. In FY1984/85 NABARD's disbursements to
RRBs amounted to Rs 1,400 million, about 132 of its total disbursements in
that year. While RRBs proved to be fairly successful in mobilizing rural
deposits, they were facing severe financial difficulties: unable to cover
their recurrent costs, about 130 RRBs were incurring losses, and 49 of these
had eroded their entire share capital by December 1984. Loan recoveries by
RRBs were also below national averages with about 55X of all RRBs recovering
less than 60% of demand.
22.     To address the problem of RiBs, GOI established a 'Working Group on
RRBs' in 1986 (The Kalker Cooittee).  The Comittee has made several recom-
mendations to strengthen the management and viability of RRBs. These
include: increase in share capital of RRBs, amalgamation/consolidation of
non-viable branches, changes in interest rates charged to RRBs to allow them
greater margins, and setting procedures for appointment and supervision of
RRB managers. Recomendations of the Comittee are presently under con-
sideration by GOI.
Rehabilitation Programs for Weak SLDBs
23.     Special attention to rehabilitation of weak SLDBs with poor recovery
performance was first commenced under ARDC III and rehabilitation measures
were originally intended to be tied to the revised, stricter eligibility
criteria. Application of these criteria would have made LDB of Gujarat and
Maharashtra ineligible for ARDC finance and performance of LDBs in four other
states (Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu) was only mar-
ginally better. In order mainly not to cut off fresh financing to such LDBs,
the eligibility criteria contained provisions that would allow ARDC refinanc-
ing if such LDBs had a rehabilitation program agreed with ARDC and in cases
where 50% of branches (or PLDBs) of SLDB were inaligibLe, the state govern-
ment had agreed a time-bound rehabilitation program with ARDC. As it turned
out, application of these provisions (together with the stricter eligibility
criteria) was deferred in September 1980 at the request of GOt. Rehabilita-
tion programs were, nevertheless, prepared although their effectiveness
remained doubtful.
24.     With the above background, more concerted and focussed measures
towards rehabilitation were again attempted under ARDC IV. Principal provi-
sions under the project included the following: (a) setting up of a "Standing
Comittee" by GOI to oversee and guide efforts for the six LDBs initially,
with others to be added at a later date. The six LDBs for immediate atten-
tion were Maharashtra, Karnataka, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and
Gujarat; (b) appointment of six 'expert teams' one for each LDB (including
suicable consultants) to carry out organization and management studies of the
six LDBs and to recommend improvement programs; (c) based on these studies,
ARDC was to prepare detailed, time-bound rehabilitation proposals to be



-9-
agreed upon by the Standing Committee and the state governments;
(d) eligibility criteria under ARDC IV included special provisions applicable
to the six LDBs under which ARDC was to withhold refiaance assistance unless
the LDB had undertaken to carry out financial and management improvements;
(e) as part of financial rehabilitation measures, Bank/IDA agreed to the
transfers of specified amounts identified as chronic overdues 1/ to "blocked
accounts" in four of the six LDBs. 2/ Under the eligibility criteria,
mounts blocked were not to be taken as a bank's annual demad.
25.     As indicated in the PCR, serious attempts were made to implement
these provisions: organization and management studies by expert groups and
consultants were commissioned for the six LDBs originally targetted. In fact
nine additional LDBs (Orissa, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar
Pradesh, Jainu & Kashmir, Assam, Tripura and Pondicherry) were identified and
management studies undertaken for these; based on these studies, NABARD
formulated rehabilitation programs for approval by the Standing Committee
(Committee on Term Lending through Cooperatives - COTELCOOP) and state
governments.
26.     However, as it became progressively apparent during project implemen-
tation, the LDBs and state governments were very slow or reluctant to imple-
ment financial and organizational changes required. The provision in the
project agreement enabling ARDC to withhold refinancing to LDBs not complying
with the requirements of rehabilitation program was used only once for a very
brief period (between September 1, 1982 to October 15, 1982) to obtain con-
firmation from the LDBs that they (and the state governments) had accepted
the rehabilitation programs approved by COTELCOOP. NABARD was reluctant to
use this sanction to enforce the implementation of the measures under the
programs. Without the effective implementation of other corrective measures,
the procedures for "Blocking" of old overdue loans became by and large an
exercise to circumvent the minimum recovery performance under the eligibility
criteria. Although Bank/IDA supervision mission devoted considerable time in
following the ARDC IV provisions regarding rehabilitation, virtually no
improvement was reported in the recovery situation and in the overall finan-
cial health of the LDBs targetted for rehabilitation.
27.     These disappointing results (and indeed the lessons learnt) regarding
rehabilitation efforts under ARDC IV are in many ways similar to those under
ARDC III and the following conclusions in the ARDC III PCR are generally
applicable to the ARDC IV also: "The proposed programs in some instances
dealt only with symptoms, without addressing the more important underlying
1/ Generally over 5 years overdue.
2/ Bihar Rs 32 million, Cujarat Rs 185 million, Karnataka, Rs 54 million and
Maharashtra Rs 229 million.



-10-
problems. They dealt with removal of obstacles towards taking coercive
action towards long-term defaulters, blocking of chronic overdues, rephasing
of loans and handling incomplete investments. Limited attention was paid to
basic institutional problems, like lack of field staff, inappropriate super-
vision and appraisal practices. State governments were reluctant to imple-
ment the programs. The experience during ALDC III raises questions concern-
ing ARDC's ability to design and institute effective rehabilitation programs,
which raises the wider issue of the de facto supervisory role of ARDC in
agriculture credit and their effectiveness in instituting adjustments in
basic credit operations cf its client banks. That role, and ARDC's effec-
tiveness were never questioned in the appraisal and the subject does not
appear in supervision reports. One can raise the question whether in India's
political system it is realistic to assume that a more dominant role of a
"center" organization would and will be accepted by banks controlled by the
States." (ARDC III PCR, page 31, para 31).
28.     The Institution Development Department (IDD) of NABARD continues its
efforts to rehabilitate weak LDBs and NABARD-I project includes covenants
towards strengthening of IDD. Given the past experience, the magnitude of
the problem and the fact that overall policy and political environment in
which NABARD operates has not changed materially, it remains unclear whether
results under NABARD-I will change dramatically without key credit reforms.
It should also be noted that under NABARD-I, emphasis has shifted back to
stricter eligibility criteria. It is hoped that more severe restric-
tions on availability of NABARD's financial assistance would prompt LDBs with
poor recovery performance to take corrective measures for better credit
delivery and administration. The role of NABARD vis-a-vis client banks will
also be examined under the Agriculture Credit Review by the Senior Experts
Group.
Project Impact on Intitutional Development
29.     The discussion above indicates that while the project succeeded in
contributing to NABARD's resources and that while such investments probably
dad a positive impact on production, rural employment and incomes, the
project's impact on overall strengthening of institutions handling agricul-
ture credit was at best only marginal; the results under the principal com-
ponent for institutional development in the project (i.e. the rehabilitation
of weak LDBs) were well below expectations. The enforcement of the
eligibility criteria had little impact on overall recovery performance nor on
greater credit discipline by participating banks.
33.     The experience under the last two ARDC projects in fact raises the
question whether significant and fundamental changes in agriculture credit
institutions can be achieved through an all-Tndia apex organization such as
NABARD since agriculture credit falls within the jurisdiction of state
governments. For social/political reasons varying in each state, the state
governments make policy decisions (including allocation of resources out of



-ll-
state budgets to state banks, interest remission, subsidies, etc.) which
directly or indirectly affect discipline and institutional environment for
credit.  Both the commercial banks, and the cooperative banks look to NABARD
primarily as a source of low-cost funds for their agriculture lending. Thus,
virtually the only leverage which NABARD has in order to bring about changes
is through its refinance facility to participating banks. In the past,
NABARD had been extremely reluctant to utilize this leverage and in cases
where it has done so (e.g., through eligibility criteria) the results have
not necesuavly been entirely satisfactory.
31.     Difficulties of bringing about major institutional changes through the
Bank loan to NABARD were recognized at the time of appraisal of NABARD-I
project. As mentioned above, the Bank is attempting a different approach
under this project by having the Reserve Bank of India undertake a thorough
review of the agriculture credit and credit institutions in India.   The
review will allow GOI to introduce key policy and institutional reforms
required to strengthen the credit system in the country.
Financial Performance of NABARD
32.     Despite prvblems related to recoveries of agriculture loans of par-
ticipating banks, overall financial status of ARDC/NABARD has never been at
issue. Loan repayments due to ARDC/NABARD continue to be repaid promptly and
loans rescheduled by NABARD have been insignificant. In comparison to its
predecessor (ARDC), the financial position of NABARD was in fact significantly
strengthened at the time of its establishment in 1982. Its share capital was
almost doubled (to Rs 1.0 billion) and with the transfer of credit funds from
the R3I, total resources of NABARD increased to Rs 45.2 billion (compared to
Rs 21.4 billion of ARDC). Since the resources from RBI bear no interest,
NABARD's profitability is also significantly better than that of its
predecessor; net profits of NABARD increased from Rs 0.9 billion in 1982/83
to Rs 2.4 billion 1985/86. Most of NABARD's profits are retained to augment
the resources available for lending to participating banks.
Lending Procedures, Supervision and Monitoring by NABARD
33.     In order to analyse lending procedures of NABARD, it is first neces-
sary to distinguish NABARD's lending for IRDP from its lending for schemes
and purposes other than IRDP. As discussed in paras 17-19 above, IRDP is an
all-India, poverty alleviation scheme in which the District Rural Development
Authorities (DRDAs) play a key role in identification of borrowers, purposes
for which loans are to be given by banks and release of subsidies to approved
borrowers. Role of participating banks (mainly commercial banks and Regional
Rural Banks) is confined to providing resources for the program by way of
loans and then refinancing these through NABARD. Key focus in this process
is often the desire to meet pre-established targets. Given the large number
of loans, and limited capacity at rural branches, banks are barely able to



-12-
undertake appraisal of borrowers nor follow-up and effectively supervise
loans under IRDP.
34.     At the time of appraisal of ARDC IV (May 1981), IRDP was still in
the early stages of implementation and NABARD's total lending for IRDP in
FY1980/81 of Rs 132 million constituted less then 3X of its total disburse-
ments of Rs 5.0 billion in that year. During implementation of ARDC IV,
however, IRDP increased very rapidly and by 9Y1983/84 it absorbed Rs 2.3
billion (or about 27X) of NABARD's total disbursements of Rs 8.6 billion. 1/
Expansion of this magnitude of a program in which the banking institutionsT
role is limited essentially to provision of resources obviously has had an
adverse effect on the overall quality of loan portfolio. Although it is
virtually impossible to measure (or quantify) the effect of rapid increase in
IBDP-lending, it is reflected in commercial banks' inability to improve their
recovery performance and a deterioration in financial status of Regional
Rural Banks (see paras 20-22 above) which deal almost exclusively in Lending
to IRDP target groups.
35.     There are no evident answers to the issues related to IRDP lending.
One possible solution would be for lending units to increase their field and
rural branch staff to handle more effectively the appraisal and supervision
of IRDP borrowers and to improve the quality of investments. But this is
constrained by the fact that the interest rate structure and margins allowed
to banks on IRDP lending (of 3.5%) is barely sufficient to cover the banks'
present cost of the program.
36.     Nevertheless, under NABARD-I, steps are being t ken to involve
NABARD's regional offices and participating banks in tne process of formula-
tion of programs for IRDP lending at the district levels. It is also
expected that IRDP lending will be examined under the Agriculture Credit
Review (NABARD-I) and appropriate recommendations made to GOI in this regard.
37.     NABARD's refinance of participating banks' loans for purposes other
than IRDP is undertaken on "schematic lending". The underlying purpose under
this approach is to handle relatively large numbers of loan applica-
tion/appraisal and yet maintain some degree of "quality-control" on utiliza-
tion of NABARD's resources. Participating banks prepare "schemes" for
approval by NABARD, in which loans are defined (e.g., schemes for pump sets
or tractors). The scheme also stipulates technical criteria for individual
investments and minimum conditions which borrowers under the scheme would be
required to satisfy. Once approved, the banks accept and approve loan
./ Increase in IRDP has continued, though at a slower pace in recent years;
by 1985/86 IRDP disbursements by NABARD amounted to Rs 3.8 billion--about
32Z of total disbursements of Rs 11.9 billion



-13-
applications and refinance these through NABARD within the total amount
allocated for a scheme.
38.     Apart from checking that refinance applications generally conform
to the approved schemes, NABARD does not involve itself in detailed monitoring
of individual borrowers or physical completion of investments financed. It
does, however, carry out evaluation of a few selected schemes usually 2 or
3 years after the investments under a scheme have been completed.
39.     Under ARDC IV, NABARD was to undertake 50 such evaluations.  Although
this target was not achieved during the ARDC IV project period, NABARD has
now completed the 50 evaluations. The quality of these evaluation reports
has been very good. In addition, under ARDC IV NABARD undertook "dis-
trict-oriented monitoring" (D.O.M. studied) under which selected
beneficiaries and participating banks' performance under various schemes is
reviewed within a selected district.
40.     As indicated in the PCR, borh evaluation and DOM studies have brought
to light several problems in financing of schemes and constraint: as a result
of which full benefits envisaged under the schemes do not materialize (see
summary at para 2.29 of PCR). The principal problem within NABARD, however,
was that there was no effective mechanism to translate lessons learnt from
evaluation and DOM studies into actions directly related to approval of fresh
scheme proposals. Some efforts towards this are now being implemented under
NABARD-I; a unit within the operations complex has been set up to sift
through evaluation/DOM studies and to prepare recommendation for staff
engaged in scheme-approval indicating major types of problems in a given
district or under a scheme. It is not yet certain, however, if NABARD would
be willing to withhold its approval of a scheme based on findings of its
evaluation/DOM studies of similar schemes implemented previously.
41.     The schematic lending procedure increasingly adopted (and often
required by NABARD) has never beLn questioned by the Bank.  There is no doubt
that schematic lending has been very effective in enabling the banking system
to handle a large number of loans and yet keep the administrative cost down.
The offsetting element in this approach, however, is that the overall quality
of lending cannot be maintained at the same level as when a bank branch deals
directly and individually with each borrower. Once a scheme is approved,
there is a tendency to attain the scheme targets, and individual loan
applications do not get as close attention as otherwise; bank branches ha"e
complained for example that applicants do not always "fit exactly" the norms
and criteria estabLished under a scheme, and that if such applicants are
considered credit-worchy, the bank has either to accept them contrary to some
of the scheme-criteria or reject chem.
42.     The Agriculture Credit Review is also expected to review the
schematic lending procedures and in particular assess whether or not the
schematic lending should continue with or without any modifications.



-14-
Bank Croup Performance
43.     By financing the agricultural credit system through NABARD, the Bank
has been able to provide neede resources for investments in the sector.
However, considering the problems of the system, including the high levels of
overdues and the deficiencies in the performance of MABADD and the par-
ticipating banks, more intensive and frequent Sank supervision missions were
necessary. In the implementation of the project, the Bank: (a) should have
pushed more strongly in getting GO to increase the level of margins allowed
to the participating banks; (b) should have questioned more vigorously the
below-market rates of interest charged by the participating banks; and (c)
should have given special attention to the increased level of NABARD's lend-
ing under the IRDP program in terms of investments and impact on agriculture.
On the positive side, the Bank maintained dialogues with GOI and its action
in the introduction of the pilot project (para 12) was a positive first step
to resolve some of the problems of che agricultural credit syscem.



-15-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDIA FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION C .EDIT PROJECT (ARDC Iv)
(LOAN 2095-IN/CREDIT 1209-IN)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    The Fourth ARDC Credic Project (ARDC IV), envisaging financial assis-
tance of US$350 M was approved by the Board of Directors of the World Bank on
February 23, 1982. The total financial assistance to be provided under the
project included retroactive finance of US$15 M in respect of disbursements
made during January 1 to January 23, 1982. The financial assistance under
the project comprised IDA credit of US$160 H and IBRD loan of US$190 M.
1.02    The main objectives of the project were to:  help increase agricul-
tural production, rural incomes and employment; give continued emphasis to
assisting small farmers and less developed areas; continue efforts for
institution building through further strengthening of NABARD; improve
agricultural lending by banks and give particular emphasis to rehabilitation
and strengthening of LDBs; and continue programs for improving quality of
investments. The objectives were similar to those of the three general lines
of credit completed/implemented earlier by the ARDC.
1.03    NABARD's association with the World Bank group dates back to the
formulation of state specific agricultural credit projects between 1969 and
1974. The state-specific agricultural credit projects were succeeded by
three general lines of credit and a number of activity-specific IDA/IBRD
projects by channelling term finance to support investments in minor irriga-
tion including land development, tree crop development, marketing, horticul-
ture, processing, inland and marine fisheries, seed production and sericul-
ture. As of June 30, 1984 financial assistance commitced by IDA/IBRD in
respect of various agricultural credit projects amounted cumulatively to
US$2.41 Billion against which US$1.46 Billion had been disbursed.
1.04    'The General Line of Credit' approach, with its national focus,
involved a major departure from the state oriented projects earlier supported
by the Bank Group.  The enlargement of scope from state-specific projects to
the general lines of credit indicated, inter alia, a growing confidence of



-16-
the gank in the ability of erstwhile ARDC and NABARD in implementing nation-
wide projects with greater coverage, flexibility in fixing targets and sanc-
tioning of various types of investments, etc. The general lines of credit
help save considerable time for the state governments, and the Bank in
preparation and appraisal of individual state-specific projects.
1.05    Encouraged by the successful implementation of the state agricultural
credit projects and the three general lines of credit, GOI submitted the
proposal for ARDC IV in July 1980 to the Bank Group for approval.
1.06    In the context of the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85), ARDC undertook
a detailed review of its perspective lending program and adopted an indica-
tive lending program as detailed below:
Projected Lending Program
Year                  (Schematic-Term Loans)
(July-June)                    (Rs Million)
1980-81                          4,500
1981-82                          5,200
1982-83                          6,000
1983-84                          6,800
1984-85                          7,500
30,000
1.07    The indicative lending program for the years 1982-83 and 1983-84
formed the core of the project report for the Fourth General Line of Credit.
The Project sought a credit allocation of US$350 M (including training) which
was to support NABARD's lending program of Rs 12,800 M.
Issues during Appraisal and Negotiations
1.08    The project was appraised by the Bank in April/May 1981 on the basis
of the project report submitted by ARDC, through GOI, in July 1980. The
major issue at the time of appraisal related to the high level of overdues in
the rural development banking system and designing of rehabilitation programs
for six weak SLDBs, viz., Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Other issues during appraisal related to the
introduction of eligibility criteria for commercial banks and State Coopera-
tive Banks, and submission of subloans amounting to US$1 M for post-facto
review by the Bank.
1.09    The project was negotiated in Washington from November 9 to 25, 1981.
The discussions during negotiations centered around the issues listed above.
In addition, the organizational plans for setting up of NABARD, financial
arrangements between G)I aid ARDC, loans to small farmers, setting up of
Committee on Term Lending through Cooperatives (COTELCOOP), and flexibility



-17-
regarding the percentage of reimbursement by the Bank were also discussed.
It was also agreed during negotiations that not less than US$190 M (about 55
percent of the total Bank assistance of US$346 M excluding the training
component under the project) would be utilized in respect of disbursements to
small farmers. One of the improvements over the Third ARDC Credit Project
was the enlargement of eligible investments by inclusion of storage and
market yards. The Indian delegation canvassed for widening the scope of
diversified investment categories by including financing of biogas, plough
bullocks, bullock-carts, slaughterhouses, sericulture, mushroom development,
etc. These were recorded in the Minutes of Understanding.
1.10    As a result of the reduction in the allocations of IDA credit to
India during fiscal year 1981-82, the financial assistance to support ARDC IV
comprised a blend of IBRD loan and IDA credit.
1.11    Under the three general lines of credit, successfully implemented
earlier, the World Bank had been reimbursing at 50% of the disbursements made
by ARDC. However, under ARDC IV the proportion of reimbursement was reduced
to 34% in view of the larger size of the lending program and the inclusion of
new categories of investment, viz., storage and market yards. As there was
no possibility of increasing the amount of Credit/Loan beyond US$350 M, the
rate of reimbursement was kept at the reduced level of 34Z.
1.12    The Indian negotiating team had indicated that in view of disburse-
ment of sizeable proportion of refinance for investments in farm mechaniza-
tion (around 22% of ARDC's annual schematic lending) and the latest trend in
the investment-mix for fiscal year 1980-81, the composition of ARDC's lending
would undergo a change necessitating an appropriate revision in the percent-
age of reimbursement. The reimbursement percentage stipulated at 34% was
increased to 50% of (National Bank) disbursement under the project with
effect from April 1, 1983 in view of the depreciation in the value of the
Rupee vis-a-vis U.S. dollar.
The Project at Appraisal
1.13    The investment to be financed under the project were estimated to
cost Rs 16,690 H (US$2,086.2 H) at the ground level (Annex I Table 1). As
against this, the cost of the investments eligible for reimbursement under
ARDC IV was estimated at Rs 10,528 M. 1/ It was estimated at the time of
appraisal of the Project that about 75.44% of the cost of investments will be
1/  The estimates are based on May 1981 prices.  The price contingencies of
9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982 and 7.5% for 1983 onwards compounded annually
have been applied to the base cost. Total contingencies work out to 11%
of the base cost (Annex I Table 2).



-18-
towards minor irrigation and Land development, 24.222 towards diversified
purposes, and the remaining 0.34X on training (Annex 1, Table 2).
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Disbursements and Financing
2.01    The disbursements under various project components other than train-
ing were completed by March 31, 1984, and the project was closed as scheduled
on June 30, 1984. Disbursements by NABARD under the project aggregated Rs
9,087.4 M as against the anticipated amount Rs 8,227 M. Claims worth
Rs 3,488.7 M were sufficient to draw the entire credit/loan (corresponding to
disbursements by NABARD of Rs 8,476 M). Under the project, NABARD supported
investments at the grass root level (project cost) of Rs 12,614.95 M as
against the appraisal estimate of Rs 10,528.35 M.
ARDC/NABARD             IDA/IBRD
Project Cost*          Disbursement           Credit/Loan
A praisal    Actual    Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal  Actual
(Rs M)      (Rs M)      (Rs M)      (Rs M)    (Rs M)    (Rs M)
MI & LD         7,943.16   5,316.95    6,389.0    4,483.6    270.0    162.7
Diversified    2,549.67   7,267.50    1,802.0    4,573.0          76.0    184.5
Purposes
Training           35.52       30.50        36.0        30.5       4.0       2.8 /a
Total          10,528.35  12,614.95    8,227.0    9,087.1    350.0    350.0
*   Excluding investments not eligible for IDA/IBRD funding.
/a The GOI have, however, released the entire rupee equivalent of US$4 M
as grant to National Bank.
2.02    The pattern of investments actually financed under the project was
somewhat different from that anticipated. Minor irrigation and land develop-
ment together accounted for 49.34% of the project disbursements as against
77.66Z estimated at appraisal. The disbursements under diversified invest-
ments, consequently, were higher at 50.32% as compared to anticipated 21.90%.
The factors which contributed to the increase in the disbursement of
refinance for diversified purposes are discussed in a subsequent section.
Disbursement on training at Rs 30.5 M was lower than the appraisal estimate
of Rs 36.0 M. The expenditure on training accounted for 0.34% of total



-19-
disbursements under the project in comparison to 0.44% envisaged at the time
of appraisal.
2.03    The pace of disbursements by National Bank during the project
implementation period was generally as per schedule drawn in the appraisal
report (Annez 1 Table 4). The disbursements, as per the appraisal schedule,
helped GOI in drawing reimbursement from the World Bank on a continuing
basis.
Minor Irrigation
2.04    The minor irrigation structures under the project covered investments
both by individuals and state groundwater development corporations. The cost
of these structures amounted to Rs 5,194.67 H (Rs 4,064.5 M under non-IRDP
schemes and Rs 1,130.62 M under IRDP) (Annex 1 Table 5(a) and 5(b)) as com-
pared to the appraisal estimate of Rs 6,702.0 M (excluding price contingen-
cies). The National Bank provided refinance of Rs 4,379.0 M, which con-
stituted 84.3Z of the cost of minor irrigation works.
2.05    The number of minor irrigation units financed 1/ under the project
was estimated at 0.80 M, of which 0.63 M, were financed under non-IRDP
schemes and the remaining 0.17 M, under IRD Program. For ensuring efficient
use of the irrigation water, lining of water courses and construction of
water distribution system and sprinkler sets were covered under the project.
2.06    The state/union territory-wise details of the completed unit equiv-
alents are given in Annex 1 Tables 6(a) and 6(b). A summary of the same is
given below:
Units
Investment                                         Non-IRDP    IRDP        Total
Dugwells                                           126,112      57,S60   183,672
Dugwells and Pumpsets                               37,389       1,086    38,475
Pumpsets                                           182,986      62,779   245,755
Renovation of wells                                 61,035      20,091    81,126
Persian wells                                        49447         -        4,447
Shallow tubewells                                  203,487      26,906   230,393
Deep tubewells                                       1,371         -        1,371
River Lift Irrigation Units                            623         -          623
Sprinkler sets                                       7,443         -        7,443
Others including water distribution system           7,373       1,313      8,686
Total                    632,256    169,735   801,991
1/ Relates to completed unit equivalents of units financed.



-20-
2.07    The number of beneficiaries of the minor irrigation investments under
the project is estimated at 0.85 M. The investments in minor irrigation are
estimated to have added to the irrigation potential by 1.27 M ha.  About 75%
of the National Bank's disbursement of refinance for minor irrigation was
to the small farmers (Annex 1 Table 11).
2.08    The state-vise distribution of investments in respect of minor
irrigation indicates that the states of Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh accounted for about 61% of the total disburse-
ments by the National Bank under non-IRDP schemes. In the case of IRDP, the
states of Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Prade.h, Bihar and Maharashtra in
their order of importance) accounted for 81% of the National Bank's disburse-
ments for minor irrigation. In the nine less developed states, the share of
minor irrigation disbursements by National Bank was 57%.
2.09    A number of steps were taken by ertswhile ARDC and National Bank in
the minor irrigation discipline during the project implemencation period.
These included measures aimed at increasing efficiency of the pumpsets,
relaxation for issue of loans by SLDBs to SEBs for energization of pumpsets,
and setting up of standing committees at the regional levels to review,
periodically, the unit costs of various items of investment. In view of
power shortage in certain areas of the country, financial assistance has been
extended to farmers who were already in possession of electric pumpsets, to
install diesel pumpsets of up to 5 hp as standby arrangements. The details
of measures initiated by National Bank in the sphere of energization of
pumpsets are indicated in Annex II.
Quality Control of Agricultural Pumpsets
2.10    In the first phase of studies undertaken during ARDC III, a publica-
tion entitled "Pilot Project Studies for Quality Control of Agricultural
Pumpsets" was published in December 1980. Under Phase II of the program and
in compliance with Section 3.04 of ARDC IV, similar studies were taken up in
nine states of Assam, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,
Orissa, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. The objectives of these studies were
similar to those of the first phase studies, viz.: (1) to study the
efficiency of a few existing pumpset installation and (2) to prepare a
block/area-wise matrix based on hydrological and agronomic aspects for proper
selection of agricultural pumpsets in future. The main findings of these
studies are as follows:
(1) improper pumpset installations resulting in high suction Lift;
(2) improper selection of suction and delivery pipe;
(3) installation of oversize diesel engines/electric motors; and
(4) inadequate maintenance of the equipment/installation.



-21-
Loans for Effecting Improvements in Pumpset Installations
2.11    With a view to improving the efficiency of the agricultural pumpseets,
a decision was taken to extend refinance facilities for providing a sup-
pLementary loan to the farmers for replaceent of undersized/defective piping
system, foot valve and correcting installation/other defects in existing
puapsets (both electric and diesel). This facility was made available to
farmers who had installed pumpsets earlier, with or without bank loan.
Groundwater Evaluation
2.12    The primary unit of planning in India is a 'block'.  Groundwater
resource evaluation under AB.DC IV was carried out by the respective state
groundwater department on a block-wise basis and they were categorized as
white, grey or dark depending upon the extent of groundwater development in
each block. The blocks are categorized as white, grey and dark as per
"guidelines for evaluation of groundwater resources" given in Annex I to
Schedule l of the Project Agreement. According to the estimates made by the
state groundwater departments, the groundwater balance on all India basis has
been estimated at 35.86 H ha m of which about 9.79 M ha m are estimated to
have been developed by 1982 leaving 26.07 M ha m (72.7Z still available for
future development). Although considerable scope exists for groundwater
development in most of the states, the states of Haryana, Punjab, Tamil Nadu
have reached a relatively high degree of groundwater development. These
estimates are, however, subject to revision keeping in consideracicn a large
number of surface irrigation schemes under execution in these states and
adoption of refixed norms for groundwater resource evaluation.
2.13    At the initiative of National Bank, the State Governments of Punjab,
Haryana, Karnataka and West Bengal have considerably strengthened the staff
position in their groundwater directorates. The control on development of
groundwater is exercised only in respect of such investments as are taken up
with the help of bank loans. Depending upon the availability of groundwater
resources and theextent of mutual interference of minor irrigation works,
the spacing between these works (as are supported by institutional finance)
is decided, and control on development of groundwater made effective. Number
of additional minor irrigation units to be financed by banks are cleared in
accordance with the availability of groundwater resources. In respect of the
'dark' blocks, the concerned State Governments have been requested to arrange
for micro level surveys to firmly establish the availability of groundwater
resources before minor irrigation schemes are cleared by National Bank.
2.14    The second control relates to spacing between two minor irrigation
works determined as per pump tests data collected by the State Groundwater
Development. The spacing between two-minor irrigation works is kept equal to
twice the radius of the influence. At present the minimum spacing between
dugwells with pumpsets and shallow tubewells is fixed at 150 m and 180 m
respectively. These spacing criteria are stipulated by NABARD as part of



-22-
terms and conditions to be observed by banks while sanctioning individual
loans. The above controls have worked very well in ensuring planned develop-
ment of groundwater resources in the country (see Annex 1, Table 7).
2.15    In terms of Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement, a Model Compensa-
tion Scheme for Failed Wells have been drawn up by NABARD and circulated to
all the State Governments and participating institutions for adoption. The
'Scheme' has been adopted by the Governments of Karnataka, Maharashtra,
Kerala and Tripura. The matter is being vigorously pursued with the other
State Governments.
Land Develooment
2.16    The total cost of land development financed under the project
amounted to Rs 122.28 M (Rs 101.6 M in respect of non-IRDP schemes) which
constituted about 39Z of appraisal estimate of Rs 317 M. The major reasons
for low disbursements for land developments were high initial cost of land
development works, ineligibility of some of the farmers to avail of loans,
and reluctance to undertake the work due to loss of crop income. The disbur-
sement of refinance for this activity, under the project, amounted to Rs 91.4
M and Rs 13.2 M under non-IRDP schemes and IRD Program respectively. Total
number of schemes sanctioned was 298 with refinance commitment of Rs 417.3 M
(excluding IRDP). The State-wise analysis of disbursements under Land
Development, including disbursements for this item of development made under
IRDP, indicates that 24% of the invesement was made in less developed States.
Andhra Pradesh and Punjab accounted for about 67% of the disbursement of
refinance under non-IRDP schemes while under IaD Program the states of Bihar,
Hiachal Pradesh, Orissa and West Bengal accounted for 80% of the disburse-
-lent of refinance. One significant feature has been that Madhya Pradesh, a
less developed state, absorbed about 13% of disbursements of refinance for
land development in the case of non-IRDP schemes under the project.
2.17    The extent of utilization of irrigation potential created in the
command area of major irrigation projects mainly depends on on-farm develop-
ment works such as land levelling, land shaping, construction of channels,
etc., carried out by the beneficiaries within the command area of such
projects. Since the low productivity prior to introduction of irrigation and
crop losses during the period of land development could, possibly, lead to
defaults in the repayment of earlier loans, the National Bank liberalized the
repayment conditions in such cases with a view to ensure full utilization of
irrigation potential. It has been decided that beneficiaries in command
areas with overdues up to Rs 1,500 in respect of their short-term borrowings
would be eligible for obtaining financial assistance for both investment and
production credit requirements after conversion/rescheduling of their earlier
outstanding loans for a period of five to seven years. This would enable the
beneficiaries to increase the productivity of their land by adopting improved
agricultural practices, and make it possible for them to clear their dues on
the earlier as well as new loans from out of the incremental income.



-23-
Diversified Investments
2.18    As was the case with ARDC III, the disbursements under diversified
investments substantially exceeded the appraisal estimate of-ARDC IV. This
was made possible by considerable increase in the disbursements made by the
commercial banks in respect of these items, as well as spurt in disbursemnts
under IRDP, bulk of which have been for diversified purposes. As against the
appraisal estimate of Rs 1,802 M (Annex 1, Table 3(a)), the diversified items
of developments claimed 79.6X of the total refinance disbursed by the
National Bank under IRD Program during the project period (Annex 1, Table
3(c)). Under non-IRDP schemes, the share of diversified activities was
relatively low at 32X of the refinance disbursed under these schemes (Annex
1, Table 3(b)). The total cost of investments for diversified purposes
amounted to Rs 7,267.5 M and accounted for 57.75% of the total project cost
as against the appraisal estimate of 24.3%. The share of the small farmers
in diversified investments was 79%. The state/union territory-wise details
of the units financed under diversified activities are given in Annex 1,
Tables 8(a) and 8(b).
2.19    Under non-IRDP schemes, 49.1% of disbursements of refinance for
diversified investments were made in the States of Andhra Pradesh (15.1%),
Karnataka (13.8%), Haryana (11.7%) and Punjab (8.5%). In the case of IRD
Program, however, the pattern of disbursement of refinance was different,
with 57.7% of refinance assistance having been shared by Tamil Nadu (18.8%),
Uttar Pradesh (17.7%), Andhra Pradesh (10.8%) and Bihar (10.4%). The share
of less developed states in availability of refinance for diversified invest-
ments was 33.5% for non-IRDP schemes and 47.1% for IRD Program.
2.20    The purpose-wise analysis of disbursement of refinance for diver-
sified purposes indicates that dairy development accounted for 20% under
non-IRDP schemes and 42% under IRD Program. In the case of non-IRDP schemes,
other important diversified items and their espective share of refinance
disbursed for diversified activities were plantations and horticul (27.6%),
poultry development (11.9%), sheep breeding (9.3%), and fisheries (6.5%).
Under the IRD Program, the important items and their share of refinance
dibursed for diversified activities were bullocks and bullcck carts (40.7Z),
sheep/goat breeding (5.7%), and inland fisheries (1.6%).
2.21    The other eligible investments, in particular storage and market
yards did not make much headway and their total share remained at 4% (Storage
2% and Market Yards 2%).
2.22    The state-wise and purpose-wise analysis in the case of non-IRDP
schemes shows that: under plantations and horticulture, Karnataka topped
with 27.5% disbursement of refinance followed by Kerala (17.1%), Assam
(15.3%1 and West Bengal (10.2%); under poultry, Andhra Pradesh accounted for
25% of the disbursements followed by Punjab (22.1%), Karnataka (13.5%) and



-24-
Tamil Nadu (10.3%). In the case of sheep rearing, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and
Haryana were the important states and claimed 92.5% of refinance. Fisheries
turned out to be an important item of investment in the states of Orissa,
Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tripura, which altogether accounted for 75% of
the refinance disbursed for this purpose. -
2.23    Under IRD Program, the purpose-wise and state-wise analysis of dis-
bursement of refinance revealed that in the case of dairy development, Tamil
Nadu copped with 24.8% of disbursements and was followed by Uttar Pradesh
(18.2%), Eihar (9.1%), Punjab (8.2%) and Karnataka (7.2%). In respect of
bullocks and bullock carts, which is the second most important activity under
diversified items, Uttar Pradesh with 22% of refinance ranked first and was
followed by Tamil Nadu (17.9%), Andhra Pradesh (15.0%), Orissa (12.3X) and
Karnataka (9.2%).
2.24    Insofar as financing diversified investments is concerned, National
Bank has, under ics charter, a mandate which goes beyond the functions of
erstwhile ARDC. Under ARDC, the National Bank is required to provide credit
for the promotion of agriculture, small scale industries, cottage and village
industries, handicrafts and other rural crafts, and other allied economic
activities in rural areas with a view to promoting integrated rural develop-
ment and securing prosperity in rural areas. National Bank, after its estab-
lishment, besides liberalizing and expanding the on-going facilities in the
non-farm sector, constituced seven task forces, one each on Handlooms, Coir,
Sericulture, Handicrafts, Khadi and Village Industries, and Organization of
Market Essentials and Tiny Industries in Rural Areas. Based on the recommen-
dations of the task forces, the National Bank introduced several new lines of
credit and initiated a number of policy measures aimed at accelerating the
process and pace of development of such activities in rural areas. However,
the Report on Tiny Industries in Rural Areas is under preparacion.
Lending in Less Developed States
2.25    Comparatively better developed states attracted relatively larger
quantum of refinance assistance because of the availability of necessary
infrastructural facilities and forward and backward linkages, and above all,
the progressive outlook of farmers themselves. However, ARDC/NABARD con-
tinued its efforts in reducing regional imbalances among different tegions
of a state as well as between different states. Reducing regional dis-
parities, was one of the major objectives set forth under the project. As a
first step, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Northeastern and
Eastern states, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh were identified as less
developed states which needed special attention. Among the steps taken by
ARDC/NABARD towards promoting agricultural development in these States were
(a) extending assistance to banks and state governments in formulating
schemes and conducting workshops on project lending, (b) conducting a
pre-investment survey in the Northeastern Region and special studies in some
of the states with a view to identifying the bottlenecks for credit flow for



-25-
development and recomending appropriate action, (c) providing of 902 to 95Z
refinance on bank loans for schemes in the Eastern and Northeastern regions
to induce member banks to formulate more schemes and take to project lending,
(d) holding dialogues with the state governments by the Chairman and the
Managing Director of the National Bank to sort out, at the highest level, the
problems in formulation and implementation of schemes, (e) implementating of
other externally-aided projects in states like Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh,
Bihar, West Bengal, Himachal Pradesh and Jamu and Kashmir so as to speed up
the process of development, (f) opening of sub-offices of the National Bank
in some of these states with a view to paying special attention to the
agricultural development needs of these regions and maintaining close liaison
with the state governments and banks, (g) formulating appropriate strategy
for development, such as encouraging formation of statutory corporations for
undertaking minor irrigation and other items of development; and (h) taking
efforts to cover all the blocks in the country with National Bank supported
schemes.
2.26    It was expected that almost half of the National Bank's lending under
the project would be to the less developed States. The appraisal estimates,
in this regard, have been met inasmuch as the less developed States received
almost 50% of the disbursements amounting to Rs 4,398.4 M during the project
period. The Eastern States of Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal had shown slight
improvement in availment of refinance (18.2% during the project period as
compared to 16.8% under the earlier project (Annex 1, Tables 9 and 10).
2.27    However, the Northeastern States accounted for a meagre 3.6% of
disbursements made in the less developed areas and efforts are being made
through annual state level discussions and other forums to increase the flow
of credit to these areas.
Lending to Small Farmers
2.28    National Bank has been paying special attention to the credit needs
of small farmers so that this target group gets a larger share of investment
credit being made available by it. To ensure larger participation of small
farmers in the schemes, National Bank has been extending concessional terms
of lending to them such as lower downpayment, longer repayment period and
lower rates of interest. The project agreement provided that not less than
US$190 M, i.e., about 55% of the total credit, would be disbursed in respect
of loans to small farmers. ARDC/NABARD had disbursed 77% of the refinance in
respect of loans to small farmers, including IRDP beneficiaries, thus exceed-
ing the project target of 55%. Under Minor Irrigation Schemes, the percent-
age of disbursements for small farmers was 75Z whereas under diversified
purposes, the share of small farmers was 79%. Substantial disbursements
under IRDP for diversified investments contributed to increased small farmer
coverage under the Project (Annex 1, Table 11).



-26-
Implementation Issues
2.29    Monitoring and other studies conducted by the National Bank, reviews
of project implementation by the Regional Office of the National Bank, and
discussions/meetings of the State/District Level Coordination Committees have
brought out the following common problems:
(i) loan eligibility worked out on unrealistic land evaluation methods;
(ii) underfinancing of the investments;
(iii) sanctioning short initial repayment holiday unrelated to the
gestation period of investments;
(iv) lack of infrastructural facilities especially in regard to marketing
of farm produce;
(v) absence of adequately trained and experienced staff in bank branches
leading to poor follow-up and supervision of loan cases;
(vi) inadequate support from extension services; and
(vii) inadequate branch network in certain areas/states.
2.30    Under minor irrigation investments, the main problems encountered
were: (i) delays/difficulties in energization of pumpsets, (ii) non-
availability of groundwater assessment reports and inadequate staff ;trength
of State Groundwater Departments (SGWDs), (iii) non-availability/shortage
of construction materials, (iv) delay in completion of investments, and (v)
delay in adoption of scheme to compensate for failed wells.
2.31    As regards land development schemes, the delays have mainly been due
to legal problems encountered while implementing the schemes. Other problems
related to lack of technical guidance and ineligibility of farmers to avail
of loans under the schemes. Under diversified purposes, most of the problems
faced related to non-functioning of purchase committees, unsatisfactory
post-loan supervision, purchase of animals in higher lactation order, scar-
city of quality animals, high cost of feed, low yields due to lack of proper
feeding, absence of an efficient extension service (plantation and horticul-
ture), inadequate arrangement for product preservation (of eggs), and inade-
quate medical care (animal husbandry).
Follow-up Action
2.32    The National Bank has been monitoring the progress in implementation
of the various schemes and making efforts aimed at sorting out the various
opetational problems. State governments were requested to strengthen the
SGWDs and carry out micro level surveys of blocks categoried as 'dark' for



-27-
reassessment of groundwater potential. The National Sank extended refinance
assistance to SLDBs to enable them to participate, along with the comercial
banks, in financing rural electrification programs of REC. The National Bank
continued its efforts to improve the quality of minor irrigation investments
keeping in view the results of the Pilot Project studies on quality control
of pumpsets. The financing banks were also urged to take necessary action in
this regard. The National Bank urged the banks to adopt realistic method of
valuation of land for determining loan eligibility in individual cases. The
banks have been requested to sanction initial grace period depending on the
gestation period of investment.
2.33    NABARD has set up standing committees in each state to review peri-
odically the unit costs of various items of investment. The committees were
composed of representatives from participating banks, state governments, and
concerned implementing agencies and their views are taken into consideration
while fixing/revising the unit cost for various items of investment. These
standing committees have been functioning effectively.
2.34    The Regional Offices stepped up effective participation in the for-
mulation of District Credit Plans and Annual Plans. Procedure for availment
of refinance was simplified in regard to some special schemes and powers of
sanction of refinance assistance by the Regional Offices of the National Bank
were enhanced. Emphasis was also laid on promoting diversified investments,
and in giving licenses for opening new branches of the CBs/RRBs, a deliberate
attempt is made to ensure that unbanked centers get priority.
Training
2.35    Expenditure under the training component of the project amounted to
Rs 30.5 M as against appraisal estimate of Rs 36 M. During the project
period a total of 5,911 persons have been trained under various programs
conducted by CAB, Pune and BIRD, Lucknow. During the project period, 53
courses were conducted at CAB as against the commitment of 60 courses. A
number of technical courses were also organized covering the areas of animal
husbandry, plantation and horticulture, forestry and fisheries. A total of
28 such courses were conducted in which 699 trainees participated. At 14
junior level training centers of SLDBs, 154 training courses were conducted.
A total of 3,548 persons had attended these Eraining programs during the
project period. The training of field staff of the LDBs received particular
attention and 67 re-orientation programs were conducted covering i,664
trainees. In pursuance of the recommendations made by CRAFICARD, the
National Bank had set up a committee on 'Training in Rural Development
through Credit' (TRUDEC). The committee has since submitted its report. The
recommendations made by the said committee are under implementation. In
pursuance of the recommendations of the COTELCOOP, special training programs
were devised for the officers of six weak SLDBs. Programs on recovery
management, effective communication techniques and general management and
executive development were organized in this regard (Annex III).



-28-
Compliance with Covenants
2.36    The National Bank complied with all the covenants of the Project
Agreement.
III. PROJECT BENEFITS
Physical Impact
3.Oi    The investments in minor irrigation (both private and public) and
land development under non-IRDP schemes are estimated to have created new
irrigation potential for 1.10 M ha. Under IlD program private minor irriga-
tion investments added to the irrigation potential by 0.17 M ha. Under
diversified investments, 0.056 M ha were brought under plantation and hor-
ticulture crops (tea, coffee, coconut, citrus, mango, guava, etc.) under
non-IRDP schemes. The area brought under chese crops was, however, negli-
gible in the case of rRD program. Other benefits include financing of 0.985
M milch animals (0.805 M under IRDP and 0.180 M under non-IRDP schemes),
5.282 M layer birds (1.305 M under IRDP and 3.977 M under non-IRDP schemes),
2.674 M, sheep/goats (1.617 M under IRDP and 1.057 M under non-IRDP schemes),
0.040 M pigs (0.034 M under IRDP and remaining under non-IRDP schemes), 0.006
M ha of inland fisheries (of which 0.003 M ha under IRDP) and 0.115 M units
of miscellaneous investments (of which 0.007 M units under IRDP). Other
investments financed under non-IRDP schemes were 1039 fishing boats, storage
godowns (storage capacity of 0.386 M tons) and construction of 37 market
yards.  Under IRDP 0.702 M bullocks and 0.158 M bullocks and carts were also
financed.
3.02    The private minor irrigation investments financed under the project
have benefited 0.63 M and 0.17 M individuals under non-IRDP schemes and IRD
Program respectively. In addition, the investments in 1994 deep tubewells
and river lifts have benefited about 0.05 M persons, whose lands fall in the
command area of these structures. The investment in land development
beneficed abouc 0.04 M persons.  Thus, about 0.89 M persons were benefited
from investments in minor irrigation and land development under the project.
A large proportion of the beneficiaries (about 0.67 h) under minor irrigation
and land development were small farmers.
3.03    The impact of the project in terms of increased production of



-29-
foodgrains and commercial crops, and other products is discussed below. 1/
The main objective of increased production of foodgrains, milk, eggs, fish,
meat (poultry birds, sheep/goats, etc.) was achieved. Investments in minor
irrigation and land development enabled the beneficiaries to adopt improved
cropping pattern, use higher level of inputs (fertilizers, high yielding
seeds, insecticides/pesticides, etc.) and switch over to improved farming
techniques, resulting in increased production of foodgrains and cash crops.
At full development of project investments 2/ the incremntal foodgrains
production, mostly of wheat, paddy and other cereals is estimated at 1.80 M
tons (appraisal estimate of 1.71 M tons).  The value of incremental produc-
tion of foodgrains is estimated at Rs 2457 M (at 1983-84 prices).  Besides,
the production of commercial crops such as oilseeds (groundnut, rapeseed and
mustard), sugarcane and cotton are estimated to have increased by 0.14 M
tons, 3.02 M tons and 0.003 M tons respectively.  The value of the incremen-
tal production of cash crops is estimated at Rs 1148 M. Thus, the invest-
ments in minor irrigation and land development at full development have
resulted in an incremental value of production of Rs 3605 M (appraisal
estimate of Rs 4,000 M).
3.04    With investments in diversified activities, the incremental output of
milk was estimated at 850.85 M liters and 251.2 M litres from IRDP and
non-IRDP schemes, respectively.  The production of eggs has gcne up by
1,215.5 M (of which 960.9 M under non-IRDP schemes).  The increase in produc-
tion of fish from inland fisheries was of the order of 0.07 M Qtls (of which
0.04 M Qtls under IRDP). The incremental output of marine fisheries is
estimated at 0.30 M Qtls. The production of tea and coffee is assessed to
have increased by 0.2 M Qtls and 0.05 Qtls respectively. The incremental
production of coconut is estimated at 67.1 M nuts. The production of other
1/ The study conducted in 15 states by National Bank on implementation of
IRD Program showed that nearly 20% of the sample farm sector-units were
non-financial. Keeping this in view, the additional production estimated
to have accrued from the investments under IRD Program has been reduced
to the extent of 20 percent. In the case of investments under non-IRDP
schemes, no such allowance has been made in the absence of any firm
estimate of the extent of non-functional investments.
2/ In the case of dairy, poultry, sheep rearing and fisheries, benefits
start flowing within six months from the investment. However, in the
case of MI, benefits reach the optimal level some 3-4 years after the
completion of investment. In the case of horticulture and plantations,
the time-lag is even more. The initial gestation period itself is about
3-5 years and it takes another 2-5 years to reach the full development
stage. As the project was only for a two year period, most investment
activities (other than plantation and horticulture) would have only
started yielding benefits.



-30-
horticultural crops like mango, citrus and guava, etc. have also gone up
(precise estimate not available).
3.05    The value of incremental output of 1983-84 prices from investments in
diversified activities is estimated at Rs 6823 M (as against the appraisal
estimate of Rs 1200 M); the increase is mainly due to the Larger share of
these activities in the project investment. Of the incremental output from
diversified activities, the ILD Program contributed Rs 3943 M (57%). The
contribution of IRDP in value of incremental output from diversified
activities was relatively higher due mainly to the fact that 61% of disburse-
ment of refinance by the National Bank for these activities were under IRD
Program. Altogether, the value of incremental production from all invest-
ments at full development is estimated at Rs 10,428 M (appraisal estimate
Rs 5,200 at 1980-81 prices).
Financial Analysis
3.06    A wide variety of investments were 'inanced under the project, which
were dispersed in different parts of the country with varying agro-climatic
conditions. The estimated benefits and rates of return are based mainly on
ex-post evaluations and other studies conducted by the National Bank, conmer-
cial banks and research institutions (Annex V). The minor irrigation invest-
ments financed under the project were found to be financially viable and the
FRR ranged from 10% to above 50% (as against the appraisal estimate of 23% to
48%). The FRR ranged from 14% to 35% in the case of diversified investments
(as against the appraisal estimate of 20% to 43%). The application of sen-
sitivity test of 10% increase in investment cost or 10% reduction in benefits
showed that the investments would be financially viable except in the case of
inland and marine fisheries. The ERR ranged from 15% to above 50% for
various investments except in the case of Deep Tubewells (DTWs) and River
Lift Irrigation (RLI) installed in Orissa.
3.07    The investments finavced and undertaken under the project have
created employment opportunities of both recurring and non-recurring nature.
The employment effects have significantly improved with substantial propor-
tion of financing under the project going to diversified investments and for
investments under IRD Program which are labor-intensive in nature. The minor
irrigation and land development investments are estimated to have created
non-recurring employment of 221 M mandays and annual recurring employment of
201 M mandays. The diversified investments at full deveLopment are expected
to have created non-recurring employment of about 35.5 M mandays and annual
recurring employment of about 210 M mandays. Thus, a permanent annual
increase in employment of 411 M mandays has been created with the implementa-
tion of the project. The total employment opportunities created are much
higher than the appraisal estimate (140 M mandays) because of larger share of
diversified investments and coverage of a large number of beneficiaries under
IRD Program.



-31-
IV. ROLE OF PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development 1/
4.01    The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) came
into existence on July 12, 1982. The National Bank took over the functions
of erstwhile Agricultural Credit Department (ACD) and Rural Planning and
Credit Cell (RPCC) of Reserve Bank of India and Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC). The National Bank was established for
providing credit for promotion of agriculture, small-scale industries, cot-
tage and village industries, handicrafts and other rural crafts and other
allied economic activities in rural areas with a view to promoting integrated
rural development and securing prosperity in rural areas. The mandate of the
National Bank is, thus, much larger than the collective mandate of the
institutions whose functions it took over. It provides refinance for short,
medium and long term loans for agriculture and rural development.
4.02    The National Bank is entrusted wich the responsibility concerning
policy planning and operations in the field of agriculture and other economic
activities in the rural areas. As an apex institution, it provides refinance
to the institutions purveying investment and production credit for financing
various developmental activities in the rural areas. The National Bank's
refinance is available to State Land Development Banks (SLDBs), State
Cooperative Banks (SCBs), Scheduled Commercial Banks (CBs) and Regional Rural
Banks (RRBs). The National Bank is also accredited with the responsibility
of institution building foe improving the health of the credit delivery
system in the country.
4.03    The National Bank faced acute staff problems on repatriation of its
trained staff to RBI. The Bank took steps to recruit staff at different
levels from the open market and campus recruitment of management graduates,
technical staff, etc. The staff position in the various technical dis-
ciplines was also strengthened. The staff strength in different disc:piines
in the Bank during the project period is given in Annex 1, Tables 12, 13 and
14).
Scheme Formulation
4.04    The thrust of the training programs for senior/middle level officers
of the financing banks had been to enable them to formulate schemes of
agriculture/rural development. The National Bank continued its efforts in
this direction during the project period and even the State Governments had
1/ The details of organization and management of the National Bank along
with its role in ruraL development has been dealt in detail in Staff
Appraisal Report on NABARD-I Credit Project (Report No. 5594-IN).



-32-
been urged to set up project preparation and monitoring cells. Our persist-
ent efforts have fructified and the quality of schemes formulated and sub-
mitted by the participating banks for our consideration is much better. To
supplement efforts in this regard, the National Bank had circulated detailed
guidelines along with checklists to the concerned institutions for prepara-
tion of different types of schemes. The Bank also took initiative in prepar-
ing some pilot projects on innovative schemes and sent the same to various
financing banks/State Government departments. The coverage of the rural
development program has also been enlarged after establishment of the
National Bank. The non-farm sector which was hitherto relatively neglected
has been bestowed special attention and as a consequence of such measures,
the refinance of Rs 670 M was disbursed for Industries, Services, Business
(IS8) under IRD Program during project period.
Appraisal
4.05    The schemes received from the participating financing banks are
appraised by the National Bank on the basis of the techno-economic norms
evolved by it. Besides such appraisal by the Bank, an assessment of
administrative and organizational capacity of the financing bank branches,
availability of supporting services, availability of the construction
material/assets of the right quality and at appropriate prices, etc. are made
before a scheme is formally considered for sanction. Wherever necessary the
field visits are undertaken to collect first hand information and to verify
the validity of the assumptions made in the scneme. The feedback received
from the DOM and evaluation studies are also given consideratioa while sanc-
tioning schemes.
4.06    With a view to ensuring speedy appraisal and sanction of schemes at
the Regional Office level, the National Bank not only enhanced the powers of
sanction of schemes of the regional-in-charge, but also strengthened the
staff in the Regional Offices by posting more experienced staff in operations
and in various technical disciplines. The techno-economic norms used for
appraisal are updated as and when found necessary. Staff are also
familiarized with appraisal techniques under various training programs. In
the case of IRD Program, however, the appraisal of individual loan proposals
was to be made by the financing banks. The National Bank's study of IRDP
showed that the loan cases were not appraised properly for want of adequately
trained staff with the banks. Lack of familiarity with financing of some of
the items of investments (ISB components) under IRD Program was another
factor responsible for this type of situation. The banks have, therefore,
been advised to overcome these deficiencies.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.07    The National Bank continued to attach considerable importance to
project monitoring and evaluation, which provide very useful feedback for
improving the performance of on-going projects and designing better projects



-33-
in future. Both desk reviews and field studies are undertaken to identify
operational problems and constraints and suggest timely solutions.
4.08    The long delays in filing of the prescribed returns by the par-
ticipant banks and the inaccuracies in the information supplied therein had
severely curtailed their usefulness as an instrument of desk monitoring in
the National Bank. With a view to preparing draft procedures to ensure
proper monitoring of and reporting on the progress in the implementation of
schemes refinanced by NABARD, and to prepare standard formats to be used by
financing banks in preparing returns for submission to NABARD on progress of
refinanced schemes, a sub-committee was constituted by ARDC in January 1982
in terms of Section 3.03 of Article III of the ARDC IV Project Agreement.
The Sub-Committee comprised senior officers of NABARD, SBI, CEI, SLDBs, and
RBI.
4.09    The Sub-Committee recommended for adoption of a new system of returns
and analysis and detailed guidelines on the system were issued to the par-
ticipating banks. The new system was introduced in October 1982. The new
system provides for a quarterly review of financial achievements under each
ongoing scheme on the basis of respective returns from the banks. It could
facilitate a more e-en disbursement of NABARD's refinance and effective desk
monitoring. The half yearly returns on physical achievements are intended to
enable the National Bank to monitor physical progress under the schemes in
terms of complete and incomplete, and successful and infruitous investments.
However, inordinate delays in submissicn of even the revised returns by the
financing banks have severely limited their utility as an instrument of desk
monitoring in the National Bank.
4.10    After switching over from scheme-oriented monitoring to dis-
trict-oriented monitoring in 1981, it was decided to progressively increase
the coverage of districts under DOM from 25Z (100 districts) in 1981 to
33-1/3% (135 districts) in 1982, 40% (in 162 districts) in 1983 and 50% (202
districts) from 1984 onwards. District-oriented monitoring studies were
undertaken in 95 districts and 87 districts during 1982 and 1983 respec-
tively. During January-June 1984, 47 DOM studies were undertaken. The
achievements in terms of the number of studies conducted fell short of the
targets due to staff constraints faced as a result of repatriation of trained
staff to the Reserve Bank of India after formation of NABARD. The National
Bank has also taken certain initiatives to improve upon the follow-up action
on the findings of these studies. After the conduct of study, the observa-
tions of the study team are discussed at the meeting of NABARD officers,
representatives of the financing banks and the concerned district officers.
The course of action is decided in this meeting so that the concerned banks
and departments of state government could take suitable steps in the matter.
4.11    With a view to ascertaining the constraints in implementation of IRD
Program a study was undertaken covering_5 states, 30 districts, 60 blocks and
1498 program beneficiaries. The findings of the study were placed before the



-34-
Board of Directors of the Bank. Copies of the report were sent to Government
of India (the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture and Rural Development) Plan-
ning Comission and Reserve Bank of India. As follow-up, the Commis-
sioners/Directors Institutional Finance, of the concerned states have been
advised about the deficiencies observed in the program implementation. The
shortcomings noticed in the implementation of the program at the level of the
financing banks and the BDOs/DRDAs have been lifted and the suggestions to
improve the implementation of the program have been made by the National
Bank. They have been further advised to initiate appropriate action at
different levels.
4.12    During implementation of ARDC IV, 61 ex-post evaluation studies (21
by ARDC/NABARD, 35 by CBs and 5 by research institutions) were undertaken.
Of these studies 25 had been published, 17 completed and 19 were in progress
as at the end June 1984. The CBs have shown better performance in the con-
duct of evaluation studies. The progress in the case of research institu-
tions had been slow, because many of them had not been familiar with evalua-
tion of bank financed projects. The new progress in the finalization of the
studies undertaken by the National Bank has been slow mainly due to shortage
of staff at senior levels in the EAPD. Efforts at improving the evaluation
methodology in terms of sampling design, and analysis of data, including
disaggregated forms, etc., have continued. To improve upon skills of the
professional staff of CBs in the planning and conduct of the evaluation
studies, National Bank has been interacting with them on a continuing basis.
The program of evaluation studies to be taken up by various CBs is finalized
in the meeting convened by the National Bank.
4.13    As a follow-up action on the findings of the evaluation studies, each
of the published reports is reviewed and a brief note detailing major study
findings and follow-up action required at various levels, i.e., National
Bank, financing banks, etc., is prepared to facilitate action by operational
departments.
4.14    With a view to ensuring involvement of the LDBs and RRBs in the
monitoring of on-going schemes, the National Bank provides financial assis-
tance to these banks. It had disbursed Rs 0.39 M from its R&D Fund to six
LDBs during the project period, for setting up of technical monitoring and
evaluation cells and to partly cover the cost of the key personnel.
4.15    To gain new perceptions on the growing delinquency in repayment of
credit, the National Bank had undertaken studies on both supply and demand
sides of credit during the project period. The supply side study was under-
taken departmentally in the states of Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya
Pradesh and West Bengal. The demand side study was contracted to research
institutions and was taken up in 10 states covering states with good and bad
recovery performance. The results of the studies were discussed in a seminar
held at New Delhi on February 6, 1984 and was attended by senior officers
from Covernment of India, State Governments and the financing banks.



-35-
4.16    As a follov-up action on the findings of these studies, detailed
guidelines were issued to banks to undertake case-by-case analysis of the
overdue loan accounts and provide appropriate relief in genuine cases by
suitably rescheduling/rephasing the demand in the events of occurrence of
natural calamities. Besides, the financing banks were requested to ensure
providing initial grace period, proper loan maturities and adequate finance
to the beneficiaries along with proper follow-up and supervision of loans.
4.17    The National Bank had established Research and Development Fund
during 1983, with the objective of expending it on matters of importance to
agriculture, agricultural operations and rural development including
facilities for training, dissemination of information and promotion of
research studies and techno-economic and other surveys in the field of rural
banking, agriculture and rural development. During the project period 27
research studies were contracted to the research institution of repute for
undertaking studies on technical and economic aspects of rural development
program, repayment performance of borrowers of agricultural credit, develop-
ment of proto-type of catamaran of ferro-cement, etc. The total cost of
studies contracted to the research institutions aggregated to Rs 4.71 M. Of
the contracted studies, 13 studies have been completed and the remaining are
under way. This included also studies funded under credits irom Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC) and Overseas Development Association (ODA).
Institution Building
4.18    In the context of its perspective lending program during the Sixth
Five Year Plan, National Bank made earnest efforts towards institution build-
ing, so that the participating banks are able to increase both quantum and
quality of lending. In the case of LDBs, the revised eligibility criteria
was made applicable from January 1, 1982 and the lending eligibility of each
of the PLDB/branch of SLDB was worked out based on the recovery position of
the PLDBs/branches of SLDBs for the period ended June 30, 1981. The new
eligibility criteria applicable to LDBs provided that lower levels of
recovery will qualify for declining amounts of refinance from the National
Bank and it differed from that applicable under Third ARDC Credit Project,
which excluded PLDB/branch of LSDB from refinance unless its overdues were
65X of less (including 10Z notional reduction on account of state govern-
ments' contribution to LDBs' share capital).
4.19    The recoveries had showed some improvement during 1981-82 but the
following year (1982-83) being a drought year gave a setback to the recovery
efforts of the financing institutions. COTELCOOP had been reviewing the
recovery position of SLDBs in general and that of weak SLDBs in particular
and approved various measures aimed at improving the organizational,
managerial and financial aspects. These measures were drawn up based on the
findings of O&M studies conducted by the expert groups. The study reports of
the expert groups had been forwarded to the respective state governments and



-36-
the concerned banks. National Bank had drawn up plans for improvement of the
financial and managerial competence of the concerned banks in consultations
with COTELCOOP and based on the views of the banks and state governments.
4.20    National Bank made efforts to improve participation of SCBs and RRBs
in lending programs. As a result of these efforts, the involvement of SCBs
in availment of refinance during the project period at Rs 666.4 M had
increased to nearly ten-fold as compared to the Rs 69.6 M during Third ARDC
Credit Project. Likewise the amount of refinance availed of by RRBs had gone
up from Rs 380 M during 1981-82 to Rs 670 M during 1983-84. National Bank
considerably expanded the curricula of its training programs with a view to
improving skills and functional efficiency of personnel of the state govern-
ments and the member banks.
4.21    National Bank provided grants from R&D Fund for strengthening of
Technical, Monitoring and Evaluation (TME) Cells of LDBs, RRBs and SCBs. The
grants sanctioned from the fund for appointment of key personnel in the TME
Cells of SLDBs, SCBs, and RRBs amounced to Rs 3.11 M as at end June 1984.
The National Bank also sanctioned assistance from che 'Fund' to three RRBs
for setting up TME Cells.
Strengthening of Credit Delivery System
4.22    With a view to improving the quality of lending and supervision over
the utilization of credits, the National Bank prepared ano implemenced a
Pilot Project. The objective of the Pilot Project, which covers three dis-
tricts viz., Aurangabad (Maharashtra), Hoshangabad (M.P.) and Sabarkancha
(Gujarat), is to upgrade and strengthen the credit delivery system. The
Project covers all lending institutions operating in these districts. The
emphases are to provide adequate staff to the credit institutions at the
ground level so that the number of borrowers supervised by each official is
kept to a manageable level, to intensify training of the field staff and the
borrowers and to introduce structured working activities for the field and
supervisory staff. The project also envisages modernization of systems and
procedures followed by LDBs. In the case of cooperative banks and RRBs, the
National Bank has agreed to bear a major part of incremental staff cost for a
period of five years.
Important Policy Decisions
4.23    Some of the important policy decisions taken by the National Bank
during the project period were (i) providing a higher scale of refinance to
LDBs, (ii) allowing options for SLDBs to reduce special development deben-
tures floated by them from 1-1-1982 onwards either in equal annual instal-
ments or in equated annual instalments by LDBs, (iii) applying revised
eligibility criteria for LDBs, (iv) setting eligibility criteria for CBs and
RRBs, (v) introducing registers for maintenance of DCB by CBs and RRBs,



-37-
(vi) revising interest rates (from April 1, 1983), (vii) simplifying proce-
dure for release of refinance under IRDP, and (viii) covering new activities
such as farm forestry, stand-by oil engines, improvements in pumpset instal-
lations, dry land farming, financing of windmills, etc. under refinance
facility.
Resource Mobilization
4.24    The sizeable growth in the business of the National Bank was made
possible by its efforts to raise additional resources. Total resources
raised increased by nearly two-fold from Rs 6,728.4 M as at end June 1982 to
about Rs 11,878 M in 1983-84. The pattern of resources mobilization shows an
increase in the proportion of local resources to total resources, pointing to
greater internal resource mobilization. The assistance from the World Bank
Group and bilateral donors had declined. The amount of repayments of loans
co the National Bank though increased in absolute terms from Rs 2,712. M to
Rs 4,090 M, declined as a proportion of local resources to 40% in 1983-84.
The debt equity ratio which stood at 15:1 in 1981-82 reached the statutory
limit of 20:1 in 1983-84 (Annex 1, Tables 15, 16, 17 and 18).
Land Development Banks
4.25    The Land Development Banks (LDBs) had been the main purveyors of
investment credic to the farmers in the country. Their loan portfolio had
been increasing over the years. From 1981-82 to 1983-84 their lendings had
increased by 19% from Rs 3,690.43 M to Rs 4,395.40 M. The disbursements of
loans by the LDBs in different staces had exhibited an increasing trend with
the exception of LDBs in the States of Rajasthan, Bihar, Orissa and Tripura.
The increase in disbursement of loans among the LDBs ranged from 3% in West
Bengal to 100% in Karnataka during 1981-82 to 1983-84. The share of LDBs in
refinance from National Bank had dropped from 38% in 1981-82 to 35% in
1983-84. During the project periud, LDBs availed refinance of Rs 3,759.2
M out of total project disbursemeit of refinance at Rs 9,056.6 M. Their
share in the disbursement of the National Bank was 41.5Z (Annex 1, Table 19!.
4.26    The growth in loan business of LDBs was accompanied by steady
increase in diversification of their portfolio. Thus, during the project
period 27% of refinance drawn by LDBs from the National Bank was for diver-
sified purposes compared to only 14% during Third ARDC Credit Project period.
4.27    The growth in LDBs' loan operations was facilitated by che National
Bank's lending programs, particularly in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar,
Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan,
Punjab and Haryana. The share of special development debentures in the total
debentures floated by all LDBs taken together went up from 73% in 1981-82 to
77% in 1983-84 (Annex 1, Tables 20 and 21).



-38-
4.28    The increase in the overdues of LDBs has been a matter of concern of
the National Bank, Reserve Bank of India and Government of India. The level
of overdues continued to remain high forming about 38.5% of demand for
recovery at the primary level (PLDBs/SLDBs branches) during 1983-84. The
SLDBs under rehabilitation viz. Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil
Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, had revised the 'Demand' on account of
occurrence of natural calamities. Other 10 weak SLDBs resorted to blocking
of chronically overdue accounts and an amount of Rs 609 M was blocked during
1981-82 to 1983-84. The analysis of the position of overdues of LDBs during
the period from June 1982 to June 1984 revealed that Kerala and Haryana SLDBs
maintained a satisfactory level of recoveries around 75% of demand. Punjab
SLDB maintained a very satisfactory recovery (around 90%). Uttar Pradesh
SLDB also maintained its level of recoveries at 66% during the two years
ended June 1982 and 1983 and improved the recoveries to 72% by end of June
1984. In 1983-34, there was general improvement in recoveries of 15 SLDBs.
However, in the case of 4 SLDBs the overdues were more chan 50% of the
demand. These 4 SLDBs were Assam (62.8%), Bihar (58%), Pondicherry (51.20%)
and Tripura (80.6Z) (Annex 1, Tables 22 and 23). On the whole, an improve-
ment in the level of recoveries was obseried during the project period which
was mainly on account of various measures taken by the National Bank, Govern-
ment of India and Reserve Bank of India.
4.29    With a view to acquiring a better perception of the problem of delin-
quency in the repayment of institutional credit, the National Bank had
departmentally undertaken studies relating to the supply side of credit in
five states. The demand side studies were undertaken in 10 states, including
two states with good recovery position through research institution. The
findings of these studies were discussed at a seminar on repayment of
institutional credit.
4.30    The supply side studies revealed that the overdues were partly
explained by the following deficiencies in the lending and recovery proce-
dures of the lending institutions: (i) Non-rescheduling of demand in years
of natural calamities, (ii) absence of initial grace period, (iii) shorter
loan maturities, (iv) foreclosure of loan accounts and treating the entire
loan amount as demand in one year in the event of infructuous investment or
misutilization of loan, and (v)misclassification of small farmers (thereby
denying them longer loan maturities). The studies showed that if adjustments
for these deficiencies were made, the eligibility for lending of the
PLDBs/branches of SLDB would improve.
4.31    The demand side studies, which were undertaken to identify the
reasons for good and bad repaymert by the sample borrowers, brought out the
following major findings. Firstly, the level of overdues was higher for
investment credit (term loans) than for crop loans (short term credit).
Secondly, a considerable proportion (30% to 45%) of the default in respect of
investment credit (extended by PLDBs) was over 5 years oLd, whereas in the
case of short-term crop loans (borrowed from PACS) it was typically less than



-39-
two years old. Thirdly, large farmers defaulted more than the small farmers.
Fourthly, 25X-35X of the defaulters were those who had made partial repay-
ment, the rest had defaulted the entire amount. The studies on demand and
supply sides of credit had shown that unwillful default was caused by
(i) under-financing (resulting in incomplete investment), (ii) short loan
maturity, (iii) personal calamities (death, fire and theft, etc.),
(iv) absence of contact between banks and borrowers, and (v) wrong
psychological approach by banks. The studies also had identified
(i) promises or prospects of write-uff, (ii) utterances by local leaders,
(iii) propaganda by affluent defaulters, and (iv) absence of effective penal
action against defaulters, to be the important cause of such a default.
4.32    The LDBs were advised by the National Bank in December 1983 to under-
take a case-by-case analysis of their overdue loan portfolio with a view to
providing relief to deserving borrowers in whose case eligible conces-
sions/reliefs had not been extended due to defective loaning policy. As a
result of this exercise, a realistic picture of their level of overdues was
anticipated through rescheduling/rephasement of demand, isolation of cases of
incomplete investment, failed wells, etc. The exercise has been completed in
13 out of 19 SLDBs by ensuring provision of relief to ultimate borrowers in
deserving cases.
Status of RehabiLitation of Six Weak SLDBs
4.33    In accordance with the covenants of Project Agreement, the National
Bank; arranged Organization and Management Studies of Six SLDBs, viz., Bihar,
Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu in 1982. The
studies were conducted by expert groups consisting of credit and management
experts. The study reports were considered by COTELCOOP, a standing
committee established by National Bank to advise it on term lending through
cooperatives and on the development and strengthening of these cooperative
banks. Based on the recommendations made in the reports and the suggestions
at COTELCOOP meetings, the National Bank finalized program of improvement in
the management, organization and financial position of these banks and com-
municated the measures/recommendations to the State Governments and the
concerned banks. The concerned State Governments and SLDBs have accepted
most of the recommendations and the implementation is in progress. The
implementation of the rehabilitation program is monitored and reviewed at the
State level by the standing committee under the Chairmanship of Secretary
(Cooperation) or Agricultural Production Commissioner to the State Govern-
ment. A Central Task Force headed by the Additional Secretary, Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperation, Government of India, also visits the States
periodically and reviews the status of the implementation of the rehabilita-
tion programs. The National Bank also closely monitors the implementation of
the program by the SLDBs. Mid-term evaluations of the progress of implemen-
tation of the rehabilitation program by the SLDBs is, by and large, satisfac-
tory. The SLDBs and the State Governments have.taken action in respect of
most of the recommendations relating to loan-policies and procedures,



-40-
strengthening of technical cells, organizational improvements, etc.  However,
the recomoendations which require legal amendments and financial commitments
from the State Government are still under consideration of the respective
State Governments.
4.34    In the second phase, the National Bank organized Organization and
Management (O&M) studies of additional nine SLDBs, viz., Orissa, West Bengal,
Himachal Pcadesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Tripura
and Pondicherry. The study reports have been considered by the COTELCOOP and
recommendations for improvements in Organization and Management have been
communicated to the concerned State Governmen:s and the respective State Land
Development Banks. The implementation of rehabilitation programs by these
SLDBs is being monitored by the National Bank and the recommendations pursued
vigorously with the respective State Governments/SLDBs for acceptance and
implementation. In the third phase, OM study teams were set up for Andhra
Pradesh, Kerala and Haryana SLDBs; the reports of these teams have since been
finalized and for-warded to respective State Governments/SLDBs seeking their
suggestions/comments on the measures suggested in the reports. The O&M study
in respect of SLDB in Punjab had been deferred in view of th~e distu:bed
conditions in the State.
4.35    The rehabilitation program drawn up by National Bank focused on
(i) measures to increase the recovery of LDBs, (ii) removal of legal con-
straints on action against defaulters, and (iii) revision of operational and
technical guideLines concerning personnel and training-policies, financial
management, record keeping, loan appraisal and supervision of loans.
State Cooperative Banks
4.36    The participation of State Cooperative Bank's (SCBs) in implementa-
tion of National Bank's refinanced schemes had been quite encouraging. The
National Bank had disbursed refinance of Rs 666.4 M to all the SCBs put
together during the ARDC IV project period (Annex 1, Table 19). The amount
of refinance (Rs 666.4 M) availed of by SCBs during the project period was
almost ten times the amount of refinance (69.6 M) availed of by them during
Third ARDC Credit Project period. The SCBs had participated in implementa-
tion of minor irrigation schemes in the States of Orissa, Maharashtra and
Karnataka. In other States their involvement was confined to financing of
diversified activities, especially under IRD Program. Among the States,
Orissa (Rs 162.9 M) ranked first followed by Uttar Pradesh (Rs 146.5 M),
Tamil Nadu (Rs 126.0 M), Rajasthan (Rs 42.0 M), Kerala (Rs 36.0 M) and
Haryana (Rs 35.5 M). The amount of refinance availed of by SCBs in other
states ranged from Rs 0.1 M in West Bengal to Rs 19.9 M in Maharashtra.
4.37    The overdues uf SCBs among different States/Union Territories ranged
from 0% in Orisa :o 90.4% in Manipur as at end June 1984 (Annex 1, Table 24).
The overdues of SCBs in Bihar, Tripura and Union Territory of Goa, Daman and
Diu were more than 50% as at end June 1984. In the States of Himachal



-41-
Pradesh and Assam the overdues in the Eastern and Northeastern States was
mainly due to shortage of experienced staff required to ensure proper
follow-up and supervision of loans.
4.38    Keeping in view the CRAFICARD recoummendations, guidelines were formu-
lated by the National Bank and communicated to State Governments for select-
ing PACs for their reorganization and developing them into truly multipurpose
service institutions. The State Governments were to select 10-15 societies
from each disteict, and by June 30, 1985, 4399 PACS had been selected in 16
States/Union Territories. The program has received encouraging response
particularly from Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Punjab,
Karnataka and Haryana. With a view to rehabilitating weak CCBs in the States
of West Bengal, Rajasthan, Bihar and Karnataka, evaluation studies were taken
up through outside agencies such as Administrative Staff College of India,
Hyderabad, Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad and other experts. The
evaluation studies sought to identify the impediments to the already
initiated rehabilitation measures and to formulate a more effective program
of rehabilitation.
Commercial Banks
4.39    Over the years, the Commercial Banks (CBs) have assumed much greater
importance in purveying institutional finance for agricultural and rural
development. Total agricultural credit (direct and indirect finance)
provided by them during the years 1979-80 to 1983-84 is given in Annex 1,
Tables 25 and 26.
4.40    CBs' share in National Bank's refinance has grown steadily from 41%
in 1976-77 to 50% in 1983-84. Under the project, the share of the CBs in
total disbursements of the National Bank was at 51%. The agricultural loan
portfolio of CBs is more diverse than that of LDBs. Out of the total
refinance availed of by CBs under the project, Rs 3661 M (79%) was for diver-
sified purposes. The expansion of agricultural credit by CBs can be
attributed to (i) RBI's stipulation of a minimum level (40%) of lendings to
priority sectors, including agriculture, and (ii) multi-&gency approach co
assist agricultural development. To support this policy, Reserve Bank of
India has been giving due consideration to the needs of rural and semi-urban
areas while licensing new branches.
4.41    The number of scheduled commercial bank branches went up to 45,332 as
at the end of June 1984 (Annex 1, Table 27). Since CBs provide both invest-
ment and production credit from the same branch, they had been able to
enlarge their lending operations and also significantly improve their share
in National Bank's refinance. They have greater flexibility in their lending
procedures, especially in the matter of collateral and can use their discre-
tion in regard to the type of security to be taken while granting loans to
ultimate borrowers.



-42-
4.42    A conference of CBs was organized by the National Bank during
February 1984 as a part of the strategy to further improve the effectiveness
of the credit delivery system and to review the performance of CBs in the
field of rural credit. To improve quality of agriculcural lending CALCOB
suggested that each branch of a commercial bank engaged in agricultural
credit should have at least one qualified/trained agricultural field officer.
CALCOB's recomendations were accepted by Reserve Bank of India and suitable
guidelines to CBs were issued.
4.43    As with the LDBs, CBs have also been facing problems in recovering
their dues. The level of overdues at the all-India level has remained static
at around 47Z in recent years. The overdues have been consistently high in
Northeastern, Eastern and Western Regions of the country (Annex 1, Table 28).
The Committee on Agricultural Loans through Commercial Banks (CALCOB) set up
by ARDC in April 1979, formulated proposals for linking up refinance from
National Bank to recovery performance/past lending of implementing branches
of commercial banks. The scheme of determining eligibility of branches
became operative with effect from July 1, 1983. In order to assess the
realistic picture of overdues of CBs, they have been advised to analyze the
overdue loan-portfolio on case-by-case basis and to extend appropriate relief
like extension of repayment period, etc., in deserving cases. It is hoped
that the realistic picture of overdues will emerge after the exercise is
completed.
Regional Rural Banks
4.44    The Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) were established in 1975.  The number
of RRBs grew from 107with 4795 branches at the end of December 1981 to 162
with 8727 branches at end June 1984. Their participation in National Bank's
assisted programs of schematic lending has been gradually increasing from 6%
during the year 1981-82 to 9% during 1982-83 and further to 10% during the
year ended June 1984.
4.45    With a view to improving the involvement of RRBs in schematic lending
and enabling them to formulate viable schemes independently, National Bank
agreed to provide, on request, assistance to RRBs from its Research and
Development Fund for setting up technical, monitoring and evaluation cells,
by way of grants on a tapering basis up to a period of five years.
4.46    To meet the growing training needs of RRBs' staff, National Bank
established in September 1983 its own training institute called, "Bankers
Institute for Rural Development (BIRD)" at Lucknow. BIRD runs two channels
and has a capacity of 27 participants per channel, as on June 30, 1984. BIRD
had conducted 15 courses and trained 404 staff of RRBs. In addition to this,
the OLTCs of LDBs also extended training facilities to RRB staff and during
the project period had trained 894 staff of RRBs. For senior/middle level
officers of RRBs, a few seats are kept in RDPCs conducted by CAB Pune.



-43 -                           ANNEX I
Table 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Cost of the Fourth ARDC Credit Project
Appraisal Estimate
RsM           U$M
Minor Irrigation
Minor Irrigation                          6,702.0        837.7
Land Development                            317.0         39.6
Pumpset Electrification                   2,:98.0        274.8
Soil Conservation/Reclamation               137.0         17.1
Subtotal                         9,354.0      1,169.2
I. Diversified Lending
Plantation and Horticulture             402.0        50.2
Farm Mechanization                    2,819.0       352.4
Tivestock                               766.0        95.8
Fisheries                               419.0        52.3
Forestry                                135.0         16.9
Storage                                 296.0        37.0
Market Yards                            414.0         51.8
Others                                  383.0         47.9
Subtotal                         5,634.0        704.3
II.  Training                                 32.0          4.0
Base Cost                            15,020.0     1,877.5
Price Contingencies                   1,670.0       208.7
Total Project Cost              16,690.0      2,086.2



43-
ANNUI
Tabl7e 2
PIOJICT CONPLITIOW UU1T?
INIA
POUTh lAGICULTUaAL DZVIEUACI AND  ElVKaOT
COUUOIATIOW  CREIT DJ3CT (AIDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-INILOA 2095-IN)
Cost of Project
IDA/lI5D Slies: Appraisal Estimates
Total   ARDC it-      IDA     Total   ADC la-
Cost    financing   Credit   Cost    fiamciais  Actual
Minor Irrigation and
Land Developmnt               7,943.16  6,389.0   2,159.4    992.7        798.6    270
6,702.0
317.0
7,019.0
SC/R                 137.0
7,156.0
Price Contingency
e 1iz                787.16
7,943.16
I. Diversified
Landing                    2,549.67  1,802.0      609.1    406.1       300.2     76
2,297                                         -
Price Contingency
*  iz                252.67
2,549.67
II. Trainintg    llS             35.5       36.0       32.4      4.4        4.4      4
10,528.5   8,227.0   2,800.9  1,403.2   1,103.2    350



NDOJ
MaM  Cf :UMr (Ac v
( RIDff 12-DVtwI 2095-iN)
State-wiu   d tgn!!-!i. Diuinmets  U            the Ptojert
(a IEIliw)
DivrsifLd h     ma
HUzNir Lrdatiin 
StstateIbn   I_ie           tid Din-             9aqVx=t                                            Bullodc     C      ib t
rtit             Iniott  altspm          t d et  A    t[ Pltdz   s    r diP       F     An Dy   Oru           8       lamb   Othwmel Theal   T
hd.rt Ptduh         464.5     26.3      490.8  55.3   73.6    142.7        1.4      20.0      99.1   170.1      0.8    -       8.0    571.0 1.061.8
A acdh   Pdm         -         -         -      -       -        -         -         -        -        -        -              -        -        -
_mm                  28.8      0.1       26.9  75.3    0.1       0.9       1.4       3.9       5.6     3.4      0.6    -       9.0    100.2   129.1
Bihur               393.5      2.0      395.5   8.8   10.5      21.8       2.9       1.0    116.2    14.4       1.6    7.7  137.4    322.3   711.8
Owb iph              -         -         -      -       0.9      -         -         -         1.0     0.1      -      -       0.7      2.7      2.7
Delhi                -         -         -      -       0.6      -         0.1       -         4.2     0.4      -       -      -        5.3      5.3
(;Ca                  0.1      -          0.1   2.5    0.3       -         -         1.6       0.8     0.4      -      -       -        5.6      5.7
(hderst            If.3       5.6      150.9   0.1    6.6       1.8       -        10.8      69.5    21.6      5.8    -      12.9    129.3   28D.2
H ly n              253.5      5.0      258.5   5.1   17.0      21.5       4.1       0.3    110.0    41.8       1.0   27.3   75.5    306.2   562.1
Hi dcbl Prodb        0.2       1.5        1.7   5.6    1.8       1.6       -         -        14.0     8.3      -              3.2     34.5    36.2
Jbau & Kudwdr        0.3       -          0.3   3.2    1.1       14.9      -         -        14.5    13.8      -      -      13.5     61.0    61.3
Krmntick            192.0      0.3      192.3 135.0   28.6       -         -        22.8    10.7   106.9       -      -      37.5    437.5   63.3
(rAls                92.4      2.5      94.9  83.8    O.5        5.9       -        13.1      62.0    18.3      -      -       0.3    111.9   271.8
1bdya Pr dei        520.7     11.7      532.4   0.8    4.6       1.0       -         0.2      25.7    14.4    23.9    -        9.5    10.3   612.7
IUi"nhtru          679.2       4.0     683.2  11.5   16.4        1.4       -         4.0      74.7    16.1      3.0    2.0    0.3    129.4   812.6
hwnpur               -         -         -      -       -        -         -         1.0      -        0.2      -      -       0.8      2.0      2.0
"401myay-                      -         -      -       -        -         -         0.3       0.9     -        -      -       0.9      2.1      2.1
tHkord               -         -         -      -       -        -         -         -         0.6     -        -      -       -        0.6      0.6
N1lnd                -         -                -       -        -         -         -        -        -        0.9    -       -        0.9      0.9
Cr1is               387.1      4.1      391.2  27.1    1.7      28.2       0.1      56.5      56.4   139.8      9.1    -       8.5    32.4   718.6
Fuddiwer"y           -         -         -      -       -        0.6       -         0.1       3.1     0.1      -      -       -        3.9      3.9
Punjab              48.1      36.1      84.2  11.7   48.4        5.2       -         -       167.1    32.3      9.6    -      16.4    29M.    374.9
tajsnimn            50O.5      1.9      152.4   2.1    0.5      47.2       0.1       -        40.3    77.8      3.2   68.7   14.5    254.4   406.8
Tan  MotNu           40.9      -        40.9  27.4   24.3       25.7       0.4       7.9    30D.3   2M0.2       -      -       9.7    598.9   639.5
Tdpr                 0.4       -         0.4   2.6    0.1        0.5       0.4      10.5       4.8     1.4      -      _       2.5     22.8    23.2
Utter Prme.h        868.6      -        M8.6   3.0    6.6        1.9       -         1.1    241.8   250.0    24.9    -        78.4    6W .7 1,46.3
woot BowI           112.9      3.5      116.4  50.4   13.1       1.7       1.1       6.7      10.2     4.8      0.2    5.9    0.3      94.4   210.0 F8
Ibtal     4.379.0    106.6   4.4B3.6 311.9  257.1    324.5        12.0      161.8  1,531.5  1.137.6    84.6  111.6  439.8  4.,sn.o  Li0S.6



PROJECT C1HPLETIM RMINT
INDIA
MEIRTH AC.RICUJLTIFRAL OFWINAIWE APOI IW.Vfl.WI4ENT
COEeS'ATIEU GIDIT PIltJICT (A:%1 3V)
mrePT 17fin9 flWn  209
6tpt.-w*.e mg Puro"eu-iue bishzIre*"ts coder Lb i1 rebti
(as million)
-  -                         DiS*jLji i~~~~~~~pureets
St,lat.Ima                                                        ?laeatioe ad VerticuLltare
Mi ekf tliklitiet  -UeepI
Miser      La_   few-                                                                Coat                                            Ncllet                      Crd
Ttin1L3hIt           Ixi.iziii.    nInI.U     J 112g.    ha In   SRM  f      M   Ctrni.  191tr   !31tU  IkeeiaM   fiefterr  [ils             kIn   itore     YUAg      &kK 1A 91    1.1n
Andhra Pr1d111          342.6       25.5       368.1      -       -       33       411    41.0    529    10.            -           1 .1     34.3     0.0       -       1.0      260.3    636.4
Arseaetl Pdoes            -          -          -        -        -            -        -        -        -             -           -                 -                  -_
Aetna                    2.2         -          2.2        M. 9                                                                                       0 -  -  -  149  -  -  -  0.1  3.3    0.1 .1..4    IN.6
siba                    300.6        -         1004                                 1.2     3.2      2.1      -                     0.9      9.1      1.4      1.7      S.6      11.4    1311 
Clw.di*sah                                 -              _                -            -   -          6       -        -           -                          _        -          .6       0.6
Delhi                                _                            _       _                 _       0.5       _         _           -        I.0      -        _        _         2.3       2.3
C.       -2.3                              2._     0.3                            1.4                                            4.2       4.2
ctoejart                129.4        3.6       333.2      -               -        0.3      0.1      3.6      -                      .9     29.3      3.6      -       3.0        M6.)     93. 5I
.rysee                   249.1       5.0       254.                                 2.0     2.0    16.2    13.2         2.9         -       65.0      1.0     21.3    75.5       20A.3    462.4
Nis.cb.l Pradesh                                                          _ -         5     5 5      1.0                                     0.3      -.1 -. *                               1.1
J_  * Kashmir              -                                                        1.2     1.2     0.3       0.9       -           -        3.3                        -          S.)       5.3
9.eet.hie                161.3       0.5 1     33.6       -     14.2    23.9        ".9  135.0    26.6        -         -         21.       24.5 e-            _       3.1       I44.0    421.6           I
Kerala                   42.4        2.4        45.0      -      4C       6.0     71.1    *1.       0.4       -        -           4.       31. #       _               0.3      305.4    150.6
Naduls Prad.eh           520.1     13.1        511.6      _      _        _        0.0               1.       -         -          -         3.9    23.9       -         .6      "3.      542.1
N.at.iebti*             624.0        3.t       621.1             _       _ -      3.3    33.5    15.3 .        .4      -           3.2      26.5     3.0       2.0      -        05.0    692 .
mossised ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.                                           0.9 -              0.92.     23
"~~~~~                                     ~         ~~~ -  - - .                     -        -         -           -        0.6-     -         -. -               0.4      0.6
orisa                   206.2        0.2       204.4                      1 5     24.4    25.9      0.6      2.1       0.*        36.6 16.0          9.3                4.4     33.0    324.4
Fmadichmrgy-                                  -                          -         -       -                  -        --                   --                         ---
Punjab                   4.531      36.3        33.2                              1  -1    I       46.1       -                            13.       9.6       -      323       15134    232.6
maja,tb_                1229.6       -. 133.2                                      2.3     2.1      0.1       6.2      _                     5.4     3.2      G8.1   133.0       9.1    20.9
imiu 10d                  19.5       -          1         .5  9   13.2   1.3       -      21.6    213.       3.1       -           1.6      0.3      *  -              9.        1.3      911.1
Trlpurd                   0.4        -           0.6    2.4    -         -         0.2     2.6      0.1      0.5       0.4        10.3      4.5      -         _         .5      20.       21.3
wttrt ptrd"eb            751.0       -          51.0      -      -       -         3.0     3.0      3.0      -         -           13.      27.2    24.9       -      53.0      113.0    1.4.
West seete                          -Au ..L  ~jL    ALl-0      ..z      ..          "    Ad .1L   JI I-iJ                                   IiW    _d,~.                IU      M..  J    JI
Tetal                       1L9   IJIL   1            iLl __.1 X. 11.l _  -                                                      I- *.               2    il    LULl 2             LI
t 1 LJlld 2Li L 92s Nl.ll t 2||.w l LX ll*.o Bst 1,11,* N.l I.*.l s.se.~~~~~~~~~a



-  48 -                               AI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                            ^3C
*  1   ~-         A .UOL/ ___          AS                         MJL-                       -
___s _                                                          _- E z _ 
MI_M tDgr-           PWU/a                                         ddo                    m
A_&M  _te6ob        In.9      0       L7    .3  t.7       35.3     1.4      1.9      65.0   10.1      -      3O7   42.5
_ .dn  Mm"           -               -         -    -        -        -      -_       _       _        _       _      _
_ 1.8                         0.1      1.7  0.4  0.1      0.9      1.4      3.2       4.5     3.4    4.9       8.    2.5
_              95~~~~~~.1  2.0    95.1  5.6  7.J     21.J     2.9      0.1     U.5      14.4   131i   290.9  3MA
ammdLeh              -        -        -    -    0.3       -        -        -        1.0     0.1     0.7     2.1    2.1
D0i                  -        -        -    -    0.1       -       0.1       -        2.4     0.4     -       3.0    8.0
GM                   0.1      -        0.1  -    -         -        -       0.2       0.8     0.4     -        1.4    1.5
15.7     -       15.7  -    3.2       1.8      -       1.9      41.4    21.6     1.1    71.0  83.7
4.2      -       4.2  3.7  0.8       3.3     1.2      0.3      45.0    41.8     -       96.1  10.3
Hin       _1h        0.2       1.5     1.7  0.1  -         1.6      -        -       13.7     8.3     3.1    M.8   3.5
J&  5*               0.3       -       0.3  2.0  1.0      14.0      -        -       1.4      3.8    13.5    55.7   56.0
VAI _Inka            10.5      0.2    10.7  -    -         -        -       1.0      84.2   104.9     1.4   191.5  AM2
1A                   46.8      0.1    49.9  -    0.1       5.9      -       8.8      45.0    113      0.2    78.3  1.2
t_ .24   P=dwb       0.6      -        0.6  -    1.1       1.0      -       0.2      23.8    14.4    8.9    49.4   50.0
t     _hmoibm       55.2      0.3    55.5  -    1.0        -        -       0.8      46.2    16.1     0.3    64.4  119.9
,mpg                 -         -       -    -    -         -        -       0.2       -       0.2     -        0.4    0.4
- s                   -        -            -     -        -        -        -        -       -       -        .      -
_olW                      -        -     -    -       -        -        -       _                  
OEM                 U1.9      3.9   1h38   1.2  1.1        1.1      -      19.7      40.4   139.8    4.1   207.4  394.2
w _ 1, .  I-                  -       -    -    -         0.6       -       0.1       3.1     0.1     -       3.9    3.9
pbd&                 3.0      -       3.0  -    1.7       5.2      -        -       96.0    32_3     4.1   139.3  142.3
FejaIsbm            21.1      1.1    2L2  -    0.4        41.0     0.1       -       34.9    77.8     1.5   155.7  177.9
mma kmX21.4              -      21.4  -    2.5      22.2      0.4      6.3     22.0  20.2       -     526.6  548.0
lTyp=                -        -        -    -    -         -        -       0.2       0.3     1.4     -        1.9    1.9
Uctlw 1awwo         WA        -      117.8  -    2.8       1.9      -        -      214.6   250.0    25.4   494.7  612.3
kta _LVI             4.2       3.2     7.4  0.4  1.3       1.7     1.1      0.9       4.0     4.8     -       14.2   21.6
lil         703.4             716.  21.7 40    159.3        8.6     45.8   1.176.2   137.6   2D0L   2.796.2 3.5.8



- 49 -
ADIU  1
Table 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DCV NLOPE?
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Cumulative Disbursements of Funds Under the Project
(Million ha. m.)
IDA to ARDC/NABARD          ARDC/NABARD to Banks
Upto Period Ended        Apprisal       Actual    Conmitment    Disbursements
(USSmT       (Rs M)       (Es M)           (Rs M)
March 82                   -            -            -
June 82                  40.00        385.99      13,212.7          998.00
September 82             70.00        891.34      13,962.4        2,595.04
December 82              90.00      1,009.21      15,050.1        2,890.79
March 83                130.00      1,343.14      16,438.4        3,587.77
June 83                 190.00      1,950.53      19,079.8        4,775.32
September 83            260.00      2,334.13      20,018.9        6,500.01
December 83             280.00      2,735.65      21,309.4        7,355.42
March 84                330.00      3,476.19      23,241.8        8,392.81
June 84                 350.00                                    9,087 .45



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table S(a)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CRPDIT 1209-INILOAN 2095-IN)
State-wise Details of Actual Project Costs
and NABARD Disbursements (Non-IRDP)
(Rs Million)
Minor Irrigation
and Land Development          Diversified Purposes
Project         NABARD         Project        NABARD
State                Cost        Disbursements       Cost      Disbursements
Andhra Pradesh             406.99         368.10         322.01         268.30
Arunachal Pradesh            -
Assam                       30.38          27.20         113.98          81.40
Bihar                      323.19         300.40          40.55          31.40
Chandigarh                   -              -              0.81           0.60
Delhi                                                      3.09           2.30
Coa                          -              -              5.77           4.20
Cujarat                    166.26         135.20          75.22          58.30
Haryana                    279.70         254.30         264.08         208.10
Himachal Pradesh             -              -              9.22            7.70
Jammu & Kashmir              -              -              6.56            5.30
Karnataka                  200.26         181.60         301.79         246.00
Kerala                      48.62          45.00         125.91         105.60
Madhya Pradesh             611.37         531.80          40.79          30.90
Maharashtra                673.98         627.70          79.73          65.00
Manipur                      -              -              1.90            1. 60
Meghalaya                    -              -              2.72           2.10
Mizoram                      -              -              0.79           0.60
Nagaland                     -              -              1.18           0.90
Orissa                     226.40         204.40         145.25         120.00
Pondicherry                  -              -              -              -
Punjab                      91.95          81.20         182.41         151.40
Rajasthan                  142.36         130.20         131.73         .98.70
Tamil Nadu                  21.19          19.50          93.86           72.30
Tripura                      0.47           0.40          28.85          20.90
Uttar Pradesh              821.41         751.00         144.73         113.00
West Bengal                120.58         109.00         104.91          80.20
Total           4,165.11       3,767.00       2,227.84        1,776.80



- 51 -
MWE1
Table 5(b)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-TN/LOAN 2095-IN)
State-wise Details of Actual Project Costs
and NABARD Disbursements under IRDP
Minor Irrigation
and Land Development          Diversified Purposes
Project         NABARD         Project        NABARD
State                Cost        Disbursements       Cost      Disbursements
Andhra Pradesh             197.48         122.70         548.42         302.70
Arunachal Pradesh            -              -              -              -
Assam                        2.83           1.70          35.25          18.80
Bihar                      156.04          95.10         532.15         290.90
Chandigarh                   -              -              3.94           2.10
Delhi                        -              -              5.62           3.00
Goa                          0.17           0.10           2.62            1.40
Gujarat                     25.99          15.70         132.56          71.00
Haryana                      7.00           4.20         179.56          96.10
Himachal Pradesh             2.82           1.70          50.24          26.80
Jammu & Kashmir              0.50           0.30         101.35          55.70
Karnataka                   17.52          10.70         354.22         191.50
Kerala                      81.13          49.90         138.53          78.30
Madhya Pradesh               1.00           0.60          91.99          49.40
Maharashtra                 84.82          55.50         117.27          64.40
Manipur                      -              -              0.75           0.40
Meghalaya                                   -              -
Mizoram                      -  
Nagaland                     -              -              -               -
Orissa                     291.86         186.80         360.62         207.40
Pondicherry                  -              -              7.31           3.90
Punjab                       5.00           3.00         261.16         139.30
Rajasthan                   35.87          22.20         278.77         155.70
Tamil Nadu                  33.69          21.40         926.38         526.60
Tripura                      -              -              3.56            1.90
Uttar Pradesh              195.79         117.60         880.78         494.70
West Bengal                 12.33           7.40          26.62           14.20
Total           1,151.84         716.60       5,039.66        2,796.20



E~ur JJEla1G  RERr
DVIA
EKJUJH AdUIUJ~RAL RDITAMM AND DEH.AW~
N atDIT  WUKr  (AFDC n
(RHrT 12-11ODM 2D95-110
nits of Minor Irrigatiu  FInIE'd c w  Nm-MP 8c1
(Ru tllln)
StateAUnion                   Woell 6             erim  Proation   StaLcw    Deep               Spcddle-  LaIDwi  -
Ibrritory         Dulis Pa! Pp  t   Paumt  Whlp           of Wells  1Taeel1   D*bewiu1o  pLW      Sbt    cC "t (be   0dme
Adira Pradesh      26,447      -        21.219    -        2D.373      12.005     -        -       -          14.799      -
AMsm                -          -            56    -          -          5.833     -        -       -           -          -
Bihar               2.992      -        30.582   2.000       -          8.075     -        -       -           -          -
Oijarat            4.833       -         4.422    -          -           -         618    -         111       2.(36       -
Harynm              -           394      4.742    -          -         10.885      117    -       6.363        1.954        60
Karnataka           8.246       339      14.041    -        5.004       1.463     -        -         35          35        9S4
KeraL              9.751       -         2.540    -         1.416        -        -        -         10         W3         384
IbVra Prtaieh      13.748      -        40,924   2.447     14.648        -        -       -         101       4.254       -
Ibharushtra         2.295    28.287      16.1W     -       13.358        -        -         80     -          1.280D     1.945
Orims              20.98D     7.261      2.585     -          827       2.446      3(5    517      -             so        850
Punjab              -          -         2,521    -          -          1.084      178    -        -         11.543       -
Rsjamtiwm          5.242       -        10.419    -         4.951        -        -         4       823         291      1,01A
Ib il Nbdu           645      1.108      4.844    -           664        -        -        -       -           -          -
Uttar Praide         650       -          -        -         -        135.360 /a  -        -       -           -          -
West Dungal           283      -         27.923    -         -         26.187      153      22     -             120     2___
Ibtal     126,112    37.389    182.976   !.'447    61.035    ZD3.487    1.371    623    7.443         37,265      7.3J3
/a Includes popseto with boring (86.323). td3mels (33.571) and wing)e pxpose borins (16.475).



- 53 -
MwI
Mt. 6(b)
vz~i mmm   M vV
(MM 12D9W-D&I 29-DO
uits it Mwr   zidt    1_ d    1   lIP
DuI11 I     Pm,tiCU        aLd Dwl-
s2        E       Mmu    R a  w                        of WNW       260101"    odi .a t           (be)
A       ftanP       13,114      10.489        -            4,13            337       914         375
Almost                -             50        -             -              218      -             71
Bihm                 1.530      15,291        -             -            3,621      -            930
Gas                   -             31                      -             -         -
OQijat               1.177       212D         -              948          -
aZYMIC,               -            431        -             -              370        19         -
al Prad wh57                                      _ _   _                -               1.04S
Jmi &Ka.b             -             83                      -             - _
K=td                   340       1.524        -              223           318      -            193
KrarLa               4.358      10,850        -            1.235          -        .-             81
?hikya Pradesh          39         131        -             -             -         -
Mhbomahtra           4,575       4.153        -            5.065          -                      229
Origin              28.572       4.681        -            5.856         7.114      -          2.197
P- jab                -            360        -             -              230      223          -
Rajaathin              842       2.903         180           227          -         157          644
il Ndu                 315       4.790          71         1.058          -         -            -
Uttr PRash           2.637       4.573         835         1.326        14.083      -            -
Wa e Bwal               61         262        -             -              615      -          1.939
Total       57.560      62.779     182.976        AM.091        26.906     1.313       7.704
/a  Idudes  .ets vith boring (86.323), tlubels (33.571) and cinle prpose boring (16.475).



- 54  .M   I
Mle 7
IDVIA
Omm  cra    EBID=  (AXC IV)
C  ur PotO.a in Stati  (18)
(Mirno, ha. a.)
1i- ri       Not         Stop d
Sr.                             rkoss   Pe iLable  Not EL-   Groundt"
No.       State                Pcarge  Pacx-e        tcio        Bel   o     welopmt
1.  t aPradeAh                  5.27      3.69        0.74       2.95          20
2.   ABam                       1.86      1.30        0.09       1.21           7
3.   Bibar                      3.90      Z.73        0.68       2.05          25
4.   GUj art                    1.81      1.27        0.51       0.76          40
5.   Hazyara                    1.09      0.98        0.78       0.20          so
6.   Himabu1 Prae               0.08      0.06        0.01       0.05          17
7.   Jmu & Kassm.r              0.25      0.18        0.01       0.17           6
8.   K                          1.86      1.30        0.18       1.12          14
9.   Kerala                     0.95      0.67        0.08       0.59          12
10.   Mad   Pra                  8.19      5.73        0.48       5.25           8
11.   Makarhtra t(Waterd)        5.13      3.59        0.71       2.88          20
12.   Mwxm.xw                    0.01      0.008     Negigible   0.008          -
13.   Mae"aya                    0.03      0.02      Negligible   0.02
14.   Naplad                    0.005     0.003     Negigible   0.003          -
15.   OtiSSa                     2.95      2.07        0.13       1.94           6
16.   Pumjab                     1.72      1.20        1.10       0.10          92
17.   Rajastha                   1.49      1.34        0.43       0.61          41
18.  Sqkkim                      N.A.      N.A.        N.         N.A.
19.   T-1  1d                    3.06      2.14        1.15       0.99          54
20.   Tripzra                    0.08      0.06      Negligible   0.06
21.   Uttar Praodh               8.92      6.24        2.34       3.90          37
22.   West Buw1                  2.26      1.58        0.38       1.20          24
1TDl                     50.91     35.86        9.79       26.07         27



FOA   HROLWAJ UIiMMIIM AS I3EM M
:rmu  am n=O
(I  IM-    M( -,D
D,imLii  Iawo.t  - Ubita Rimme Ihur NhD-I3F q 0
th~~~~~~~~~~~~a)                        -c) ni                                      -) ro= rt)tq
l )T
in '.A)
hndu, Ftshdo        -      -        443   3,.59   976,769   69B.96     -        19   370  16,326    3.50    -    1.690
ftk_           -       -       -       -         -          _      -       _    _        _        _       _      _
^                 6.008    -        -       -         -         -       -       -     82      722    3.OW0    _       960
Eib3                -      -                256    53,M90       -       -             5 52   4,972    T,S00    3   l.13D
Ondiprh                 -          -        -      12.460       -       -       -    -        -        -      -       -                                     U,
Dt13                -      -       -        -      10.307       -      -        -    -      1,000      -      _       _
Go                      -           -        10     6.310       -    _       _                -   _   _ _
Qaub t              -      -        -         5    71.36D       -       -       74   -    14.796   26.700    -    2.75
Hbym                -      -        -     1.615   316.769   l00.5'.  3.483      -    -    37.50M    4.310      6  16.30
HI"a   hldh         - -            -        635    33.W30       -      -        -    -        155      -      -       *0
Jam  & KAiair       -    3.200   4.016    I        2.153       399    -        -    -      1.648      -      -       -
Kmtd.               -    1.65   1.0(0   8.557   461.998         -      -       216   -      8S.02      -      _    7I360
KAjLA               -      -        -     9.389     7.361       -      -        12    25   6.076       -      -        30
wbaP hub*           -      -        -       160    75.077       -       -       -    -      1.276  112.610    -       135
N*AUkr  btr-               -       -      2.30D   291.690    13.007    -        18    21  16.D4   13.0O0       1      -
-ifu                -      -       -        -         -         -       -       -     54      -        -      -       160
Hmaya               -      -        -       -         -         -      -        -     17      s30      -      -       If
IEap                -      -        -       -         -         -       -       -    -        250      -      -       -
N?Lmnd              -      -       -        -         -         -      -        -    -       -       4,OD    -      -
otim                -      -        20   5s.m2    11.315   160.783    150    593   U5   6.218   39,39        -      915
Rs8stw              -      -       -        -         -         -      -        _    _        _        _      _       _
Fucjab              -      -       -      2.636   861,538                                  34.156   41.500    -       W
Rajiadma            -      -       -        7n.     1,50     5042    -          -    -      26    135.510    24   2.15
al nwu               54   |       1-330     -     446.360    2761P9    -       1CV   -      3.19       -      -'   1.9D 
;7111Pc            134   .--    Ii           67     3.0,   4,53   1,034         -    so    2,s0       -       -     '6
Utt r ftndN.        1      -    i -         3to    74.92,           -           -,    4   14.330  113.910    -   11.330                                   a4
'tim t J  Flo       lz     -       _      I.X6   237.536i      -      _        -    360   3,3X    1,000       3  _ 5
7bt l      7.103  4.           r.o7   37.070 3.976,538 1,C56,65    5L4U1I.OD  IL73 179.9S   396.100    37  48,l3



PRFJEF U1iLW FOE=
RHI  /MaUWL  REFM AND  TDNO
UaRKQ CEDZr I:rE WWC IV)
(ailDrr i2-zN/WL    2095-rN)
Diversified Invunts - thnts FImxcsI wwIe IIRD
SttAkdm                                      M*W ShqGost                                          Wllork
rtto  6 d t ture   Pailtry   Bing   P4y  Fidseries Ddr   balOA  & Carts   Otbu
(ha)        (no.)      (no.)      (no.)     (he.)     (no.)     ()        (no)      (n)
AJdza Prad             2.538        516.665    459.484    5.842       165      58,037  116.,)9    21.48D      -
AnwAdul Ftehd            -              -          -        -        -           -         -         -
ham                      115          3.150     11.000    5.250       270       3.316    2.520       436    1.60D
BDi                    1.708        236.500    219.515   11.830        8       64.963   17.570       -     43.827
Chigm rh                 -            9.785        -        -        -           625       152        64      18D
DIbi                     -            1.520        -        325      -          1.510      348       -        -
an                       -              -          -        -         16         560       140       125      -
Qajarat                  -           96.330     18.390      -        250       27.651    4.308     5.945      361
H zy n                 1.155         23.400     34.300    5.150       25       26.664    6.260     8.055      -
NiUchal Pr deh            31            -       15.250      -        -         9.7V        -       2.925    1.228
Jmma u   Kehadr          607         30.60D    128.500      -        -          7.565   11.98D        53    4.390
Kanataka                 -              -          -        -         82       62.296  116.273       -        471
Itsala                   -            1.250     45.496      -        518       26.457   16.162     1.580      955
Hbdhy Pradesh            -           45.500     14.385      -         17       13.847    4.885     4,470    2.133
FWhIzuitra               -           33,930        -        -         65       30.046     -        5.080       91
Iwdpuw                   -              -                   -         19         -         36        --
Hmka=_                   -              -          -                   - _        _-    
Hizormd                  -              -          -        -        _           _         _         _-
Ori..a                   348         33.330     12.940      -       1.525      22.712   76.824    21.335    1.223
FVndidhwry               -             -           510      -         12       2.020      204        95       -
Punjab                   -           59.420     57.695      -        -        70.716      -       11.835    1.178
Rajasthan                -           11.60D    366.800      480      -        22.562   12.383    2D.20S       537
lbiA I Ndu               -           77.277    195.280    1.360      364      198.230   87.62D    37.426      -
Iipura                   -             -           -        -         17         210    1.750       -         -
Uttar Pr dea             -           86,550     19.760      -        -        152.800  226.,OI    16.298    8.240
Iest Bengal              141         36.545     17.690    4.150       70         6U       -        1,12D
lbtal       6.643      1.3I0.532  1.616.995   34.387    3.423     005.208  702,434    58,4187   66.494 
a.



- 57 -
ANNU I
PROJ%CT COMPLZTION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICLTIURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CKDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Proiect Cost and ARDC Disbursments in Lses Developed Ares
Total Investment      ARDC/NAABRD
Cost          Disburameuts
Rs Million
Assam. Manipur, Meghalaya.
Mizora, Maqaland and Tripura                      222.66              157.9
Bihar                                               1051.93             717.8
Himachal Pradesh                                      62.38              36.2
Jammu and Kashmir                                    108.41              61.3
Madhya Pradesh                                       745.15             612.7
Orissa                                              1024.12             718.6
Rajasthan                                            588.73            406.8
Uttar Pradesh                                       2042.71            1476.3
West Bengal                                          264.44             210.8
TOTAL                                               6110.43           4398.4
As percentage to All India Total                     48.55              48.57



- 58 _
m=.a 910
RIMMIs-~ is L       _
im        wY/ Xin,              am-  P/A/Pig   Ami.  DEL"                 & P  ,ist  Lb_   0                  Ta
SCA Lmod           &                        x                                    sib"
A_                    2B.9        75 3      2.4        3.9        5.6      0.6       -       3.4       9.0    129.1
ai.w                 395.5         8.8     35.2         1.0     116.2       1.6     7.7      14.4    L37.4    717.8
':ndal ftwink          1.7         5.6      3.4         -        14.0       -        -       8.3       3.2     36.2
J_M  i 1A 4            0.3         3.2     16.0         -        14.5       -        -       ll8     13.5     61.3
.adwa iB lad         51L2.4        0.8      5.8        0.2       25.7      23.9      -       14.4      9.5    612.7
pz                     -            -        -          1.0       -         -        -       0.2      o0        2.0
tAOMINA                -           -         -         0.3        0.9       -        -        -        0.9      2.1
tz                     -                     -          -         0.6       -        -        -        -        0.6
Nmp"od                 -            -        -          -         -        0.9       -        -        -        0.9
oc_                   M191.2      Z.1      30.0       56.5       56.4      9.1       -        3.8      5.5    715.6
PAjaB1               5U2.4        2.1      Q7.8         -        40.3      3.2    68.7       77.8    14.5    406.8
~ga                    0.4         2.6      1.0        10.5       4.8       -        -        1.4      2.5     23.2
Utur    8            05.6         3.0       8.5         1.1     241.8     24.9              2 250.0    78.4   1U6.3
wit _1 .6.                        50.4    .-9           6.7  VZ            0 2 4                       0 
TJL                  2W.8       1W.9    166.0          &.2      531.0     64.4    8.        53   2M.5    -U.4



ErIa= afnzrICT RHE-rr
HIEIN AMICLL2WL IWEU   AND DIAIDL
caRUEIAtn  (cID!? F la (ANc IV)
(CRE)IT 1209-DwOAM 2D95-DO
iMir IrrdPtiOn & lAvd Dri )qmt              Divrsified Prpom                       A  Rll
DiAhr t                             Dizbtuwits                           Didvu- mm_
Sr.    Stato/huimo         btotl AMC     to ga11    An S to   Tot.a NIC       to  -11    Am Z to   lbUI ADC       to gl1   As S to
MD.    Territory                         Faars        notal   DidmurmmaU   fEru            Total   DimbUxmnta    F  MnTOW
I   Andihr Prli,            490.8         266.6       54          571           458       8D         1.061.8       724.6       66
2   Azrunchal Pauh          -             -           -           -             -          -
3   Aum                      28.9          28.9      OD          100.2          18.7      19          129.1        47.6       37
4   BihUr                   395.5         375.4       95          322.3         294.2     91           717.8       669.6       93
S   CMwi&Prh                -             -           -             2.7           2.1      78           2.7          2.1       78
6   Dklbi                   -             -           -             5.3           4.0      75           5.3          4.0       75
7   Gms                       0.1           0.1      100            5.6          2.7       48           5.7          2.8       49
8   Qajarat                 150.9          24.7       16          129.3          97.8      76          29D.2       122.5       44
9   Hbrym                   258.5         196.3       76          304.2         176.6      58          562.7       372.9       66                   'o
10   HImdh l FIrdaMib          1.7           1.7      100           34.5         32.5      94           36.2         34.2       94
11   Jami & Kaubrlr            0.3           0.3     IOD           61.0          61.0      10          61.3         61.3     I10
12   Kesntaka                192.3         141.0       73          437.5        325.3      74          629.8       4f6.3        74
13   KmadLt                   94.9          89.6      94           183.9        152.3      83          278.8        241.9       U
14   nbdIDb   raridah        532.4         357.1       73           8D.3         55.3      69          612.7        442.4       72
15  Min udtrF                683.2         595.0      87           129.4         92.7      72          812.6        667.7      as
16   Ibapur                  -             -           -            2.0           0.4      20            2.0          0.4       2D
17   )h0b   .                -             -           -            2.1         -           0            2.1        -           -
18   Hkorm                   _                         -            0.6           0.6     100            0.6          0.6      100
19   lkpilnd                 -             -          -             0.9           0.7      78            0.9          0.7       78
20   (hium                   391.2         364.4       93          327.4        293.0      89          711.6        657.4       91
21  P1ndfidmry               -             -           -            3.9           3.9      I00           3.9          3.9     l10
22   FWijab                   84.2          47.1       56          29D.7         215.6      74         374.9        262.7       70
23   ktjauthu                152.4         119.8       79          253.8        179.5      71          406.8        299.3       74
24   btil Nadu                40.9          36.0       88          596.9         541.9     90          639.8        577.9       90                lR
25   Itipurf                   0.4           0.4      100          22.8           2.9      13           23.2          3.3       14              V.
26   Utter ftadmdh           868.6         597.6       69          607.7        551.8      90         1.476.3     1.149.4       78
27   Wikt Bonwl              116.4         100.4       86          94.4          45.8      49          210.8        146.2       69              ie
TIntl       4.463.6       3,372.4       75        4,572.4       3,609.3      79        4.056.6     64961.?       77



- 60 -
AM= I
Ta ble 12
Page 1
PIOJECT COKPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL R FIMANCE AND DEVELOPKENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC Iv)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Staffing Pattern of National Bank
Composition of Staff
No. of Staff                 As on July 1  As on July 1  As on Dec.31  As on March
As on                            1982            1983           1983           1984
I. Professionals
A.  Financial Services  F.
Grade                F         6               9             10             10
E       28               36            42             41
D       61               77            89             88
c      219             200            217            222
B      519             502           446             408
A      592             675            671            651
B.  Economic Services   F+
Grade                F         1                1             1              1
E        1                2             2              1
D        2                1           NIL            NIL
C        7                9            26             22
B       23               52            31             31
A      NIL             NIL            NIL            NIL
C. Technical Services
(Discipline Wise
Statement given
separately)          F+
Grade                P       NIL             NIL           NIL             NIL
E        3                4             4              4
D        4                6             8              8
C        9               23            28             28
B       29               64            72             72
A      NIL             NIL            NIL            NIL



- 61 -
ANN   I
Table 12
Page 2
No. of Staff                As on July 1  As on July 1 As on Dec.31  As on March
As on                            1982          1963           1963           1984
D. Lesal Services        F+
Grade                F      NIL             NIL           NIL            NIL
E      NIL             NIL             1              1
D        1               1           NIL           NIL
C      NIL             NIL           NIL            NIL
B        2               2             1              1
A      NIL             NIL           NIL            NIL
E. National Language
Services             F
Grade                F      NIL             NIL           NIL            NIL
E      NIL             NIL           NIL            NIL
D      NIL             NIL           NIL            NIL
C      NIL             NIL             1              1
B        8               8             6              6
A        5               4             4              4
F. Secretarial
Service              F+
Grade                F      NIL             NIL           NIL            NIL
E      NIL             NIL           NIL            NIL
D      NIL             NIL           NIL            NIL
C      NIL             NIL             1              1
B        1               1             2              2
A        5               5             4              1
C. Others
Clerical, Security,        2079            1867          1171           1113
Steno/Typists,
Caretaking, Subor-
dinate & Miscel.
Services



- 62 -
AMS I
Table 13
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLFTION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
COROE0ATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Composition of Staff
Technical Service
No. of Staff as on                      1.7.82      1.7.83      12.31.83    1.3.84
LD/SC/A                       F            -           -           -           -
E            -           -           -           _
D            1           1           1           1
C            1           4           5           5
B            2          14         18           10
TOTAL          4          13          24          24
MI/HY/IE                      F            -           -           -
E            -           1           1           1
D            1           -           1           1
C            7          11          14          14
B           17          24          24          24
MOTAL         25          36          40          40
Animal Husbandry/
D Farms                       F            -           -           -           -
E            1           1           1           1
D            -           -           _
C            -           -           _
B            3          12          13          13
TOTAL          4          13          14          14
Fisteries                     F            -           -           -
E            1           1           1           1
D            -           -           _
C            -           1           1           1
B            5           8           8           8
TOTAL          6          10          10          10



- 63 -
1113 I
table 13
Page 2
No. of Staff as on                      1.7.82       1.7.83      12.31.83    1.3.84
Horticulture/Com.
Forestry                      F            -           -            -           -
E            1           1           1           1
D            2           2           3           3
C            1           5           5           5
B            1           5           5           5
TOTAL          5          13          14          14
Agri. Eng.                    F            -           -            -
E            -           -           _-
D            -           _           _-
C            -           _           _-
B            1           1           2           2
TOTAL          1           I           3           I
Electrical. Eng.              F             -           -           -     
E            -                       _
D            -           -           _-
C            -           -           1           1
B            -           -           1           1
TOTAL          -           -           2           2
Cottage and Village
Industry                      F            -            -           -
E            -           -           _-
D            -           2           2           2
C            -           1           1           1
B            -           -             
TOTAL          -           3           2           2
Civil Eng./M.Y.               F             -           -           -     
E            -           -           _-
D            -           -           -           _
C            -           1           1           1
B            -           1           1           1
TOTAL          -           2           2           2



- 64                            AN       I1
Table 14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
P01TH ACRICULTUtAL URFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (AaDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Staff Position of National lank as of June 30, 1984
Officers                Head Office                 Regional Office          Total
Group A         F 4                            F &
Eco.    Tech      Others       Cco.    Tech       Others
F.              3        -         -           -        -          -          3
F              10        -         -           -        -          -         10
E              28        5          1          17       -          -         51
D              58        5         -          52        3          -        118.
C             108       11          5        214       22          -        360
B             111      22         11         301       62          5        512
A             280        -         11        402        -          2        695
TOTAL           598       43         28        986       87           7      1749
Group B         514        -          -        630        -          -       1194
(Clerk/
Typist/
Steno)
Croup C         236        -          -         189                           425
(Subordinates)
GRCD
TOTAL          1348       43         28        1855      87           7      3368



- 65 -
ADUI I
Table 15
PROJECT COIPLETION IEPORT
INDIA
FOURTH ACKICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPNEDT
COSPORATIOU CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IYILOAY 2095-IN)
Resources Kobilization by ARDWNABARD
(Rs Ki-ion)
Sources                       As on June 30       1982-83       1982-83   1983-84
1982       (1.7.82-11.7.82)
RUI Bonds (Noet)                  2026                10           300       303
Repayments from borrovers         2712               192         3033       4090
Accretion to share capital
and reserves                      160.6               -           458        333
Contribution to NRC (LTO)          -                  -          2270       3250
Fund from RBI and NABAUD
Contribution to NRC (Stab.)        -                  -            830       850
Fund from RBI and NABARD
Special loan A/C                   14.1               -           14.0         32
Borrovings under general
line of credit from RBI            -                 -           1780       1350
Total Local Resources            4912.7              182          8685      10208
Add IDA/Bilateral Credit
(Net)                            1815.7             416           1140       1670
TOTAL                            6728.4              598          9825      11878
Local resources as a               73.0              30.4         88.40     85.9
percentage of total
resources



AUM T
-66-                                   'ria1
PROJECT COMPLEPTIO  REPOtT
INDIA
FOURT! AGR UCULTURAL REFIMUACH AMD DEVELOPHEII
CoRPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Casb Flows
(Rs Million)
Resources                     1981-82   1982-83        1982-83        1983-84
(1.7.82-11.7.82)
GOIDA                             2262.0     446.0       1480.0          2000.0
Bonds                               660.0       -          385.0           385.0
RBr (General Line of Credit)         -          -         1780.0          1350.0
NRC (LTO) Fund                     2000.0       -         2270.0          325.0.0
NRC (Stab.) Fund                     -          -          830.0           850.0
Total Borrowing                    4922.0     446.0       6745.0          7835.0
Repayment by borrower              2712.0     192.0       3030.0          4090.0
Share Capital                        _          -         1000.0             -
Sub-Total                          7634.0     638.0      10775.0         11925.0
Accretion to Reserves               160.6       -          458.0           333.0
Special Loan Account                 14.1                   14.0            30.0
Total Cash Flow                    7-08.7     638.0      11247.0         12288.0
Disbursements
IDA Sch emes                      3890.0        -         4410.0          3120.0
Non-IDA Schemes                    2110.0       -         2616.0          5794.0
Total Disbursemeats                6000.0       -         7026.0          8914.0
Non-Schematic Lendings               -          -         2050.0           520.0
Repayment to
GOI                                 446.5      30.1        340.0           333.7
Bonds                                46.0       -           85.0            82.5
IBI                                 524.7       10.0         -               -
Repayment of ARDC Share Capital    -             -         575.0             -
Total Cash Outflow                 7017.2      40.1      10076.0          9850.2
Excess (+) of Deficit (-)
of cash inflow over outflow        +791.5    +597.9      +1171.0         +2437.8



-67 -                            Aifl  I
TabLe 17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CReDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Condensed Statement of Income and Expenditure
(Rs Million)
1981-82    1982-83    1982-83    1983-84
(1.7.82-11.7.82)
Income
Interest earned on
(i)  IDA Loans/Debentures             657.8        22.8      794.8       993.7
(ii)  Other Loans/Debentures           484.7        17.6      510.0       639.0
(iii)  Non-Schematic Loans                -           -         771.5      915.8
Other Income                            164.7         5.6       418.7       702.7
Total Income                           1307.2,       46.0      2495.0      3251.2
Expenditure
Interest paid on
(i)  COI/IDA Loans                    586.3        19.5      681.7       832.4
(ii)  RBI Loans                        227.0         9.2      479.6       825.7
(iii)  Bonds and Debentures             205.9         7.3       235.3      270.4
(iv)  SLA                                5.7         0.2         6.9        8.6
(v)  Research & Development Fund        4.3          -          -          -
Salaries and Staff Benefits              61.7         2.1       113.4       116.2
General Expenses                         22.6         0.6        39.1        64.9
TotaL Expenditure                      1113.5        38.9      1556.0      1918.2
Profit before tax                       193.7         7.1       939.0      1433.0
Transfer to special reserve               -            -         50.0        30.0
(Research & Development Fund)
Transfer to NRC (LTO) Fund                -            -        470.0      1000.0
Transfer to NBC (Stab.) Fund              -            -         80.0       100.0
Tax                                       _-                      -           -
Profit after tax                        193.7         7.1       339.0       303.0
Dividend                                 33.1         1.0         -           -
Net Surplus                             160.6         6.1       339.0       303.0



-                             - ~~~~~~~~~~68 A- 
T -b 01 1*
mer
*~~~~~~ Om                                     a n = (  M    
192-                  CaI     MC
MI-U    l1.7.82-.7.82      -       iAdm  atID    920        9
a,  m Ho    d atBDo5.3                                 64               .8        l        .ma        27 
M    |O                               5,236.0       5,.Z3.              S.=               7.096.0    8=.0
ML Dv     _                           6,371.0       6.05L               6,                6 0W       8 o
LAM                                41OI.0        4.4m.0              4.4a              5.in.0    6_IO
otbw Ddmm~~~                3X.15.        3,1a0.0             3.10              3.SL.0    3.a.0
Mmmm-wcic=     a                         -           . -                9.68             U.725.5      0   S
IT_ot Acm  a1L1m                        310-0          40.0                40              379.2       V9.6
Intocs AC=  a  _NM                  381.7          44.0                44               445.5    S L
Otb  A_E                             1,378.5       2,664.1            8 996             9,610.9   ll.657
-m  Am                        21.3%.4       21.822.9           38,840            45.s.-4   9!E52
LA;1;t4i  an CmLa
-=sm Ddm _j                           3,761.3       3,761.3             3.761             4,061.1    4,363.6
-WW                                      68.8          68.8                69                --
LAM- tzs =
(i Mk   h                            7.263.0       7,679.0             7.679            8.356.0    9.i3.0
(U 0Q                                 3.33.0        3,338.0             3.33             3,8aN.C    4.443.0
W  <m  I=-                          5X9.3         5.129.3              -                  -          -
(W  9xtT
bo=fm   *sm on4L
Lia af Ccot                            --7.250                                          9.041.0   1.390.6
NC  =) 1                                 -                             10.25              =2.5.0   15.770.0
'NB (Stab.) -to                                        -                3,650             4.410.0    5.330.0
OCb LT bL4^_                            472-4         497.3             1.063               WL66       699.6
Dao T-4 -M                   20.042.        20,473.7           T3.070            42.957.7   50,M6.8
yE  u    _m                          S7S.0         575.0             1.000             1.Q0M.0    1.000.0
hww    d Udic;-o lc                  76e.6         774.2               770             1.31.7    1.S62.4
Tocal co  "I                ~~1,W4.6       1.340.2            ljl70             2,231.7   2ZS62.
Tu  I 11l        n Q*irm             2..4          21.822.9            38.840     4 S .11W.4   52.932
D*t/squit  fto  (Stacw  Ft'o)            13:1          15:1                                  19:1       20:1



AM= I
- 69 -                             S -  
(Cm=L impamo am-ino
-ioi   RCqnfdi  at    inc Dzvmoo
Oma im31m)
DF~~ E _                                                                 W         a
?NManm          51.0    366.5    53.5    41.1   '.322    463.3    -            5.0    5.0      368.1    69.7   1.Obl.E
A~~~~           3.       -        133    14.9    LaO.    114.9    -           1.9    1.9     21.2    1M.9    13.1
aibw           =~~.8     56.6    30B.4    48.6    35S.9    4W.5       -       1.9    1.9      300.4    417.A    717.8
conmalxb-               -         -        -         2.7      2.7    -       -       -        -          2.7      2.7
D"   ~         -                  -         -        5.3      5.3    -       -                -5.3                5.3
Gas                 -         -        -         -        5.7       5.7    -              --5.7                        5.7
33.1     14.9     40.0    10. 1    11.8    237.9              2 L3    233     135.2    145.0    28.2
197.8     57.9    255.7    56.5    215.0    271.5    -        35.5   ss.5      254.3    308.4    562.7
MAN1w  I=dw         -          4.8     4..8      -       31.'.    31.4    -        -      -        -         36.2     36.2
Jina&Ka          -         2.1       2.1     -        48.8     48.8    -       9.4    9.4       -        61.3      61.3
KMMR=ka        140.1    160.1    280.2    60.7    23.6    334.3    0.8   14.5   15.3          18..6    4*8.2    629.8
KS1la               36.3      72L0    1083       8.7    125.8    134.5    -       36.0   36.0       45.0    233.8    278.8
mw va awm       2.5        3.5    21.0   325.3        74.5    399.      -      2.9    2.9      531.8      80.9    612.7
mohmmohm      567.5      73.9    641..4    53.0     96.3    1.5.3    7.2   12..   19.9        627.7    18K.9    81.2.6
Mm4m          ~-         -        -         -        0.5      0.5    -        1.5    1.5      -          2.0      2.0
Im1.qkla            -                  -         -        1.8       1.8    -       0.3    0.3       -         2.1      2.1
pbsin               -         -        -         -        0.6       0.6    -       -      -         -         0.6      0.6
bbpdmd         -        -         -        -         0.9      0.9    -       -       -        -          0.9      0.9
Oman          ~~63.9     90.6    154.5    3s.0    26.7    345.7   55.5  162.9  218.4          M4.4    514.2    718.6
pmddmzy        -        -         -        -         3.9      3.9    -       -       -        -          3.9      3.9
Iwijab              23.4    100.9    154.3    27.8    192.e    =X.6    -          -       -         81.2    2C. 7    374.9
R&jM=bw  ~    105.4      10.6    116.0    24.8    224.0    248.8    -        '.2.0   42.0     1.30.2    276.6    4(6.8
Moi Nad             15.6      81.8     97.4      3.9    412.5   4.16.4    -    136.0  126.0         19.5    633.3    639.8
mmplza        ~-          1.6      1.6     0.4      19.7     20.1    -       1.5    1.5        0.4      22.8     23.2
Lit=  P   ,        660.0      23.8    683.8    91.0    555.0    64.0    -    146.5  146.5          751.0    725.3  1.476.3
-mt bul7.8                    2.        4.      82       776      U.       -      041    0.1       109.0   IW8    210.
~Ta1        2. 733. 5   1.M5.7   3,5.    970.0  3,661.0  4..631.0   63.5  6M.9  666.4   3,767.0  5,289.6  9.C6.6-
t1-is kgi.ml DEa ri_a.
ut  Rs 716.6 M d                ?aw IC  MP).



-70-
AM I
.me_
~~~~o    -n PM M  A
I.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~MPR ,m~-
_~~~I                 U00 D.O   p05.3 mod WE0. do i. now"                           1  .0           W.2  l
_,1  --  0                      .0 -D0        35.         .  2    10. -   5.0         7I   6 .0        37.2  5M.0
-1                        40.2   23.1          92.7625.0         tD.9 LO0.0 L       17.9   38.0        108.    27 S
i_m   md                  36.   245 3.96.   1.9                     z 36.3           91.9    6.5        38.0    5.8
tW                         97 S.5   10.0       =58  36.0          73.8    M.0       2910   U4.          =.7    4.0
Yewh                       743   92.0          7L  10.0   3        L478l. 39.30.0    3 6.3 1U0.0   336.0  Im.0
Li. udom              fv=
MMI                        13.    21.0          2..5        3.    S7 S                751    55.0       79.6   S5.
_co                       21.           6.    38 4 l.7            -.     .043                4.0       S .62.0 
lo                        401.2   23.1    3 92.7   2.0           12759   20.0   S1672   70.0   S26.S   275.
Y _m Dwll5.2   40.0                          laN.8   36.0         73.8   13.0        5.7   60.0          5.7   30.0
.. -I   Pmdo&       MO5  3s60           80.8  12.0         93.8   27OA       139.6  95.0        3D.3     50.
1 JwFzdm                  $32.7   U.O          Q. 14.9 3.0       3%3.   25. 0       348.3  14.0        33.2   40B.0
ium                       13-     20.           7.7  _-           36.1   -.           0.2    0.8        79.1    0.60
ZwUFlu      1 1       4ii.6   9V.8A.    2B.0                 360.7 5   2U5.0   925.8 9X.0   2 D.96    0 @.0



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND OEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (AROC IV)
(CREDIT 12O9-IN/LOAN 209S-IN)
LEndIng by Land Dcvclopment Banks
Cooperative Year (July-Junel
(Rs Million)
'ame of the State                    1979-S0                1980-81                  1981-82                 19t2-83 096
Total      ARDC        Total       AROC         Total AROC                                    TOt         ARM
Schemoe                Schemes                  Schomes                Sch.a      _           Schemes
North-rn Region
Haryana                    256.03      164.0)     314.88      216.42       352.84      284.80      346.71      194.24    367.10      267.00
Hilachal Pradesh             2.09        0.75        2.76        1.36        8.72        5.54        9.67        7.22      9.20        7.10
Jammu & Kashmlr              4.41        3.22       3.S2        1.89         P.49        3.48        9.48       5.11      10.40        5.20
Punjab                     229.69      129.17     360.15      220.31       445.74      341.6S      446.31     323.89    485.90       345.60
Rajasthan                  179.29       69.46     189.27       74.92       211.75       98.31      241.10    1II.61 r     69.00      110.90
1. North-Eastern Region
Asma                         1.99       0.04        3.41        0.03        1119        5.00       12.24        7.70     15.00       12.30
Tripura                      2.27          -        5.84         -           3.51        2.26        0.31       0.30       1.10        1.10
11. Eatlern Region
Biher                       84.77      61.31      142.76      126.34       291.45      251.72      202.i6      167.11    100.SO       83.70
Orissa                     116.99       79.29     t0O.06       83.29        95.96       69.99       90.01      82.21      73.S0        S.590
77.58      40.58       65.84       40.01        65.43      53.96       6s.16       57.49      67.60       63.601
V.  Central Region
Madhya Pradesh             164.09      134.34     142.92      119.15       379.57      117.82     206.58       176.S8    249.70      190.70
Uttar Pradesh              582.50     410.87      524.6)      390.44       484.32      353.00     536.00      416.07    852.90       545.10
Western Region
Gujarat                     39.t5       15.31      56.57       14.12       139.95       31.06      144.60     116.65    215.10       155.20
Maharashtra                413.21     291.93      541.70      429.03       412.55      391.73     599.21      567.96    585.10    S50.30
1   Southern Replan
Andhra Pradesh            55.36      520.15      711.44      631.59       481.29      429.22     695.84      613.50    829.80       566.70
Karnataka                   66.90      51.83      191.66      139.90       192.98      131.43      269.95     237.12    345.10       346.30
eralsa                     174.95      60.40      236.91       70.8s       211.55      139.73      216.26      162.92    255.30      149.50
Tain1 Nadu                  76.0S      35.72       38.64       19.42        92.77       36.48      140.50      59.N      102.40       60.50
Pondlcherry                  0.82       0.18        0.96        0.15         0.37        0.19        1.17       0.45       1.10        0.50
11 India Total                3081.53    2096.56    3635.90    2569.22        3690.53    2167.57    4238.11    3308.04   4395.40    3502.10



U I
- 77 -w   2
ra     mO      - wa   In-ae
Sd                                  z'M                                 S
3r.                                          O0_k                                oWM=                                ova
N.   s            Dmmd  C        l  W_   to O_  D_.  cuctn           m  s=   to D                 a      m  h2       t
A IS
1         FP       815.6    497.6     3110   39.0      919.9    4683      451.6   49.1   1.100.2    60.1      496.1   4
2                   9.5      3.0        6.5  06.4       12.3      4.2       8.1   65.9      16.2      6.7      U..3   6;
3 H               32466    26L0       63.5   19.6    388.9    287.1       101.8   26.2     451.5    3A.0 /a  107.5   2
4 K                414.3    245.8    168.5   40.7      431.0    29.6 /a  151.4   35.1      47.0    29.1       157.9   3L
5 KIba             1111.9    96.0      20.9   17.6     14V.2    114.5-   32.7   2L2        174.3    141.9      32.4   I
6   ra  Pm~h   411.0   242.5          168.5   41.0     436.9    249.8     177.1   41.5     419.6    248.8     10.8   2
7 Oi               143.8    72.8      71.0   49.4      V1.3      70.5    105.8   5.           .      97.5      36.9 27
a FP*ab           328.2    293.2       35.0   10.7     415.1    371.4      43.7   10.5     415.1    437.4      V.7    9
9 paja.b           261.2    155.5     106.1   40.6     315.1    175.9     139.2   44.2     373.0    20.1      164.9   4.
o t-;l  )         499.9    244.2    255.7   51.2       4U.8    19.9       216.9   52.7     43.4    234.1      M5 -    46
Iwt AP1           187.4     63.0      1.244   66.4    196.5      81.0     115.5   58.7     188.8    95.2       93.6   49
3 Dco-3- 3.3.6    169.6         144.0   45.9     411.4    166.0     245.4   59.6     414.6    174.2     2i0.4   58
2 a.j=t           242.3    174.3       68.0   28.1     25.2    154.0       M.2   44.0      373.4    192.2     18.4   48
3 :ba1     P        9.5      5.0       4.5   47.4       10.2      5.4       4.8   47.1       9.5      6.9       2.6.  27
, j        &    e  14.9      8.1       6.8   45.6      15.2      6.7       8.5   55.9       16.9      8.6       8.3   49
,  I  _         788.4    458.4    330.0   41.9    831.6    455.8    375.8   45.2         853.1    432.1    421.0   49
* F s'any           4.2      1.4       2.8   66.7       3.8       1.0       2.8   73.7       4.1      2.0       2.1   51
7 T=Pza             2.9      0.9       2.0   69.0        4.8      1.3       3.5   72.9       6.2      1.2       5.0   80.
3 ut=t Eid_       991.4    655.0    336.4   33.9   1.030.3    666.1       342.2   33.9   1.045.8   752.0      293.8   28
ALU Iz'.a Toul  5.882.0  3.649.3  2.232.7   38.0   6.396.5  3.755.5   2.643.0   41.3   6,96i.9  4,216.1   2.678.8   38.
CDLS            d  Gam n            m         & 1,inwt s       ,  f eai vaU3  s           SaU  in
bld44 a/c m_uns PA 84.2 .14iU   for 1982-  m  Rd 107.0 PIC0 .11    fw 19M44.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ROC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN        )
Su_*ry of Land Development  anok Recovery (1974-1984)
Positinn as of June 30          1974      1975      1976      1977      i9701    1979      1980      to61     isa.           19     4
1. State L     with unit-ry
*t ructure)
66.4     66.4      65.2      42.0      38.2     40.5      23.4      74.2      54.1      40.4L
54.6     27.6      43.1      36.6      31.3      25.3     21.0      23.7      71.9     50G j   1
Himachal Pradesh                43.9      41.3      50.0      36.2     42.4      27.1      37.5      51.1     52.6      52.9      72.6
Ja-u and Kashmir                69.6      67.3      61.9     53.1      61.6      50.4      50.0      52.1     54.4      44.1      51.2
Maharashtra                     55.5      41.5      39.5/b   37.2      42.4      80.6/b   53.P       34.#     569.I     34.8LV  50.6
Pondicherry                      -         -         -         -        -        43.7      S8.8      54.2     31.0      66.1      47.9
Tripura                                    -                        -        -         -         -            33.3      27.1      20.2
Uttar Pradosh                   77.3      75.0      83.1      76.1     73.3      62.4      75.3      70.0     66.1       M83
Weighted Average    4         -I1  34"        g50    5 F           47.6      57.4      46.2  N         1EI
II. Primpry LDOs
Andhra Pradesh                  78.0      78.0      74.6      -1.0     72.6      66.6      70.0      57.9     61.0      50.9      56.3
Assam                           22.2      22.2      31.S     44.1      44.1      46.6      31.6      35.1     31.6      34.1      37.0
Horyana                         99.6      96.2      97.9      96.6     89.1      91.6      69.6      90.0     60.4/b   73.6f/   97.0
Karnataka                       62.0    S.9        58.1     46.6/b   48.0       52.0/b   54.8       47.3     59.3      64. 13   16.4
Kerala                          60.6      70.9      70.9      76.5     61.8      81.7      80.5      84.2     62.4      77.8 9     9.1
Madhyr  Pradesh                 52.1      53.1      59.9      46.S     S2.1      43.6      32.6      SO.0     59.0/b   5s9  Lb   53.7
Orison                          50.0      43.1      68.0     46.9      67.2      57.2      39.6      60.5     50.6      41.2      53.4
PunJob                          65.0      83.0      69.2     77.9      80.S      87.3      67.2     66.6      69.3      99.5      99.4
R9jesthan                       54.5      63.4      73.4     64.2      60.0      62.5      46.6      5989     59.4      51.8      62.2
Toall Nadu                      76 8      60.2      63.6     51.6/b   27.8/b   19.2/b   11.3        33.6      4.6 9     47.3/b   39.1
West Bengal                     5868      70.8      76.J5     77.2     '2.3      62.1      62.7      41.3      64       413/
Weighted Average- It lO 5                       -f                 56.6  S3"  3 4_              N A        1i
/a  Expressed as percentage of demnd (principal and interest falling due during the year plus Ovwrdues from previous -jers).
/b  After rescheduling during the year.
.~~~~[ .    .                                                                                                                            ii



Ann I
74                                I Tblo 24
PIOMCT CHPLZT!O LUOSRT
INDIA
FOURTH ACICULTUILAL rUINANCU AND DCVlOPHENT
COSPOS.ATIO CUDIT PIOJICT (ARDC IV)
(CREIT 1209-IN/LOAM 2095-IV)
State Cooperative 8anks and Central Cooperatives Ranks Sumary of Overdues*
of Agricultural Advances (Short, Medium and Lont Term) as at the end of June
(2 to demad)
legion/State/                     At SCB Level                         At CCB Level
Union Territory         2980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
I. Northern Region
Haryana              0.2   NIL    NIL    NIL      0.4   26.8   21.5   28.4   30.5   32.3
Himachal Pradesh   80.1   79.5   82.3   49.7   44.8   44.6   39.0   36.1   16.3   52.8
Jamnu & Kashmir    16.4   17.3   21.5   18.4   17.9   48.0   49.7   44.1   25.3   42.1
Punjab              0.8    5.9    2.4    0.3    0.3   23.0   20.7   20.9   22.0   21.3
Rajasthan           14.6   11.4    9.1   10.5    9.5   40.5   39.6   41.1   42.7   44.1
II. North-Eastern Region
Assam               97.0   96.1   74.7   81.8   46.3   88.9   76.8   42.2   21.5   33.5
Kanipur             71.2   67.7   68.4   78.3   90.4      e      e      e      e       e
Tripura             95.0   76.1   83.8   83.9   8%.5      e      e      e       e      e
III.Eastern Region
Bihar              62.8   51.6   48.3   48.3   54.1   78.8   62.3   61.4   74.2   58.4
Orissa               0.1   NIL    NIL      0.02  NIL    29.1   29.8   31.7   32.9   40.2
West Bengal         34.7   38.4   20.6   33.9   37.8   49.2   40.1   53.2   56.3   56.9
IV. Central Region
Madhya Pradesh       9.4    1.5    0.1    3.6   10.7   44.0   38.8   37.6   37.6   35.9
Uttar Pradesh        4.6    6.1   14.4    6.7   11.2   33.6   40.2   41.6   47.2   48.7
V. Western Region
Gujarat              5.S    7.9   10.3   11.1   10.5   40.6   48.3   29.9   33.5   42.9
Kaharashtra          5.0    7.9    4.1    2.1    6.8   49.2   43.0   37.7   40.5   45.4
Co&, Diu, Daman    49.4   52.0   71.6   89.4   75.7       e       e      e     e       e
VI. Southern Region
Andhra Pradesh      18.0   18.3    8.1    7.8    8.9   45.4   35.7   38.8   43.3   34.5
Karnataka           12.2   21.4   16.3   15.5   11.0   47.8   53.3   45.8   38.5   52.0
Kerala               1.0    2.8    1.3    1.0    1.2   19.9   19.5   20.9   22.0   16.5
Tamil Nadu          15.9    0.8    3.8    3.0    3.5   61.9   27.6   39.7   37.5   60.2
All India           12.0    9.8    8.7    7.4   10.0   42.2   37.0   35.8   37.8   41.4
Q   Not applicabie since that State comes under 2 tier structure.
*   Expressed as a percentage of demand (principal and interest) falling due during the
year plus overdues from previous year.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INOIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (AROC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-1N)
Direct Institutional Finaoeo for Agriculture
(Rs Croros)
Loans Issued Durn                                Loans Outstandino as of June 20
Source of Finance                1579-80   S90-S1   1961-52   l -83   ,g*3- 4    lo90 1081                     0102 9e13               N4
1. Cooperatives /a                 I.821.1   2,024.5   2.479.OP  2,716.9P  3.026.8V  3,850.1    4.315.0    4.821.OP   S.155.OP   5.7220Of
(45.5)    (30.9)    (34.0)    (37.4)    (41.0)    (84.3)         (73.4)     (60.7)e    (88.8)f    (9.0)
Of whicth:
(a) Short-term loans by PACS  1,259.6   1,386.5   1.795.5   1,908.1   2.098.0   1.696.7   1l9077R              214.5    2.225.2    2.500.0
(b) Medium and long-term
loans by PACS/LOBs /b       561.5      643.0      683.1     808.8      930.0   2.153.4    2,407.3    2.672.3    2.*2906    3.222.0
(318.6)   (363.0)   (363.9)   (425.8)   (469.0) (1.476.3)  (1.650.4)  (1.354.7)  (2.047.4)  (2.252.0)
11. State Governments /c              132.5      144.2     15?.3      187.8P    220.3F1
11. Scheduled CDwmercial Banks
(oxcluding RROS) /d               974.5   1.262. 8R                                  2.363.8    3.043.3R   3.954.2    4,739.0         .
Of which:
(a) Short-term loans             454.5      517.0                                      949.2    1.161.5
(b) Term lans                    520.0      745.8                                    1 414.6    1,881.8
IV. Regional Rrarl Banks /2                                                                105.3       180.4       273.1      381.9       509.4
V. Total Direct Finance            2,928.1   3.435.5                                    6.319.2R   7.538.7R
(I to IV). of which:
(a) Short-term loans            1,846.6   2.046.7                                    2.751.2    3.249.6
(b) Medium and long-term        1,081.5   i.388.6                                    3.56680    4.269.1
loans
= Estimates       R = Revised         P   Provisional       .   Not available
a  Figures In blackets relate to short-term finance provided by RRBs and other commercial banks through PACs.
b  Figures In brackets relate to long-term loans by LD8s.
c  Takon as short-term loons and relate to financial year April-March.  However. owing to noon avllAbility
of data rngarding outstanding levels, those are not Included In the total.
d  Loans Issued relats to financal4  yoar April-March while outatondings are as on June 30.
a  lakon as short-term loons - revised date.
f Date relate to public sector bonks and are as on December 1982 and 1983.
ource:    (1) NABARD                                                                                                                              '
(11) Reserve Bank of IndiF
(111) Annual  udgoets of State Government. 



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDI A
FOURTH AGRICULTI'RAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORA1ION CREDIT PAOJECT  jARCjIV)
(CREOIT  S200-IN/LOAN 2095-lN)
Indirect Institutional Fin-nc- for Agriculture
(Rs Croresr
L i*ns Isued Durinn  the Vear                       L gns Outstpon i * a  of      NA*
Source of Finance                   !I7 -0    to 0-8    1981-82   1962-83   1983- 4   1030            1901     19|2         12I
1. Cooperatives /p                       694.9   1,154.0   1.497.4E  1.95S.6E  2.400.01   342.86 63.3             639.71    1337.69   1,700.01
Of which:
(a) State Cooperativo Bnkas /b        44S.6      619.3     862.2   1.200.4   1.550.0    229.3    399.4         SSS.9        on 3.    1.000.0
(b) Central Cooperative lanks /c    440.3        534.2     63S.2      755.2      850.0    113.0    236.9       264.1        46 .7      700.0
It. Scheduled Comercial Wanks
(Excluding 1R1S) /c                                                                        733.4    998.3   1.151.   /a  1,266.4 /2
elf. Rogional Rural Banks                                                                        12.7      16.1      21.4         23.1        26.?
IV. Rural Electrification Corporatior   166.4-    163.2+    191.5*    251.8S    303.2-   761.0.   931.5+  1,0S2.2-    1.292.7*   1.433.8  1
Corporation /d
Total Indirect Finance (I to IV)                                                      1,869.9  2.564.2
= Estimtes
= Financial vear (April-March) data
a  Taken as short-term loans.
*b Loans Issued Include food procuremnt finance but these are not Included In loans outstanding which mainly cover direct advances givwn to
non-agricultural credit societies operating at apen, regional or primary level.
'c  Break-up of these data Into short and term loans are not available.
'd  Taken as long-term loans.
'a  Date relate to public sector banks and are as on December 1962 and 1983.
wourc*s:    (i) NA6ARD
(1i) Reserve Bank of Indi1
(11) Rural Electrification Corporation (Annual Reports)
H!0



FM= 04MCN RErM
DOIA
EM AQU(IL2  REFMMA XD awM
a1t1UAflG  CFDu   r NEU   (ANDC IV)
(UKiIT 1209-I OWM 2D95-DO
Bu.  krupda/f1pilation Lkwiu Distributio of CrciAl dn   Ott office in IndiA
(Re iUim)
HLtr-                                 tro-                                No-
plitm                               poit                                  PlAt
Sdu-           Fart                  Sai-          Part                    Sau-
Bdt cowp           NFuwl  Uzm   Urban   T=   ITAl n     Ual  tUbin  Urbm        m      Ibtotal    buml  Urb    Udz   Tam    Tbtal
State M&k of flils     462    796    163    150  1.571      326  1.749    767    613   6.396   3,449  1.773    768    626   6,636
(29.4) (50.7) (10.4)  (9.5) (100.0)  (51.1) (27.3) (12.0)  (9.6) (100.0)  (52.0) (26.7) (11.9)  (9.4) (10.0)
Asuociam taiik of      358    375      86     75    894   1.371    894    405    295   2.965   1.446    913    439    319   3,117
State Bwk of drdia    (40.0)  (42.0)  (9.6)  (8.4) (10D.0) (46.2) (30.1) (13.7) (10.0) (1C0.0)  ('6.4)  (29.3) (14.1) (10.2) (100.0)
14 atic wlimed DBdks    703  1,465    928  1.072  4.168   8.861  4,043  2.972  2.691  18.567   9.373  4.12D  3.063  2.760  19.316
(16.9) (35.1) (22.3) (25.7) (1OD.0) (47.7) (21.8) (16.0) (14.5) (100.0)  (48.5) (21.3) (15.9) (14.3) (I10.0)
6 DWSA  otianstmlld                                        1.40D   693    593    501   3.187   1.445    703    612    516   3.276
BFilA in 19W0*                                             (43.9) (21.8)  (18.6) (15.7) (100.0)  (44.1) (21.5) (18.7) (15.7) (10.0)
Pjgtnl Rai am&b                                           6.046    382      44      1   6.473   7.853    456     50       1   8,360
(93.4)  (5.9)  (0.7)   (-)  (100.0)  (93.9)  (5.5)  (0.6)    (-)  1O0.O)
Otlrn (     IdA1u.     337    708    279    364  1.688   1.733  1.275    796    687   4.491   1.806  1,297    817    07W   4.267
(20.0) (41.91  (16.5) (21.6) (100.0) (38.6) (28.4) (17.7) (15.3) (1OD.0)  (39.0) (2L0) (17.7) (15.3) (1OLO.)
lbtal                1.850  3.344  1.456  1.661  8.321  22.678  9.036  5.577  4.788  42.079  25.372  9.262  5.769  4.M29  45.332
(22.3) (40.2) (17.5) (VD.0) (10D.O) (53.9) (21.5)  (13.2) (11.4) (IOD.0)  (56.0) (20.4) (12.7) (10.9) (100.0)
* l&b  of cdfiw - an July 19. 1969 are iludad uhr -othr   ni  wl BD            Gmra
Ibt: 1. Figumm  in bm&etam  pammtA_  to do total in eudi bak  aWp.
2. Cariflmticn of (wtsmua bau- = populatin up to 10.000.
nmai-udm   10.001 to I 1*h. Udz   = mar I IdJh to 10 lMm ?Htropditi = O(er 10 lJm  Part tn = Ckadi. EMamb.
llome, Ibpmttltin.  oa. ftIsmp. fkt  Iair. 1amdbi.r  Kidla. ViIm*ptr_. nbdccrin and _b=o.
lb      T__*P    J    _-_*n_    _ 



PRwtlF.-r r.trlrTimz  F'tvrmr
FrlIMT AMr ICSILfURAL  ErIPNANCF AN1' IWVnFAWFNT
COhPORATUIE  CREDIT PROJEct (ARD: lV)
(cRCnTT l2119-lWt AN 2%)9%-]N)
India Shebduled Cae_rcic| gesks; Aaricultural Adv_ce
Overtues - A11 Loans
(Re million)
As _ Jame 30. 190               Aa   Jmp 30o 1231              A e Juse 30. Ipl              As - Jews _0. 1 _0
If                             I of                           I of7
man of Stott/                                    Overdoes                        Overdoes                       Oerdoes                        r
TAm  Tcitoi                   kd4    etrdm  to nhm            OMd _  hrnme  to Demand   Don 0Ov er _                hmi- -I         I      I   Ij i
l  PoRT13hI  Am"            1303.5    549.9    30.5        2.433.1    170.4      35.1      3,106.5  1.167.6     37.9   4*125.5   1,535.9    35.3
Nary.e.                    359.3   131.2    33.7          476.5    195.3      41.3        536.6    279.4     43.9       336.4    334.0    40.2
Ujuachal Pradesh            61.5     25.0     45.5          72.2    40.7      56.4         57.0    30.1      52.8        110.3      57.4    52.0
Ja   s & Kashmir            23.0     12.7     45.4         71.4     36.9      51.7         75.4     30.3     50.9        93.9      54.6    53.2
lunjab                      666.2    161.2    15.6      1.192.8    273.0      23.3     13562.9    421.1      26.9     2,120.5     559.5    25.4
Rajeethem                  396.6    166.1     46.9         503.3    271.7     53.9        619.9   327.3      52.9       794.2     415.5    52.3
Chamdigarb                  13.4      3.7     27.6          51.2      7.3     15.2         93.0     37.6     40.4        39.3      50.6    55.7
Delhi                       43.3     27.0     55.9         65.9    33.5       58.4         61.3     33.3     53.9        77.0      43.3    56.2
1i. *0T1 MnaR  URcGo            57.7     39.5     58.5          76.5     52.1    53.1          94.1     52.9     U.0        124.5      01.3    *5.7
Asses                       32.2     23.9     74.2         43.7      33.7     77.1         4.1      33.6     72.9        31.4       43.2    70.4
Manipur                      4.5      3.4     75.6           4.6      3.0     62.5          7.1      5.4     76.0         3.4       5.4    76.2
Neghaleay                    4.2      3.2    76.1            8.7      6.1     70.1         13.6     10.0     73.5        20.7       13.7   55.2
N.Sel.ad                     0.7      0.3     42.9           1.4      0.5     35.7          4.9      2.4    49.0          5.1       3.3   54.l
Tripmre                     16.1      S.7     54.0          16.S     6.2      43.3         20.9     10.6    50.7         25.9       14.2   54.3
Arumacbel Pradebh            -        -        -             1.1     0.5      54.5          0.9      0.6     66.7         0.9       0.*6     .2
Niger..  -     -        -            -         -        -           ~~~~     ~~~~ ~~~~~           ~~~~~~0.5  0.3  50.0  0.9  0.3    37.3  CD
Sihki}                       -        -        -            -        -        -             -        -        -           0.2       0.1    37.3
11. Uj233353m                  579.7    420.2     51.3       1,542.7  1,015.9     65.9      1.561.2  13004.5    64.3      1,339.8   3,194.8    *4.5
giber                      415.5    266.0    64.5         577.2    359.2    62.2          576.2   342.5      59.4       677.0    433.5    61.1
Otriss                     217.2    120.1    55.3         346.4   225.6    65.1           401.5    236.9    59.0        474.9    239.5    51.2
West *agel                  4.7      32.0    68.5         617.4   430.3       69.7        532.0    424.2     72.9       55.5      459.9    71.3
Andame   Nloebar Island.   0.3        0.1    33.3            3.S     0.3      53.3          1.5      0.9     60.0         1.4       0.5    54.1
IT. 53xJMAL R6CIOb           1,653.2   356.4      51.3      2,239.0  1,093.3 45 .9          2,741.9  1,402.5     51.2    3,4".7   1.718.3    49.1
Huiihys Pradesh            564.6    351.0     62.2        709.0   404.1       57.0        395.5   409.5      56.9     1,061.1     591.0    55.7
Vttar Pradeh             3,083.6    505.4     4.4        1,530.0   659.7      45.1      1,346.4    393.0     43.4     2,438.7   3,327.4    45.2
v. s1111    URCIO           2,230.3  1,264.9     55.5      2,317.9  1,439.0      51.1      3,204.3  1,552.7     51.5     3.577.3   1,967.0
Giij.rt                    313.0    413.4     51.4         979.7    470.3     48.0      1,203.8   564.0    46.9       1.420.9     673.3    41.4
Nabereehtre              1,434.5    S33.2    53.1        1,793.3   945.9      52.7      1.921.9  1,043.7     54.3     2,319.S   1,241.6    57.2
Cos. Den" a Dgi             32.0     13.3     41.6         44.1    22.6       51.2         78.1     45.2     55.0        31.7      51.9    59.9
Dadra S Negar savelt        -         -        -            0.3      0.2      65.7          0.5      0.2     40.0         0.7       0.3    37.0
n1. snunuts S C101           5,432.0  2,497.4      U.0      6,330.4  2,799.0    44.2        7,408.3  3,305.5     44.6     9,545.7   4.2314.9    44.2
Amudhre Pradesh          2,447.5  1,125.7     46.0      2,253.3  1.053.9      46.8      2,730.5  1,245.4     45.6    3,510.6  12 54.7    446.
Karustake                1,321.4    550.1     49.2       1,583.0    781.7     49.2      1,97.6    971.5    48.9      2,314.1   1,127.3   4*.7
lerale                     440.2    144.3     32.3        686.5    212.2    30.9          750.5    257.4     34.3       992.7     343.0    34.5
T1-1l Nadu               1,173.2    559.0     47.6       1,732.3    724.3     41.3      1,399.9   309.2      42.6     2,630.3   1,143.8    43.5
Poedihelrry                 49.7     13.3     36.8          70.3    26.9    33.3           39.9     21.9    54.9         97.5      34.0    34.8 3      
Lehehadveep                 -        _         -           -        -         -        .....fld  .......Ad0.3   0.1    ILl  0.4.    ...      2
All India Total et..6.7 5I628.3            Au       15 A40.3  7.270.2      47.1     1.116.k  L595.7       Aid    22L814.2 1A. L   .1    ML9



- 79 -
ANNEX1 I I
Pas* I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Pilot Project Studies for Quality Control of Agric"lecural Pumpsets
Studies carried out by the National Bank's consultants, state govern-
ments and other organizations have indicated a very low efficiency of exist-
ing agricultural pumpsets operated both with electric motor and oil engine.
A need was therefore felt to study the problem of low efficiency of a few
selected pumpset installations not earlier covered under such studies and to
evolve a matrix for proper selection of pumpsets fcr these areas/states in
the future.
Under the first phase of studies the six state governments namely
Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh
completed such studies in their respective states and the results along with
matrices for proper selection of pumpsets were published by NABARD (ARDC) in
December 1980 in the publication entitled "Pilot Project Studies for Quality
Control of Agricultural Pumpsets".
Under Phase II of the program and in compliance of Section 3.04 of
Fourth ARDC Credit Proiect, these studies were oxtended to the states of
Assam, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnaaka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Tamil Nadu



- so -
ANNEX II
Page 2
and West Bengal. The objectives of the second phase were similar to that of
the Phase I and are given below:
(1) To study the efficiency of a few existing pumpset installations.
(2) To prepare a block/areawise matrix for proper selection of
agricultural pumpsets.
The finding of these studies are summarized below.
Study of Existing Installations
An analysis of the field data for a few existing installations
revealed the following main defects:
1.  Improper pumpset installation resulting in high suction lift.
2. Improper selection of suction and delivery pipes.
3. Installation of oversized diesel engines/electric motors.
4. Improper maintenance.
The statewise salient findings are given below.
1. ASSAM
The study covered 65 samples in the four districts of Dibrugarh,
Goalpara, Kamrup and Nowgang. The suminarized results are given in Table 1.



- 81 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Table 1:  RESULT OF STUDIES OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS IN ASSAM
Sr.
No.                        Item                             Z Cases
1.  Pumpsets with high suction lift                           34
2.  Undersize suction and delivery pipes                      57
3. Average Overall Efficiency (X)
a.  Electric Pumpsets                                    22
b.  Diesel Pumpsets                                       5
4.  Oversize Oil Engines                                      70
2. GUJARAT
The performance of 854 pumpset installations was studied by the
Cujarat Water Resources Development Corporation in six districts of
Banaskantha, Kaira, Sabarkantha, Baroda, Junagadh and Bhavnagar of the state.
Out of these pumpset installations 567 were electrical (67%) and 286 diesel
pumpsets (33%).  The summarized results are given in Table 2.



- 82 -
ANEX II
Page 4
Table 2: RESULT OF STUDIES OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS IN CUJARAT
Sr.
No.                               Item                                       Z Cases
1                              *2                                              3
1.      Pumpsets with high suction lift                                        28
2.      Undersize suction and delivery pipes                                    78
3.      Average Overall Efficiency (Z)
a.  Electric Pumpsets                                                  40
b.  Diesel Pumpsets                                                    10
4.      Oversize Prime Movers
a.  Electric Motors                                                    7.5
b.  Diesel Engines                                                     18
3. HARYANA
The study included 82 pumpset installation in the four districts of
Sind, Hissar, Karnal and Sirsa representing the north-western and north-
eastern parts of the state. The summarized results are given in Table 3.



- 83 -
ANNEX II
P85t 5
Table 3: RESULTS OF STUDY OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS IN HARYANA
Sr.
No.                               Item                                        Z Cases
1                                 2                                             3
1.      Pumpsets with high suction lift                                         97
2.      Undersize Pipes
a.  Suction                                                            58
b.  Delivery                                                           66
3.      Average Overall Efficiency (%)
a.  Electric Pumpsets                                                  36
b.  Diesel Pumpsets                                                     9
4.      Oversize Prime Movers
a.  Electric Motors                                                    61
b.  Diesel Engines                                                     80
4.   HARYANA
The working of 72 samples was studied in the five districts of
Belgaum, Bijapur, Chikmagalur, Tumkur and Uttar Annada comprising the north-
western, central and the western coastal regions of the state. The study
results are given in Table 4.



- 84 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Table 4: RESULTS OF STUDY OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS IN KARNATAKA
Sr.
No.                               Item                                       Z Cases
-1                                2                                             3
1.      Pumpsets with high suction lift                                        47
2.      Undersize suction and delivery pipes                                    70
3.      Average Overall Efficiency (X)
a.  Electric Motors                                                    44
b.  Diesel Engines                                                      7
4.      Oversize Electric Pumpsets                                              70
5. KERALA
The working of 70 pumpset installations was examined in five dis-
tricts of Cannanore, Palghat, Trivandrum, Trichur representing the coastal,
midland and upland regions of the state. In view of rapid rural electrifica-
tion in the state, majority of the samples (65) were electrical installations
and only 5 were diesel operated. The results are given in Table 5.



- 85 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Table 5: RESULTS OF STUDY OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS IN KERALA
Sr.
No.                              Item                                       % Cases
1                                2                                            3
1.      Pumpsets with high suction lift                                       35
2.      Undersize Piping System
a.  Suction Pipe                                                      64
b.  Delivery Pipe                                                     68
3.      Average Overall Efficiency (Z)
a.  Electric Pumpsets                                                 43
b.  Diesel Pumpsets                                                   10
4.      Oversize Prime Movers
a.  Electric Motors                                                   40
b.  Diesel Engines                                                   100
6. MADHYA PRADESH
The working of 88 pumpsets was examined in five districts of
Bilaspur, Chhatarpur, Mandsaur, Narsimhapur and Shahdol. The results of the
study are given in Table 6.



- 86 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Table 6: RESULTS OF STUDY OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS IN mADHYA PRADESH
Sr.
No.                              Item                                       X Cases
1                                2                                            3
1.      Pumpsets with high suction lift                                       93
2.      Undersize Piping System
a.  Suction Pipe                                                      78
b.  Delivery Pipe                                                     91
3.      Average Overall Efficiency (Z)
a.  Electric Pumpsets                                                 32
b.  Diesel Pumpsets                                                    8
4.      Oversize Prime Movers
a.  Electric Motors                                                   52
b.  Diesel Engines                                                    83
7. TAMIL NADU
The study covered 100 sample units distributed in four districts of
North Arcot, Pudukkottai, Coimbatore and Madurai. The summarized results of
the studies are given below.



- 87 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Table 7: RESULTS OF STUDY OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS IN TAMIL NADU
Sr.
No.                               Item                                        Z Cases
1                                 2                                             3
1.      Pumpsets with high suction lift                                         46
2.      Undersize Piping System
a.  Suction Pipe                                                      100
b.  Delivery Pipe                                                      95
3.      Average Overall Efficiency (Z)
a.  Electric Pumpsets                                                  45
b.  Diesel Pumpsets                                                    10
4.      Oversize Prime Movers
a.  Electric Motors                                                    28
b.  Diesel Engines                                                     91
8. WEST BENGAL
In the state of West Bengal 53 pumpset installations were examined
in the districts of Burdwan, Malda, Midnapore and Murshidabad. The pumpsets
were mainly diesel operated. The results of the study are given in Table 8.



- 88 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Table 8: RESULTS OF STUDY OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS IN WEST BENGAL
Sr.
No.                              Item                                        x Cases
1                                2                                             3
1.      Pumpsets with high suction lift
2.      Undersize Pipes                                                        65
3.      Average Overall Efficiency of Diesel Engines                           5.5
4.      Oversize Diesel Engines                                                80
Suggestions
For an efficient pumping system it would be necessary to adopt cer-
tain remedial measures to bring the unit within optimum operatiot. conditions.
The following low cost rectification measures are suggested.
1. The electric pumpsets should be installed at correct levels. In the
case of dugwells these can be mounted on steel girders fixed in the
well staining to suit water level conditions during the cropping
season.  Diesel driven pumpsets can be placed in pits constructed
adjacent to the wells. For shallow tubewells the electric pumpset
may be installed in suitably designed lined pits at desired levels
to act as dry wells merely to house the unit. Diesel engines could
be operated by belt drive after suitable placement in shallow pits.
2. The high friction losses in undersize pipes and fittings could be
reduced by replacement of proper size of suction and delivery pipes
to carry the discharge. Use of low cost PVC pipes that have



- 89 -
ANNEX II
Page I 1
advattazges of less weight, easier installation and comparable cost
can be increasingly made. The pipe selection should he such that
validity of flow on suction side do not exceed 1.5 m/sec and on the
delivery side 2 m/sec.
Matrix for Selection of Agricultural Pumpsets
As a result of the pilot project studies matrices have been evolved
for selection of pumpsets in the eight states of Assam, Cujarat, Haryana,
Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. These give
the correct h.p. range, size of suction and delivery pipes, wll diameter,
well depth and expected discharge for the blocks studied. These results have
been extended to cover adjacent blocks/districts with similar hydrogeological
conditions. The method of arriving at the required h.p. has also been given
in the relevant chapter for each state.
These matrices take into account the average conditions of head and
discharge including drawdown and friction losses in the piping system. These
should serve as a guide only for future selection of pumpsets on new wells
situated in hydrogeological and agronomical conditions similar to the blocks
under study. However, each case of proper pumpset selection should be
examined and worked out on actual field data for a particular well location.
If due to some constraints such an exercise is not possible the matrix given
in this pilot project study report could be made use of for selection of
proper pumpset in that area.



- 90 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
The pilot project studies in the selected blocks/districts of the
respeccive states can also be extended to cover districts where similar
conditions exist.
These studies indicate that at present higher horse power pumpsets
are being used in majority of cases. The horse power of existing installa-
tions and the correct horse power is given below for each district/state both
for electric and diesel ,nits.
l



- 91 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Table 9   CONPAIATIVE HP VALUES OF EXISTINC AND REQUIRED PUhPSET INSTALLATIONS
Sr.*                                                SHP of Prime Mover
No.  State          District            Dlectric motor              Diesel Engines
3equired    ExIsting        Required   Existing
1  2               3               4             567
1.   Haryana        Hissar             4         3 to 10        5 to &          5
Jind            5 to 7.5    3 to 7.5        6 to 8      3 to 7
Karnal         3 to 5        3 to 5         5 to 8      3 to S
Sirsa          3 to 7.5      3 to 10        3 to 7      8 to 10
2.   Karnataka    Belgaum              3         3 to 7.5          -            -
Bijapur            3         3 to 5            -            -
Chikmagalur        3         2 to 5            -            -
Tumkur             3         2 to 3            -            -
Uttar Kannada    3           2 to 5            -            -
3.   Kerala         Cannanore       1 to 2        1 to 5        6 to 10         3
Palghat        1 to 2.5    5 to 7.5            -            3
Trichur         1 to 2       3 to l0                        3
Trivandrum    1 to 3         2 to 2.75         -            3
Uynad           1 to 1.5        5              5            3
4.   Tamil Nadu   Coimbatore        3 to 4        5 to 10       3 to 5          5
Madurai           3             3              3            5
North Arcot   3 to 4            5           3 to 5      5 to 6
Pudukkotta;   3 to 6            3           6 to 7/8        5
5.   Assam          Dibrugarh       0.5 to 3         3          2 to 3          5
Goalpara       0.5 to 3         3           2 to 3          5
Kamrup         0.5 to 3         3           2 to 3          5
6.   West Bengal  Burdwan           3 ro 5           5          3 to 5          5
Malda           3 to 5          5           3to 5           5
Midnapore         3             5              3            5
Murshidabad   3 to 4            5           3 to 5          5
Purulla           3             5              3            5
7.   Gujarat        Barods          4 to 7.5     3 to 12.5      5 to 6      5 to 12
Banaskantha   3 to 7.5       3 to 10        3 to 6      5 to 12
Bhavnagar      3 to 5        3 to 7.5       3 to 6      5 to 10
Dunagadh        3 to 4       5 to 5         3 to 5      5 to 8
Kaira           2 to 7.5     3 to 15        3 to 7      5 to 15
Sabarkantha   2.5 to 7.5  3 to 15           3 to 8      5 to 10
8.   Madhya         Bilaspur           3         3 to 5             3           -
Pradesh       Chhatarpur          3         3 to 5            3           5
Mandsaur           3            3              3            5
Marsiuhapur   3 to 5            5           3 to 5          5
Shahdol            3            3           3 to 5          5



- 92 -
ANNEX II
Page 14
Follow-up Action
It would be desirable that future punpset selection is based on
areawise agronomical and hydrogeological conditions. This would result in
low operational cost resulting in savings in fuel and energy cost to the
farmer and to the economy. It is suggested:
1. The State Groundwater Organization extend these studies to other
districts and prepare similar matrices detailing well design and
size of pump and their accessories which can serve as ready
reckoners.
2.  The technical officers in the banks should ersure that the
beneficiary gets the right type of pumpset and its accessories.



- 93 -
ANN3S III
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
1OURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMINT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Train'
1.      The National Bank continued to accord high priority to the training
needs of officials of banks. other concerned institutions and its own staff
to upgrade their capabilities. The training programs envisaged under the
Project were to organize (i) training for senior/middle-level staff of
concerned institutions, (ii) short courses on technical disciplines, and
(iii) training of junior LDR staff at the LDB training centers.
Training of Senior/Middle Level Staff
2.      The details of various courses planned and actually conducted for
senior/middle level staff during the project period are as follows:



- 94 -
AMO=1 III
Page 2
Tenets             Achievemnts
Type of Course                     No.of      Parti-    No. of     Parti-
Course   pH!t        Course    pants
1.   APC/RDPC                               60       1.000        53      1,333
2.   Regional APC                           12         420        27        705
3.   Technical Courses                       15        450        37      1,333
4.   Technical Courses at CAB               -          -          28        699
5.   Condensed A%PC                          8         200         2         34
6.   Refresher Courses (APC)                  5        150        13         292
7.   Workshop for Senior
Officers of NABARD                      2          30        3          71
8.   RPDG (at BIRD) for 998 Officers         -          -         15        404
9.   Seminars                                -          -          1          50
10.   Workshop                                 -         -          3         142
11.   Others *                                           -         11        307
12.   In-service Orientation Program          -          -          2          48
13.   In-house Induction for
newly promoted ADOs                     -          -         13        374
14.   In-house Induction for ADOs/DOs
transferred fro  RBI                    -          -         4         119
Total      5.911
w   Other programs include Trainers Development Program in collaboration with
GOI, EDI. DOM studies. orientation program for RRB/SCB/OCCB officials and
programs on non-farm disciplines as also various seminars.
3.      It may be observed from the table that there had been shortfall  n
the conduct of APC, whereas, the targets were more than achieved in respect



- 95 -
ANNEX III
P ge 3
of soot of the other courses. In addition, seminars. workshcp in-house
induction courses, wore organized. As against a plan for conducting 102
courses for 3050 senior/middle level staff. 163 courses with 4471 staff were
conducted.
4.      Technical programs on financ.us of (i) Animal Husbandry, (ii) Planta-
tions, (iii) Horticulture, (iv) Forestry, and (v) Fisheries which used to be
formerly conducted by RBI. were conducted by the National Bank during the
project period. The details about number of such courses conducted and the
number of trainees who participated are given below:
Program              No. of Courses    No. of Trainees
(1)  Animal Husbandry                9                 248
(2)  Fishery                         4                 103
(3)  Forestry                        5                 113
(4)  Plantation                      5                 111
(5)  Horticulture                    5                 124
Total      28                  699
5.      Training programs/semi3ars/workshops on schematic lending for the
officers of the SCBs/RRBs/State Governments were also conducted in collabora-
tion with training institutions of repute. Two programs on project lending
were conducted at BIRD, Hyderabad. Three workshops were conducted by IIM,
Ahmedabad in collaboration with NABARD in which senior officers of the
National Bank participated.  Two programs relating to non-farm sector were
conducted at SIET, Hyderabad. Orientation programs were also conducted for
Senior Executives of SCBs and DCCBs.



- 96 -
Page 4
TrainimA of Al C/iN&UD' Own Staff
6.      The National Bank conductod 17 in-house progrms exclusively for its
officers. Io in-service orientation progrms were organised for familiariz-
ing thc officers, who come to NABARD frou vaLous departments of Reserve Bank
of India, with the working of various departments of the National Bank.
Thirteen in-hous induction programs of 4 weeks duration were conducted at
different centers for newly promoted ADOs and 374 officers were trained by
the end of June 1984. For A and B Grade Officers transferredfroe RBI. 4
Orientation Programs were conducted and 119 Officers have been trained.
Training progr_ms had also been organized for newly recruited Group B staff,
i.e.. clerks, typists and stenographers.
Junior Level Training Program
7.      The progress under basic training programs conducted by i4 SLDB is
given in ancloed statment. During this project period 154 courses were
conducted and 3548 trainees (894 from RRBs) were imparted basic training at
the SLDB training centers. Besides, 280 refresher course have been conducted
by these SLDBs in which 6,394 trainees participate. Considering the involve-
ment nf RRBs, SCBQ and DCCBs in farm lending, the National Bank allowed
participation of junior level staff of these institutions in the SLDB train-
ing courses.



- 97 -
Pap
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~?g   5
S.      Due to limitation of resourtes, the SLD1 in Assa, J i_u and KaXbir,
Himachal Pradesh end Tripura have not been able to set-up Junior Level Train-
ing Centers (JLTCs) and heve also not taken any steps to train their junior
staff either by deputing to the narest training center of another SLDJ or by
organizing training progrms at their own level. This aatter in being pur-
sued by the National Bank through its regional office. The aain thrust of
the training programs has been on conducting functional and technical courses
supplemented by refresher courses. As against, the target of 15 such cour-
ses, 133 courses have been conducted and 3,257 personnel have been trained.
9.      The zDS lission during its visit in October 1983 emphasized the need
for paying in t-.ased attention to training of field staff. 44 reorientation
programs yere conducted by 9 SLDBs covering 1,110 trainees. In its recent
visit, the World Bank has suggested that T&V type of on-the-job training may
be introduced in RRB branches and LDB's primary units. After discussions
with SBI and SLDB and concerned sponsor banks a model scheme of T&V type of
on-the-job training has been designed vhich will be implemented as soon a& it
is finalized. A similar scheme has also been drawn for staff of LDBs.
Workshops for Trainers
10.     With an enlargement of the National Bank's responsibilities in the
area of junior level training of the staff of RRBs, SLDBs. and DCC need for
workshops for trainers vas felt. Six such trainer's workshop were conducted
during the project period covering 76 trainers from SLDBs Junior Level Train-
ing Centers.



- 98 -
Page 6
Vika  Volunteer Vabini
11.     The constitution of Vikas Volunteer Vahiti (VVV) is another landmark
after the foz.ation of WARD. The basic ides behind VVV was to launch a
campaign mainly for providing non-formal education to farmers, artisans and
others engaged in rural economic activities and secure their willing coopera-
tion in better utilization of credit and timely repaymant of loans. The
first phase of the program was launched in Tamil Nadu in hay 1983 and covered
25 villages each in Madurai and Tiruchirapalli districts. During the first
phase of the program, a small but significant modification was "ade in it to
increase its effectiveness.  Despite our emphasis on re)ayment ethnic, some
of the defaulting borrowers who started repaying their dues were also given
loans. An overwhelming response was received from Government official
bankers and villagers and chronic defaulters were motivated to repay bank
dues. The program was also launched in Gujarat and Orissa during the project
period. Besides emphasis on repayment and disbursement a now concept of
comprehensive 'Village Devel  o.ant Plan' was evolved. The real success was
not so much in the mounts that were recovered but the attitudinal change
which it brought in some defaulters.
Evaluation of TraininR
12.     The results of the training program have to be evaluated in order to
enable the National Bank to improve its future programs so as to ensure that
the investment in human resources leads to improvement in qualitative aspects



- 99 -
AmS=  I1
Page 7
of lndins. lkaluati( n sedsions held at the end of each training progrenc
were conducted to receive feed-back from participation and steps were takea
for bringing about 'L provements in training programs.
13.     In purwsuAnce of the recomendations of the CRAYICARD. the National
Bank had met up in October 1982 a committee on Training in Rural Development
through Credit (TRUDEC) under the chairnmahip of Dr. S.K. Rau, to review the
training facilities available for participating banks and suggest steps to
reinforce the same. Apart from providing estimates of traiuables the commit-
tee has made important recomendations, vhich include the following:
(i) National Bank should expedite setting up '.ts own training institute,
i.e. Bankers Institute for Rural Development (BIRD) at Lucknow.
(ii) BIRD should arrange training of trainer. and have ties vith existing
training institutes.
(iii) BIRD should train National Bank's ovn staff and officers of Central
and State Governments as vell as those of participating ban1s and
volunteers of VVV.
(iv) Consultancy vill be BIRD's important activity.
(v) It sbould set up 6 satellite centers of its own in different zones
and adopt and develop some model training centers.
14.     "BIRD" was established in September 1983 on the basis of TRUDEC
recomendations.  It has conducted 10 Rural Project Development Cours



- 100 -
ANM= III
Page 8
(RPOC.) and trained 285 RRBs staff. Four short duration courses on In-house
and Inspqction Oriented Course for NABARD officers.  Trainers Development
Progrms for faculty *mbers/SLDB training centers and prograa on horticul-
ture development for officials of state ovwerent were also conducted.
New Courses Introduced
Senior end Middle Level Trainig
15.     Of the five course modules recomoended by TRUDEC. RPDC module has
been adopted by BIRD. RPDC has been tested at CAB and feed-back received is
being exanined. Feedback regarding Induction Course for Officers of RRBs
(ICORD) is awaited from sponsor banks. Improving Recovery Perfozrance (IRP)
module vhich is of importance to banking institutions and the National Bank
is proposed to be tested shortly at BIRD. Lucknow.
Junior Level Training
16*     AA per the recommendations of COTELOORP special training programs
have been devised for officers of six weak SLDBs, viz., Tamil Nadu, Bihar,
Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Bihar SLDB organized 3
programs on "Effective Comunication Techniques and General Management
(ECTGM) during January/February 1983 for 70 of its senior executives. This
program was extended to five other states from March 1983. Seven courses on
"Recovery Management for 193 Branch Managers in Bihar and 2 courses on
General Management-cum-Development Banking Program in Tamil Nadu were con-
ducted by the concerned LDBs. Executive Development Program for its 61



- 101 -
ANNEX III
Page 9
officials was conducted by Maharashtra SLDB. Similar courses have been
conducted by the SLDBs in the States of Gujarat. Karnataka and Madhya
Pradesh.
17.     The IDA aissions during their visits have emphasized the need for
paying greater attention to training of field staff.  Keeping this in view. a
short re-orientation course for SLDB supervisors and field staff with focus
on appraisal of individual loans, maintaining contact with the borrowers,
taking follow-up action, etc. has been designed. Besides, the course
provided inputs relating to the strategy to be adopted to recover the
cooperative dues. This course has been organized on all-India basis. A few
seats are reserved for RRBs staff in each of the junior level training
program after it was decided that the junior staff of RRBs, SCBs and DCCBs
will be imparted training at the Junior Training Centers.
Improvements in Teaching Aids
18.     As there is growing emphasis on audio-visual techniques and aids in
training management area, a beginning was made in this regard in 1981.
Educative films are being supplied to the various training centers. Further,
the training centers have been advised to have at least one audio-visual
session in the courses conducted by them. A large number of slides (b/w and
color) on minor irrigation, animal husbandry, plantation and horticulture and
soil conservation have also been supplied to the training centers. Madras
regional office of the National Bank has produced 130 color slides and a



- 102 -
ftge 10
cc_n tary casitte for covering the program on VVV.  Reading  ateriel kits
have also been prepared for various programs.



- 103 -
ANNE1 1III
Page 11
Training
Table 1
Statement
ARDC CP - Review of Training Programs under Junior Level
SLDBs Junior staff trained up to 30.6.1984 under basic courses
Sr.   Name of              Total No.
No.   SLDBs                of Staff
estimated          Trained Under ARDC CP        Total
as per ARDC      I       II     III    IV       (3+4+5+6)
1976 Report
1                     2           3       4        5     6           7
1.   Andhra Pradesh           2231        710    2144    291        -        3145
2.   Bihar                    1367        361      596     -       40         997
3.   Gujarat                  1526        172      977    272      15        1436
4.   Haryana                   538         69      477    143      17         706
5.   Karnataka                1326        146      954    476    190         1766
6.   Kerala                    323        123      224     32      99         478
7.   Madhya Pradesh           1543        326      952    682    525         2485
8.   Maharashtra              2916         -      1635   1843    393         2486
9.   Orissa                    391         83      368    118    189          678
10.   Punjab                    810        170      517    320      -         2485
11.   Rajasthan                 827        132      397    139    281          860
12,   T=ail Nadu               1709        397      895    257    277         1q26
13.   Uttar Pradesh            1286        256    1194    463    258          2171
14.   West Bengal               494         89      243      86     30         448
15.   Assam                      54         -        -      -       -
16.   J & K                      60         -        -      -       -
17.   Himachal Pradesb          119         -        -      -       -
18.   Pondicherry                10         - 
19.   Tripura                    21         -        -      -       -
17551      3634   11078   5113k   2654w    22374 *
*  Excluding 110 and 894 trainees from RRBs trained during ARDC CP III and IV
respectively. The total number trained up to 30.6.1984 are therefore 23378.



- 105 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVESOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Important Policy Decisions during the Project Period
Some of the major policy decisions taken were as follows:
(i) Increase in the level of ARDC contribution to
special development debentures located by SLDBs
The level of the contribution by National Bank to the special
development debentures floated by SLDBs from September 1, 1981 (1981-82) up
to the end of the Sixth Plan Period (1984-85) was increased as follows:



- 106 -
WKx r v
Page 2
Refinance contribution as a
percentage of financial assistance
Erstwhile             Revised
(A) (i)  Minor Irrigation
(ii)  Special schemes for diversified  )
under capital subsidy schemes    )   90 percent                95 percent
for identified small farmers        )
(iii) All purposes in Eastern and
Northeastern Region
(B) Diversified purposes other than
farm mechanization
(i) Small farmers other than those
covered under special schemes           75 percent             90 percent
referred to at (A)
(ii)  Other farmers                            75 percent             85 percent
(ii)  Redemption of special development
debentures floated by SLDBs
At the request of SLDBs, ARDC agreed to allow them the option to
redeem the special development debentures floated from January 1, 1982
onwards either in equal annual instalments or in equated annual instalments.
(iii) Overdues discipline for SLDBs/CBs
(a)    Criteria for SLDBs
The revised norms for regulating the advances by PLDBs/SLDB branches
came into force from January 1982. As per these modifications:



- 107 -
ANNU IV
Page 3
(i)  The eligibility of a PLDB/branch of SLDB was to be determined with
reference to its overdues as on June 30, 1981 or the average of overdues for
the three years ending June 30, 1981, whichever is lower. In the subsequent
years, the eligibility was to be determined on the same criteria.  Based on
this, the PLDB/branch of SLDB has the eligibility for lending as shown below:
Percentage of
overdues to demand                               Eligibility
(I)      0-25                         Unrestricted lending program
(II)    26-40                   (a)   highest lending level reached in any of
the preceding 5 cooperative years;
or  (b)   amount of recoveries in the preceding
cooperative years;
or  (C)   average amount of recoveries during the
preceding 3 cooperative years; whichever
is the highest.
(III)   41 and above                  Same as (b) and (c) of (II) above,
whichever is higher
(ii) The PLDB/branch of SLDB with restricted eligibility should utilize
the eligible lending program first for meeting in full the commitments
towards disbursement of the second and/or subsequent instalments in respect
of loans where the first or subsequent instalment were disbursed during the
previous cooperative year. The residual eligibility may be used towards
granting fresh loans including those to small farmers and other weaker sec-
tions. The earlier concession of drawings funds to the full extent from SLDB
for giving loans to small farmers identified as such under special programs



- 108 -
AMEX Iv
Page 4
was not available under the revised norms. In such cases where eligibility
is less than such comoitted expenditures, the concerned SLDB was to approach
RBI/Kational Bank for necessary approval to provide funds to such PLDB/branch
to enable the latter to meet the comnitments. No fresh loans, however, were
allowed to be issued by such a primary unit.
(iii) In the case of a PLDB/branch of SLDB whose recovery performance falls
below that of the preceding year by more than 10 percent of the demand, the
SLDB should review the operations of the concerned PLDB/branch and report to
ARDC/RBI the findings of the review tor,ther with the remedial measures
proposed to be taken so that the concerned PLDB/branch can take corrective
action before December 31 each year. Further, refinan'e in respect of loan-
ing done by such PLDB/branch was to be provided only if ARDC/RBI are satis-
fied about the action taken.
(iv) In the case of SLDBs under rehabilitation in the status of Bihar,
Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the
eligibility of primary units, determined on the above basis, will be subject
to SLDB's implementing the rehabilitation measures suggested by National
Bank.
(b) Overdues criteria for CBs
In consultation with CALCOB and GOI, the eligibility criteria
applicable to CBs and RRBs for availing of refinance from National Bank on or
after July 1, 1983 was finalized, salient features of which are as follows:



- 109 -
AMu= IV
Page S
Overdues as Z of demand           Eligibility of the co mme rcial
in respect of direct              banks' branches
advances for agriculture
and allied activities
0-35                             Unrestricted
36-50                     Up to highest lending level in any of the
preceding 5 years for direct term loans for
agriculture and allied activities or up to
the amount of recovery in respect of such
advances in the preceding year or the average
of the amount of recovery during the preceding
three years whichever is higher.
51 and above                 Up to the amount of recovery in the preceding
year in respect of direct term loans for
agriculture and allied activities or the
average of the amount of recoveries in
respect of such advances during the preceding
three years whichever is higher.
As in the case of PLDBs/SLDBs' branches, the commercial banks'
branches with restricted eligibility were to first meet committed expenditure
under ongoing schemes and utilize the residual for granting fresh loans.
National Bank, however, agreed to provide additional funds in case committed
expenditure exceeded the eligibility. The restrictions were not applicable
to branches of commercial banks with overall recovery of 65Z of its demand
and also if a branch was lass than 5 years old or it had less than Rs 1 lakh
as overdues or up to 25 overdue accounts. In case the recovery rate of a
branch dropped by more than 10% in any year, the concerned bank was to review
the position and advice National Bank on the remedial measures to be under-
taken.



- 110 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6
(iv) Increase in financial assistance for energization
of puapsets and extension of repsyment period
The scale of financial assistance to be provided by the financing
banks to the SEBs for energization of agricultural pumpsets was liberalized
with effect from January 1, 1982. The financing banks have now been per-
mitted to provide loans to SEBs at the rate of Rs 7,500 per pumpset up to
7.5 hp and Rs 10,000 up to 5 hp and Rs 6,500 up to 7.5 hp. The rate for
motors of higher hp required to be installed on technical grounds, was fur-
ther liberalized. Further, the repayment period of loan to SEBs was also
extended from 7 years to 9 years including a grace period of one year.
Effective April 1, 1983, SLDBs were also allowed to issue loans, within their
overall approved annual lending program to SEBs without reference to the
eligibility of the PLDB/SLDB branch. These loans are in addirion to the
existing ceiling of 25Z of the lending program of a bank for advancing loans
to cooperative bodies.
(v)   Financial assistance for energization
of pumpsets under REC-SPA program
It was decided to participate in financing the program for energizing
8 lakh pumpsets during 1982-83 to 1984-85 under the second phase of REC-SPA
program involving aggregate financial assistance of Rs 8300 M financed
jointly by REC, National Bank and CBs on an equal basis and to implement
mainly in the unexploited but promising area in the six priority states,
viz., Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.



- 111 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7
(vi) Provision of refinance by way of loans to SCBs
With a view to helping SCBs step up their loaning within the existing
framevork, it was decided to allow them to taise from National Bank resources
by way of long-term loans against government guarantee and also provide 100l
refinance under both special and normal lending.
(vii) Commitment charges under schemes approved
To facilitate efficient maragement of funds for meeting its comit-
ments under approved schemes, National Bank laid down certain norms for the
levy of commitment charges at 1/3 of one percent from July 1, 1983 from the
banks in respect of the undrawn portion of the committed funds.
(viii) Maintenance of demand collection and
balance (DCB) register by bank branches
As recommended by the CALCOB, CBs and RRBs were advised to indicate
the position regarding the maintenance of DCB register by the branches while
submitting the schemes to National Bank. The drawal of refinance from the
bank, effective from January 1, 1983, was also subjected to the condition
that branches maintain the prescribed DCB register and furnish the required
data in that regard.



- 112 -
Awx rv
Page 8
(iz) Revised interest rates
In conformity with the Reserve Bank's directives, National Bank
revised the rates of interest to be charged by the financing banks to the
beneficiaries under its refinanced schemes and advised all financing ban'..s
to adopt the following interest rates from April 1, 1983.
National Bankrs
Rate of interest    refinance rate
to ultimate          with effect from
Purpose                                    borrowers            April 1, 1983
1. Minor irrigation and land
development                                  10.00%                6.5%
2. Diversified purposes
a)  IRDP borrowers                           10.00                6.5%
b) Small farmers (as per
National Bank's definition)              10.00%                6.5%
c)  Others                                   12.50%                8.0%
(s) Simplified procedure for release of refinance under IRDP
To facilitate availment of r-finance by the financing institutions as
also to reduce the time-lag between the disbursement of loans to the ultimate
beneficiaries and the drawal of refinance by the banks from National Bank,
the banks were allowed to claim refinance by mere submission of prescribed
statements at monthly intervals.



- 113
A313 IV
Paso 9
(xi) Soil conservation and/or ravine reclamation schemes -
finance to irieligible farmers and interim finance
facility for such farmers
It vas agreed to provide refinance for schemes for the reclamtion of
ravine lands to be carried out on a watershed basis with the objectives of
arresting further growth of ravines, saving table lands and utilizing them
for productive purposes. However, since all the farmers to be covered under
the program might not be eligible for loans from the financing institutions
for one reason or the other, it was decided to provide special lo-n facility
for such farmers from a Special Loan Account (SLA) constituted for the pur-
pose. Contributions to SLA are made by the concerned State Government and
the National Bank on a matching basis. National Bank also issued model
guidelines detailing the procedure evolved for financing Lhe soil conversion
and ravine reclamation works on the lands of ineligible farmers. It was also
decided to extend the facility of inwerim finance to the corporations
implementing such schemes, on the lines provided under CAD projects. The
rate of interest on interim finance was fixed at 6.5 percent per annum.
(xii)  Refinance facility to new areas/activities
(a) Farm forestry
It was decided to consider farm forestry development schemes on
private lands if tree planting is done on: (i) the bunds and boundaries of
cultivated lands; (ii) whole stretches of uncultivated lands; and (iii) lands
giving poor yields and income from ordinary field crops. Likewise, planting



- 114 -
AM=E IV
Page 10
of trees on degraded lands belonging to government and obtained on long lease
by farmrs or their groups werb also covered.
(b) Loan for effecting improvements in pumpset installations
With a view to improving the efficiency of the agricultural pumpsets,
decision was taken to extend refinance facilities for providing a supplemen-
tary loan to the farmers for replacement of undersized/defective pumping
system and foot valve and correcting installation/other defects in existing
pumpsets.
(c) Stand-by oil engines
In view of power shortage, it was decided to offer financial assis-
tance for purchase of stand-by oil engines of 5 hp or less to farmers who
have earlier installed electric pumpsets through bank loans.
(d) Export-oriented agricultural projects
It was decided to make available financial support to the extent of
Rs 500 M for agricultural projects covering export-linked production (and not
merely export performance).
(e) Portable charcoal metal kilns



- 115 -
ANNEX IV
Pa&ge 11
To help veaker sections, including SCs and STs, secure employment and
for providing an alternative source of energy, refinance assistance was
extended for financing purchase of portable metal kilns (a modern device for
production of charcoal).
(f) Refinance for dry land agriculture
National Bank agreed in principle to extend credit support through
member banks for schemes envisaging investments in land development, soil and
water conservation and other ancillary activities like fodder development,
etc. in areas under dry land farming.
(g) Refinance for wind mills
Keeping in view the importance of exploring renewable source of
energy as against conventional sources of energy like coal, oil, etc. laid in
Sixth Five Year Plan and considering that wind could be harnessed as one such
source, it was decided to refinance eligible institutions in respect of
viable schemes for setting up of wind mills for minor irrigation, viz.,
operation of punpsets, etc. and guidelines for formulation of such schemes
were issued.
II. Non-agricultural Term-lending (schematic)
(i) Refinance for loans for non-farm activities under IRDP
Refinance facilities were extended, effective from January 1, 1983,
in respect of the loans disbursed by a bank after October 1, 1982 for



- 11o -
ANE  IV
Page 12
Industries, Services and Business (ISB) components under IRDP.  The aximum
amount of loan eligible for refinance under this facility was restricted to
Rs 10,000 per beneficiary.
III. Institutional Development
(i)  Management, organization and financial improvement measures for SLDBs
Based on the deliberations of the Comuittee on Term Lending through
Cooperatives (COTELCORP) at its meeting held in June 1982 on the recomenda-
tions of the Expert Groups' Studies of Weak SLDBs, follow-up measures were
initiated for improving the organizational and management capabilities of the
SLDBs. Performance evaluation of primary units, classification of overdues,
recovery of dues out of salary in case of salary earners, introduction of
be2neficiary profile cards, staff incentive scheme to facilitate recovery,
communication of terms and conditions in local language and inclusion of
legal charges, stamp duty, etc., in unit cost of investment were some of the
improvement measures.
ii) Functional coordination
National Bank formulated a scheme, based on the recommendation of the
CRAFICARD, for providing refinance facilities for composite loans-short-term
loans along with long-term loans-through the LDBs. This scheme was to be
confined to the areas of weak PACS and to be in operation till such time the
PACS were reorganized and sufficiently strengthened to provide short-term
credit. It was not applicable to areas in which PACS were being financed by



- 1'7 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13
C89. As a corollary to the provision of production credit, it was also
agreed to provide the facility of conversion of short-term loans given by
LDBs into medium-term loans in respect of borrowers affected by natural
calamities.
IV. Short-term Agricultural Loans
i)   Financing of new and non-defaulting members
of PACS and defaulting smalllmarginal members
(a) New and non-defaulting members of PACS
For enabling the PACS to meet the credit needs of the new and
non-defaulting members even in cases where the CCBs are not eligible for
credit limits from National Bank, it was decided to sanction to SCBs, on
behalf of eligible CCBs, additional/supplementary short-term credit limits
for seasonal agricultural operations and other approved short-term purposes.
(b) Small/marginal farmers defaulting for small amoun;
PACS were allowed to provide fresh finance to small/marginal farmers
out of their own resources without refinance facility from the higher financ-
ing agencies if the defaulted amount did not exceed lOZ of the individual's
eligibility for short-term agricultural loans and if the defaults arose from
circumstances beyond the borrower's control. It was decided that CCBs and
SCBs could provide finance to PACS which do not have their own resources to
finance such defaulting members subject to the norms earlier stipulated by
RBI. National Bank is turn also agreed to treat the involvement of CCBs in



- 118 -
AJW   IV
Page 14
such financing as legitimate charge on their resources for the purpose of
sanction of short-term credit limits.
ii) Interest rates
The lending rates on advances to be charged by the cooperative
societies for agricultural Lendings with effect from April 1, 1983 were
revised as under:



- 119 -
ANNU IV
Page 15
Existing                     Revised
Rates Z                      Rates X
Short-term agricultural loans
A.  Small farmers                    Not exceeding                 Not exceeding
(Loans up to Rs 5,000)               12.50                         12.50
B.  Others                           Not exceeding 15.00          Not exceeding
(not exceeding 12.50         14.00 (in
in those states where        all states
the present rate to          and union
farmers other than           territories)
small ones is 11.85
as per earlier
instructions).
Medium-term agricultural loans
A.  Minor irrigation and land         10.50                        10.25
development purposes
(all types of borrowers)
B. Other purposes
i)  Small farmers                11.50                        10.25
(loans up to Rs 5,000)
ii)  Others                       11.50 - 12.50                12.50
V.   Short-term - Non-agricultural Loans
i)   Relaxation of norms for assessing working capital
requirements of industrial cooperative societies
With a view to facilitating a larger flow of credit, it was decided
to relax the norms followed by the erstwhile ACD of RBI in assessing the
working capital requirements of industrial cooperative societies. Accord-
ingly, the norms for assessing working capital requirements at 252-50% of
anticipated reduction/sale were raised to 33-1/3% - 75%, depending on the



- 120 -
AM=N IV
Page 16
nature of activity. Further, the per loom scale of finance for polyester
cloth on haadloom in the case of the newly organized or dormant weavers'
societies to be activated was raised from Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000.
ii) Advances to individuals by CCBs against
gold/silver ornaments (jewel loans)
CCBs were allowed to give loans directly to individuals against the
pledge of gold or silver ornaments, for amounts not exceeding Rs 3,000 (ear-
lier limit Rs 2,000) per borrower. In aggregate, such outstanding loans
should not exceed 10% of a bank's total deposit liabilities as on the last
Friday of the previous month.



- 121 -
AM=  V
Table 1
PaOJECT CONPLEITION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGR CULTURAL RtEINANCE AND DmVLOPPENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PRDJECT (ARDC IV)
(CRTDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
A Study of Minor Irrigation Scheme in Allahabad District of U.P.
Month/Year of the sanction of the scheme by ARDC            -       July 1975
Month/Year of closure of the scheme                         -       June 1979
Reference year of the study                                 -       1981-82
Shallow
S.No.                Item                                     Tubewell   Dugwells
1.    Number of borrowers under the scheme                    3,214         554
2.    Size of the sample                                         97          18
3.    Average size of holding (acres)                          7.54        3.05
4.    Average benefitted area (acres)                          4.76        1.88
5.    Cost of investment (per unit)
(at historical prices)                                11,577       4,100
6.    Cost of investment per unit (at current prices)    16,800           6,000
7.    Intensity of cropping (X)
(i)  With project conditions                              192         190
(ii)  Without project conditions (rainfed area)            132         135
8.    Gross value of farm produce
9.    "With Project" farm business income (Rs per acre)   1,636           1,320
10.    Incremental income (Rs per acre)                          754         881
11.    Additional on-farm employment (mandays per acre)           29          66
12.    Financial rate of return (FRR) (X)                         25          24
(without family labor)
13.    Total Scheme Impact net addition to:
(i)  Irrigated Area (acres)                             5,786
(ii)  Sown Area                                          3,726
(iii)  Foodgrains Production (tons)                       92.94
(iv)  Incremental on-farm employment (person years)  1,899
(v)  Incremental income (Rs lakhs)                        -
14.    Economic Rate of Return (ERR) (x)                          39          37
(without family labor)



122 -               ~~~~AM=E  V
- 122 -                        Table 2
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOUR'7N AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC rv)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
A Study on the Working of the Deep Tubewells in
West Bengal, Hooghly and West Dinajpur
Month/year of the sanction of the scheme
by ARDC
Month/year of closing of the scheme           -
Reference year of the study                   -   1980-81
1.  No. of DTW units studied                 -   21
2.  Size of the sample                       -   194 beneficiaries
(including 2 cooperatives)
3.  Average size of the holding              -   1.20 hectares
4.  Cost of investment                       -   1.204 lakhs for corporation
owned 1.638 lakhs for
cooperatives
5.  Average benefitting area                 -   27.8 hectares
6.  Intensity of cropping                    -   196%
7.  Farm business income                     -   Rs 2229 per acre
8.  Without project income                   -   Rs 469 per acre
9.  Incremental income                       -   Rs 1763 per acre
10.  Additional on-farm employment
(a)  Mon-recurring                       -   2929 mandays
(b)  Recurring                           -   96 mandays



- 123 -
ANNEX V
Table 2
Page 2
11. Total Scheme lmpact
(a)  Employment                         -   8.79 lakh mandays
(b)  Gross produce                      -   3.46 lakh tons of foodgrains
and potatoes
12.  F.R.R.                                   -   Above 50Z (with water charges)
-   Above 50  (without water
charges)
13.  E.R.R.                                   -   Above SOX (with water charges)
-   Above 50X (without
water charges)



-125 -                       AjVu V
Table 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPIENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IVILOAN 2095-IY)
Public Tubevells and River Lifts in Orissa
1.  Reference year of study                               July 1980 - June 1987
TW9       RLIUs
2.  No. of schemes selected for study                           4           2
3.  Irrigation units selected for study                        12           5
4.  Number of sample beneficiaries                             72          30
5.  Number of selected non-beneficiaries                       36          15
6. Average cost of investment at
historical prices (Rs '000)                                55.83       75.90
7. Irrigabie command area (acres)
(a)  Anticipated                                         480         420
(b)  Actual                                              345         300
.8  Utilization of irrigation potential
per unit as x of the actual potential
Year                 TWs                          RLIUs
Kharif     Rabi              Kharif     Rabi
(S)       (x)               (X)        (x)
1978-79           14        41                 -         31
1979-80           45         73               12         45
1980-81           25        53                 2          36
9.  Incremental income/acre (Rs)                  TW,        RLIUs
(a)  Without family labor                     384         196
(b)  With family labor                        275        215
10. Incremental income/beneficiary
(a)  Without family labor                     422        443
(b)  With family labor                        303        422
11. Financial rate of return (2)
(a)  With subsidy                             10X         102
(b)  Without subsidy                          Negative   Negative
12.  Economic rate of return                       4%          Negative



- 126-                        ANNX V
Table 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGU CULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
cORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Public Tubewells and River Lifts in Orissa
Evaluation Study of Minor Irrigation Scheme in
Muzaffarnapar District in Uttar Pradesh
1.   Month/Year of the sanction of
the scheme by ARDC                                        May 1976
2.   Month/Year of closing of the scheme                       June 1978
3.   Reference year of study                                    1981-82
4.   No. of sample beneficiaries                               87
ETW      DTW
5.   Cost of Investment (Rs)                                    11283    7452
6.   Average size of holding                                        9.26 acres
7.   Average benefitting area                                       7.01 acres
8.   Cropping intensity                                        276X       280Z
9.   Gross income per net cropped area (Rs)                    4420       4636
10.   Net Incremental Income (Rs)
(a)  Without Family Labor                                 10781      5364
(b)  With Family Labor                                     9332      4190
11.   Financial Rate of Return (FRR)
(a)  Without Family Labor                                 -----48Z----->
(b)  With Family Labor                                    c-----40z----->
12.   Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
(a)  Without Family Labor                                 <----above---->
(b)  With Family Labor                     -----47 ----->
13.   Total Scheme impact - net addition to:
(i)  Irrigated area                                           3480 acres
(ii)  Irrigated area by tubewells                              20400 acres
(iii)  Gross irrigated area                                     6850 acres
(iv)  Gross value of incremental production                     514.3
(Rs lakhs)



- 127 -
ANNE= V
Table 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (AMDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Minor Irrigation Scheme in Rohtas District of Bihar
Month/Year of sanction of the scheme by ARDC             -    October 1976
Month/Year of the closing of the scheme                  -    1978-79
Reference year of the study                              -    1981-82
Sr.No.           Item                                          Pumpsets
1,    No. of borrowfrs under the scheme                      67 beneficiaries
2.    Size of the sample                                     33 beneficiaries
3.    Average size of holding                                7.62 acres
4.    Cost of investment (Rs)                                6,500
5.    Average benefitting area                               7.03 acres
6.    Intensity of cropping                                  191%
7.    Farm business income                                   Rs 931 per acre
8.    Farm business income (pre-investment)                  Ri 799 per acre
9.    Incremental Income                                     Rs 324 per acre
10.    F.R.R.                                                 Above 50%
11.    E.R.R.                                                 Above 50%



- 129 -
P3.OJRCT CONILTOv RVRT
ANNU V
INDIA                               Tabl*e 
-3R2  AORIWL=R& RUIIANC  AI  DEVELOPENT
CORORATIAON CRUITX? FJOC? (ARDC IT
(CREITf 1209-IR/LOAM 2095-rn)
*valustion Study of Dairy DeVeloPmnt in '
Nalerkotla Area of Sanorur District, Puniab
1mportant Survey Data
Month & Year of sanction of scb _                       November 1973
Month b    Year of closure of sch _                     June 1980
Reference period of the study                            1980/81
Valuation of costs I benefits                            At constant 1980/81 Prices
1. Total number of beneficiaries financed
under the scheme                      _             760
2. Total number of animals financed
under the schee                                     760
3. Size of sample of beneficiaries                       76
4. Number of scheme animals held by
the sample beneficiaries                             76
S. Investment cost at historical
prices per animal (Rs)                            2,110
6. Average amount of capital subsidy
received per animal (Rs)                            628
7. Average inter-calving period (days)                 430
(a) In-milk period                                  280
(b) Dry period                                      150
S. Kilk yield per in-milk day per
animal (litres)                                     6.5
9. Cross receipts per animal per year (Rs)
(a) Only milk                                     2,456
(b) Total                                         2,596
10. Annual net income per animal (Rs)
(without family labor)                              868
11.  aUs
(a) With capital subsidy                        Above 502
(b) Without capital subsidy                 : Above 352
12. Anui4al employment generated per
animal (mandays)                                    102
13. E1 (without family labor)
(a) With capital subsidy                        Above 502
(b) Without capital subsidy                     Above 362



- 131 -
PROJICT COMM.ZTXON REPORT
INDI                                Table 7
IWRTS ACRZICUAL RUZNFMCI AND DVELOPW
CORPPATION CZUZT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CZDIT 1209-ZN/LOAM  2095-IN)
Evaluation Study of Dairy Scheme in
Surat District, Cujarat
Important Survey Data
Month/Year of sanction of schem  (SFDA)                      July 1978
Month/Year of closure of sch em                              December 1979
Reference period of the study                                1980/81
Valuation of costs & benefits                                1980/81
1. Total No. of animals finaLced                            586
2. Total No. of beneficiaries                               396
3. Size of sample of beneficiaries                           67
4. Average historical cost/animal (Rs)                    2,460
5. Average subsidy/animal (Rs)                            1,355
6. Average lactation cycle
(a) Milk days                                            248
(b) Dry days                                             151
Total             399
7. Milk yield/milk-day/animal (litres)                      4.1
8. Annual Milk yield/animal (litres)                        926
9. Gross receipts per annum (Rs)
(a) Milk alone                                        2,472
(b) Total                                             2,654
10. Annual net income/animal (vithout
family labor) (Rs)                                    1,089
11. Pn (vithout family labor):
(a) Without subsidy                                      252
(b) With subsidy                                    Above 50%
12. Annual employment/animal (Kandays)                      120
13. EUR (vithout family labor)
(a) Without subsidy                                      36%
(b) With subsidy                                    Above 50%



- 133 -
PROJECT COMNLZTION REOV
INDIA                              Table 8
1OURI AGRICULTUA  RZIWNCI AND DKVLU.L.o
COBPOATION C____T FROJCT (ADC IV)
(CUI~T 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Evaluation Study of Dairy Developwnt
in lbaratpur District, Raiasthan
Important Survey Data
Year of sanction of scheme                                 1979
Year of closure of scheme                         :        1981
Reference year of the study                                1981/82
1. Number of animals financed under
the sche_                                              400
2. Number of beneficiaries covered
under the scheme                                       200
3. Size of sample
(a) No. of beneficiaries                                70
(b) No. of animals                                     107
4. Investment cost per animal at
historical prices (Rs)                               2,738
5. Average lactation cycle
(a) Milk days                                          238
(b) Dry days                                           153
6. Milk yield per animal (litres)
(a) Per lactation                                    1,084
(b) Per year                                         1,013
7. Cross receipts per animal per year (Rs)              2,760
(a) Milk                                            2,578
(b) Manure                                             182
8. Average operational costs per
animal per year (Rs)                                 1,659
9. Average net income per animal per year               1,101
10. FRU (without family labor):
(a) Without Subsidy                                    20S
(b) With subsidy                                 Above 501
11. Annual additional employment                           120
12. ER  (without family labor):
(a) Without subsidy                                    29S
(b) With subsidy                                 Above 501



- 135 -
PROJICT COKPLZTION RFPORT
AM= V
INDIA                               Table 9
1UW  M AGRICULTURAL RZIMN^NC  AND DEVZLOMK NS
COR3POIATION CRUIT PROJICT (ARDC IV)
(CIDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Evaluation Study of Marine Fishery
Scheme for Iachanized Boats in
Bulsar District, Cuijarat
IrPortant Survey Data
Year of sanction of the scheme by NABARD                             1975
Year of closure of the scheme                                        1976
Reference year of the study                                          1981/82
1. Number of mechanized boats financed                              13
2. Number of beneficiaries under the scheme                         13
3. Size of the boat                                              10 Metre
4. Average cost of investment (at historical
prices (Rs lakhs))                                               1.66
5. Average catch per year (Quintals)
(a) Prawns                                                      83.2
(b) Other fish                                                624.9
6. Average value of fish catch (Rs lakhs)
(a) Prawns                                                       1.58
(b) Other fish                                                   1.36
7. Average operating ezpences (Rs lakhs)                            2.45
8. Average net income (Rs lakhs)                                    0.49
9. FRR                                                              15Z
10. Annual employment generated in mandays                         2,700



- 137 -
PROJUCT COMPLETION REPORT
AME  V
INDIA                               Table 10
FOURMI AGRICULTURAL REFII)WCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT (ARDC IV)
(CREDIT 1209-IN/LOAN 2095-IN)
Evaluation Study of Inland Fishery Scheme
in KrishnA District of Andhra Pradesh
Important Survey Data
Scheme implementation period                                       1979-82
Reference year of the study                                         1983/84
1. Number of units financed under the scheme                      187
2. Average tank size (Ha)                                         2.5
3. Average investment cost at historical
prices (Rs)                                                  55,737
4. Output of fish (Kgs)                                          4,277
5. Gross Value of output (Rs)                                   55,596
6. Average operating expenses (Rs)                              25,448
7. Net income (Rs)                                              30,148
8. FRR:
(a) Without subsidy                                    :       28Z
(b) With subsidy                                       :       42X
9. Annual employment generated (Kandays)                  :       334



IURD 15972R1
70'                , " 'W, FtA    8_                         
Puft-r A8  \-I    _                                            CHINA
PAKISTAN                       o            ,r                                                                                                 30'
*/  /               *                                              N>'      *\{
~~~ ~        /              -k)<E    Ds     
7                           \ UT/AR N..%%   NEPALrA                                  '. *
t                                                               S/4\/ 1 'N P  BHUTAN
4A J A SHAN                                     %~S 
1.                    -   N                                                     /  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L. ~AUHATI'
/  -I' ~~~~--                     '-~~--PATNA
_. ._ --  -, ~ va  8a 45 Xf   tt-                                                     > >              B / HA R           \ BANGLAD$H
I' ~     ~         ~        "'
' AHMADABAD_    i  J             -       BHOPAL                                '                      WEST
GUJIA RAt y 0    gG-            ! MADOHY P*    A   fSh A   S                                        SBEGAI                j
GUJARA,F   ; >    t--Y                                                                       t-- '-'- k;-  d ............  2  (CALCUTTA
' X L'_ ~~~~~~A----    ,  ....J 
ORISSA    *BHUIANESWAR
- ---   hfArJAQ45h!QM   ,    ^--.,    )~ K----
SOMBAI E  % 
HYDERABAD
INDIA
ANOSRA           -              FOURTH AGRICULTURAL
PAROHA D                   REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
GOA   \                                PQADESH         CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
4 TA KAc                           -            Generalized Occurrence of Groundwater,
Rainfall, Evaporation, and ARDC  Regional Offices
Larg to inodunate we4I y,u*:
Ailuvium of moar rimer van  and coastal mos
BANGALORE              * MADRAS                     Moderate Wei: yiehd
C;onalkldltd sedi*tsents (sandstoneetc.)
Smtall well yids:
v>                                                           Pvkpwipb hord rocks (grorib, schist. etc.)
< > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dccntsrap (b- eh ono nsbho  vok-enies)
Thin alwnium ond durne sand of desert are
Mountoinous acea
KERA1A    ,       TAM/I                                        Aiwxug ranol in miillbet
-NAt  >    ^ADL/                            Annual evaporotion in centimeters
:>, -   /  * ARDC Reoal Offices hebded by Director as of
*                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Jure98
*'     ARDC Regional Offices heoded by Senior Dirtdors
TRVADRM                                                  a s ofJune 1981
TRIVANDRU                  -                                  ARDC Heaqocrts
0        100      200       300 Md                                                            *       Notional Capital
------, State ond Union Territory Bocndries
0    100  200   300   400   500 Kl                                         SRI              _    -    Intrnotional 8Oundories
LANKA
Oue to swca comsideratioo so"w r,e  covid
..e   - or  a ~~~~~~~a - - ~~~~  u.e   -~~~~                         - he~i im incded in 11w mos, meteesfor any
_ - _.e.n~ _ -           0e    -                                                           -     n la. _infotnor +  may oppiy to wdt cres.
70-                                                                                                                 9. ,oo
__________________                    80'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q



