Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
py P  n                  Report No. 3629-IN
L F C  Pt8 
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
February 1, 1982
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizati6n.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 20, 1982)
US$1.00   =  Rs 9.043654
The U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change.  Conversions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to Rs 8.0, which represents the projected
average exchange rate over the disbursement period.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ACD       -   Agricultural Credit Department of the Reserve Bank
of India
ARDC      -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
ARDC I    -   First Agricultural Refinance (and Development)
Corporation Credit Project
ARDC II   -   Second Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation Credit Project
ARDC III  -   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation Credit Project
CALCOB    -   Committee on Agricultural Loans through Commercial
Banks
CB        -   Commercial Bank(s)
CRAFICARD -   Committee to Review Arrangements for Institutional
Credit for Agriculture and Rural Development
GOI       -   Government of India
LDB       -   Land Development Bank(s) (Generic term for all SLDB
and PLDB whether operating on a federated or
unitary system)
NABARD    -   National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
PLDB      -   Primary Land Development Bank(s)
RBI       -   Reserve Bank of India
RRB       -   Regional Rural Bank(s)
SCB       -   State Cooperative Bank(s)
SLDB      -   State Land Development Bank(s)
CROPPING SEASONS
Kharif  -    June to September
Rabi    -    October to February
Summer  -    March to May
FISCAL YEAR
GOI                      -    April 1 to March 31
ARDC and Cooperatives   -    July 1 to June 30
CB                       -    January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR             ..............................        1
Introduction ..................1
Land and Water Resources                                      I
Production ...   .................2
Inputs ....                   ..........  4
Supporting Services            .     .     ..........         4
II.   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS .                 5
A.  Background 5.....                                                     5
B.   The Cooperative Credit System.                                      6
C.   Land Development Banks ......... ....                               7
Review of the Six Selected LDB                .              11
Measures to Improve LDB Operations.                          12
Special Programs and Participation Conditions
for Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu LDB  . .13
D.   Commercial Banks ............. ... .. .                .15
E. Regional Rural Banks .. ..17
III.   PERFORMANCE OF BANK GROUP FINANCED AGRICULTURAL
CREDIT PROJECTS IN INDIA ...18
Introduction               ..18
Results of Completed State and ARDC
Credit Projects......    18
Impact of Indian Credit Projects on Agricul-
tural Development    .                .20
IV. THE PROJECT.                                   .           .               21
A. Project Genesis                    ....21
B.   Brief Description and Objectives                  .                22
C. Detailed Features                  . . .22
Minor Irrigation               ...22
Pumpset Electrification to be Financed
from ARDC's Own Resources    ...24
Land Development .. ... ..........  25
Soil Conservation and Land Reclamation..                     25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited India during May 1981, consisting of Messrs. G. Stern, B. Argyle,
L. Abbie and C. Hachero (Bank); W. Barber and A. Stoneham (Consultants), and
P. van Dooren (Netherlands), G. Gwyer (UK) and M. Sorensen (USA), representa-
tives of bilateral donors, who participated full time in the appraisal.
Messrs. J. Upadhyay, P. Brumby and L. Ljungman (Bank) participated part time
in the appraisal, and Mr. T. Turtiainen contributed to the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
Diversified Lending Eligible for IDA/IBRD
Refinance ... e...................6..0..0 ........ .......  25
Diversified Lending to be Financed From
ARDC's Own Resources .... . ....... .. ..  .......... .    28
Training ............   ............................$ ...... O.....    28
D.  Project Cost ..... .... ....                              ......  30
E.   Financing ......................s..*... ........                   31
F.   Procurement                             .                           31
G.   Disbursements .*..... .... . .0 ..... . ..0.....#..0.*........    32
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........ . . . . . . . . .  ...........   .... .*. ..... .. .    32
A.   The Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation ......................................*...          32
B.   National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development .    35
C.   Project Lending Procedures ........6... ...............            36
D.   Lending Terms and Conditions ..o- ........... ... ..               37
E.    Lending to Small Farmers and in Less Developed
States ............................. o.....oo*o... *......... - ....    38
F.   Accounts and Audit o.. . . . . . . . ...    ........  ..... . . .*..... .    39
G.   Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ................    39
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL
RETURNS TO BENEFICIARIES . .....                   .....-.-... oo ...o    40
Production .......                  ...... .. .....   , . .    40
Marketing and Prices o-- ...................                 41
Financial Analysis . ......... . ... ..... ...........    42
VII.    BENEFITS, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION ooo ...         ....... ...            44
Benefits .                   ........                        44
Benefits   o ..... - -........o....        - ... ............................ 4
Beneficiaries ..................................    44
Environmental Effects .....          .................. oo.    44
Economic Analysis .....         ...................... .45
Other Benefits ..........  .............*........            46
Project Risks ..............    .    ...................    46
VIII.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS ................           o    ................    46
SCHEDULE A       Lending Terms and Conditions
SCHEDULE B       Guidelines for Disbursement Against Public Direct
Irrigation and Augmentation Tubewells
SCHEDULE C       Guidelines for Levels of Evaluation of Groundwater
Resources Appropriate to Levels of Resource
Development
SCHEDULE D       Small Farmer Definition
SCHEDULE E       Criteria for Eligibility of Participating Banks to
Receive Refinancing from ARDC



- iii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEXES
ANNEX  1  -
Table  1  -   Loans Issued by State Land Development Banks
Table  2  -   Loans Outstanding of State Land Development Banks
Table  3  -   State and Primary Land Developments Banks -
Summary of Overdues
Table  4  -   Eligibility Classification of SLDB Branches and PLDB
Table  5 -   Ranking of Land Development Banks by Loan Recoveries
and Comparative Recoveries of Commercial Banks
Table  6  -   Commercial Banks:  Overdues of Agricultural Advances by States
Table  7  -   Summary Data on IDA/IBRD Assisted Projects through ARDC
Table  8  -   ARDC Lending Program by State and Subsector, 1982-1983
Table  9  -   Estimated ARDC and IDA/IBRD Disbursements
Table 10  -   ARDC Growth Since Inception
Table 11  -   ARDC Disbursements by Subsector 1971-1981
Table 12  -   ARDC Refinance by Agencies
Table 13  -   ARDC Condensed Balance Sheets 197 5/76-1984/85
Table 14  -   Condensed Statement of Income and Expenditure 197 5/76-1984/85
Table 15  -   ARDC Summarized Cash Flows 197 5/76-1984/85
ANNEX  2  -   Operations Review of Six Selected LDB
Table  1 -   Lending and Recovery Data for Six Selected States
Table  2 -   Financial and Performance Ratios:  Bihar SLDB
Table  3  -   Financial and Performance Ratios:  Gujarat SLDB
Table  4  -   Financial and Performance Ratios:  Karnataka SLDB
Table  5 -   Financial and Performance Ratios:  Madhya Pradesh SLDB
Table  6  -   Financial and Performance Ratios:  Maharashtra SLDB
Table  7  -   Financial and Performance Ratios:  Tamil Nadu SLDB
Table  8  -   Ownership of Land Development Banks in India (1978-1980)
ANNEX  3  -   Financial Analysis
Table  1  -   Financial Rates of Return
Table  2 -   Farm Cash Flow Model 1.  Dugwell with Pumpset
Table  3  -   Farm Cash Flow Flodel 2.  Shallow Tubewell and Pumpset
Table  4  -   Farm Cash Flow Model 3.  Land Development
Table  5 -   Enterprise Cash Flow Model 4.  Coffee Plantation
Table  6  -   Enterprise Cash Flow Model 5.  Dairy (2 Cross-Bred Cows)
Table  7  -   Enterprise Cash Flow Model 6.  Inland Fisheries (Pond 1 ha)
Table  8  -   Cropping Patterns and Yields
Table  9  -   Investment Costs, Loan Terms and Budgets
Table 10  -   Investment Costs, Loan Terms and Budgets
ANNEX  4  -   Economic Analysis
Table  1  -   Financial and Economic Prices
Table  2  -   Economic Rates of Return
Table  3  -   Economic Costs and Benefits:  Minor Irrigation
Table  4  -   Economic Costs and Benefits:  Diversified Lending
Table  5 -   Summary of Project Impact
ANNEX  5 -   Riskiness and Drought in Hardrock Areas
Table  1  -   Financial Impact of Drought in Hardrock Areas



- iv -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Annex 6  -   Documents Available in the Project File
Annex 7  -   Organization and Management Study of State Land Development
Banks - Terms of Reference
LIST OF CHARTS
Chart No. WB 23130   -  Principal Agricultural Credit Institutions
Chart No. WB 23125   -  Major Institutional Funding for Agricultural
Term Loans
Chart No. WB 23412   -  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Organization Chart - As on June 30, 1981
MAP IBRD 15972R       -  India:  Generalized Occurrence of Groundwater,
Rainfall and Evaporation, and ARDC
Regional Offices



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Introduction
1.01      India has a population of about 688 M, growing at an annual rate of
about 2%. Since 1960, per capita income has grown at an annual rate of 1.4%
and reached US$180 in 1979/80. Much remains to be done to improve the living
standards of the vast mass of urban and rural poor, which comprise about 50%
of the total population. Accordingly Government of India's (GOI) development
plans emphasize maintaining food self-sufficiency, alleviating poverty and
creating employment, especially in rural areas.
1.02      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the economy.  It contributes
about 40% of GDP, accounts for about 70% of all employment and provides the
base for about 50% of India's exports. During the last decade GOI has concen-
trated on raising foodgrain production by increasing use of irrigation, fer-
tilizers, plant protection and good seeds, backed by improved extension and
research services. Production has responded impressively and over the decade
before 1979/80 foodgrain production grew at about 2.75% per annum--sufficient
to meet consumer demand, to eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 M
tons per year for the 15 years preceding 1976), and to reduce real foodgrain
prices to consumers. At the same time India was able to build up buffer stocks
which enabled it to overcome the effects of severe drought in 1979/80 with-
out food imports. While the performance of the recent past and the probable
future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand,
the balance remains delicate and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain
consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time.
During 1981, for instance, India took advantage of favorable prices to import
grain to replenish stocks drawn down by the 1979/80 drought. GOI is therefore
continuing to give high priority to grain production and the Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1980/81 - 1984/85) aims to maintain grain self-sufficiency and a 15 M
tons reserve stock. The Plan is, however, giving greater emphasis now to
other crops and other subsectors including animal husbandry and fisheries.
Institutional term lending would continue to be a key input to increase pro-
duction, through developing minor irrigation in particular. However, in con-
formance with GOI plans, increasing amounts of credit would support investments
for expanding the livestock, fisheries, plantation/horticulture and forestry
subsectors.
Land and Water Resources
1.03      India has a total land surface of about 328 M ha of which 175 M ha
(53%) are classified as arable. The possibility of reclaiming additional land
is limited. In 1977/78 about 143 M ha (82% of arable land) were cultivated
but, due to multiple cropping, the gross cropped area was about 171 M ha.



-2-
1.04      The southwest monsoon begins at the end of May or early June and
continues until November/December; its duration is at a minimum in the north-
west and at a maximum in the south. The wettest months are June-September
when most of the country receives 80% or more of the annual rainfall. Mean
annual rainfall ranges from 200-300 mm in the Rajasthan desert to more than
5,000 mm in the Western Ghats and in the hills of Assam. The crucial months
for rainfed agriculture are July and August. The amount and distribution of
rainfall in those months largely decide the fate of kharif 1/ crops. Farmers
derive benefits from irrigation in most parts of India, even in high rainfall
areas where it allows cropping during the dry season (November/December -
May/June). Of the irrigated area 34.6 M ha or 60% are irrigated from surface
sources and 22 M ha or 40% from groundwater, mostly pumped or lifted by pri-
vately owned irrigation equipment much of which has been financed by agricul-
tural credit. An area of 22 M ha is irrigated from groundwater and this is 55%
of the about 40 M ha that GOI believes to represent the total area that can be
irrigated from groundwater. The present distribution of development relative
to resource potential is variable.  States such as Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab
and Tamil Nadu have reached high levels of development. By contrast, West
Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and the northeastern States have enormous
groundwater resources which have barely been tapped. The Sixth Five-Year Plan
aims at creating an additional 7 M ha of irrigation from groundwater and the
lending program of the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC), which would be supported by the project, would play an important part
in attaining Plan targets.
1.05      In the case of surface water irrigation, GOI estimates that 73.5 M
ha can be irrigated compared with the 34.6 M ha or 47% of the potential that
has been developed so far. The Sixth Five-Year Plan projects development of
6.7 M ha, to raise the surface irrigated area to 56% of potential. The main
works would be financed through State budgets, but ARDC-supported credit to
farmers would be important for financing investments such as land levelling
and construction of field channels.
Production
1.06      Crops.   Production of foodgrains dominates the agricultural sec-
tor and cereals occupy about 61% of cropped area, followed by pulses (19%),
oilseeds (10%) and fibers (.5.5%). The rest of the arable area is devoted
to root crops, sugar cane, plantation crops (including important export
crops like tea, coffee and cashews), orchards and a wide variety of vege-
tables and spices. Foodgrain production has increased steeply from about
60 M tons in the early 1950s to about 132 M tons in 1978/79, mainly due to
increase in production of wheat (8 M-35 M tons) and rice (25 M-54 M tons).
Due to severe drought, production fell to 108.9 M tons in 1979/80, but
recovered in 1980/81, for which year production is estimated at 130 M
tons. Increased production resulted mainly from successful varietal im-
provements, backed by spread of irrigation (22.6 M ha in 1950/51 to 49.5 M
ha in 1977/78) and increase in use of fertilizers (2.23 kg/ha in 1950/51
to 21.11 kg/ha in 1977/78). Production of pulses and oilseeds, by contrast,
has been static or increased slowly because of lack of genetic breakthrough.
1/   Rainy season June-September.



- 3 -
Cotton production remains constrained by pest problems. Sugar cane experienced
rapid expansion up to 1977, when local and export prices collapsed. As a re-
sult production has dropped since then, but with recent firmer prices is likely
to continue to expand.
1.07      Because of its varied climate, a large range of horticultural and
plantation crops is grown in India. There has been a steady expansion of area
under orchards, partly assisted by institutional credit. Fruits are mostly for
the internal market, but an important export trade to the Middle East is being
developed, for instance, for mango. Improvement in the plantation crop sector
is also receiving financial assistance from institutional credit for moderniz-
ing operations to cater for the expanded local market and to retain the share
of world exports. In general the plantation sector is backed by effective
research that has identified and proven improved production and processing
technology. Improvements of this group of crops would be encouraged by the
project.
1.08      Animal Husbandry.  India has a large cattle and buffalo population.
Of an estimated  253 M in 1972 about 178 M (70%) were cattle used mostly for
draft purposes and about 57 M were buffalo used mainly for milk production.
Milk production is estimated to have increased from 20 M tons to 30 M tons
over the last two decades. This has been the consequence of programs such
as crossing with superior breeds, improved fodder production and better animal
health services that have been combined in a national dairy development pro-
gram, supported by four IDA projects (Credits 482-IN, 521-IN, 522-IN and
824-IN), with successful programs for cooperative milk marketing and pro-
cessing.
1.09      The poultry industry has made rapid progress with the emergence
of commercial hatchery and poultry production enterprises. Egg production
increased from about 3 billion in 1960/61 to over 10 billion in 1977/78.
Institutional credit played an important role in developing this industry
which aims to increase egg production by another 2 billion eggs per annum.
By contrast, there has been little progress in increasing mutton and wool
production, both in good demand.
1.10      Fisheries.  India's 6,500 km coastline and 1.6 M ha expanse of inland
water represent large fisheries resources. The fish catch is reported to have
doubled in the period 1960/61-1980/81 from 1.2 M tons to 2.4 M tons, of which
about two thirds is the marine catch. The latter is almost completely taken
from inshore waters and is dominated by the shrimp catch (10-18% in quantity,
over 50%--about US$300 M per annum--in value) which is processed for export.
Institutional credit has played an important part in financing the mechanized
fishing fleet and to a lesser extent processing facilities. The inshore shrimp
potential is fully utilized in most parts of the shoreline and new entrants
into the industry are beginning to exploit the non-crustacean catch increas-
ingly, for which a local market is emerging. GOI and State governments are
supporting development of inland pond fisheries and the IDA supported Inland
Fisheries Project (Credit 963-IN) will play an important part by introducing
modern large-scale hatchery technology on a commercial scale.
1.11      Forestry.  About 74.8 M ha (about 23% of India's land area) is clas-
sified as forest. However, between 50%-60% of this has been badly degraded.



- 4 -
Value of production has been estimated at about US$340 M in 1974/75 of which
about US$240 M was from timber and fuel and the rest from miscellaneous by-
products.   The demand for forestry products, particularly for fuel is enormous,
far greater than available forestry supplies.  GOI and State governments are
pursuing vigorous tree planting programs many of which benefit tribal groups
which are among the weaker section of the population. Increasing use of
institutional credit is being made by corporate or private investors for
establishing commercial plantations.
Inputs
1.12      Provision of inputs to back agricultural capital investment programs
is satisfactory. Fertilizer use has increased from 60,000 tons nutrients to
over 5 M tons over two decades and continues to grow rapidly.  Distribution
through more than 100,000 outlets, which also handle seeds and pesticides, is
satisfactory in most areas. However, transport and storage has become an
enormous operation and plans are under consideration to modernize the systems.
Seed supply has not proved a production constraint.  Improvements supported
by the two National Seed Projects (Ln. 1273-IN and Cr. 816-IN) should ensure
adequate future supplies of good quality seed. Use of pesticides has also
increased from 100 tons technical grade material to 60,000 tons over the last
20 years. More effective pest control measures are now being taught by improved
extension services, which should bring higher benefits to expenditures on pest
control.
Supporting Services
1.13      Storage and Marketing.  Due to increases from 12 M to 24 M tons over
the last six years storage capacity of GOI States, cooperatives and the private
sector is beginning to catch up with storage needs arising from the greater
grain harvests of recent years. Plans to expand capacity by another 7.7 M tons
over the next five years, which would be supported by the project, would hetlp
to equip India with adequate storage for projected crop production and for GOI
grain procurement, price support and food distribution programs. Improvement
programs for some of the 4,250 important agricultural produce markets would
also be assisted by the project. The programs would help to avoid marketing
bottlenecks of increased production that would result from other project invest-
ments.
1.14      Research and Extension.  GOI and State governments are giving high
priority to ensuring adequate agricultural research and extension. Both are
key parameters for improving productivity and for supporting agricultural
investment programs. India probably enjoys one of the best agricultural re-
search services of any developing country, which is supported by the National
Research Project (Cr. 855-IN), designed to strengthen the capability of uni-
versities to carry out area-specific research, particularly on foodgrains.
1.15      The extension effort is impressive and benefits from strong IDA
support in the form of eleven IDA projects. Under these, improved extension
has been introduced into thirteen major States in India and spread to other
States is being planned. The strong emphasis on improving extension and
research will help farmers derive expected benefits from long-term invest-
ments supported by the project.



- 5 -
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND AGRICULTURAL
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
A. Background
2.01      Institutional agricultural credit dates back to establishment of
credit cooperatives in the early 1900s which, until recently, remained the
only source of such credit. Today, however, the rural banking system comprises
cooperative institutions--60% of outstanding agricultural loans in 1980--
commercial banks (CB)--about 36%--and more recently established regional rural
banks (RRB)--about 4%. Private money lenders are still believed to provide the
bulk of rural credit because of easy access and their preparedness to lend for
consumption and ceremonial purposes, not covered by institutions. However a
Reserve Bank of India survey indicated that their share of outstanding debt
is declining, from 90% in the early 1960s to 75% in 1971-72, due to growing
availability of cheaper institutional credit and the development of the geo-
graphical coverage of the banking system. In 1980 this consisted of over
100,000 outlets and only about 40 blocks 1/ out of 5,000 in India remain with-
out institutional credit facilities. Direct agricultural loans by institu-
tions increased from Rs 16,750 M in 1976 to Rs 29,400 M 2/ in 1980. Within
this, medium-and long-term lending more than doubled from Rs 5,000 M to Rs
11,000 M. GOI's Sixth Plan calls for further doubling of total institutional
credit for agriculture by 1984/85.
2.02      Agricultural credit operations are guided and regulated by the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) which ensures that different institutions offer
the same lending terms for similar lending purposes. The Agricultural Credit
Department (ACD) of RBI is the main source of refinance for short term coop-
erative credit institutions, but under its statutes cannot provide medium
or long term refinance facilities. Such funding for the agricultural credit
system is provided mainly by open market bond operations by the institutions
that are supervised by RBI, refinance from the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC), time deposits, and share capital contributions
and loans from State governments and public corporations.
2.03      The main institutions involved in term lending for agricultural
development and their principal sources of funds, are shown in Charts WB 23130
and 23125. ARDC, with assistance from IDA, has emerged as a major source of
refinance for term lending and the share of such refinance obtained by the
different types of institutions is shown below.
1/   Administrative subdivision.
2/   Estimated.



-6-
Institution                         ARDC Refinance
Total Outstanding      1979/80 Lending
June 30, 1980
Rs M         %         Rs M        %
Cooperative Land
Development Banks (para 2.05)       9,830      56.6        1,640      39.8
Commercial Banks /a                  7,290      41.9        2,390      58.0
Cooperative Banks (para 2.06)          260        1.5          90       2.2
TOTAL                    17,380      100          4,120    100
la   Includes Regional Rural Banks whose participation in ARDC refinanced
schemes is still insignificant.
2.04      In 1979, GOI and RBI appointed a high level "Committee to Review
Arrangements for Institutional Credit for Agriculture and Rural Development"
(CRAFICARD). Its final report released in May 1981 recommends the establish-
ment of a National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) to
combine the agricultural credit activities of RBI and ARDC. The effects of
this change are discussed in para 5.08; basically, however, the present insti-
tutional structure would be retained.
B. The Cooperative Credit System
2.05      Since the mid 1920s, cooperative banks have been organized by indi-
vidual States into two independent groups of institutions: (a) land develop-
ment banks (LDB), long-term credit system, and (b) cooperative banks, short-
and mediumrterm credit system. There are 19 LDB, each consisting of a State
Land Development Bank (SLDB), which lends through its own branches or refi-
nances affiliated Primary Land Development Banks (PLDB). In 1979, there were
999 LDB branches and 889 PLDB. LDB provide loans for agricultural investments
for periods of between 3 and 15 years. They do not make seasonal loans, ac-
cept individual deposits, or lend for nonagricultural purposes. They are not
classified as scheduled banks and are regulated by RBI's Agricultural Credit
Department.
2.06      The cooperative bank structure is much larger and more diversified.
In 1979, 26 State Cooperative Banks (SCB) provided funds for 344 district level
Central Cooperative Banks which, in turn, supported about 94,000 Primary Agri-
cultural Credit Societies. These societies which specialize in seasonal and
medium-term (1 to 5 years) credit 1/ are also designed to provide a variety of
services to their members, including savings, inputs supply, staple consumer
goods supply and crop marketing facilities.  Participation of SCB in long-teTm
lending has been insignificant, see para 2.03, and confined to fisheries and
1/   A full description of the State Cooperative Bank structure is given in
the Staff Appraisal Report on the Second National Cooperative Development
Corporation Project, April 1981 (Report No. 3300-IN).



-7-
dairy cattle loans. SCB lack staff trained in preparation, appraisal and
supervision of long-term lending schemes and the project would pay specific
attention to their training needs (para 4.29), to encourage more term lend-
ing from this system.
2.07      The main disadvantage of the split cooperative structure is that
farmers are unable to obtain all their credit requirements from a single
cooperative organization. A study of the advisability of integrating the two
systems, conducted by GOI under the first ARDC Credit Project, recommended a
gradual merger of the two banking systems, but the recommendation met with
considerable opposition from most LDB. Three States planned pilot scale
mergers but have found this difficult and have made little progress. More
recently, CRAFICARD re-examined the issues and concluded that merger of the
two systems would not be practical at this time. Instead, the committee recom-
mended that Primary Agricultural Credit Societies should give agency services
to LDB for establishing contacts with potential LDB borrowers, for initial
scanning of loan applications, loan disbursements, and for receiving repay-
ments, and that such agency assistance should be tried by some selected rela-
tively strong and well managed primary societies. GOI has accepted these
proposals. However, merger of the two credit systems has not been totally
abandoned. Measures such as bringing short- medium- and long-term refinanc-
ing together at the national level under NABARD (para 5.07); the expected
increase in long-term lending by the State Cooperative banking system (para
2.06); and the encouragement being given to LDB to give production credit to
their borrowers, are all designed to draw the two cooperative barking systems
closer together to prepare the ground for a possible future merger.
C. Land Development Banks
2.08      LDB service about six million accounts.  Anyone wishing to borrow
from an LDB has to become a member and purchase LDB shares. The main LDB
shareholders are members and other cooperatives (70%) and State Governments
(29%). Both SLDB and PLDB are managed by boards of directors, partly elected
and partly State nominated, but State governments may, and do, suspend the
boards, sometimes for political reasons. State governments can effectively
control LDB, but degree of control actually exercised by them over LDB man-
agement varies widely among States. LDB were pioneers of development lending
and their work has brought and continues to bring high benefits to rural areas.
2.09      Total LDB lending has been static and their annual share of ARDC
refinance declined from nearly 90% in 1974 to about 40% in 1980 with a corres-
ponding rise in the share obtained by CB. The main reason for the stagnation
is lending restrictions, imposed by ARDC and RBI because of poor loan recovery,
particularly of six large LDB--Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. These six States collectively account for 60% of
all LDB loan collection demand 1/ and 80% of all LDB overdues, yet in 1979/80
1/   Principal and interest falling due during the year plus overdues from
previous years.



-8-
conducted only 29% of all LDB lending compared to nearly 50% in 1975/76. LDB
lending, value of outstanding loans, recovery performance, and lending eli-
gibility of LDB branches or PLDB are shown in Annex 1, Tables 1-4. The per-
formance of the six LDB listed above is compared to that of all-India LDB in
the following table:
1975/76     1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80
A.     LDB Lending (Constant 1970/71 terms, Rs M) /a
(i)  Six States          563          587          344          310          380
(ii)  Other States        607          804          952          903          932
(iii)  All-India         1,170        1,391        1,296        1,213        1,312
(i)/(iii) %          48           42           27           26           29
B.     Loan Repayment Demand (Current Terms, Rs M)
(i)  Six States        1,711        1,995        2,385        2,694        2,9L2
(ii)  All-lndia         2,667        3,305        3,928        4,518        5,003
(i)/(ii) %           64           60           61           60          '58
C.     Loan Repayments Overdues (Current Terms, Rs M)
(i)  Six States          767        1,073        1,399        1,609        2,076
(ii)  All-India           919        1,317        1,703        2,003        2,511
(iii)  (i)/(ii) %           83           81           82           80            82
D.     Overdues as Percent of Demand
(i)  Six States           45           54           59           60           71
(ii)  Other States         16           19           20           22           21
(iii)  All-India            34           40           43           42           51
/a  Implicit price deflator of gross domestic capital formation -- Economic
Situation and Prospects of India -- Report No. 3401-IN, April 1981.
The table shows that sluggish lending by the LDB system is due to declining
performance of the six LDB listed above. The table also illustrates the
impact of their high overdues on the all-India LDB loan collection efforts.
A ranking of LDB by collection records into three groups--LDB with collections
better than 60% of demand; LDB with collections at about 50%-60% of demand;
and other LDB (Annex 1, Table 5) shows that collection records of several
other LDB are also unsatisfactory, notably Orissa, Jammu-Kashmir, Assam and
Himachal Pradesh. But their operations and impact on national lending stat-
istics are small.
2.10      Causes of Overdues.  The high level of overdues is the most critical
problem facing LDB. Over a five year period 1975-1980, all-India LDB overdues
increased from about 34% of demand to just over 50%, despite rescheduling 1/
1/   Spreading repayment for one year over remaining installments.



or rephasing 1/ of part of borrowers repayments by some LDB. This deter-
ioration was recognized and the overdues problem received special attention
during appraisal of the Third ARDC Credit Project (Credit 947-IN). While
collection improved in 1980/81 (para 2.14), overall the results of measures
for improving loan recovery, including tighter lending eligibility criteria
and plans for rehabilitation of LDB with poor collection records introduced as
conditions of that operation, have been disappointing to date (paras 2.15 and
2.16). In fact collection has deteriorated markedly during the life of the
Third ARDC Project.
2.11      There are many reasons for high overdues, including willful default;
natural factors that result in crop failures; poor LDB organization and man-
agement that result in inadequate appraisal, loan supervision and collection
efforts; and, in some instances, active discouragement of collection efforts
by State governments for political reasons. For example, once overdues have
built up, particularly following crop failure, political agitation for debt
remission grows and, in some States, governments seek to gain political advantage
by remitting collection. Once overdues have built up to high levels, restora-
tion of satisfactory collection levels (75% or better) becomes a very difficult
task.
2.12      Willful default and unfavorable political conditions for loan col-
lection are the major factors causing high overdues. Agro-climatic factors
are also important. Since LDB lending has been mainly for minor irrigation
from groundwater, it is significant that most States with good loan collection
records have reliable aquifers, while five of the six problem States have
less reliable groundwater resources, which are adversely affected by periodic
droughts (Map IBRD 15972R and Annex 1, Table 5). While dugwell investments
in the latter areas show satisfactory rates of return, farmers have more dif-
ficulty in meeting loan repayments after bad crop years than those in reliable
groundwater areas. Rephasing loans after genuine crop failures is therefore
important. In addition, to cater for the two or three droughts that can be
expected during the life of a minor irrigation investment, ARDC is evaluating
alternatives, including intermediate grace periods, for possible amendment of
repayment arrangements for dugwell loans in hardrock areas, to prevent build-
up of large repayment arrears.
2.13      The main reasons for deterioration in loan collection performance over
the 1979-1980 period are severe drought in 1979 and the several national and
State elections that occured during that period. Impact of elections ranged
from promises of debt remission by some candidates, to a State government ban
on legal action against defaulters, to preoccupation of the administration
with elections to the detriment of loan recovery action. In addition, write-
off of short-term debt by two States against GOI advice and despite strong
opposition by RBI caused even greater reluctance to repay loans in some other
States.
2.14      There has been considerable improvement in loan collection climate
in 1980/81, due to repeated injunctions from highest GOI levels on the impera-
tive need for loan recovery and warnings that poor recovery may mean exclusion
1/   Allowing one or more extra year(s) for repayment.



- 10 -
from future Bank Group supported lending. As a result, all State governments
have withdrawn bans on legal action against defaulters and have organized
vigorous loan recovery drives. Most States have introduced special measures
to improve loan recovery and, as a result, collection increased by 50%, from
Rs 800 M in 1979/80 to Rs 1,200 M in 1980/81 in the six problem States, al--
though this improvement still only resulted in the collection of about 40%
of demand. All-India overdues were reduced to 44% 1/ as of June 30, 1981
from just over 50% in the preceding year, but collection results were uneven
and there was a disturbing drop in loan recovery in important States with
good collection records to date such as Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and
West Bengal. In addition, some measures introduced by States to encourage
recovery are harmful, for instance, overdue interest remission against repay-
ment of overdue principal. That measure may boost recovery this year, but
discourage future payments in anticipation of similar concessions.
2.15      Past Measures to Improve Collection.  To improve loan recovery,
lending eligibility criteria were introduced during the First ARDC Credit
Project (Credit 540-IN) which, with some modifications, were retained through-
out the two successor projects and are still in force. They regulate the
amount of new lending of SLDB branches or PLDB according to loan recovery.
The present criteria allow unlimited lending if, in the preceding year,
recovery was 75% of demand or better; limited lending, based on a sliding
scale percentage of previous lending, if recovery was between 50 and 75%; and
no lending for lower recoveries. However, some lending for special GOI small
farmer programs and for completing ongoing investments is allowed for outlets
below the cut-off point. The criteria appeared to work initially, but in the
longer term, have not improved collection, although it is conjectural whether
collection would have been worse or better had the criteria not been applied.
Whatever the impact on recovery performance, their effect on new lending was
highly regressive. In Gujarat, for instance, with the longest history of high
overdues, new lending fell from Rs 162 M in 1975 to Rs 40 M in 1980. As a
consequence, collections at Rs 843 M, were four times as high as new loans
Rs 211 M -- over the same period. Excluding Maharashtra which benefited frcom
large-scale rephasing and consequent high lending eligibility from 1979/80
onwards, the five remaining LDB with serious overdues problems collected
Rs 2.2 billion over the last three years but lent only Rs 1.4 billion.
Lending reduced below recovery levels has caused low staff morale and drop in
interest revenue. There is also some evidence that loan collection at outlets
with no eligibility has decreased rather than improved. Both GOI and the Bank
Group therefore agree that revision of existing criteria is necessary (para
2.20).
2.16      To complement the eligibility criteria, any SLDB with overall over-
dues of more than 50% or with more than half of its branches or PLDB without
lending eligibility, was required to implement a time-bound rehabilitation
program satisfactory to ARDC, to qualify for ARDC refinance. Draft plans were
drawn up by senior ARDC and RBI management for five States, 2/ but were not
1/   Without rescheduling and rephasing of loans (para 2.10) and blocking
of loans (para. 2.16) all-India overdues would have been 54% in 1979/
80 and 50% in 1980/81.
2/   Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Tamil Nadu.



- 11 -
formally agreed between ARDC and State governments. Also, the draft plans
lacked implementation timetables.  The draft plans provided for rephasing of
overdues caused by climatic hazards, blocking of chronic overdues 1/ in some
States, injection of capital by State governments into LDB, special measures
to recover loans from willful defaulters and for management studies. Most
States except Bihar have introduced some of the financial provisions of the
plans, but loan recovery has not yet improved. Some management studies have
been completed, but have proved disappointing.  The rehabilitation programs
are important, but measures for ensuring prompt implementation and better
supervision of implementation are needed and would be introduced under the
project (para 2.28).
Review of the Six Selected LDB 2/
2.17      Because of the high proportion of total overdues accounted for by
these LDB, a solution of their problems would considerably improve the all-
India LDB loan recovery situation. Consequently their operations have been
reviewed in some detail and findings are described in Annex 2. A summary of
the findings is given below.
2.18      The poor recovery and management performance in the three LDB with
weakest results 3/ have already had repercussions on their operations and
financial viability. Lending eligibility has decreased seriously, and aging
of overdues has worsened, thus increasing the danger of bad debts. The con-
cerned LDB have become difficult and unattractive institutions to manage and
work for. Their financial viability has deteriorated and led to curbing of
administrative costs, often to the detriment of loan appraisal and collec-
tion. Their liquidity has suffered, and to meet their obligations, the LDB
have been forced to seek State government assistance or resort to expensive
short-term borrowing which has further reduced their profits. Although on
the basis of the usual accounting information the six LDB under review appear
to have maintained financial soundness (debt equity ratio varying from 10:1
to 6:1 and owned capital to assets ratios from 1:11 to 1:7; Annex 2, Tables
2-7), this has been possible mainly due to help of State government share or
loan contributions. The ratio between overdues and assets, however, has
weakened considerably during the last five years (from an average 1:12 to 1:5).
In addition, their assets are probably overvalued, since they contain lending
and receivables which will, with the current poor credit discipline, soon
become chronic overdues and gradually bad debts. If these financial trends
were to continue, annual losses would erode equity capital, while bad debts
in relation to equity would increase to a level where continuation of busi-
ness would be impossible without outside assistance. This level is already
approaching in Gujarat. Consequently, participation of the six major
1/   Chronic overdues are entered into a blocked account and the State gov-
ernment pays LDB any shortfall in collecting the dues, generally over
a five-year period. While collection from debtors would continue even
after five years, the amount outstanding would no longer appear as such
in LDB accounts.
2/   Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.
3/   Bihar, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu.



- 12 -
LDB under review in the project needs to be firmly regulated. It should
be noted that they accounted for only about 5% of ARDC lending in the last
two to three years while not so long ago they were among the strongest LDB
in India. The appraisal mission agreed with GOI and State governments that
special efforts to rehabilitate these LDB would be justified.
2.19      Participation in Future Lending.  Despite the problems that have
developed in some cases, LDB remain important rural development institu-
tions and both GOI and State governments consider their continued participation
essential to their objectives of increasing agricultural production and rural
incomes.  Most CB, the main alternative lending channel, still operate within
a fixed distance of their branches and some of them try to avoid difficult or
small farmer lending. However, if future participation of these six LDB in
development is to be meaningful, rehabilitation measures more effective than
those tried to date are needed. Some of the proposed measures, such as modi-
fication of lending eligibility criteria (para. 2.20) and protection of LDB
from State actions that endanger efficient operations (para. 2.23), would bene-
fit all LDB. Other measures, by way of specific improvement programs would
become conditions of participation and would determine the lending level of
the six major LDB with serious problems described above. Special improvement
programs for the six LDB would be given priority, to allow adequate focus on
their effective implementation. Similar programs for smaller LDB with operat-
ing problems (para. 2.09) would be designed later, when the priority programs
have become well established.
Measures to Improve LDB Operations
2.20      Eligibility Criteria -  Existing criteria (para 2.15) would be
replaced by the following set, regulating lending eligibility of any SLDB
branch or PLDB:
(a) Loan Collection more than 75% of repayment demand - unlimited
lending;
(b) Loan Collection 60% - 75% of repayment demand - lending up
to highest level in the preceding five years or up to actual
repayment collected in the preceding year or average repay-
ment collected in the preceding three years, whichever is
the higher; and
(c) Loan collection less than 60% of repayment demand - lending up
to actual repayment collection in the preceding year or aver-
age repayment collection in the preceding three years, which-
ever is higher.
2.21      State assistance to any outlet by subscription of equity up to 10%
of overdues and notional reduction of overdues by that amount would continues.
Exemptions to allow lending for Integrated Rural Development Programs or other
programs would no longer be available. Exemptions were appropriate when many
outlets had lost all lending eligibility, which would no longer be the case
in future. In addition, the size of special programs, small in the past, will
increase to an extent when exemptions for them would nullify the effect of ithe
criteria. The criteria, as well as criteria for SCB and participating Central
Cooperative Banks and Primary Agricultural Societies are set out in Schedule E.



- 13 -
2.22      The new LDB criteria were agreed at negotiations.  They would be
simple and would avoid the regressive effects of present regulations. They
would still control lending levels and would provide easily understood incen-
tives to improve loan recovery, by directly linking new lending to recovery.
To avoid any unforeseen and undesirable effects of applying the criteria,
assurances were obtained that a joint GOI/ARDC/ Bank Group review of the
operation of the new system would be held by October 31, 1982 and subsequently,
as may prove necessary.
2.23      State Intervention.  Some measures taken by State governments in
the past have caused unfavorable conditions for loan collection (paras 2.11
and 2.13) or have otherwise interfered with LDB operations. Such actions
have encouraged willful loan default and are among main reasons for poor
collection performance by LDB and other banks. To avoid recurrence of such
harmful measures, agreement was reached that all participating banks or
their branches would lose eligibility for drawing ARDC refinance, if their
State government agrees to the write off of loans or remission or reduction
of interest charges; or introduces measures (such as ban on legal action
against willful defaulters), if such write offs or other measures would, in
the opinion of RBI or ARDC be harmful to effective LDB, SCB, CB or RRB opera-
tions. Such disqualification of banks from participation in ARDC refinanced
lending would continue until the State government has taken appropriate cor-
rective action satisfactory to ARDC (Schedule E).
2.24      Regulation of Rescheduling, Rephasing and Blocking of Accounts.
All these measures are useful to alleviate financial distress of borrowers
caused by climatic hazards or unavoidable personal circumstances.  Timely
rescheduling or rephasing should play an important part in preventing build-
up of overdues after crop failures. Blocking of accounts, to deal with the
hardcore of chronic overdues should be a once-only operation for any LDB.
Such measures have been used in the past, but in some cases indiscriminately,
to the benefit of willful defaulters. To avoid possible misunderstanding,
ARDC would closely monitor the guidelines for rephasing and rescheduling drawn
up by RBI, which are satisfactory. Blocking may only be carried out by LDB
with express permission from RBI and ARDC.
Special Programs and Participation Conditions for Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka,
Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu LDB
2.25      Operations of the six LDB listed above and particularly those of
Bihar, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu have deteriorated considerably. New eligibi-
lity criteria (para 2.20) would go some way to ameliorating their operations,
but on their own would not be enough. To facilitate meaningful participation
of these LDB in the project, would require financial measures and improved
management and much closer monitoring of rehabilitation programs by GOI, RBI
and ARDC that the Bank Group would also be associated with. The following
would form the core of rehabilitation programs, mostly complementary or simi-
lar to rehabilitation proposals previously worked out for the six States:
2.26      Financial Measures.
-    Bihar - Rephasing Rs 82 M of overdues in demand resulting
from 1979/80 drought conditions and placing an amount of
chronic overdues 1/ agreed by ARDC into a "blocked account"
1/   Generally more than 5 years old.



- 14 -
for recovery over five years. Any shortfall in annual collec-
tion to this blocked account would be reimbursed by the
Government of Bihar to the LDB. (Operation of blocked
accounts for chronic overdues in other States would follow
similar procedures.)
Gujarat - Transfer of part of the Rs 185 M in chronic overdues,
acceptable to ARDC and the Bank Group, into a blocked account.
Karnataka - Transfer into a blocked account of Rs 54 M, which
was the amount of chronic overdues (37% of overdues) as at
June 30, 1980.
Madhya Pradesh - Acceptance of a financial rehabilitation
program satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Maharashtra - Transfer of Rs 229 M in overdues, which were
rephased in 1979 and which appear difficult to collect,
into a blocked account.
Tamil Nadu - Transfer of chronic overdues into a blocked
account in 1975/76 and rephasing of overdues during 1980/81
are adequate for rehabilitation of the LDB and no additional
financial measures are needed.
The States concerned have accepted financial rehabilitation proposals for
their LDB as described above. However, in some cases, States have proposed
to block higher amounts than those outlined above. While the resultant finan-
cial injection into LDB resources is welcome, exclusion of the total higher
blocked amount from repayment demand would lead to excessive lending eligi-
bility for LDB outlets that have been performing badly. ARDC has, therefore,
concurred with the Bank Group that no more than the amounts listed above for
blocking of chronic overdues would be counted for reducing repayment demand
when calculating lending eligibility of outlets of concerned LDB. Execution,
of the financial rehabilitation plans by the LDB under review would be a
condition of their being able to continue to participate in ARDC refinanced
lending (Schedule E).
2.27      LDB Organization and Management.  The results of past attempts to
improve LDB organization and management have been disappointing because of
insufficient analysis of LDB problems and inadequate follow-up arrangements
to supervise rehabilitation measures. To overcome these shortcomings, a
"Standing Committee", satisfactory to the Bank Group, has been established by
RBI to superintend rehabilitation of the six LDB. Assurances were obtained
that GOI would maintain this committee which., apart from monitoring financial
measures, would, by December 31, 1981, appoint a team for each LDB, which
should include management consultants, to study LDB organization and manage-
ment status and recommend an improvement program, including an implementation
timetable. The terms of reference were discussed at negotiations and found
satisfactory to the Bank Group (Annex 7). Early completion of the studies anld
implementation of rehabilitation programs would be important for improving
operations of the six problem LDB. Assurances were therefore obtained that:
(i) GOI would ensure completion of the studies by May 31, 1982; and (ii)
that ARDC would, by June 30, 1982, prepare programs with implementation time-
tables based on the studies, and satisfactory to the Bank Group, for improv-
ing operations of the six relevant LDB. After September 1, 1982 acceptance



- 15 -
of the program by each of the six State governments and satisfactory imple-
mentation of each LDB concerned, would be conditions of continued participa-
tion by any of these LDB in ARDC refinanced lending (Schedule E). Assurances
were also obtained that similar programs, both for financial rehabilitation
and for improving operations, may be drawn up for other LDB, in due course,
by mutual agreement and arrangement between GOI, the Bank Group and ARDC.
2.28      Supervision of Rehabilitation Programs and Lending Eligibility.  The
Standing Committee would continue to supervise the six LDB during the project
period. At fairly frequent intervals, at least three times a year, the Com-
mittee would carry out a detailed review of LDB progress, in which the Bank
Group would participate. On these occasions LDB lending eligibility would be
reviewed. Eligibility would initially be based on the criteria described in
para 2.20, but, subject to Bank Group agreement, could be changed during the
review, but not to allow more lending than under the criteria. Adjustments,
mutually acceptable to the Bank Group and ARDC would be based on progress of
the LDB in implementing the rehabilitation program and in loan recovery (Sche-
dule E). Assurances that the review process and determination of lending eli-
gibility of the six LDB would be implemented as outlined, including Bank Group
participation, were obtained at negotiations.
D. Commercial Banks
2.29      The amount outstanding in agricultural loans by CB grew from Rs
1,900 M lent to 270,000 accounts by June 1969 to Rs 24,600 M for 1.9 million
accounts in June 1979. Of the total, about 25% consisted of "indirect" lending
for crop storage, input stocks or rural electrification. The remainder was in
respect of direct lending to farmers of which Rs 10,650 M (about 60%) was in
the form of medium-and long-term loans and the balance for crop production
loans. Annual medium/long-term lending levels rose from Rs 1,280 M in 1975
to Rs 4,350 M in 1979. However, even at that time total agricultural lending
represented only about 12% of total CB loan business.
2.30      Expansion of CB agricultural lending owes much to GOI requirements
for minimum lending levels by CB to priority sectors including agriculture.
The Sixth Five Year Plan target calls for 40% of total CB lending for the
priority sectors and at least 40% of that or 16% of total lending to agricul-
ture. To support this policy, GOI gave preference in licensing new branches
to rural or semiurban branches over urban branches, resulting in an increase
from about 5,000 rural/semiurban branches in 1969 to over 25,000 in 1980. For
development lending, CB are turning increasingly to ARDC for refinance. They
have recognized the advantages of using the preparation and appraisal tech-
niques required by ARDC, compared to their former scattered lending 1/ and,
in early 1978, RBI instructed CB to apply the ARDC prescribed interest rate
for all specified agricultural lending even if financed entirely by their own
funds. Since these funds are generally more costly than those provided by
ARDC, CB have come to rely increasingly on ARDC refinance as the principal
means of meeting the priority sector lending targets set by GOI. In calendar
1/   Individual loans for different purposes over a wide area, which were
difficult to supervise, compared to single purpose loan schemes in
compact areas prepared by CB and appraised by ARDC.



- 16 -
year 1979, 1/ ARDC refinance of CB lending was Rs 1,800 M, about 40% of total
CB term lending for agriculture.  The rate of CB participation in the project
will partly depend on differences between interest rates for agricultural and
non-agricultural lending. As this difference increases, CB participation in
the project could be expected to increase.
2.31      Commercial banks can be divided into two groups - public and private
sector banks. The public sector group is the most important and consists of
the State Bank of India with seven affiliates and 20 other nationalized banks
and accounted for 90% of agricultural advances in 1980. Members of the State
Bank of India group are the most active of the CB in agricultural lending.
Though operating only about 25% of the some 25,000 rural and semiurban CB
branches, they accounted for almost half the total direct agricultural lending
and agricultural term lending by CB.
2.32      Most CB have an agricultural lending department and section,
appropriately staffed at headquarters, but the deployment of trained staff to
evaluate the technical aspects of loan proposals at regional and branch level
is variable. The supply of technical staff has been inadequate and CB claim
that they have not been able to find all the staff that they wished to employ.
Organization of agricultural lending varies. The State Bank group has estab-
lished branches that conduct only agricultural business and give assistance
to other branches without technical staff. One or two banks are experiment--
ing with a similar system, but most do agricultural lending through ordinary
branches that may or may not have technical staff.  The CB agricultural port-
folio refinanced by ARDC as at June 1980 was composed of minor irrigation,
41%; farm mechanization, 27%; storage and markets, 13%; plantation/horticul--
ture, 4%; fisheries, 4%; dairy schemes, 3%; and 8% for a miscellany of other
agricultural investments. The CB portfolio is more diversified from minor
irrigation than that of LDB, but loans still tend to be to somewhat larger
borrowers than those reached by cooperatives.
2.33      The main advantage of CB in agricultural lending is ability to
provide both production and development loans. A second advantage is greater
flexibility than the cooperatives with regard to collateral. While LDB are
obliged to take a mortgage or charge on land as security for each loan, CB
can use their discretion as to the type of loan security. Also, due to size
and nature of operations, CB can offer better terms of service and thus attract
well-qualified technical staff. Disadvantages are relative newness to rural
operations and urban orientation of CB staff. Another important disadvantage,
partially overcome in most States, has been the different lending conditions
such as stamp and registration fees payable by borrowers from CB, not payable
by LDB borrowers. Finally, CB receive relatively little State government
assistance for loan recovery compared with that given to cooperatives.
2.34      As with LDB, CB have found difficulties with loan recoveries.  The
levels of overdues have been static in recent years or improved only marginally
and in 1979 stood at just under 50% (Annex 1, Table 6). In general, CB col-
lection records in individual States are similar to those of LDB (Annex 1,
Table 5). Up to now, accurate comparison of loan collection performance with
LDB or between CB has been difficult because of differing reporting and
accounting systems. In April 1979, ARDC, with IDA encouragement, establishedi
1!   The calendar year is also the financial year for CB.



- 17 -
the Committee on Agricultural Loans through Commercial Banks (CALCOB), to
advise ARDC on ways of increasing agricultural lending efficiency. A review
of the overdues situation was the Committee's priority task.  CALCOB  studied
overdues of 70 branches of 19 major CB in 17 States and found that willful
default due to State interference with collection efforts was a major cause
and that inadequate appraisal and follow-up due to insufficient or inexperi-
enced staff was contributory. The Committee found that in many instances,
branch managers had set very tight repayment schedules and had not rephased
or rescheduled loans in cases of crop failure. CALCOB considered, but re-
jected the introduction of eligibility criteria similar to those employed
for LDB as a means of ensuring better collection performance, in favor of
standardization of loan collection accounting and reporting; and in cases
of applications for new lending, disclosure to ARDC of operational details
of any branch with worse than 50% collection record that is included in new
schemes; and adoption of measures prescribed by ARDC to improve branch opera-
tions as a condition of new ARDC finance. CALCOB also found staffing levels
used for agricultural lending to be varied and recommended studies to estab-
lish staffing norms. These are in progress. Main reasons for CALCOB advising
against eligibility criteria were: the small proportion of agricultural loans
to total CB business; existing insurance cover against losses provided by the
Deposit Insurance and Guarantee Corporation; comparative newness to agricul-
tural lending of many branches; the difference in size, organization, busi-
ness and area covered by CB branches compared to LDB outlets and the need to
maintain credit flows, particularly in areas where LDB eligibility is low.
2.35       GOI, RBI and ARDC accepted the CALCOB recommendations that eligibi-
lity criteria should not be adopted by CB automatically. They also endorsed
CALCOB recommendations for operational improvements, which are now being im-
plemented. In particular GOI is concerned that CB might welcome an excuse to
reduce agricultural lending, and such reduction could slow the pace of rural
development. The appraisal mission feels that the time is not opportune for
immediate introduction of lending eligibility criteria for CB. However, to
ensure uniform credit discipline between institutions, similar criteria to
those for LDB should be applied to CB and RRB as soon as possible. Prepara-
tions should, therefore, be made for early introduction of such criteria for
CB and RRB. Consequently, assurances were obtained that CALCOB would carry
out a study to identify any modifications of LDB criteria, acceptable to the
Bank Group, that might be considered advisable and draw up measures for intro-
duction of the resultant criteria.  The study should be completed by December
31, 1982 at the latest, to allow adequate time for introduction of criteria
by July 1, 1983 (Schedule E). As an interim measure, before refinancing any
scheme by any CB or RRB branch with over 50% overdues, ARDC and the concerned
bank would agree on a program to improve that branch's operations (Schedule
E). ARDC has already prescribed a standard format for reporting loan repay-
ment data, which would be followed by CB and RRB as from June 30, 1982.
E. Regional Rural Banks
2.36      Regional Rural Banks (RRB) as yet play a very minor part in ARDC
refinancing. Up to June 30, 1980 ARDC had sanctioned 122 lending schemes
for RRB and disbursements amounted to Rs 116 M, only about 0.7% of ARDC total
disbursements. However, their participation is increasing. For instance,
disbursement of ARDC refinanced term lending grew from Rs 30 M in 1978/79 to
Rs 90 M in 1979/80, about 2% of ARDC disbursements in that year.



- 18 -
2.37      First established in 1975, there were 73 RRB by June 1980, operat-
ing through 2,678 branches. RRB were specifically established to lend to the
weakest section of the population, those that do not appear to have access
to CB or cooperatives. RRB provide all banking services. They are sponsored
by a CB that provides initial management and together with GOI and State gov-
ernment contributes to share capital. The objective is to employ and train
local staff that know the area well and can truly become "rural bankers".
Employment of local staff is intended to keep overheads much lower than those
that CB and perhaps even cooperatives can manage. The experience of the last
six years has encouraged GOI to expand the RRB system. As it grows, it may
become a major channel for development loans to small farmers. As already
indicated (para 2.35), lending eligibility criteria, interim branch partici-
pation conditions, and loan collection reporting format that would become
applicable to CB, would also apply to RRB.
III. PERFORMANCE OF BANK GROUP FINANCED
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS IN INDIA
Introduction
3.01      ARDC's association with the Bank Group dates to the formulation of
ten State-based agricultural credit projects between 1969 and 1974. They
were implemented through ARDC and are fully disbursed. In the next phase of
Bank Group/ARDC association, ARDC was entrusted with three general lines of
credit, ARDC I (August 1975 to July 1977); ARDC II (August 1975 to December
1979) and ARDC III which is under implementation. In addition, ARDC has taken
an active part in formulation and implementation of another 25 IDA/IBRD pro-
jects, by channeling long-term finance to support investments in irrigation
including major irrigation, tree crop development, marketing, horticultural
processing, inland and marine fisheries, seed production and sericulture
(Annex 1, Table 7). The amount committed by IDA/IBRD for those 38 projects
totals US$1,991 M. On June 30, 1981 total cumulative IDA/IBRD disbursements
to GOI for onlending through ARDC were about US$859 M.
Results of Completed State and ARDC Credit Projects.
3.02      Project completion reports and audits by the Operations Evaluation
Department have been prepared for the ten State-based credit projects that
were financed by IDA, and for the ARDC I and ARDC II credit projects. In
addition, the Operations Evaluation Department has reviewed the results of
the nine State-based projects and the first ARDC Credit Project, which were
all completed between 1975 and 1977. 1/
3.03      The State-based projects were designed mainly to support lending
programs by LDB and CB to farmers for investments in minor irrigation (80%
of total program), land leveling, and, in six States, farm mechanization.
Most of the projects required the State government concerned to establish
or strengthen an agency responsible for monitoring the scale and quality of
groundwater investments financed through institutional credit. Each project
required participating banks to adopt specific loan appraisal procedures,
1/   Report No. 3415 Agricultural Credit Projects.  A Review of Recent
Experience in India, April 8, 1981.



- 19 -
based on incremental income calculations, to observe uniform lending terms,
and for several, to implement improvements in their staffing and management
methods.
3.04      Physical targets for minor irrigation components were achieved or
surpassed. Farm mechanization targets were also reached in most cases, but
land development loans were hampered by organizational or legal difficulties
that were solved only after completion of the projects. The main project
objectives, to bring about increased agricultural production and improve
rural incomes through expansion of minor irrigation and use of modern tech-
nology were clearly achieved. The projects stimulated CB to carry out rural
lending. Some LDB (Punjab, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh in
particular) performed well. However, the long-term credit system in several
other States was adversely affected by the high and persistent overdues dis-
cussed earlier. The projects brought about a change from security-oriented
lending to appraisals based on incremental income. Groundwater resource
evaluation improved in all project States. However, spacing and density
criteria used for siting minor irrigation investments were not applicable to
privately-financed investments and were therefore only partly effective in
regulating groundwater abstraction.
3.05      With the improving capability of ARDC to appraise and supervise
lending schemes and with growing experience of participating banks in devel-
opment lending, IDA agreed to change the lending pattern to a general line
of credit to support long-term lending approved by ARDC throughout India.
This was expected to bring better coverage of the whole nation and allow more
flexibility in the type of lending, since ARDC can appraise schemes that would
be too small for IDA to approve individually. The First ARDC Credit Project
for disbursement of US$75 M over two years (US$69 M for minor irrigation,
US$5 M for diversified lending and US$1 M for training) was completed three
months ahead of schedule. The Second ARDC Credit Project for disbursement of
US$200 M (US$175 M for minor irrigation, US$24 M for diversified lending and
US$1 M for training) was completed on schedule. Implementation of the Third
ARDC Credit Project for US$250 M (US$207.2 M for minor irrigation, US$41.5 M
for diversified lending and US$1.3 M for training and equipment) is ahead
of schedule. IDA disbursements on June 30, 1981 were US$185 M compared to
appraisal forecast of US$155 M.  While the projects supported the total
ARDC refinancing programs, IDA, for administrative reasons, did not disburse
against all components.
3.06      Project results confirm the major contributions towards increased
agricultural production and improved rural incomes projected at appraisal.
Physical targets were achieved but the trend towards diversified lending
for plantation/horticulture, fisheries, forestry, animal husbandry, farm
mechanization and a number of other items has been faster than anticipated.
CB lending has grown more quickly than expected but LDB participation has
stagnated due to mounting overdues, as described in Chapter 2 of this report.
A notable feature of the projects was successful direction of lending towards
less developed areas and to small farmers.  Instead of the 25% lending to
less developed areas targeted, over 40% was achieved and from a base of
about 25%-30% lending to small farmers prior to ARDC projects, about 50% of
the lending of the Second ARDC Credit Project went to small farmers, ARDC
continued to expand staff and services particularly its regional and tech-
nical services.



- 20 -
3.07      The Operation Evaluations Department review confirmed the important
contribution of the credit projects to agricultural development in India. The
review found that while, due mainly to methodological shortcomings, project
benefits may have been somewhat overestimated, "there is sufficient evidence
to conclude that this set of projects was very timely, generally received
strong institutional support and achieved an impressive measure of success...
The review concluded that the change from State-based to ARDC line of credit
projects was timely and justified, despite IDA's loss of influence on State-
based institutions. This feature has been taken into account in the design
of this project. The review suggested that IDA funding may have replaced some
resources that could have been raised locally and that may consequently have
been used for less useful purposes. However, GOI and ARDC are convinced that
without IDA funding and the other international funding that was attracted as
a consequence of the success of the projects, development lending would not
have expanded so quickly.
3.08      The review also drew attention to the continuing controversy over
benefits of farm mechanization. In general, the review agreed that there
are areas in north India where, due to rapid development and increasing labor
shortage, farm mechanization, particularly for tillage and transport, has
become necessary. In other parts of the country, with the exception of sugar-
cane areas, tractor use remains controversial. ARDC is trying to ensure that
its farm mechanization lending is channeled to areas where it will be clearly
beneficial.
3.09      The review also elaborated on tubewell and dugwell spacing and pos-
sible inequities caused by monopoly of resources given to early investors by
spacing criteria. However, over the last two years, controversy about appro-
priateness of well spacing criteria has practically disappeared with replace-
ment of such criteria by more intensive groundwater resource evaluation. Re-
sultant studies generally find resources less depleted than previously assumed.
In addition, in most cases, resources tapped by an investor, do not extend inea-
surably beyond his land holding. At appraisal of this project, well spacing
or possible deprivation of some farmers from minor irrigation sources were
not considered to be issues.
3.10      The interest of other countries in supporting ARDC lending is fur--
ther testimony to the success of the projects. The Second ARDC Credit Project
attracted US$145 M equivalent from the UK, Canada and EEC, while the Third
ARDC Credit Project is supported by contributions totalling US$180 M from the
USA, UK, EEC, Canada, Switzerland, Germany and the Netherlands. Most of the
contributors show continuing interest in supporting the Fourth ARDC Credit
Project, but at appraisal, the amount of contribution by each donor had not
been determined.
Impact of Indian Credit Projects on Agricultural Development
3.11      The earlier parts of this report elaborated institutional problems
particularly of LDB and proposals for correcting them. However, the institu-
tional problems should not be allowed to overshadow the fact that Indian credit
projects must count among the most successful agricultural development projects
financed by the Bank Group. The bulk of funding has been applied to expanding
irrigation. High returns on investments in minor irrigation are due to:



- 21 -
-    quick maturity of benefits--there is no waiting period
after investments are completed before benefits accrue;
-    management of irrigation by the investor--there are no
"tailend" farmers or reliance on a water distribution
agency; and
-    availability of appropriate technology and usually satis-
factory input supplies to allow high benefits from irri-
gation investments.
Investments pose few costs to State or central governments. Operation and
maintenance are paid entirely by farmers and capital recovery is also high.
3.12      A review of the 12 IDA-financed credit projects completed up to 1980
indicates that about two million investments were made in tubewells, dugwells
and pumpsets that resulted in an estimated two million ha incremental irriga-
tion. Based on evaluation studies by ARDC, the extra irrigation has brought
about production of about 1.8 M tons additional foodgrain per year valued at
about Rs 3.8 billion and giving about 2 million beneficiaries total net incre-
ental income of about Rs 2 billion. Additional employment resulting from the
projects is estimated at about one million man-years. IDA finance also played
some part in diversified lending by ARDC that resulted, for instance, in devel-
opment of 50,000 ha of plantation or orchards, financing of about 3,500 motor-
ized fishing boats, construction of 5 M tons grain storage and a miscellany of
animal husbandry investments.
3.13      The emphasis on directing at least half the lending to small farmers
and ARDC's success in increasing lending to underdeveloped States have already
been indicated (para 3.06). A detailed evaluation of the Uttar Pradesh Credit
Project found that farmers too small to install their own equipment derived high
benefits from purchase of water from neighbors and that small farmers in general
achieve the same or better crop yields than large farmers.  Three major institu-
tion building accomplishments of the projects were establishment and expansion of
groundwater monitoring agencies, initial involvement and rapid expansion of CB
in agricultural lending and the expansion of ARDC itself from small beginnings
to a major development banking institution with a large professional staff
handling annual lending of about Rs 5 billion (US$625 M). The one failure to
date relates to mounting overdues and to regression of several formerly strong
LDB. As outlined in Chapter 2, this project would pay particular attention to
finding and implementing appropriate solutions.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Genesis
4.01      The first ARDC Credit Project in 1975 was initiated with the under-
standing that if successful, repeater projects would be considered by the Bank
Group. Since then, two more ARDC credit projects have been approved by IDA.
The first two credit projects have been successfully completed while the Third
ARDC Credit Project is under implementation.  In expectation of its completion
on or before the Closing Date (June 30, 1982), GOI has submitted a request for
a Fourth Credit Project, to the Bank Group. This project is based on a report
"Fourth ARDC Credit Project" (July 1980), prepared by ARDC, and updated in May
1981, and on the findings of a May 1981 appraisal mission.



- 22 -
B. Brief Description and Objectives
4.02      The project, in continuation of predecessor projects would, over
a two-year period--1982 and 1983--help to finance ARDC lending to borrowers
through participating credit institutions (CB, LDB, SCB, and RRB), for minor
irrigation and diversified lending. The project would also continue to help
finance training programs organized by ARDC mainly for staff of participating
banks.
4.03      Main objectives would be to help increase agricultural production,
rural incomes and employment; give continuing emphasis to assisting small
farmers and less developed areas; continue institution building through
further strengthening of ARDC, improving CB agricultural lending and giving
particular emphasis to rehabilitation and strengthening of LDB; and continuea
programs for improving quality of investments. GOI regards ARDC lending as
a key program for its agricultural development plans, and for implementing
national policies on Integrated Rural Development, designed to improve the
income of the rural poor.
4.04      The project would support the whole of ARDC-s lending operations
which cover virtually every district in India. However, for administrative
simplicity, the Bank Group would restrict its own disbursements to several
major categories including minor irrigation, land development, soil con-
servation and land reclamation, plantation and horticulture, livestock, and
fisheries. These categories were also financed in earlier projects. Because
of increasing emphasis on post harvest activities, the Bank Group would, in
this project, also disburse against loans for market and storage construction.
Project funds would be channeled through ARDC, which would refinance loans
made by participating banks in accordance with specific lending terms and
conditions (para 5.12 and Schedule A). Final beneficiaries would be indivi-
duals or groups of farmers and fishermen, cooperatives, private and public
sector companies, and corporations, with more than 90% of project lending
expected to go to individual or small groups of private sector borrowers. As
in previous projects, minor irrigation would predominate, representing about
60% of project costs which are estimated at US$2,086 M. ARDC would endeavor
to ensure that small farmers receive at least 60% of the Bank Group loan
and that about' 45%-50% of project lending would be disbursed to States
where agricultural development is lagging.
C. Detailed Features
Minor Irrigation
4.05      As in the past, the major part of lending would be to individual
farmers for construction of dugwells, dug-cum-bore wells, shallow bores and
filter points, improvement of existing wells and provision of pumpsets. Costs
of various types of wells range from Rs 1,000 for constructing filter points
to Rs 16,000 for dugwells in hard rock. Power units would be typically in the
range of 3 to 5 hp. Costs of electric powered pumpsets range from Rs 6,000
to Rs 8,500 and of diesel motor powered sets from Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000. Well
construction presents few problems. There are many private contractors with
skills, local experience and equipment; in addition, some State government



- 23 -
departments or public sector corporations offer custom service to farmers for
well construction.
4.06      Suitable equipment, spares  and maintenance facilities are plentiful
in most areas. However, studies conducted by ARDC, under the Third ARDC Credit
project in selected parts of six States 1/, confirmed that equipment purchased
by farmers is often substandard. Pumps and power units are frequently mis-
matched and pipe work and fittings badly designed. Improvement would result
in operating cost savings for farmers and considerable energy savings at State
and all-India level. For the study areas, ARDC has published advisory leaflets
showing correct type and matching of equipment. Similar investigations, to
identify correct specifications for all important minor irrigation areas, are
continuing. Several States have specified quality standards to be observed
by project borrowers and banks. In view of potentially high cost and energy
savings to be achieved, assurances were obtained that by June 30, 1983 ARDC
would develop a scheme for minor irrigation equipment improvement in each State
in which it supports minor irrigation development. Each scheme plan would
indicate the organizations to implement each part of the scheme, studies to be
conducted, advisory material to be published and appropriate methods of imple-
menting the improvement plan. In drawing up advice on equipment suitability,
account would be taken of results of research on pump motor improvement being
encouraged by the Rural Electrification Corporation.
4.07      Loans would also be given to groups of farmers for medium-size tube-
wells. These serve 10-30 ha and are equipped with diesel or electric powered
turbine or electric powered submersible pumps. Costs range from Rs 75,000-
Rs 125,000. Private or departmental drilling services and technical standards
of installation are satisfactory.
4.08      Loans for larger tubewells would be made Jo public corporations.
These would be either deep tubewells with 1I0-250 m /h discharge to irrigate
about 100 ha farmland directly or 200-300 m /h augmentation tubewells, pump-
ing into surface irrigation channels. Both types would be equipped with either
turbine or submersible pumps and piped or lined channel distribution/conveyanc-
ing systems.  Costs range from Rs 150,000 to Rs 500,000.  To ensure as effective
operations as possible, appraisal criteria for large tubewells have been drawn
up covering power supply, design, and financial criteria, which are listed in
Schedule B. Agreement was obtained that these criteria would be applied by ARDC
and would form part of the project lending terms and conditions (Schedule A).
Drilling and installation services are again considered satisfactory.
4.09      While considerable groundwater resources remain to be developed in
most States, high levels of resource utilization are evident in several States,
notably Punjab, Haryana and Tamil Nadu. In State-based and First and Second
ARDC Credit Projects, well spacing and density criteria were applied as an
interim measure to enactment of groundwater legislation. Such legislation has
proved socially and politically difficult to introduce and spacing criteria
were unsatisfactory because they could not control noncredit investments.
Consequently, under the Third ARDC Credit Project, a resource evaluation system
was introduced, consisting of three categories of areas based on the level of
development, which relates net draft to recoverable recharge. Each corresponds
1/   Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, and Uttar Prade.



- 24 -
to a level of resource evaluation and groundwater investigation appropriate to
the potential risks. The guidelines defining categories and levels of studies
are given in Schedule C. They have been applied by all States for groundwater
resource evaluation and, in general, have proven effective. Therefore, the
requirement that appraisal of a minor irrigation scheme would include ground-
water resource evaluation according to the guidelines (Schedule C), has become
part of project lending terms (Schedule A).
4.10      Also under the Third Credit Project, ARDC undertook to study  well
failure risks and ongoing State compensation schemes, and to formulate an all-
India insurance scheme for failed wells. ARDC staff has completed these tasks
and has drawn up an insurance scheme which is now under consideration by the
ARDC Board, GOI and States. Proposals are that premium contributions based on
estimated percentage of well failures would be paid by the borrower, lending
bank, ARDC and State government with initial contributions to be made possibly
by GOI and the State governments. The proposal suggests that the fund should
be administered by ARDC. The proposal seems well thought out and sound. The
scheme would provide a needed safeguard to investors in dugwells, which are
expensive and more prone to failure than tubewells used in alluvial areas.
Consideration of proposals and acceptance by GOI and all States may yet take
some time and present proposals may be modified.  To speed up adoption of the
scheme, assurances were obtained that ARDC would finalize the scheme for
country-wide adoption before December 31, 1982.
4.11      Minor irrigation development of surface water resources would consist
mainly of river lift schemes ranging in size from single farm commands to sev-
eral hundred hectares. Loans to individual farmers would be for small pumpsets
(centrifugal pump and electric or diesel motor) and pipe work to raise water
from the river on to adjoining land. Pump units would cost from Rs 5,000 to
Rs 8,000. Loans would also be made to cooperatives and State corporations
(which would charge a water rate to farmers), for financing river lifts which
would involve command areas of several hundred ha. Estimated costs of river
lift schemes range from Rs 2,000 to Rs 8,000 per ha, which includes the cost
of electric connections, which would be payable by the borrower. Other
relatively small minor irrigation investments for which loans would be made
include watercourse lining for surface water irrigation systems, at an esti-
mated cost of about Rs 55 per m run, and provision of buried pipe conveyance
for existing public tubewells at about Rs 2,500 per ha. A small provision
has also been made for tank development at about Rs 10,000 per unit, and for
sprinkler irrigation sets.
Pumpset Electrification to be Financed from ARDC's Own Resources
4.12      To ensure timely electric connections for minor irrigation invest-
ments, ARDC would, from its own funds and in close coordination with the Rural
Electrification Corporation, refinance loans to State Electricity Boards. Such
loans would be for spur lines and associated equipment for minor irrigation
schemes refinanced by ARDC. Such financing would be outside Rural Electrifica-
tion Corporation Scheme areas or to supplement finance, if needed, in such areas
or in Special Agricultural Project Areas schemes. The latter scheme represents
cofinancing of electrical connections between ARDC, the Rural Electrification
Corporation and banks. The estimated average cost of step down transformer,
11 kv line and low voltage cable ranges from Rs 5,000 to Rs 8,500 for small
wells. Spur lines for larger public tubewells would cost about Rs 30,000.



- 25 -
ARDC liaises closely with the Rural Electrification Corporation for technical
advice and would, for each electrification scheme, do its best to obtain such
advice from the Corporation, before sanctioning the loan. In addition, to
ensure that connections to be financed would not overload the transmission
system, the project lending terms (Schedule A) require any participating bank
making a loan for pumpset electrification, to obtain, from the State Elec-
tricity Board, confirmation that the connections to be installed would not
lead to overloading of the local power system or to any other effects detri-
mental to the State electrical power systems.
Land Development
4.13      Loans would be made for on-farm development including land shaping,
leveling, and field distribution and drainage channels. Costs vary with
topography and equipment used, ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 4,000/ha and are
estimated to average about Rs 2,750/ha. These loans would support the GOI
and State governments priority program to bring about better utilization of
surface irrigation schemes and would be implemented through Command Area
Development Authorities. The Authorities would be responsible for technical
planning of the work and for supervising construction. Beneficiaries would
have the option to arrange or undertake construction themselves or to agree
to the Authority to carry out construction. Funding would flow from parti-
cipating banks through Command Area Development Authorities to individual
farmers. The State governments construct off-farm water distribution chan-
nels and the success of on-farm development depends on a reliable water sup-
ply at the farmgate. Under the Third ARDC Credit Project, ARDC agreed to
ensure, as a condition of financing any land development scheme, that project
agencies would maintain adequate water flow rate and frequency of water sup-
ply at the channel outlet for the proposed farming activities of borrowers;
and would in addition progressively establish rotational water distribution
systems. The same conditions for approving land development refinancing by
ARDC have been included in the project lending terms (Schedule A).
Soil Conservation and Land Reclamation
4.14      Soil conservation and land reclamation are classified together with
minor irrigation and land development as land improvement investments. Funds
for investments in soil conservation and land reclamation would also generally
be channeled through State corporations that plan and supervise the work.
Lending for this component would be for several distinct purposes. In Punjab,
Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh investments would be for reclamation of
alkaline or saline land, through drainage, irrigation and use of soil ameli-
orants. The process has proved successful on large field scale over the past
three or four years. In other States, notably Gujarat, pilot schemes for
reclamation of ravine lands have been constructed and are expected to be fol-
lowed by similar schemes. In several States including Gujarat and particularly
in Kerala, where rainfall intensities are heavy and farmers are particularly
concerned about soil erosion control, loans would be for such soil conservation
works as contour bunding, costing about Rs 500-Rs 800/ha.
Diversified Lending Eligible for IDA/IBRD Refinance
4.15      Livestock.  Loans to farmers for purchase of units of two improved
milk cattle or buffaloes has constituted the main part of livestock lending



- 26 -
in the past and would continue. Such loans are almost exclusively for small
farmers or even landless people and are an important part of the Integrated
Rural Development Program to improve incomes of the poorest people in rural
areas. Average investment cost would range from Rs 2,000 for an improved
indigenous cow to Rs 4,000 for a crossbred cow. Alternatives that are be-
coming more important are cross breeding of cows and rearing female calves
or rearing female crossbred calves. Average investment for crossbreeding
and rearing would be about Rs 3,000 per animal and calf rearing only about
Rs 1,800. ARDC would also refinance dairy processing plants for State Dairy
Corporations or Cooperatives not covered by the National Dairy Project
(Credit 824-IN) nor financed by the Indian Dairy Corporation. In addition,
financing of slaughterhouse development has been initiated by ARDC over the
last two years to improve the standard of municipal abattoirs. A typical
plant may cost Rs 33.5 M with capacity for 150 large animals and 1,000 sheep
or goats per day. Another recent development which has been growing fast is
financing bullocks or camels and carts for transport purposes. This would
be another type of investment particularly suitable for poor farmers or land-
less people and a complete unit, cart and animal, may cost Rs 4,500-Rs 6,000.
4.16      ARDC loans for poultry development would be made for both egg and
broiler production units, expansion of hatchery capacity and pure line breed-
ing programs. Average investment cost would be Rs 60 per bird for egg pro-
duction, Rs 30 per broiler and Rs 250 per hatchery bird. Schemes pioneered
under ARDC III, such as vaccine production to combat major poultry diseases
and production of pathogen-free eggs essential for both human and animal
vaccine production, would be expanded.
4.17      Refinancing of sheep and goat production units would entail pur-
chase of small flocks of 20-30 breeding animals estimated to cost about Rs
3,500 per unit in the case of sheep and Rs 1,000 for goats. These investments
would help mainly the poorest section of the rural community. There would
also be a small program to support pig production by financing breeding stock,
weaners, and production facilities, confined mostly to northeastern States.
4.18      Plantation and Horticulture.  Loans would be used mainly for
planting, replanting or rejuvenating plantations of a variety of commercial
plantation or fruit crops. ARDC has supported development of about 40 dif-
ferent crops under the plantation and horticulture category such as coconut,
cashew-nut, rubber, cocoa, pepper, cardamom, grapes, citrus, mango and a
range of other fruits. A typical loan would include the cost of land prepar-
ation, improved planting materials and working capital for maintenance up to
maturity of the crop. In some cases the loan may include cost of processing
equipment. ARDC would ensure that each scheme provides for adequate supervi-
sory and extension service, particularly for plantation schemes for small
farmers. Investment costs vary widely from crop to crop and between regions,
but an average per hectare cost of establishing a plantation is estimated at
about Rs 21,000.
4.19      Fisheries.  Until recently, the main part of lending has been for
motorized shrimp boats, that have made a notable contribution to Indian export
earnings. However, apart from a few areas such as the Orissa coast, the shrimp-
ing fleet seems to have reached the capacity of the shrimp stock and should
only be expanded with caution. Project investments would therefore be for
shrimp boats in areas with further development potential and for replacement



- 27 -
engines and hulls. In addition, loans would be given for gill-netters and
purse-seiners that would catch fish for the local market. All boats would be
locally constructed and fully equipped cost would range from Rs 200,000 for
gill-netters to Rs 600,000 for purse-seiners.  Loans would be subject to satis-
factory marketing arrangements, which would be more complex than for shrimp.
Although demand has been small to date, loans would also be given for smaller
motorized craft costing about Rs 30,000 each for close inshore fishing. ARDC
would also support loans to State corporations, cooperatives or private com-
panies for on-shore facilities such as ice plants, cold stores, marketing
facilities and boat repair shops.
4.20      Loans for inland fisheries would be mostly for improvement of fish
ponds estimated to cost about Rs 12,000-15,000/ha. Some of these loans would
be to support the Inland Fisheries Project (Credit 963-IN) to complement large
scale hatchery development under that project. In areas not covered by the
project, ARDC would support lending to State corporations, for hatcheries.
Brackish water fisheries represents a new technology for India which has been
proven on a research basis and is now beginning to be developed commercially.
Investments would be needed for bunds, sluice gates, pumps and pond development
in suitable coast areas. Average cost would be about Rs 35,000/ha. There is
considerable demand for such development for production of shrimp and other
fish, but the technology requires refinement for large-scale commercial adop-
tion. Lending would therefore need to be restricted to commercial scale pilot
schemes during the project period. However, the potential for future lending
is huge.
4.21      Storage.  In conformance with GOI plans to increase national stor-
age capacity, ARDC would refinance loans for storage godown construction for
private investors, State Warehousing Corporations, State Marketing Corpora-
tions, and State Civil Supplies Departments. Priority would be given to pri-
vate investors, most of whom would lease the stores to a Corporation. Civil
works design and construction would be supervised by the Corporations. In
all programs, technical specifications would follow well established models,
which are satisfactory. Size of typical storage complexes to be constructed
would range from 2,500 tons to 20,000 tons, costing from Rs 0.7 M to Rs 5.5 M.
In all storage schemes, ARDC would ensure that proposed development would be
in line with carefully assessed demand for the area and commodities concerned,
and would take into consideration State and national storage development
programs.
4.22      Markets.  Improvement of marketing facilities for agricultural
products has been given high priority in GOI development plans. ARDC would
therefore continue to refinance loans to State Marketing Boards and Agricul-
tural Market Committees for construction, remodeling or extension of regulated
market yards. A typical market yard would include auction platforms, equipment
for cleaning and drying produce, storage facilities, traders shops, weighing
scales, access roads, parking space for vehicles and a number of public ameni-
ties such as rest house, bank and post office.  Costs would vary with market
size and are estimated at Rs 4 M for a 7-10 ha yard. ARDC has gained consider-
able experience in appraising market yards schemes as a result of 152 markets
refinanced by them to date, including 94 markets under two IDA projects (Credit
294-IN and Credit 378-IN). Financial and technical criteria laid down in those
projects would be followed. To support expansion of lending for markets,
ARDC intends to establish a marketing section in its technical division to



- 28 -
strengthen its appraisal and supervision capabilities and to advise marketLng
agencies of States applying for loans, on planning and preparation of schenes
and on modern market yard design.
Diversified Lending to be Financed From ARDC's Own Resources
4.23      Forestry.  ARDC loans through CB would be mostly to public sector
Forestry Corporations for plantations for timber and industrial raw materials.
Funding would be for establishing plantations and for maintenance until revenue
equals maintenance costs, and for necessary road and staff housing construc-
tion. A small part of forestry lending would be for social forestry, either
development of waste land or road sides and small plantations for individual
borrowers. The average forestry loan is much larger than most other ARDC
loans. The cost of 11 loans now under consideration would average US$6 M each,
and would require considerable professional staff time to process. However,
ARDC has only one forestry expert who deals with all aspects of forestry lend-
ing, including financial analysis. He would not be able to cope on his owrn
with appraisal of the schemes already under consideration and cannot devote
any time for necessary follow-up work. The ARDC forestry unit needs strength-
ening to deal with projects on hand and the fast growing demand for forestry
lending. Assurances were therefore obtained that ARDC would strengthen its
forestry unit by at least two experienced forestry experts (including one
forestry economist) by December 31, 1982 and would try hard to appoint two
more forestry specialists by that date.
4.24      Farm Mechanization.  ARDC refinancing of loans for tractors, power
tillers and ancillary equipment would be selective. Scheme appraisal would!
take into consideration the need to avoid undesirable effects on employment
and income distribution. Main lending would be in northern States where rapid
development and labor shortages have led to farm mechanization. In other areas
there is strong demand for mechanizing sugarcane cultivation for which tillage
with bullocks is difficult and for which there is substantial need to improve
and speed up cane transport during the harvest. Average investment cost would
be about Rs 90,000 per 35 hp tractor and set of implements and about Rs 25,000
per power tiller.
4.25      "Other" Lending.  ARDC lends for a variety of other purposes which
do not fit into any of the categories described above and are collectively
grouped under "other" lending. The group includes new types of lending being
pioneered by ARDC; also investments in agro-processing facilities such as oil
seed extraction plants, municipal composting plants, and agro-aviation equip-
ment. There are also some multipurpose schemes under this category that do
not fit into any one of the other ARDC lending categories.
Training
4.26      Programs financed by the three ARDC credit projects had, by March
1981, provided training for about 2,500 senior and middle level staff including
about 1,050 LDB staff, and about 18,000 junior LDB staff. This is close to
appraisal projections of the projects and represents about 32% of LDB senior/
middle level staff and practically all their junior staff. In addition, about
1,000 senior and middle level CB staff have received training as well as 350
ARDC, and RBI staff and about 100 staff of RRB, State Cooperative Banks, and
State governments.



- 29 -
4.27      The training program is planned and monitored by the training divi-
sion at ARDC Headquarters. There are three types of training that have been
supported by project funds. The backbone of senior/middle management staff
training is the four weeks agricultural projects course conducted at the RBI
College of Agricultural Banking at Poona. The course has become well known
internationally and an increasing number of agricultural credit institutions
from abroad send staff to Poona. The course is supplemented by shorter tech-
nical courses organized by the ARDC training division, for instance in hydro-
geological aspects of minor irrigation lending, or technical aspects of
plantation crops, animal husbandry or fisheries lending or courses in moni-
toring and evaluation techniques. The third type of project-supported training
is that of junior LDB staff at LDB training centers, which is monitored by the
ARDC training division. There are now 14 LDB training centers with a capacity
to handle 23 streams of about 30 trainees each. The core of their program is
also an agricultural projects course on the Poona model.
4.28      The training effort has been successful and needs to be intensified.
The project would therefore finance the three types of training described
above and would also finance the cost of the ARDC training division. Recently
the requirements of CB and other agricultural credit institutions were re-
viewed. The needs of CB alone are immense--30,000 senior/middle level staff--
and RBI is studying ways of expanding training facilities. Modest expansion
of the Poona College will be possible and opening a similar course with Poona
and ARDC assistance at Hyderabad will allow expansion to 60 agricultural
project courses from 40 planned under ARDC III. Similarly, short courses
organized by the training division would be expanded from about 70 to 150.
The agricultural projects course would remain the centerpiece of senior/middle
level staff and is projected for about 1,800 such staff. Shorter courses
would cover about 4,000 banking officers including 1,500 ARDC staff. During
negotiations, ARDC stated that it may plan to construct its own training
college, in case the Poona College is needed by RBI for other training in
future (but not during the project period).  In this respect, the Bank Group
would review any plans that ARDC may furnish and would sympathetically consider
requests for financial support out of project financial provisions for train-
ing, to help implement the plans. Since planning is in a preliminary stage,
financial requirements for possible construction are likely to be nominal
during the project period.
4.29      Out of 14 LDB with training centers, nine have completed project
training for all their staff and in the remaining five, 85% of field staff has
been trained. Most of the centers have therefore switched to refresher courses
which take field experience by the staff since initial training into account.
Particular emphasis will be given to improving loan appraisal and follow up,
especially in LDB where recovery is poor. Part of the loan recovery problem
has been brought about by overoptimistic assumption of benefits at appraisal
or insufficient attention to financial evaluation of the borrower's consump-
tion requirements. Refresher courses would specifically address such problems.
However, LDB centers would provide part of their capacity for training some of
the 20,000 RRB field staff, as well as staff of the short-term credit coopera-
tive system which is playing an increasing role in ARDC refinanced development
lending. Altogether the training program for junior staff aims at providing
four weeks courses to about 11,000 staff and shorter one week courses to
another 11,000 staff.



- 30 -
D. Project Cost
4.30      Project costs are estimated at Rs 16,690 M (US$2,086 M) of which
about Rs 863 M (US$108 M) are duties and taxes. The costs are summarized
below:
Foreign
Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign  Total        %
--------Rs Million--------  -------US$ Million-----         %
Minor Irrigation
Minor Irrigation       5,897.8    804.2   6,702.0    737.2  100.5    837.7         12
Land Development        301.2      15.8      317.0      37.6    2.0      39.6       5
Pumpset
Electrification    1,978.2    219.8   2,198.0    247.3   27.5    274.8           10
Soil Conservation/
Reclamation           130.2       6.8      137.0      16.3    0.8      17.1       5
Subtotal         8,307.4  1,046.6   9,354.0  1,038.4  130.8  1,169.2          11
Diversified Lending
Plantation and
Horticulture          361.8      40.2      402.0      45.2    5.0      50.2      10
Farm Mechanization   2,114.3    704.7   2,819.0    264.3   88.1    352.4           25
Livestock               689.4      76.6      766.0      86.2    9.6      95.8      10
Fisheries               377.1      41.9      419.0      47.1    5.2       52.3     10
Forestry                 114.8     20.2      135.0      14.4    2.5      16.9      15
Storage                 236.8      59.2      296.0      29.6    7.4      37.0      20
Market Yards            331.2      82.8      414.0      41.4   10.4       51.8     20
Other                   344.7      38.3      383.0      43.1    4.8      47.9      10
Subtotal         4,570.1  1,063.9   5,634.0    571.3  133.0    704.3          19
Training                 32.0      -          32.0       4.0    -         4.0      -
Base Cost            12,909.5  2,110.5  15,020.0  1,613.7  263.8  1,877.5          14
Price Contingencies  1,436.2    233.8   1,670.0    179.5   29.2    208.7           14
Total Project Cost  14,345.7  2,344.3  16,690.0  1,793.2  293.0  2,086.2           14
Estimates are based on May 1981 prices.  Price contingencies of 9% for 1981, 8.5%
for 1982 and 7.5% for 1983 onward, compounded annually, have been applied tc, the
base cost. Total contingencies amount to Rs 1,670 M (US$209 M), about 10% of
total cost. Cost estimates are based on ARDC's indicative lending program for
the calendar years 1982 and 1983. This had been drawn up in consultation with
the various participating States and was adjusted during appraisal to take
account of previous disbursement and commitment performance, and known insti-
tutional constraints. The project would be a two-year time slice of ARDC's
ongoing lending program, excluding ongoing IDA/IBRD projects channeled through
ARDC. ARDC's projected lending program by State and subsector for 1982 and
1983 is shown in Annex 1, Table 8.



- 31 -
E. Financing
4.31      Financing would be as follows:
Ultimate                       IDA
Borrower   Banks   ARDC/GOI   IBRD        Total
--------------------Rs M-------------------
Minor Irrigation
Minor Irrigation                    744.7    670.3  3,993.2  2,038.8   7,447.0
Land Development                     35.2     62.8    168.2      85.8      352.0
Pumpset Electrification               -    1,353.0  1,087.0       -      2,440.0
Soil Conservation/Reclamation        15.3     34.7      68.2     34.8      153.0
Subtotal                        795.2  2,120.8  5,316.6  2,159.4  10,392.0
Diversified Lending
Plantation and Horticulture          45.0     60.0    226.4    115.6       447.0
Farm Mechanization                  470.0    480.0  2,184.0       -     3,134.0
Livestock                            85.2    143.8    412.4    210.6       852.0
Fisheries                            60.0     68.0    223.1    113.9       465.0
Forestry                            30.0      20.0    100.0       -        150.0
Storage                              82.2     46.8    132.4      67.6      329.0
Yards                                92.1     68.9    198.6    101.4       461.0
Others                               44.0     55.0    325.0       -        424.0
Subtotal                        908.5    942.5  3,801.9    609.1   6,262.0
Total Minor Irrigation and D.L.   1,703.7  3,063.3  9,118.5  2,768.5  16,654.0
Training                               -        -          3.6     32.4       36.0
Total                         1,703.7  3,063.3  9,122.1  2,800.9  16,690.0
Percentage                             10%      18%       55%      17%        100%
The proposed IDA Credit of US$160 M and Bank Loan of US$190 M would be made
to GOI and include retroactive financing up to US$15 M to cover ARDC lending
from January 1, 1982. The Credit and Loan aggregating US$350 M would finance
about 17% of total project cost and about 18% of costs net of duties and
taxes. About 55% of project cost would be financed by GOI and ARDC, 18% by
participating banks, and 10% by borrowers. A financial arrangement satisfac-
tory to the Bank Group, would be executed between GOI and ARDC under which GOI
would make US$4.0 M of the Bank Group loan available to ARDC as a training
grant and would onlend US$346.0 M to ARDC, repayable partly up to nine years
and partly up to 15 years at 6.5% and 7% annual interest rate respectively
(with 0.25% rebate for prompt repayments of capital and interest), to refi-
nance approved lending by participating banks to final borrowers. GOI would
bear the foreign exchange risk. Execution of the financial arrangements
between GOI and ARDC would be a condition of loan effectiveness. GOI is
having discussions with a number of other donors for possible additional
external support for the ARDC lending program during the project period. The
UK, Canada, Netherlands, EEC, and others may wish to contribute towards ARDC
lending, but identity of donors and amounts of assistance have not been
finalized. In the meantime, GOI has agreed to ensure that ARDC is provided
with the resources required to execute the project.
F. Procurement
4.32      Procurement under schemes involving relatively small investments
by individual farmers would be based on farmers' choice through local dealers



- 32 -
and contractors. Typical items would be pumpsets, tubewells, dugwells, dairy
cattle, bullock and pneumatic tyre carts, motors for fishing boats and farm
mechanization equipment such as tractors, power tillers and sprayers. ARDC
would establish guidelines for the selection of pumpsets which would include
equipment performance standards established by the Indian Standards Institute,
and standards relating a given investment item (e.g., size and horsepower of
pumpset) to farmers' typical situations (e.g., size of area to be irrigated).
Normal commercial channels provide an adequate choice of locally manufactured
equipment and good servicing facilities, and both prices and quality are com-
petitive with those on world markets. Procurement under such schemes as con-
struction of storage warehouses, market yards, and agro-processing facilities
would be based on local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to ARDC
and the Bank Group. International competitive bidding would not be practical
given the relatively small size of investments involved and their scatter
throughout the country and over time.
G. Disbursements
4.33      Because of the large number of sub-loans anticipated under the pro-
ject and numerous small payments of training costs, disbursements would be made
against certified statements of expenditures with the supporting documentation
retained by ARDC at one central location and made available to Bank Group staff
for review on request during project supervision missions. The statements of
expenditures would be audited annually by independent auditors (Para. 5.17).
ARDC would base its refinancing of subloans upon the participating banks' cer-
tification of loans made under ARDC approved schemes. Each application by the
participating banks is verified by ARDC regional offices, to ensure that it
conforms with the agreed lending terms and conditions (Para. 5.12 and Schedule
A). Each loan is required to be physically verified by the lending bank and
ARDC carries out sample checks. Both ARDC and the participating banks are sub-
ject to regular audits. Credit and Loan disbursements would be made as follows:
(i) 34% of amounts refinanced by ARDC under: (a) loans for minor irrigation
(land development and soil conservation); and (b) loans for diversified agri-
cultural lending (plantation and horticulture, livestock, fisheries, storage
and markets); and (ii) 90% of the cost of the training program. The Credit
would be disbursed first. Estimated quarterly disbursements are shown in
Annex 1, Table 9. Disbursement forecasts are based on the performance of the
three predecessor ARDC line of credit projects, of which the two completed
projects disbursed fully within a two year period and in all three of which.,
disbursements have been in accordance with or slightly ahead of appraisal
projections.  The Bank-wide disbursement profile for agricultural credit proj-
ects, which shows only 15% of total disbursements in a two year period and
full disbursement after seven years, does not fit this project.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. The Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
5.01      Functions.  All project funds would be channeled through and super-
vised by ARDC. ARDC, a subsidiary of RBI, was established by Act of Parliament
on July 1, 1963. Its main objective is to provide credit for agricultural
investments by making long-and medium-term funds available to LDB, CB, and



- 33 -
other approved institutions, to refinance agricultural schemes which are eco-
nomically and technically sound, and are located within a reasonably compact
area. ARDC growth since inception is illustrated in Table 10 of Annex 1.
In its developmental role, ARDC helps formulate schemes, particularly in less
developed States, and consequently, is able to influence lending policies and
procedures of agencies it assists. ARDC may also lend directly to final
borrowers, but has so far not done so or geared itself to do so. However,
the management is considering the possibility of ARDC direct financing of
large loans to single borrowers, for instance to forestry corporations, but
for its main business, the financing of a large number of small accounts,
intermediate credit institutions remain essential.
5.02      Organization and Management.  ARDC is administered by a Board of
nine directors, three each nominated by GOI and RBI and three elected once
in four years by an electoral college of shareholders. RBI nominates one
of its Deputy Governors as chairman. The Managing Director, who is the
chief executive, is also appointed by RBI and is a member of the Board. he
is assisted by four General Managers and some 900 professional staff, of whom
429 are located at Head Office in Bombay. The rest are distributed between
an office in Delhi to liaise with GOI, and 14 State regional offices (Map IBRD
15972R). Head Office organization is shown on Chart WB23412. Lending opera-
tions are conducted through three projects divisions supported by financial
and administrative divisions, a planning and development division, an eval-
uation and monitoring division and a technical division. The work of the
training division has been described in paras 4.26-4.29.  A typical regional
office is essentially organized into schemes appraisal, monitoring and eval-
uation sections supported by an administrative section. Formerly, operations
and most staff were centralized at Head Office, but the workload increased
steeply (600 schemes sanctioned in 1974/75 to 3,000 sanctions in 1979/80), so
that changes in working methods became necessary. Since January 1979, heads
of regional offices (at that time of ARDC director status) were given limited
authority for loan approval. A three-year staff development plan was put into
effect that increased professional staff at regional offices from 268 to 477
in March 1981, while Head Office staff only increased from 400 to 429 over the
same period. Head Office senior management has been strengthened and five of
the most busy regional offices are now headed by senior directors. Regional
offices maintain contact with State governments and financial institutions
and assist them with scheme preparation and implementation. Most scheme
appraisals are handled by regional offices, with assistance of Head Office
technical staff as needed. While an increasing number of schemes are now
appraised and approved by regional offices, minor irrigation schemes, which
still represent the bulk of lending, are often aggregated into large schemes
which are partly appraised by regions and then go to Head Office for review
and approval and are partly processed entirely by Head Office. As a result,
as yet only a small percentage of total value of new lending is being approved
at regional offices. In view of the large amount of experience already gained
and the deployment of technical staff in regions, there would seem to be scope
for further decentralization of approvals of frequently financed schemes and
this possibility would be reviewed during project implementation.
5.03      Sources of Funds.   Other than loan repayments (Rs 1,544 M in 1979/80),
the four main sources of funds available to ARDC are:



- 34 -
(a)  Share Capital and Reserves:   As on June 30, 1980 issued and
paid-up share capital was Rs 575 M and reserves including
undistributed profits stood at Rs 456 M. ARDC has never had
any bad debts or overdues, although ARDC has recently agreed
to reschedule some repayments from LDB. Reserves are adequate,
given that all of its lending is either guaranteed by State
governments or, in the case of CB, backed by RBI minimum
reserve requirements. The principal shareholders are RBI
(54%), LDB and SCB (24%) and CB (19%);
(b) Loans from GOI. As on June 30, 1980, loans from GOI, mainly
representing the rupee counterpart of disbursements made
on IDA credits and on other foreign assistance, stood at
Rs 6,466 M. Withdrawals during 1979/80 were Rs 1,649 M,
of which Rs 1,044 M represented IDA refinance and the
balance, assistance from Canada, EEC, the U.K. and West
Germany;
(c) Issue and Sale of Bonds Guaranteed by GOI. This source of
funds helps to mobilize savings from a variety of institu-
tions such as insurance companies, CB and cooperative banks.
During 1979/80, bonds for a total value of Rs 396 M were
issued, raising total market borrowings to Rs 2,860 M; and
(d) Loans from RBI. RBI affords ARDC two types of loan facility:
(i) term loans (currently 10 years) from the National Agri-
cultural Credit (long-term operations) Fund. The amount drawn
by ARDC during 1979/80 was Rs 850 M, bringing the balance out-
standing to Rs 3,147 M as on June 30, 1980, a net increase of
Rs 512 M; and (ii) short-term loans (less than 18 months)--ARDC
may borrow up to Rs 100 M to meet temporary requirements, but
has not used this facility for several years.
5.04      Use of Funds.  Most of ARDC refinance has been for minor irrigation
(63%).  Other purposes of ARDC refinance include farm mechanization (16%),
storage and market yards (6%), land development (4%), and plantation/horti-
culture (4%). The remaining 7% comprises mainly livestock, fisheries and
forestry lending (Annex 1, Table 11). The annual percentage of funds utilized
for minor irrigation has been steadily declining from over 75% in 1974/75 to
55% in 1979/80. The impact of IDA supported ARDC lending has been described
in paras 3.11 through 3.13. ARDC's overall lending program has made a signi-
ficant contribution towards rural development through financing of about
325,000 tubewells, 523,000 dugwells and 755,000 pumpsets. Land development
on irrigation schemes and land improved by soil conservation total about 1.1 N1
ha and about 110,000 ha plantation/horticulture crops have been established or
improved. ARDC estimates that its schemes have helped to bring about 3.3 M
ha under more intensified cultivation. ARDC currently supports about 40%
of direct institutional term lending for agriculture in India and the share
of ARDC refinance by various participating institutions is shown on Table 12
of Annex 1. In 1977/78, ARDC established the Research and Development Fund
to support rural research projects and improvement of LDB. By paying part
of the cost, the fund encourages LDB to employ technical staff, badly needed
to diversify and improve the quality of lending.
5.05      Operating Results and Projections.  ARDC  operating results continue
to be satisfactory.  In 1979, ARDC was exempted from income tax  until 1984



- 35 -
to allow some reduction in interest rates to final borrowers. This was
implemented by adjustment of interest rates, but despite the adjustment ARDC
1979/80 profits were Rs 164 M, compared to Rs 119 M in 1977/78 and Rs 140 M
in 1978/79. This allowed payment of Rs 33 14 cash dividend and continued rapid
build up of reserves, which increased from Rs 104 M in 1977/78 to Rs 465 M in
1979/80. From 1979/80 to 1984/85 the ARDC portfolio is projected to grow from
Rs 13,000 M to Rs 32,000 M, paid up share capital from Rs 575 M to Rs 825 M
and reserves from Rs 456 M to Rs 915 M. At appraisal, profit projections over
the project period were satisfactory, but since then, the GOI onlending rate
to ARDC has been raised by 0.5%, so far without adjustment of ARDC's onlending
rate to participating banks. The likely impact of the new GOI rates on ARDC
margins was discussed during negotiations. The new rates would not be applied
until this project becomes effective. In the meantime, GOI and ARDC are re-
viewing measures needed to maintain an adequate spread on ARDC refinancing.
With GOI concerned to maintain ARDC strength and viability, corrective measures
are likely to be applied before or in the very early stages of the project.
Projected balance sheets, income statements and cash flow projections prepared
at appraisal are shown in Annex 1, Tables 13-15. ARDC accounts for the year
ended June 30, 1980 have been audited and have received an unqualified report.
5.06      Future Organization.  As indicated in para 2.04, GOI has decided
to establish NABARD, which would absorb ARDC. A description of the proposed
new institution is summarized below in para 5.07. Because integration of
activities of NABARD's constituent institutions would take time, ARDC would
most likely continue to operate as at present over most of the project period.
Two aspects of ARDC's operations, however, require attention--recruitment of
technical staff and project supervision. ARDC has made adequate provision for
technical staff particularly to support its increasingly diversified lending,
but has been able to fill less than half the 120 vacancies. Only the hydro-
geology section, supporting minor irrigation lending has been reasonably well
staffed. New rules have been framed that should improve recruitment, but
progress in making necessary appointments needs to be monitored. Because of
emphasis on appraisals, scheme supervision has continued to be inadequate and
progress and proposals are discussed in para 5.18 below. On a broader front,
continuing expansion of ARDC operations may need further changes such as
further decentralization of preparation, appraisal and supervision responsi-
bilities to regional offices, leaving Head Office to concentrate increasingly
on program planning, design and control of technical standards and economic
evaluation, and upgrading of appraisal and supervision systems and procedures.
In a complex institution such as ARDC, major changes can, however, only
be introduced after careful review and experimentation, a process which
commenced in 1979 and is continuing.
B. National Bank For Agriculture and Rural Development
5.07      A draft legislative bill proposing the establishment of NABARD,
has been tabled in the Indian Parliament. GOI officials project that NABARD
may be established by mid 1982. The new institution would be formed by an
amalgamation of ARDC and the Agricultural Credit Department of RBI. The Rural
Planning and Credit Cell of RBI that deals with RRB would also form part of
NABARD. NABARD would provide refinance for short-, medium- and long-term
credit for agriculture and cottage industries. Main advantages of establishing
NABARD would be close coordination of agricultural long-term and short-term
credit and initiation of planned lending for cottage industries, for which
there is no separate institution at present.



- 36 -
5.08      As proposed by RBI, NABARD would be an independent institution,
but retain close links with RBI. NABARD would be administered by a board of
directors, headed by a chairman who would be a deputy governor of RBI. Three
additional directors would be recommended by RBI, three by GOI and seven others
would be nominated by GOI in consultation with RBI and would include bankers,
rural development experts and State government officials. The managing director
would also be appointed by GOI in consultation with RBI. GOI and RBI would be
joint owners of NABARD. Authorized share capital would be Rs 5,000 M of which
Rs 1,000 M would be paid up in the first instance. ARDC assets and Agricul-
tural Credit Department outstanding loans would be transferred to NABARD.
The institution would be allowed to issue and sell debentures, which would be
guaranteed by GOI and it would be allowed to borrow from RBI or GOI or other
sources. RBI would be NABARD's banker. NABARD would recruit its own staff,
and ARDC staff would be given the option to become NABARD employees or return
to RBI. The draft bill has provisions to ensure staff continuity in the
initial stages of NABARD's operations.
5.09      A small working group of likely participants in NABARD was set up
some months ago for liaison purposes and, in due course, to initiate planning
of transition from present institutions to NABARD. Planning had not yet start-
ed during project appraisal, pending the outcome of parliamentary debate on the
NABARD bill. Consequently, detailed financial and organizational plans had not
been formulated at that time. Since NABARD would succeed ARDC as the project
executing agency, such plans would have an important impact on the project,
and assurances were obtained that GOI would provide detailed financial and
organizational plans for NABARD for Bank Group review prior to NABARD becoming
operational, and would take Bank Group comments into account in finalizing tlhe
plans.
C. Project Lending Procedures
5.10      Participation in ARDC-Supported Schemes.  Schemes would be prepared
on the basis of State and (increasingly) district-level banking programs coor-
dinated by ARDC regional offices and senior State government officials appointed
for this purpose. Banks would be invited to participate in schemes already
prepared by government agencies, or prepare their own, sometimes with ARDC
assistance. LDB, CB and the other institutions would not be given specific
allocations of funds under the project, but would compete for projects, subject
to area priorities and lending eligibility (para 2.20).
5.11      Appraisal.   Schemes are submitted to ARDC for appraisal prior to
commitment to refinance. Appraisal covers not only technical and financial
feasibility, but also an assessment of the administrative and organizational
capacity of supporting institutions, including extension, input supply and
seasonal credit. Where necessary, time-scheduled undertakings are obtained
that services and institutions will be brought up to required standards. In
addition, under the proposed project, every scheme proposal would clearly
identify supervision responsibilities within the participating bank for sub-
sequent ARDC monitoring purposes. Technical appraisal is conducted by ARDC
specialist staff supplemented, where necessary, by a panel of consultants.
The overall quality of scheme appraisal is satisfactory.



- 37 -
D. Lending Terms and Conditions
5.12      Lending terms and conditions are set out in Schedule A and assurances
were obtained that ARDC would apply them to all its refinancing for similar
purposes, irrespective of the source of ARDC's funds. The contributions to be
made for different investments by final borrowers and participating institutions
and annual interest rates to be paid by them are illustrated in the following
schedule:
----------------------Loans for------------------------
Contribution to          Minor Irrigation To:               Diversified Lending To:
Investment Cost       Small /a  Medium /a   Other    Small /a  Medium /b   Other
By:                Farmers   Farmers   Borrowers  Farmers   Farmers    Borrowers
Final Borrower
Minimum                                     /b
Individuals            5%        10%      10  -15%       5%       10%          15%
Groups (2 or
more borrowers)       5%         7%     10%            5%         7%          10%
Corporations           -          -      10%             -         -           10%
Participating
Banks up-to           95%      90-93%    85-90%         95%      90-93%       85-90%
ARDC Refinance
up-to               -----------------------95% of Bank Loan------------------
GOI On-lending        -----------------------34% of ARDC Refinance-------------
Bank Group
Disbursement        ----------------------34% of ARDC Refinance------------
Annual Interest Rate
Loans to Final
Borrowers            10.25%   10.25%    10.25%        10.25%     12.5%        12.5%
ARDC Refinance          6.5%      6.5%       6.5%        6.5%        7.5%        7.5%
GOI Loans to ARDC                     6.5% up to 9 years and 7% 9-15 years
/a   As defined in Schedule D.
7T   For pumpsets only.
5.13      The interest rate to final borrowers has been raised twice by GOI
since July 1980 to compensate CB for reintroduction of income tax on agricul-
tural lending and higher deposit interest rates introduced in early 1981. LDB
do not have to pay taxes and do not raise funds by deposit, so that the increased
rates to final borrowers meant increasing their average spread from 3% to some-
thing over 4%. The "Committee on Interest Rate Spreads in the Agricultural
Lending Sector" established under the Third ARDC Credit Project found that a
3.5% spread would be adequate for LDB having reasonable turnover and with
a reasonable level of bad debts, and recommended that uniform rates be main-
tained for LDB and CB lending. The present spread is therefore satisfactory
and should allow LDB to build up their financial stability and operational
capacity.



- 38 -
5.14      In 1979/80, due primarily to a sharp decline in agricultural output
(para. 1.06), together with heavy increases in the price of imported oil, the
remarkable price stability which India had enjoyed since 1975 came to an abrupt
end, with prices increasing 21%. From this peak, the inflation rate has since
receded to a current 10-11% and the average annual rate over the next five years
is not expected to exceed 8%. Interest rates to final borrowers of 10.25% and
12.5% should therefore be positive in real terms for the foreseeable future.
Over the last fifteen months, GOI has increased these rates by between 0.75%
and 2%, indicating a willingness to respond to inflationary pressures whic]h
should safeguard future real interest rate levels, in the event that prices
rise more quickly than projected. These rates reflect GOI's aim of supporting
agriculture as they fall towards the bottom end of the overall GOI prescri-bed
long- and medium-term rates ranging from 10.25% to 15%.  They are broadly in
line with such lending to small scale industry. Short-term rates are gen-
erally somewhat higher ranging up to 19.5%.
E. Lending to Small Farmers and in Less Developed States
5.15      A minimum of 55% (US$190 M equivalent) of the Credit and Loan
proceeds would be earmarked for reimbursing loans to small farmers as defined
by ARDC (Schedule D), and assurances to this effect were obtained at negotia-
tions. The above would be a minimum target and ARDC would attempt, as under
the Third ARDC Credit, to direct at least 60% of its lending to small farmers.
Small farmers are defined as those cultivating land which produces a maximum
annual net return to the farm family, before proposed improvements, of Rs
2,000 in 1972 prices. This upper limit is updated from time to time by AR)C.
The 1980/81 all-India equivalent is Rs 3,800 which amounts to about US$95 per
capita, which is below current Bank estimates of the absolute poverty income
level in rural India. The ARDC definition in some areas includes almost 90%
of all farmers. ARDC would continue to establish and monitor indicative
State-by-State targets adjusted to reflect existing land holding patterns. To
stimulate borrowing by small farmers, ARDC provides down-payment and maturity
concessions for them (Schedule A).  GOI and State governments are implementing
a massive scheme of providing capital subsidies of between 25% and 33% for
poor farmers under the Integrated Rural Development Program. This Program
is an amalgamation and extension of several earlier programs such as Small
and Marginal Farmers Development Programs and Drought Prone Areas Programs
that have benefited from ARDC refinance.  ARDC would continue to support
approved GOI or State programs to subsidize capital investments by poor
farmers provided that: (a) all subsidies connected with ARDC supported sub-
loans are channeled through the lending bank; and (b) suitable field super-
vision and auditing procedures are followed in identifying recipients and
disbursing grants.
5.16      The northeastern region, comprising Assam, Bihar, West Bengal,
Orissa and a few smaller States and Territories is an area where agricultural
development lags and rural banking services are less developed. Mlost of the
area has reasonably high potential for development in terms of good soils,
favorable rainfall and considerable and as yet hardly exploited irrigation
water resources. ARDC continues to make special efforts to promote lending
in these and similar areas including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal
Pradesh, Jammu-Kashmir and Rajasthan; by helping State governments to



- 39 -
formulate special schemes, inducing State governments to establish institu-
tions necessary for development lending, e.g. groundwater boards and support-
ing development corporations specially established for developing these areas,
and providing 90% refinance for schemes compared to 75% to 80% which is more
usual in other States. Northeastern States only accounted for about 2% of
ARDC refinance in 1971/72 which had risen to 12% by 1979/80. ARDC is aiming
to increase the level to about 20% by the end of the project period and to
direct almost half of its lending to the entire disadvantaged area including
the States listed above that are outside the northeastern Region.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.17      Accounting and auditing procedures would be as in the ongoing and
earlier Bank Group financed agricultural credit projects in India. Audited
accounts of participating banks would be submitted to ARDC normally within
four months of the end of the fiscal year. CB accounts are audited by
commercial accounting firms and scrutinized by RBI; LDB accounts are audited
by an Audit Section of the State Cooperative Department. In addition, RBI
carries out detailed spot inspections of LDB branches that includes a review
of operational procedures. Those audit procedures are satisfactory, and
audit reporting under the ongoing project is generally up to date. ARDC is
audited by a private firm which is rotated once every three years, and is
appointed with the prior approval of RBI. ARDC would continue to have its
accounts audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank Group, and those audits
would specifically include examination of certificates of expenditures sub-
mitted to the Bank Group for reimbursement. ARDC would continue to forward
its audited accounts to the Bank Group within four months of the end of the
fiscal year.
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
5.18      ARDC has been monitoring progress of lending operations by super-
vising individual schemes, but has only been able to cover about 5% of the
total (about 7,360 schemes were under implementation in December 1980). To
improve coverage, ARDC has initiated "District Oriented Monitoring" along
lines discussed with Bank Group staff during appraisal of ARDC III. In this
approach, a sample of the most important schemes and of participating banks'
branches are visited in each district which is supervised and the results of
trials of this method of progress monitoring are promising. Further refine-
ments of format and methodology are needed to reduce the time and manpower
needed for this type of monitoring without decreasing the quality of monitor-
ing, but more importantly, the staff available for scheme supervision remains
inadequate and will have to be strengthened considerably to achieve satisfac-
tory levels of supervision. Assurance were therefore obtained that by June
30, 1982, ARDC would draw up a plan to strengthen regional staff sufficiently
to allow each District with ARDC schemes to be supervised at least once every
two years by the end of the project period. Visits to participating bank
branches should also be stepped up considerably so that ultimately, each one
would be visited at least once in every four years.
5.19      While monitoring of disbursements has been adequate, monitoring
of physical achievements has been poor. In general, progress reporting by LDB



- 40 -
has been more satisfactory than that of CB, which has not been standardized.
Punctual and adequate reporting by participating banks must become the basis
of satisfactory monitoring of lending operations by ARDC. To improve existing
systems, assurances were obtained: (a) that ARDC would establish a working
party to report by June 30, 1982 on methods of reporting physical achievements;
(b) that CALCOB would establish a working party to propose by June 30, 1982 a
standardized system for CB quarterly reporting of scheme progress to ARDC; and
(c) that the proposals of the working parties be considered and with such changes
as necessary be implemented and become operative not later than September 30,
1982. ARDC and Bank Group staff would continue their dialogue on improving
monitoring and evaluation methodology.
5.20      ARDC has developed considerable expertise in ex-post evaluation of
schemes, their costs and benefits, and in preparation of project completion
reports. As agreed with IDA, ARDC during the course of ARDC III is to conduct
20 evaluation studies itself, arrange for 20 more to be prepared by participat-
ing banks and contract out another 10 to research institutes. Execution of 50
studies covering at least 5,000 beneficiaries, in addition to compilation of
three completion reports and assistance with several others would be a large
increase over the 10 reports that had been completed up to the beginning of
the ARDC III. ARDC has found that considerable training efforts are needed to
qualify their own regional staff and that of other institutions to carry out
the studies.  Because most participants are conducting this type of investiga-
tion for the first time, quality of studies may be variable. The appraisal
mission therefore agreed that in the interest of consolidating quality of
studies, a similar size program as under ARDC III would be satisfactory for
this project. Particular emphasis would be given to increasing information
on benefits of dugwells in areas with loan recovery problems and to studying
other lending that has resulted in poor loan recovery. To improve standard
of studies, at least 10 training courses in evaluation methods for 250 econo-
mists of participating banks and research institutes have been planned over
the project period, which would be satisfactory.
5.21      ARDC sends quarterly reports in an agreed format and its annual
reports to the Bank Group regularly and punctually. These reports are satis-
factory and would continue under this project with possible amendments to
format from time to time. As with the previous credit projects, ARDC would
prepare a project completion report not later than six months after the
Closing Date. Assurances were obtained that ARDC would follow the above
reporting procedures. ARDC has also undertaken to prepare or cause to be
prepared at least 50 scheme evaluation reports during the project period.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RETURNS TO BENEFICIARIES
Production
6.01      Investments in minor irrigation and land development, will, through
the adoption of more intensive and improved farming techniques by benefi-
ciaries, generate significant increases in the production of both foodgrains
and other crops. Given the global nature of the project, precise forecasts



- 41 -
of this increased crop production are impossible. Approximate estimates have
instead been derived from farm models by using information on yield increases
and cropping pattern changes expected to result from project investments. At
full development, incremental production due to the project is expected to be
as follows:
Thousands of tons
Rice                                 760
Wheat                                870
Other Cereals                         80
Total Foodgrains                   1,710
Oilseeds                             170
Sugarcane                          2,530
Cotton                               110
Valued at 1980/81 farmgate prices, these production increases will amount to
Rs 4,000 M (US$500 M), of which 67% is accounted for by foodgrains.
6.02      In addition, lending for horticulture and plantation crops will
stimulate extra production of coffee, tea, coconut and cashewnuts, while live-
stock, fisheries and other diversified programs will lead to incremental pro-
duction of milk, eggs, fish and timber. The production value of these crops
is estimated at Rs 1,200 M (US$150 M), giving a total value for all incremental
production from the project of Rs 5,200 M (US$650 M) per annum at project
maturity.
Marketing and Prices
6.03      The incremental production of foodgrains and other major crops (oil-
seeds, sugarcane and cotton) under the project will amount to approximately
11% of the total increase in production of these crops envisaged under the
Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85). Although widely dispersed throughout the
country, the successful storage and marketing of this output will nevertheless
be closely tied to the implementation of programs, also envisaged under the
Plan, to augment further the national storage and marketing infrastructure.
The project will itself contribute to the development of this infrastructure
with lending for the construction of over 1 M tons of storage capacity and
about 100 market yards throughout the country. These measures, in conjunc-
tion with successful procurement and support price operations developed by GOI
in recent years (para 6.04), should ensure that no major bottlenecks in the
disposal of this extra marketable surplus are encountered. Marketed surpluses
of other crops are unlikely to be significant in relation to domestic and
foreign outlets. Producers of plantation crops such as coffee, tea and cashew-
nuts, tend to be closely linked to established and reliable markets (often
export-oriented). Other output, such as coconut/copra, milk, eggs, poultry
meat and fish, can be readily sold in the domestic market where demand is
buoyant and there are still opportunities for import substitution. Many
milk producers will also be able to take advantage of organized marketing
facilities, through membership in dairy cooperatives.



- 42 -
6.04      Nearly all agricultural output in India is produced by around 70
million private farmers, working their own land and/or renting in the land
of others.  They operate in a market in which output prices, particularly
for foodgrains which cover about 75% of the cropped area, respond freely to
variations in supply and demand.  For most crops, government intervention
is limited to the provision of minimum support prices, set annually by the
Agricultural Prices Commission. The principal objective of these support
prices is to provide adequate long-term incentives to growers, besides offering
some protection against the uncertainty and income losses caused by depressed
prices in years of heavy production. For the main foodgrains--rice and wheat--
these support prices are established at levels to meet the twin objectives of
ensuring adequate urban supplies and building up reserve stocks. In recent
years, these policies have worked well. Farmers are however free to sell
their produce at market prices, which can range well above support prices,
particularly for crops like oilseeds,'which are in short supply. The level
of agricultural taxation in India varies between States; in general, however,
it is well below taxation of other sectors and is consistent with the national
objective of providing farmers with adequate incentives to increase production.,
6.05      Prices used in the financial models of this report are projections
for 1985, expressed in constant 1980 rupees. Post-harvest farmgate prices
ruling in the 1980/81 crop season (kharif 1980, rabi 1981) were adjusted,
taking into account the Bank's commodity price projections through 1985. Where
current domestic farmgate prices are above current world prices (after adjust-
ment for domestic handling, processing and :ransport costs), the rise in the
domestic relative price has been estimated ;it less than the world price in-
crease, giving import or export parity by 1H85. Where domestic financial
prices are equal to or less than border prices, the rate of increase has been
assumed equal to that forecast for world prices. Details of financial prices
are given in Annex 4, Table 1.
Financial Analysis
6.06      Under the project, a wide range of investments in different locations
and under different conditions will be undertaken.  Analysis of the financial
impact of these investments at the level of the borrower has been designed to
give as wide a coverage as possible and constitutes a series of illustrative,
rather than representative, models. In recent years, ARDC has accumulated a
broad base of farm model data from ex post and ongoing evaluation studies,
as well as project completion reports. The models used to examine the financial
impact of the project are based on these sources. A small selection of these
models is presented in Tables 2 to 10 in Annex 3. A summary of the main
results is presented below.



- 43 -
Debt /a    Net Incremental
Investment       Service    Income (at full
Investment                   Cost            Ratio        Development)
(Rs)
1. Dugwell and pumpset
(Maharashtra)             18,200          0.7-7.0           5,420
2. Shallow tubewell and
pumpset (Bihar)             8,000          1.3-5.6          6,370
3. Land Development
(Andhra Pradesh)           4,670          0.8-3.8           2,465
4. Coffee plantation
(Kerala)                  15,500          1.6-1.6           6,210
5.  Dairy (Tamil Nadu)           8,000          1.3-1.8          3,100
6. Inland Fisheries
(Uttar Pradesh)           15,000          1.6-1.8           5,995
/a   In the first and last year of repayment.  Ratio of net incremental
income to net financing, including annual repayment of long-term loan
from ARDC and net short-term credit flows, expressed in constant
prices.
The table above shows that debt-service obligations are comfortably met out
of net incremental income after the initial years of investment. In all cases,
total income in year 2 more than covers debt service and by year 3 the debt
service ratio exceeds unity.
6.07      Table 1 in Annex 3 summarizes the rate of return and sensitivity
analyses for all models. The results clearly show that investments financed
by ARDC are profitable and that most are extremely attractive. Main profit-
ability indicators and sensitivity analyses for the models listed above are
summarized below:
Net                            PercentySe
Present   Switching Values       Change -
FRR    Value /a  Benefits   Costs  Benefits  Costs
%.      (Rs)      -------(Rs)---(%)------
1. Dugwell and
Pumpset               23       13,935      48,930    62,870    -22       29
2. Shallow Tubewell
and Pumpset           48       27,640      43,275    70,915    -39       64
3.  Land Development         35       9,595      18,905    28,500    -34       50
4.  Coffee Plantation        20      13,785      31,020    44,805    -31       44
5.  Dairy                    41       4,210      22,315    26,525    -16       19
6.  Inland Fisheries         43      16,945      34,165    51,110    -33       50
/a   At a discount rate of 12%.
/b   The switching values for discounted benefits and costs represent those
values which would reduce the investment's net present value (NPV) to
zero. The percentage change in the discounted benefit and cost values
necessary to achieve zero NPV are also presented.



- 44 -
6.08      The sensitivity analyses demonstrate that the investments generally
remain profitable in the face of reasonable reductions in benefits and increases
in costs, although some investments, (for example, dairy), display above-normal
sensitivity due to short project life.
VII. BENEFITS, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
7.01      The main benefit of the project would be an increase in crop pro-
duction, while there would also be smaller rises in the output of livestock,
forestry and fisheries products. The total value of incremental production
at full development is placed at about Rs 5,200 M (US$650 M) per annum in
1980/81 farmgate prices. Increased foodgrain production will consolidate
the trend towards foodgrain self-sufficiency in India, lessening the need
for imports in poorer years, strengthening the accumulation of adequate food
stocks and reinforcing the likelihood of foodgrain exports in later years.
Incremental oilseeds, cotton and copra production will save foreign exchange
by reducing the need for imports, while increases in the output of plantation
crops such as tea, coffee, cashewnuts, etc., sugarcane, fish and shrimp will
add to export supply. Increased milk production will augment the domestic
consumption of milk and milk products, reducing to some extent the need for
imported butter-oil and skim milk powder.
Beneficiaries
7.02      It is estimated that almost 1.4 million farmers spread throughout
India will directly benefit from the project. About 60% of beneficiaries will
be small farmers with annual per capita incomes of less than Rs 910 (US$114) 1/.
Project activities will also stimulate an increase in employment in the rural
areas. Implementation of the investments will itself generate 150 million
mandays demand for construction labor, over 75% of which will be accounted for
by minor irrigation. A permanent increase in employment, amounting to almost
134 million mandays per year, will in turn be created through increased crop,
livestock, forestry and fishery production, involving more intensive cropping,
improved farm practices, and higher standards of animal husbandry.
Environmental Effects
7.03      No adverse effects on environmental conditions are expected from the
project. Schemes under the soil conservation and land reclamation component
would alleviate problems of soil erosion, salinity and waterlogging. Controlle,d
forest exploitation would also promote better soil conservation. The construc-
tion of formal market yards will contribute to the alleviation of problems of
overcrowding and hygiene in congested small town market areas.
1/   US$114 per capita is the current absolute poverty line in India.



- 45 -
Economic Analysis
7.04       1985 financial prices (expressed in constant 1980 rupees) were
converted to economic prices to allow for the distortionary effect of local
taxes and subsidies. For most agricultural inputs and outputs, world prices
projected by the Bank were corrected for local transport, handling and process-
ing costs (themselves adjusted for taxes and subsidies) to arrive at economic
farmgate prices. Implicit conversion factors derived in this way were used
for unquoted closely substitutable commodities. For pumpset, other equipment
and construction costs, a standard conversion factor (0.8) was applied. A
shadow wage rate of 0.6 was used to value unskilled family and hired farm
labor. The costs of loan appraisal and administration, estimated at 5% of
the value of loans and adjusted by the standard conversion factor, were incor-
porated into investment costs for the purposes of economic appraisal. Details
of economic prices and conversion factors are given in Table 1 of Annex 4.
7.05      Economic rates of return and sensitivity tests were calculated for
a sub-sample of 11 of the 18 investment models listed in Table 1 of Annex 3.
These results are presented in Table 2 of Annex 4 while details of economic
cost and benefit streams are shown in Tables 3 and 4 of Annex 4. Results for
the six models presented in paras 6.06 and 6.07 are summarized in the follow-
ing table.
Costs +10%
Point     Costs    Benefits   Costs + 10%    Benefits
Estimate    +10%       -10%      Benefits -10%   Delayed
1. Dugwell and
pumpset              38         33        32           27               21
2. Shallow tubewell
and pumpset        over 50      44        43           34               23
3.  Land development   over 50   over 50   over 50         over 50           49
4.  Coffee plantation    32          29         29           27              24
5.  Dairy                 38         22         20            6               2
6.  Inland fisheries   over 50       42         41           32              21
overall ERR (weighted average) /a    44%
/a   The overall ERR was calculated as a weighted average of all models for
which individual ERRs were calculated (see Table 2, Annex 4).
7.06      For most models, the ERR is higher than the FRR.  This is a result
of a combination of adjusting most costs downward both to remove local taxes
and accurately reflect the true cost of labor, and adjusting benefits upward to
reflect border values: most agricultural outputs in India are undervalued in
relation to world prices. Most investments under the project are, therefore,
highly attractive in economic as well as financial terms. The ERRs reflect
not only the returns to ARDC-financed investments, but also the costs and bene-
fits of using complementary inputs such as fertilizer and improved seed which
are necessary to realize the projected benefits. The ERRs therefore represent
a joint return to the use of these inputs and not, for example, the return to
an investment in well and pumpset alone. General agricultural services, such
as extension and research, also contribute to project benefits, but account
for no more than 1% of farm production costs and have therefore been omitted,



- 46 -
with negligible effect on the ERRs. Notwithstanding the recognition that
project benefits represent a joint return to the use of all these inputs,
the attribution of benefits to different investment components is difficult,
if not impossible; no judgement can therefore be made as to whether returns
to irrigation and other ARDC-financed investments alone are higher or lower
than the estimates given above.
Other Benefits
7.07      Besides the generation of directly productive benefits, a central
aim of the project will be to secure and, where necessary, strengthen the
institutional framework for long-term agricultural credit in India. Under
the three previous ARDC projects, significant progress has been made in the
development of ARDC itself as an effective apex institution. Under this
project, these gains will be consolidated through measures to improve the
appraisal and supervision capabilities of ARDC. As the lending program is
stepped up, the management and staffing needs of ARDC, at both the regional
and central levels, will be kept under continuous review. In addition, tech-
nical and managerial standards in the participating banks will be upgraded
both through training and the inclusion of organizational and managerial
reviews as integral components of LDB rehabilitation programs.
Project Risks
7.08      The project would be the continuation of the agricultural lending
program that has contributed greatly to rural development in India over the
last decade. The only serious risk attending the project would be continua-
tion of poor loan recovery, described in Chapter 2 of this report. In recog-
nition of this risk, the project is introducing specific measures to improve
the ability of participating institutions to deal with the problem (paras
2.20-2.28); and for close monitoring of their progress by the Bank Group
(para 2.28). Part of the loan repayment problem arises from climatic hazards
that pose risks to investors which may cause genuine difficulties in punctual
loan repayments, particularly in the case of investments for dugwells in
hardrock areas (para 2.12). An analysis of the potential effects of drought
on borrowers' repayment capacity in such areas is presented in Annex 5. ThiLs
shows that project investments will themselves contribute to reduction of
drought induced risks and that loan repayment difficulties arising from
climatic risks can be overcome by a sufficiently flexible loan repayment
schedule. Introduction of appropriate repayment flexibility into project
lending terms is therefore receiving special attention (para 2.12).
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS
8.01      Assurances were obtained from GOI that:
(a)  a review of lending eligiblity criteria for LDB by GOI, ARDC
and the Bank Group would take place by October 31, 1982 and
subsequently as necessary (para 2.22);
(b)  a Standing Committee would be maintained to conduct studies
and prepare plans for improving operations of six problem LDB
and, by mutual agreement between GOI, the Bank Group and ARDC,
prepare similar plans for other weak LDB, in due course (para
2.27);



- 47 -
(c) studies to improve operations of six problem LDB would be
completed by May 31, 1982 (para 2.27); and
(d) GOI would provide the Bank Group with detailed financial
and organizational plans for NABARD for review and would
take account of the Association's comments (para 5.09).
8.02       Assurances were also obtained from ARDC that:
(a) ARDC would participate in the reviews referred to in para
8.01(a) (para 2.22);
(b) lending eligibility criteria for participating banks, des-
cribed in Schedule E would be applied (paras. 2.21 and 2.22);
(c) ARDC would, by June 30, 1982 prepare programs with imple-
mentation timetables satisfactory to the Bank Group, based
on studies referred to in paras 8.01(b) and (c), for im-
proving operations of the six problem LDB; and after
September 1, 1982 withhold refinance from any LDB that has
not accepted the program or is implementing it unsatisfac-
torily (para 2.27 and Schedule E).
(d) the progress of each of the six weak LDB in implementing
rehabilitation programs would be reviewed at least three
times each year with Bank Group Participation and that
lending eligibility of the LDB could be adjusted as a
result of the reviews (para 2.28);
(e) CALCOB would conduct a study and furnish a report before
December 31, 1982 on measures needed or modifications satis-
factory to the Bank Group that may be advisable for applying
LDB lending eligibility criteria to CB and RRB and by July 1,
1983 ARDC would apply such criteria to CB and RRB (para 2.35);
(f) by June 30, 1983 ARDC would develop a scheme for minor irriga-
tion equipment improvement for each State in which it supports
minor irrigation development (para 4.06);
(g) the well compensation scheme would be finalized for country
wide adoption by December 31, 1982 (para 4.10);
(h) two experienced forestry experts would be appointed to the
ARDC Technical Division, by December 31, 1982 (para 4.23);
(i) lending terms and conditions described in Schedule "A" would
be applied (para 5.12);
(j) a minimum of US$190 M of the proceeds of the credit and loan
would be used to reimburse loans to small farmers as defined
in Schedule "D" (para 5. 15);



- 48 -
(k) ARDC would, by June 30, 1982, draw up a plan to supervise
each district with an ARDC scheme at least once every two
years (para 5.18);
(1)  (i)  an ARDC working party would be established to report,
by June 30, 1982 on methods of recording physical
achievements of lending programs;
(ii) a CALCOB working party would be established to
propose by June 30, 1982 a standardized quarterly
reporting system for CB; and
(iii) recommendations arising from the two working parties
referred to in paras 8.02 (l)(i) and 8.02 (l)(ii) above
be implemented by September 30, 1982 (para 5.19); and
(m) ARDC would adhere to agreed reporting procedures (para 5.21).
8.03      The completion of the financial arrangement between GOI and ARDC
would be a condition of effectiveness (para 4.31).
8.04      Subject to the foregoing assurances the Project would be suitable
for Bank Group finance of US$350 X1 comprising an IDA Credit of US$160 M and
a Bank Loan of US$190 M.



- 49 -
Schedule A
Page I
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   GOI to ARDC:.
(a) For ARDC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of not less than 6.75% less 0.25%
for prompt repayment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b) For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15 years:
(i) annual interest rate of not less than 7.25%, less 0.25%
for prompt repayment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years; and
(c)  GOI to bear the foreign exchange risk.
2.   ARDC to Participating Banks
(a)  Interest rate to be not less than 6.5% per annum for minor
irrigation, 6.5% per annum for diversified lending to small
farmers, and 7.5% per annum for all other diversified lending;
(b)  Installment repayments to extend up to two years beyond the
periods specified in the initial amortization schedules of
loans to ultimate borrowers; and
(c)  Refinancing to be by purchase of debentures or by loans, gen-
erally up to 95% of individual loans.
3.   Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers:
A.   Minor Irrigation (including Land Development, Soil Conservation
and Reclamation)
(a) Interest rate to be not less than 10.25% per annum;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost
of project investment may be charged; this fee may be
waived with the concurrence of ARDC;
(c)  Farmers  contribution (including obligatory purchase
of LDB shares, own labor, and other contributions in
cash or kind):



- 50 -
Schedule A,
Page 2
(i)  for lending to small farmers, a minimum 5% of
investment cost;
(ii)  for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return to family resources to
such farmers and his family ranging from
Rs 2,001 to Rs 3,500 based on 1972 prices, a
minimum of 10% of the investment cost.  (For
the purpose of determining the said net returns,
the criteria set forth in Schedule D shall apply).
(iii) for other farmers, a minimum of 10% 1/ of the
cost of pumpsets and 15% 2/ for other minor
irrigation investments.
(iv)  for corporate borrowers, public trusts, etc. a
minimum of 10%.
(d) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's
repayment capacity, but generally not to exceed:
For lending to Small Farmers:
(i)  9 years on loans for pumpsets, whether financed
as separate loans or included in other minor
irrigation loans; and
(ii)  15 years on loans for all other minor irrigation
loans; and
For lending to other Farmers
(iii) 9 years on loans for pumpsets and for other minor
irrigation loans.
For lending to other Beneficiaries
(iv)  15 years maximum for minor irrigation investments.
(e) Grace periods may be granted at the discretion of ARDC,
provided that the repayment period of such loans is not
exceeded;
1/   7% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
2/   10% for two or more farmers in a group loan.



- 51 -
Schedule A
Page 3
(f)  Technical and other standards and conditions, as laid down
by ARDC taking into consideration any applicable guidelines
which the Bank Group shall have reasonably instituted, to
be observed, including the following:
(i) prior to refinancing a loan made by a Participating
Bank for pumpset electrification, ARDC shall require
such Participating Bank to obtain from the State Elec-
tricity Board operating in the State within which the
pumpset electrification is to be carried out confirma-
tion that such electrification would not lead to over-
loading the local power system or to any other effects
detrimental to the electrical power system of the State;
(ii) the refinancing of a loan for minor irrigation would
be made on the basis of the guidelines for groundwater
resources evaluation set forth in Schedule C;
(iii) prior to refinancing a loan made by a Participating
Bank for a land development project, ARDC shall require
such Participating Bank to obtain from the concerned
authorities of the State within which the project is
to be carried out undertaking that such authorities
would maintain adequate water flow rate and frequency
at the channel outlet serving the project, and pro-
gressively establish rotational water distribution
systems;
(iv) the refinancing of a loan for tubewells in a minor
irrigation project to be carried out by a public
corporation shall be made on the basis of the
guidelines in Schedule B; and
(v) after June 30, 1983, the refinancing of loans for
minor irrigation projects shall be conditioned upon
the obtaining from the ultimate borrowers of con-
tractual undertakings to procure only such equipment
items required for the projects as shall comply with
the standards and specifications for such equipment
prepared by ARDC.
(g) If the ultimate borrower's own cultivated area is significantly
smaller than that which can be adequately irrigated by the
irrigation unit so financed, such borrower must undertake to
sell water surplus to his needs, or to hire out his pumpset.
B.   Diversified Lending:
(a) Annual interest rate to be not less than 10.25% per annum for
lending to small farmers, and 12.5% for all other diversified
lending;



- 52 -
Schedule A
Page 4
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost
of investment may be charged; this fee may be waived
with the concurrence of ARDC;
(c) Farmers' contribution (including obligatory purchase
of LDB shares, own labor and other contributions in
cash or kind);
(i)  for lending to small farmers, a minimum of 5%
of the investment cost;
(ii) for farmers cultivating land providing a pre-
development net return to family resources to
such farmer and his family ranging from Rs 2,001
to Rs 3,500 based on 1972 prices, a minimum of
10% 1/ of the investment cost. For the purpose
of determining said net returns, the criteria
set forth in Schedule D shall apply;
(iii) for other farmers a minimum of 15% 2/ of the
investment cost; and
(iv) For other beneficiaries, a minimum of 10% of
investment cost.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the terms "Small Farmer" and "Farmer" shall
include all beneficiaries of schemes other than minor irrigation; for the pur-
pose of determining the equivalent of small farmers and farmers among such
beneficiaries, the definition of small farmer and the description of farmers
set forth in sub-paragraph (ii) hereof shall be adapted to mean "any person
primarily engaged in an activity which provides a pre-development net return
to family resources to such person and his family not exceeding Rs 2,000 and
ranging from Rs 2,001 to Rs 3,500" respectively (based on 1972 prices); and
"net return to family resources" shall mean gross family income from the said
activity less costs actually incurred.
(d) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower
repayment capacity, but not to exceed 15 years (including
applicable grace periods).
C.   General:
(a) ARDC and participating banks to maintain separate accounts
for lending to small farmers;
(b) Security to be in accordance with arrangements between
participating banks and ARDC;
1/   7% for two or more farmers in a group loan.
2/   10% for two or more farmers in a group loan.



- 53 -
Schedule A
Page 5
(c)  ARDC shall refinance only sound schemes which, on the
basis of careful study are considered to be financially
viable, have a minimum financial rate of return of 15%
to total investment costs, and are backed with satis-
factory technical and administrative management to be
identified at the time of scheme approval;
(d) ARDC shall forward all applications for refinance of
diversified lending schemes having total investment
costs of US$1,000,000 equivalent or more together with
appraisal reports and all other relevant data, to the
Bank Group for its approval;
(e) Where necessary, ARDC may approve rescheduling of loans
particularly when requests for rescheduling are from
districts suffering from adverse climatic conditions,
in accordance with ARDC's existing guidelines; and
(f) Lending Terms and Conditions from ARDC to participating
banks, and to ultimate borrowers, for similar purposes
to be identical irrespective of source of funds.



- 54 -
Schedule B
Page 1
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Guidelines for Disbursement Against
Public Direct Irrigation and Augmentation Tubewells
A.   Public Direct Irrigation Tubewells
1.        ARDC would ensure that the Tubewell Corporation obtained an assurance
from the State Electricity Board that electric power would be available for the
requisite number of hours and at the appropriate times and seasons for the
economic operation of schemes.
2.        Assurances would also be obtained from the State Electricity Board
through State governments that the power distribution system serving the wel:Ls
would not be overloaded by extended rural electrification connections, and
that the system would be protected against power surges, low potential and
low power factors.
3.        Schemes would be designed to provide adequate stand-by water delivery
capacity (e.g. by providing for stocks of spare motors).
4.        The conveyance system for irrigation water would be in buried pipes
or lined channels down to turnout serving 10 to 15 farmers.
5.        Irrigation water would be provided at turnouts according to a fixed
and scheduled rotation. On completion of this facility, farmers within turnout
commands would be organized into  water users groups  to share water within
the command, and each group would nominate a member to a 'tubewell command
committee which would decide questions of water rotations and allocations.
6.        In principle, the water rate charged to farmers would cover, on the
basis of calculations satisfactory to ARDC, at least operation and maintenance
costs and capital recovery on components which are renewable at fixed intervals
(pumps, motors, switch gear, etc.). Where water rates are insufficient to
cover these costs, ARDC would obtain specific assurances from State governments
that, for the duration of the loan, adequate funds would be provided for these
purposes as well as to meet loan repayment commitments.
B.   Augmentation Tubewells
7.        ARDC would ensure at appraisal that electrical power would be avail-
able for the requisite number of hours annually for economic operation of the
schemes.



- 55 -
Schedule B
Page 2
9.        The 11 kv power supply would be exclusive to the scheme and would
be properly protected against power surges, low potential and low power
factors.
10.       The State Irrigation Department would reimburse the Tubewell Corp-
oration for water supplies, at a price which would cover the costs of operation,
maintenance, replacement and capital recovery, or the State would subsidize the
Tubewell Corporation against any shortfall.



- 56 -
Schedule C
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Guidelines for Levels of Evaluation of
Groundwater Resources Appropriate to Levels of Resource Development
1.        If the projected net extraction in a scheme area in Year 5 is less
than 60% of the recoverable recharge, technical approval by the State Ground-
water Organization and appraisal by ARDC would be made on the basis of a taluka
or block level water balance (white areas).
2.        If the projected net extraction in a scheme area in Year 5 is
between 60% and 80% of the recoverable recharge, the scheme will be subject
to special scrutiny by ARDC at appraisal and the State Groundwater Organiza-
tion would be requested to provide a block level balance as a minimum and
an extraction projection through a planning period of 10 years (grey areas).
3.        If the projected net extraction in a scheme area in Year 5 is in
excess of 80% of the recoverable recharge, the State Groundwater Organization
would be required to support its evaluation of resource adequacy with detailed
hydrological maps showing extraction and recharge distribution together with
projected extraction for a planning period of 15 years, and an evaluation of
the probable effects of drought periods on water availability and farmers
repayment capacity (black areas).
4.        For the purpose of applying the above guidelines in the first
instance, recoverable recharge may be taken as 70% of the total mean annual
recharge and net extraction may be calculated as 70% of gross extraction (total
pumping). The above norms may be conservative in some instances and State
Groundwater Organizations need to scientifically refine the norms on an area
specific basis.



- 57 -
Schedule D
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Small Farmer Definition
1.        "Small Farmer" shall mean any farmer cultivating land providing a
pre-development net return to family resources to such farmer and his family
not exceeding Rs 2,000 based on 1972 prices (1980/81 all-India equivalent
Rs 3,800).
2.        For the purpose of determining said net return, the following
criteria shall apply:
(a) "land" shall include all land actually cultivated by the
farmer notwithstanding the fact that ownership of such land
may vest in one or more persons;
(b) "net return to family resources" shall mean gross family
income from the land, less costs actually incurred (includ-
ing cash value of the farmer's own input, including seed,
fertilizer, hired human labor, hired bullock labor, feed
consumed by family bullocks, irrigation charges, land
revenue, interest on crop loan, and rent on leased land);
and
(c) the amounts for the current year shall be arrived at by
applying the current Agricultural Laborers Consumer Price
Index for the State in which the land is located to the
1972 base set forth in paragraph 1 hereto.



- 58 -
Schedule E
Page     1
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Criteria for Eligibility of Participating Banks
to Receive Refinancing from ARDC
A.  Criteria applicable to LDB
1.        The refinancing made available by ARDC in any fiscal year to an LDB
for lending through a branch of such LDB or a Primary Bank member of such LDB
will be proportionate to the range of overdues of such branch or Primary Bank
during the previous year or the average of the preceding three years, whichever
is lower, on the basis of the following table:
Overdues (% of Demand)                       Eligibility
0-25                     Unrestricted
26-40                     Up to highest lending level in any of the
preceding five years or up to the amount
of recovery in the preceding year, or the
average of the amount recovered during the
preceding three years, whichever is higher.
41 and above            Up to the amount of recovery in the preceding
year, or the average of the amount recovered
during the preceding three years, whichever
is higher.
The government of the State within which the LDB is established may contri--
bute, from its own resources, to the share capital of the LDB branch or mem-
ber Primary Bank, an amount equal to 10% of the overdues for the year under
consideration thus notionally reducing the overdues to that extent for pur-
poses of eligibility for ARDC refinancing.
2.        The LDB branch or member Primary Bank with restricted eligibility
pursuant to subparagraph (1) above, must utilize any refinancing received
from ARDC towards its ongoing investments for which it has already made
disbursements and until such investments are carried out. However, ARDC may
agree to refinance loans made by such a branch or Bank for such investment up
to such amounts as such branch or Bank shall have committed for such invest-
ments, notwithstanding any restrictions on the eligibility of such branch or
Bank to receive refinancing from ARDC, pursuant to subparagraph (1) of this
paragraph.
3.        Where the recovery rate of an LDB branch or member Primary Bank
drops in any fiscal year by more than 10% of the demand as compared with the
recovery rate in the previous year, then the LDB concerned shall review the
operations of such branch or Bank and agree with ARDC, before December 31 of
the current year, on any remedial measures that such branch or Primary Bank
is to undertake to correct the situation.



- 59 -
Schedule E
Page     2
4.        For the purpose of this paragraph the following terms have the
following meanings:
(i) "demand" means the aggregate of principal and in-
terest on loans fallen due during the year under
consideration plus overdues from previous years;
(ii)  "overdues" means that part of demand which has not
been collected; and
(iii) "recovery rate" means the percentage of demand which
has been collected.
B. Additional criteria applicable to the LDB operating in the States of
Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu
1.        ARDC shall not refinance any loans made or to be made by any of the
LDB mentioned above, unless and until such LDB shall have undertaken to carry
out, and shall have been empowered by the authorities having jurisdiction in
the State within which such LDB is established and operating to carry out, a
financial rehabilitation program, acceptable to the Bank and ARDC, designed
to improve such LDB's financial condition.
2.        After September 1, 1982 and except as the Bank and ARDC may other-
wise agree, ARDC shall not refinance any additional loans made or to be made
by any of the LDB mentioned above, unless and until such LDB shall have under-
taken to carry out, and shall have been empowered by the authorities having
jurisdiction in the State within which such LDB is established and operating
to carry out, a management rehabilitation program designed to improve such
LDB's operations as prepared by ARDC in accordance with arrangements described
in para 2.27 of the main report.
3.        Subsequently, the determination with respect to the eligibility of
such LDB shall be made in accordance with arrangements described in paras
2.27 and 2.28 of the main report.
C. Criteria applicable to CB and RRB
1.        ARDC shall, after July 1, 1983, refinance in any fiscal year loans
made by a CB or an RRB only where such CB or RRB shall have satisfied the
criteria for LDB eligibility to receive refinancing from ARDC to be determined
as described in para 2.35 of the main report.
2.        ARDC shall, as an interim measure and until July 1, 1983, refinance
in any fiscal year loans made by a CB or an RRB only where such CB or RRB
shall have achieved a recovery rate within the meaning attached to this term
in paragraph A (4) (iii) of this Schedule) of not less than 50% in the pre-
ceding fiscal year, or failing that, such CB or RRB shall have undertaken
to carry out all such measures designed to improve its operations as are
acceptable to ARDC.



- 60 -
Schedule E
Page     3
D. Criteria applicable to State Cooperative and District
Central Cooperative Banks
ARDC shall refinance in any fiscal year loans made by an SCB or a
District Central Cooperative Bank or one of its branches only where such Bank
or one of its branches shall have achieved a recovery rate (within the meaning
attached to this term in paragraph A (4) (iii) of this Schedule) of not less
than 60% in the preceding fiscal year.
E. Criteria applicable to Primary Agricultural Credit Societies
ARDC shall refinance in any fiscal year loans made by a Primary
Agricultural Credit Society only where such Society has been determined eli.-
gible to undertake agricultural lending pursuant to the criteria institutecd
by the Reserve Bank of India for such lending by Primary Agricultural Credit
Societies.
F. Criteria applicable to all Participating Banks
ARDC shall not refinance any loans made or to be made by any Par--
ticipating Bank in a State where any authority having jurisdiction in that
State shall have taken any action resulting in the writing off of any loans
or the remission or reduction of interest or other charges on loans or the
restricting of its ability to collect on loans, of any Participating Bank
operating in that State which would, in the opinion of ARDC, or the Reserve
Bank of India, if the latter indicates such an opinion, materially and
adversely affect the operations or financial condition of such Bank, unless
and until such authority having jurisdiction shall have agreed to undertake
all such measures required to correct the situation as shall be satisfactory
to ARDC.



- 61.                            ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Loans Issued by State Land Development Banks
Year ending June 30        1975        1976       1977        1978        1979        1980
Andhra Pradesh              188.1       297.1       335.0      510.0       593.0       585.3
Assam                         0.4         1.9         3.1         8.9        3.8         2.0
Bihar                       162.2       162.2       187.3       71.3        52.4        85.7
Gujarat                     120.7        65.1       35.0        41.3        30.3        39.7
Haryana                     113.0       119.9       146.9      164.9       178.0       256.0
Himachal Pradesh              2.4         2.1         2.4        3.8         2.8         2.9
Jammmu and Kashmir            3.2         1.9         2.3        2.0         3.8         4.5
Karnataka                   186.6       220.0      253.3       137.6       100.2        86.9
Kerala                       34.6        44.2       79.9        83.1       102.7       174.9
Madhya Pradesh              147.7       157.3      227.5       104.9       117.1       165.5
Maharashtra                 150.2       231.2      176.9       146.1       209.1       413.2
Orissa                       30.4        30.4       72.0        62.3        79.4       116.9
Pondicherry                   0.8         0.6         0.9        0.6         0.6         0.8
Punjab                      121.2       145.7      216.0       162.6       209.1       229.6
Rajasthan                    53.6        65.9      105.3       140.6       138.9       179.2
Tamil Nadu                  257.2       149.0      172.0       132.9       104.1        82.6
Tripura                       0.2         1.2           -           -        0.7           -
Uttar Pradesh               304.3       304.3      393.4       511.1       355.6       505.5
West Bengal                  10.5        49.4        79.8      103.2       120.6        77.6
TOTAL      1,887.3    2,049.4    2,489.0    2,387.2    2,402.2    3,008.8
Source: ARDC



- 62 -                         ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Loans Outstanding of State Land Development Banks
Year ending June 30   1975         1976        1977        1978        1979        1980
-_______________---------------Rs M-------  ------------
Andhra Pradesh           1,023      1,171       1,327       1,633       2,006       2,285
Assam                        7           8          10          18          21         22
Bihar                      421         546        789         798         760         785
Gujarat                  1,139      1,050          952        851         732         648
Haryana                    421         476         544        616         681         811
Himachal Pradesh            18          19          22          23         24          27
Jammu and Kashmir           30          30          30          28         27          28
Karnataka                  819         955      1,128       1,172       1,148       1,110
Kerala                     168         198         261        321         394         494
Madhya Pradesh             541         640         825        855         902       1,008
Maharashtra              1,491      1,586       1,615       1,624       1,698       1,948
Orissa                     195         195        265         296         343         428
Pondicherry                  7           7           7           7          6           6
Punjab                     612         626        715         719         789         879
Rajasthan                  214        237         307         408         486         596
Tamil Nadu              1,215       1,289       1,368       1,409       1,441       1,458
Tripura                      1           2           2           2          2           4
Uttar Pradesh           1,546       1,546       1,773       2,028       2,165       2,24:3
West Bengal                 57         106         167        240         330         370
TOTAL       9,925     10,687      12,107      13,048      13,955      15,150
Source: ARDC



- 63 -                            ANNEX I
arable 3
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
State and Primary Land Development Banks
Summary of Overdues A
As at June 30                             1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
--     ---------- percent ------------------
I. State LDB (with unitary structure)
Bihar                                     33.6   33.6   34.8   58.0   61.8   59.5   76.6
Gujarat                                   45.4   72.4   56.3   63.2   68.7   74.7   79.0
Himachal Pradesh                          56.1   58.7   50.0   63.8   57.6   72.9   62.5
Jammu and Kashmir                         30.2   32.7   38.1   46.9   38.4   49.6   50.0
Maharashtra                               44.5   58.5   60.5c/ 62.8   57.6   19.4c/46.2
Uttar Pradesh                             22.7   25.0   16.9   23.9   26.7   27.6   24.7
AVERAGE          38.9   52.7   49.4   52.0   52.4   42.6   53.8
II. State LDB (with primaries)
Andhra Pradesh                            10.2    9.2    8.7    9.8   19.0   23.2   18.0
Assam                                     75.0   63.2   40.9   42.9   36.0   44.1   60.0
Haryana                                   nil    nil    nil    nil    nil    nil    nil
Karnataka                                 14.6   20.1   25.5   40.2   39.5   42.0   47.5
Kerala                                    22.6   20.5   12.4    8.0    5.1    4.9    5.1
Madhya Pradesh                            25.5   24.3   22.5   40.0   44.9   56.2   75.0
Orissa                                    61.2   57.4   57.4   60.0   40.0   43.2   55.2
Punjab                                     4.9    1.4    2.7    8.4    2.7    2.2    2.8
Rajasthan                                 41.2   45.3   20.0   27.5   30.8   25.2   32.2
Tamil Nadu                                 4.0    9.8   17.7   36.1   64.7   79.9   88.1
West Bengal                               19.9   19.9    0.7   nil       7.6   19.4   35.8
AVERAGE -/       14.1   16.0   15.8   15.4   25.4   41.9   48.2
ALL INDIA AVERAGE I & II B/         27.9   36.5   34.4   39.8   43.4   42.2   50.6
III. Primary LDB
Andhra Pradesh                            22.0   22.0   25.2   29.0   27.4   33.4   30.0
Assam                                     77.8   77.8   62.5   58.6   55.9   51.2   68.4
Haryana                                    0.4    1.8    2.1    3.2   10.1    8.4   10.2
Karnataka                                 38.0   40.1   41.9   53.4c/ 52.0   48.0c/ 45.2
Kerala                                    39.2   29.1   29.1   23.5   18.2   18.3   19.5
Madhya Pradesh                            47.9   46.9   41.0   53.5   47.9   56.2   67.4
Orissa                                    50.0   56.9   32.0   53.1   32.8   42.8   60.4
Punjab                                    15.0   17.0   10.8   22.1   19.5   12.7   12.8
Rajasthan                                 45.5   36.6   26.6   35.8   40.0   37.5   53.4
Tamil Nadu                                21.2   39.8   36.4   48.4c/ 72.2c/ 80.8c/ 88.7
West Bengal                               41.2   29.2   21.5   22.8   26.7   37.9   37.3
ALL INDIA           37.2   30.5   27.8   37.2   41.4   46.7   51.7
A/ Expressed as percentage of demand (Principal and interest falling due during the
year plus overdues from previous years).
B/ Weighted Average.
C/ After rescheduling during the year.
SOURCE: RBI Statistical Statements for FY1974 to 1978 and ARDC for FY1979 and 1980.



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
_Eigibility Classification of SLDB Branches and PLDB
(M)
---1975--------            -------1976--------        -------1977-------        -------1978--------        --_-1979                    ------1980 ---
A        B        C        A        B        C        A        B         C        A        B        C        A        B         C        A        B        C
Andhra Pradesh           76       21        3       75       22        3       82        14        4       75       21        4       54       37         9       51       41         8
Assam                     6       56       38       59       24       17       88        -        12       88        -       12       76        12       12       18       47       35
Bihar                    42       55        3       92        8        -       15       55        30        4       46       50        2       49        49        71/   60 1/   33 1/
Gujarat                   5       21       74       43       37       20        6       41       53        10       53       37       19       30        51       15 1/   27 1/   58 1/
Haryana                 100        -        -      100        -        -      100        -         -      100        -        -      100        -         -      100        -        -
Himachal Pradesh         13       34       53       12       59       29        -       30        70       24       41       35       24       47        29        6       41       53
Jammu & Kashmir         43        48        9       16       52       32       14       48       38        24       57       19       14       57        29        5       57       38
Karnataka                52       40        8       68       22       10       61       29        10       64       34        2       54       32        14       60       34         6
Kerala                   73       27        -       90       10        -       94        6         -       97        3        -       97         3        -       94        3         3
Madhya Pradesh           25       68        7       93        2        5       33       47       20        11       62       27        2       40        58        2 1/   76 1/   22 I/         o
Maharashtra              31       58       11       32       52       16       14       59       27        29       58       13       95         5        -       56 1/   43 1/    1 1/
Orissa                    9       44       47       84        9        7       84       11         5      80        16        4       49       44         7       15       72        13
Punjab                  82        18        -       86       14        -       67       33        -        79       21        -       93        7         -       91        9        -
Rajasthan               34        57        9       82       18        -       62       32        6       60        37        3       43       57         -       17       43       40
Tamil Nadu              69        26        5       61       34        5       16       48       36        16       51       33        3       21        76        -       10       90
Uttar Pradesh           62        36        2       92        8        -       77       22         1      88        11        1       70       29         1       62       30         8
West Bengal              70       30        -      100        -        -      100        -        -       96         4        -       50       46         4       46       46         8
A: Unrestricted
B: Restricted
C:  Ineligible                                                                                                                                                                               I
1/ After Rephasement.



- 65 _
ANNEX 1
INDIA                                Table 5
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Ranking of Land Development Banks By Loan Recoveries
And Comparative Recoveries of Commercial Banks
Overdues as Percent of Demand -/
Land Development Banks              Commercial Banks
Rough
1978    1979      1980      1977    1978    1979    Ranking
Haryana 2/                9.6     8.4      10.0     40.2    35.3    34.0          3
Punjab 2/               15.3    13.7       12.9     28.5    23.6    20.7          1
Kerala 2/       2/      17.8    18.4       19.2     32.0    37.0    28.9          2
Uttar Pradesh  -        26.6    27.6       24.8     43.6    43.5    42.9          5
Andhra Pradesh          28.8    33.3       30.0     44.8    42.1    39.5          4
West Bengal 2/          25.4    37.8       37.3      59.9    59.1    60.2        13
Rajasthan               39.9    37.5       52.6     50.5    50.0    49.3          7
Orissa 2/               32.6    42.8       63.0     58.8    58.2    54.5         11
Karnataka 2/            52.2    48.0       53.4     48.3    52.6    50.8          8
Maharashtra             57.8    29.2 -1  48.6       65.1    62.1    60.3         14
Jammu Kashmir           43.5    46.9       53.7     51.7      NA      52.5       9
Assam 2/                40.6    51.1       68.1     65.6    70.2    73.2         17
Madhya Pradesh 2/       47.0    56.0       69.5     51.5    61.1    61.7        15
Himachal Pradesh        57.9    72.9       62.2      59.6    53.2    55.7        12
Bihar                   61.0    59.5       76.6     59.4    64.2    68.3         16
Gujarat                 69.0    74.7       79.1     57.8    59.8    50.4        10
Tamil Nadu 2/           67.1    80.9       88.7     48.6    47.0    45.4          6
1/  Principal and interest falling due during the year plus overdues from pre-
vious years.
2/  These LDB have a two tier structure and lend to primary LDB which onlend to
farmers. Overdues in this table given at the primary LDB level.
3/  About 33% of demand was rephased.  Without rephasing overdues would have been
53% in 1979 and 67% in 1980.



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Commercial Banks: Overdues of Agricultural Advances by States 1/
Position as of June 30                 1975     1976      1977      1978      1979
------   percent of demand 2/- -------
Northern Region                        44.3      40.7     40.2      35.3      34.0
Haryana                             33.8     33.6      34.0      32.1      34.3
Himachal Pradesh                   42.9      48.2      59.6      53.2      55.7
Jammu and Kashmir                  53.0      57.7      51.9      37.4      52.5
Punjab                              35.2     30.1      28.5      23.6      20.7
Rajasthan                          53.5      49.7      50.5      50.0      49.3
Chandigarh                         64.5      37.5      63.9      65.1      67.4
New Delhi                          66.0      62.2      69.9      51.0      64.3
North-eastern Region                   67.7     64.1      67.5      66.0      68.2
Assam                               74.6     69.8      65.6      70.2      73.2
Manipur                            60.4      64.9      91.3      69.9      69.1
Meghalaya                          67.4      70.9      80.8      73.8      77.1
Nagaland                           87.0      18.9      38.3      30.8      48.7
Tripura                            48.1      45.3      61.6      55.4      53.8
Arunachal Pradesh                      -        -      66.7      57.1         -
Mizoram                                -         -      3.3      56.1         -
Eastern Region                         62.8     60.2      59.6      60.8      61.8
Bihar                              59.8      54.3      59.4      64.2      68.3
Orissa                             52.2      58.2      58.8      58.2     54.5
West Bengal                        68.4      66.3      59.9      59.1      60.2
Andaman and Nicobar                14.3         -      71.5      99.3      70.0
Central Region                         50.2     46.3      47.5      49.4      49.1
Madhya Pradesh                     54.9      54.2      51.5      61.1      61.7
Uttar Pradesh                      47.8      42,2      43.6      43.5      42.9
Western Region                         60.2     59.6      62.4      60.8      56.5
Gujarat                            58.0      58.6      57.8      59.8     50.4
Maharashtra                        61.6      60.5      65.1      62.1     60.3
Dadra and Nagar Haveli             26.5      52.3      58.8      63.9     49.8
Goa, Daman and Diu                 27.7      35.1      40.7      23.7      30.8
Southern Region                        38.1     40.4      44.9      44.7      42.5
Andhra Pradesh                      33.3     34.7      44.8      42.1      39.5
Karnataka                          46.0      46.1      48.3      52.6     50.8
Kerala                             25.9      28.7      32.0      37.0     28.9
Tamil Nadu                         45.3      48.9      48.6      47.0     45.4
Lakshadweep                            -      3.3      19.4      16.7       3.4
Pondicherry                        36.0      27.8      37.9      23.1     34.6
ALL INDIA       48.4.    48.1      50.0      48.8      46.9
11 Information refers to all Indian scheduled commercial banks.
2/ The basis on which CB overdues are calculated are not homogenous.
SOURCE: ARDC



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOP=ENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Summary Data on IDA/IBRD Assisted Projects Through ARDC
Credit/       Effect      Closing       IDA Reim-    IDA as % Loans         Total       Of Which: Portion         IDA Disbursements
(Loan) No.      Date        Date         bursement    by Participa-          Loan/         Routed Through         As at June 30, 1981
P R O J E C T                                                        as % ARDC    ting Banks             Credit               ARDC             (ARDC Portion Only
Refinance
Refinance--  -----------            --------------------US $M -------------------------
1.  ARDC I                               540         8/75         9/77            55                 -              75.0              75.0                       75.0*
2.  ARDC II                              715         8/77        12/79            55                 -             200.0             200.0                     200.0*
3.  ARDC III                             947         1/80         6/82            55                 -             250.0             250.0                     185.3
4.  Andhra Pradesh Ag. Credit            226         5/71         6177             -                66              24.4              24.2                       24.2*
5.  Bihar Ag. Credit                     440         3/74         3/80             -                61              32.0              32.0                       32.0*
6.  Gujarat Ag. Credit                   191         9/70         6/75             -                60              35.0              34.7                       34.7*
7.  Haryana Ag. Credit                   249        11/71         6/77             -                46              26.0              25.0                       25.0*
8.  Karnataka Ag. Credit                 278         9/72          6/77            -                66              40.0              40.0                       40.0*
9.  Madhya Pradesh Ag. Credit            391        10/73        12/76             -                63              33.2              33.2                       33.2*
10.  Maharashtra Ag. Credit               293         1/73          6/76            -                 60             30.0               25.4                      25.4*
11.  Punjab Ag. Credit                    203         9/70         6/77             -                64              27.5              27.5                       27.5*
12.  Tamil Nadu Ag. Credit                250        11/71          6/77            -                62/69           35.0              31.0                       31.0*
13.  Uttar Pradesh                        392        10/73        12/77             -                62              38.0              38.0                       38.0*
14.  West Bengal Ag. Devt.                541         8/75          3/80            -                 55             34.0              15.0                       21.6**
15,  Integrated Cotton Devt.              610        11/76        12/81            75                 -              18.0              12.9                        6.6
16.  Bihar Markets                        294         7/72        12/79            75                  -             14.8              13.8                       13.8*
17.  Karnataka Markets                    378         9/73        12/79             -                 80              8.0                7.9                       7.9*
18.  Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD         562         9/75          6/81           75                  -             24.0                3.1                         _
19.  Rajasthan Canal CAD                  502        12/74          6/81           75                  -             83.0               22.5                       6.6
20.  Himachal Pradesh Apple               456         9/74         12/80            -                 80/90          13.0                5.4                       0.2
21.  Gujarat Fisheries                    695         7/77          6/83           55                  -             18.0                4.7                       0.8
22.  Kerala Tree Crops                    680         6/77          3/85            -                 50             30.0               20.8                       4.6
23.  National Seed I                    (1273)       10/76        12/80            70                  -             25.0              18.2                        0.2
24.  Andhra Pradesh CAD                 (1251)        9/76         12/82             -                66            145.0                9.1                       1.3
25.  Maharashtra Irrigation               736         1/78          3/83             -                60             70.0                5.5                       0.7
26.  Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD            (1011)       12/74          6/81           75                  -             52.0                6.5                       1.8                        1
27.  Tarai Seeds                         (614)        9/69         12/77            -                 75             13.0                1.1                       1.1*
28.  Orissa Irrigation                    740         1/78          9/83           55                  _             58.0                2.4                         _
29.  Karnataka Irrigation                 788         8/78          3/84           55                  -            126.0                7.3
30.  Jammu & Kashmir Horticulture         806        12/78          6/84            -                 50/100         14.0                9.6                         _
31.  National Seed II                     816        12/78         12/84             -                60/100         15.0               14.5                       0.8
32.  Andhra Pradesh Fisheries             815         9/78          9/84            55                 -             17.5                3.9                       0.3
33.  Haryana Irrigation                   843        12/78          8/83           55                  -            111.0               41.4                      10.9
34.  Punjab Irrigation                    889         7/79          6/85           55                  -            129.0              46.0                        8.3
35.  Cashewnut                          (1012)        9/80          9/85             -                55             22.0               13.7                         _
36.  Karnataka Sericulture              (1034)       12/80        12/85            55                  -             54.0                4.4                         _
37.  Karnataka Dairy                      482        12/74          9/82             -                 -             30.0                0.2                       0.2
38.  Inland Fisheries                     963         5/80          9/85            55                 _             20.0                9.3                    _
TOTAL                                                                   1991.4            1135.2                     859.0
* Projects closed
@  $6.6 million of unallocated amount of $8.3 million disbursed through ARDC
mx



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC Lending Program by State and Subsector, 1982-1983
Land                                                                           Dairy                                                             Gobar
Minor      Loans   Develop-        Soil            Farm          Plantation/                Sheep   Develop-   Marine         Inland               Market                Gas
State                Irrigation  to SEBs    ment    Conservation  Mechanization  Horticulture  Poultry  Breeding    ment e               Fisheries  Fisheries  Strge   Yards  Forestry  Plant  Others    Total
Haryana                 452.0        45.0       6.0          9.0            302.8              3.0         2.0        3.0       22.0           -           -        35.6      75.1         -       0.6      6.6      962.7
Himachal Pradesh          6.0         9.0         -            -              4.0             30.0         2.0        3.0        3.5           -           -                -         -              -      3.5       61.0
Jammu & Kashmir            1.1        5.0         -            -              9.5             48.6            -      4.5         4.5           -           -     -          -         -              -      2.0       75.2
Punjab                  492.3        30.0         -         19.0            550.0              3.2        13.2          -       26.0           -        0.4         54.4       4.0      0.6        1.0      8.0    1,202.1
Rajasthan               294.0       100.0      75.0            -             75.5              5.0            -      19.0       26.0           -           -        11.2      47.4       1.8       0.5     17.9      673.3
Sikkim                      -           -         -            -                -              2.0           -          -          -           -           -           -          -     0.8          -        -        2.8
Chandigarh                  -           -         -            -                -              2.0            -         -        2.0           -           -           -          -        -         -        -         4.0
New Delhi                    -          -         -            -              4.0                -         2.0          -          -           -           -           -          -        -         -        -         6.0
Assam                    66.6        38.7         -            -              4.3             66.0            -         -        6.5           -         4.5         2.8        3.2      2.5         -      2.1       197.2
Manipur                   9.0         4.0         -            -              8.6             10.0           -          -        2.2           -           -           -          -      3.4         -        -        37.2
Meghalaya                 2.2         4.3         -            -                -              2.2            -         -        2.0            -          -           -          -      2.5         -      4.1        17.3
Nagaland                    -           -         -            -                -              2.2           -          -          -           -           -           -          -      1.5         -        -         3.7
Tripura                   2.2         4.3         -            -              2.2             16.9            -         -        2.2           -         2.2           -          -      2.4         -        -        32.4
Arunachal Pradesb           -           -         -            -                -              1.1            -         -          -           -           -           -          -     10.5         -        -        11.6      a
Mizoram                     -           -         -                                                           - -  -  -  -         -           -           -           -          -      1.7         -        -         1.7
Bihar                   460.0       72.0        6.0            -            110.9              8.0         3.1        1.3       18.0           -        15.2        11.0      15.0       3.1       3.0     13.7      740.3
Orissa                  280.9        47.8       8.6            -             11.3             18.7         2.9        2.9       19.0         7.0        86.3         5.3        5.1      6.1       1.0    15.0       517.9
West Bengal             175.0        66.0       4.0            -             16.0             48.0         9.0        2.0       12.0         2.0        35.0         5.3        7.5      3.8       3.0      6.0      394.6
Attdaman &iNicobar          -           -         -            -                -              5.0           -          -          -           -           -           -          -      1.7         -        -         6.7
Mhdbya Pradesh          869.1       79.2       65.0            -             73.8              4.7         5.6       4.0         4.6           -        11.0        10.3       3.3     12.3        4.0     39.2   1,186.1
Uttar Pradesh         1,034.7      180.0       20.0            -            425.0              9.0         6.0       4.0        73.8           -        18.0        42.2      18.8      4.2        5.0     75.2   1,915.9
Gujarat                 326.0       56.8       31.0         55.0             90.0              3.2         3.4        1.4       21.9        25.0         3.6         1.5       7.5       8.4       3.0      3.8      641.5
Maharashtra             625.0      156.0    105.0              -            170.0             10.6        14.5          -       37.0        10.5           -         3.1      32.0       5.8       3.5      8.2    1,181.2
Goa                       1.6           -         -          0.4              0.4              1.9         0.9          -        4.0        25.0           -           -          -        -       0.3      4.0        38.5
Andhra Pradesh          953.0       71.0       40.0         10.0            220.0             23.0        16.0      45.0        47.0        25.0         3.0         4.6      33.8    13.1         2.0     43.0   1,549.5
Karnataka                93.0       35.0       20.0            -             70.0             39.0        15.0       6.0         9.0        84.0        6.0          4.0      41.3      8.4        7.0    72.4       510.1
Kerala                  140.3       59.6       50.0         10.0              2.0            151.0         2.5          -       17.1        13.6       14.8          3.4          -        -       1.0    15.0       480.3
Tamil Nadu              107.0       24.0        2.0            -             30.0             19.0        13.0      23.0        26.0        12.0         1.0         5.3       6.0       5.4       1.5     56.0      331.2
Pondicherry               4.0           -         -            -              2.0              2.0         2.0       2.0         2.0         2.0           -           -         -         -         -      2.0       18.0
TOTAL           6,395.0   1,087.7    432.6            103.4         2,182.3            535.3        113.1    121.1       388.3       206.1       201.0       200.0    300.0   100.0         36.4   397.7  12,800.0



- 69 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated ARDC and IDA/IBRD Disbursements-/
Eligible ARDC Disbursements    IDA/IBRD Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Ouarter         During Quarter  Cumulative    During  Quarter  Cumulative
-----------Rs M------------   -----------US$ M-----------
1981-82
July    -  September
October -  December                                        -
January -  March                        1,10o       1,100.0                -              -
April   -  June                         1,300       2,400.0             40.0           40.0
1982-83
July    -  September                    400.0       2,800.0             30.0           70.0
October -  December                     500.0       3,300.0             20.0           90.0
Januarv -  March                      1,300.0       4,600.0             40.0          130.0
April   -  June                       1,400.0       6,000.0             60.0          190.0
1983-84
July    -  September                    400.0       6,400.0             70.0          260.0
October -  December                     500.0       6,900.0             20.0          280.0
January -  March                      1,330.0       8,230.0             50.0          330.0
April   -  June                              -      8,230.0             20.0          350.0
1/Based on 34% IDA/IBRD reimbursement against eligible ARDC expenditures @ $1   Rs 8.
2/Estiwuated cl.osin2 date June 30, 1984.



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC Growth Since Inception
(Rs M)
Position as at end of June         1964   1965   1966   1967    1968    1969    1970    1971          1972      1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978        1979        1980
Share Capital and Reserves         50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0    50.0    50.0    50.9    52.3          104.4      108.2     165.0      227.2      294.0      421.1      588.8       847.8       899.5
Special Deposit                       -    1.1    2.4    3.6       4.9      6.1     7.4      8.7        9.9       11.7      14.1       17.9       23.0       29.2       38.7        52.2        68.9
Subvention Loans                    0.3    0.5    1.1    1.2       1.4      1.4      1.4     1.4        1.4        1.4          -          -        -           -                       -       66.8
Borrowings
(1)  From GOI/IDA                  50.0   50.0   50.0   50.0    80.0   257.5   447.5   667.5          771.3   1,248.5   1,635.0   1,966.2   2,500.9   3,400.1   4,276.1    5,024.0    6,446.1
(2)  From RBI                         -      -       -      -        -        -       -    75.2       83.9      382.0      656.0      927.0   1,401.0   1,726.0   2,168.0    2,635.0    3,147.0
(i) Short-term                  -       -       -      -        -       -        -    75.2       33.9       37.0      116.0       45.0       17.0          -          -           -           -
(ii) Long-term                   -       -       -      -        -       -        -       -       50.0      345.0      540.0      882.0   1,384.0   1,726.0   2,168.0    2,635.0    3,147.0
(3)  Bonds and Debentures             -      -       -      -        -        -   109.4   194.6      277.1      387.1      662.1      992.1   1,377.1    1,817.1   2,023.4    2,463.9    2,859.9
Refinance Granted (net)               -    4.5   49.0   69.7   126.3   304.0   588.9   889.3   1,234.1   2,161.4   3,097.4   4,068.6   5,493.9   7,222.0   8,735.9   10,466.1   13,035.7
(i) Debentures                  -    4.5   47.5   66.7   119.0   278.5   546.0   812.4   1,096.4   1,956.0   2,715.1   3,438.2   4,258.2   5,254.4   5,893.8    6,613.3    7,488.6
(ii) Loans                       -       -    1.5    3.0       7.3    25.5    42.9    76.9       137.7      205.4      382.3      630.4   1,235.7   1,967.6   2,842.1    3,852.8    5,547.1
Other Assets                       20.5    0.5    1.2    2.2       5.1    12.2    15.9    25.8         36.0       63.2      92.9      141.7      201.7      304.0      462.6       618.7       644.7
Investment and Cash Reserves       82.0   99.2   55.2   35.8       8.5      5.2    25.0   100.3         0.2       0.4        0.8        2.6        3.7       26.3      227.9       318.7       263.2
Gross Income                        3.7    4.0    4.3    5.0       6.0    11.0    27.3    42.7         60.6       92.4     155.3      221.4      299.1      409.5      546.9       687.8       850.2
Profits Before Tax                  3.5    3.6    3.9    4.4       4.3      4.8     6.7      6.9       10.9       17.0      30.9       44.1       58.5       78.5      119.2       139.9       163.7
Tax Payable                         1.8    1.8    2.3    2.4       2.4      2.6     3.7      3.4        5.8        8.9      16.0       23.0       30.9       34.0       51.7           -            -
Profits After Tax                   1.7    1.8    1.6    2.0       1.9      2.2     3.0      3.5        5.1        8.1      14.9       21.1       27.6       44.5       67.5       139.9       163.7
Dividend Paid                       2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1       2.1      2.1     2.1      2.1        3.1        4.4       6.6        8.9       10.9       17.3       24.8        30.9         33.1



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC Disbursements by Subsector 1971-1981
Up to                                                                                                                                Cumulative         Cumulative
Purpose                          30 June    1971-72   1972-73         1973-74    1974-75    1975-76    1976-77    1977-78    1978-79    1979-80    1980-81                  to                M
1971                                                                                                                                31 March 1981
------------------------------------------------------------------- -RsM M--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Minor Irrigation                      582.0       267.4      841.8        853.0       837.8    1,081.8        1,421.0    1,432.7    1,710.6    2,268.0    1,636.5             12,932.6             63
Land Development/CAD/
Soil Conservation                     215.7        23.7       23.0         17.8        20.1        49.2          58.7         40.8       114.0        96.6        88.5           748.1              4
Farm Mechanization                      4.1         3.6       21.8         37.5       122.3       457.5         517.7        287.5       413.5       920.9       594.9         3,381.3             16
Plantation/Horticulture                55.6        20.5       14.9         21.9        20.0        30.7          51.6         78.7       120.7       211.0       166.0           791.6              4
Poultry/Sheep Breeding                  0.7           -        1.5          0.9         6.5         6.8           6.6         21.2        36.5       105.8        81.0           267.5              1
Fisheries                              12.9         5.9        1.2          8.6        17.8        24.3          19.6         54.0        78.6       102.7        67.5           393.1              2
Dairy Development                         -         3.9        2.6          8.2        15.8        28.8          35.4         39.5        64.6       101.6        69.0           369.4              2
Storage & Market Yards                 25.9        24.8       34.6         29.3        23.7        31.9          95.3       377.7        271.4       151.8        98.2         1,164.6              6
Others:
Forestry                                  -           -          -            -           -           -           1.8          5.0         8.4        12.2         8.5            35.9
Akgricultural
Aviation                                  -           -          -          1.2           -         0.5              -           -           -           -            -            1.7)
Integrated Cotton Development             -           -          -            -           -           -           0.5          5.8        25.5        63.3        55.3           150.4
Gobar Gas Plants                                                                                      -              -         0.1         4.9        88.4       173.7           267.1              1
896.9       349.8      941.4        978.4    1,064.0    1,711.5         2,208.2    2,343.0    2,848.7    4,122.3    3,039.1            20,503.3            100
- -4



- 72 -                                               ANNEX 1
Table 12
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC Refinance by Agencies
Cumulative                                               Cumulative
Year ending June 30                              1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980             Total
------------------------- Rs M -----------------------------
I. AGENCIES BY VALUE
State Land Development Banks                   3,506      991   1,267   1,119   1,313   1,638           9,834
Commercial Banks                                 573      708      930   1,203   1,495   2,391          7,300
State Cooperative Banks                          151       13       11       21       40       93          329
TOTAL         4,230   1,712   2,208   2,343   2,848   4,122            17,463
II. AGENCIES BY PROPORTION OF TOTAL
-----------------------percent-------------------------
State Land Development Banks                    82.9    57.9    57.4    47.8    46.1    39.7             56.3
Commercial Banks                                13.5    41.3    42.1    51.3    52.5    58.0             41.8
State Cooperative Banks                          3.6      0.8      0.5      0.9      1.4      2.3         1.9
TOTAL         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0             100.0
III. IBRD/IDA PROJECTS BY VALUE
State Land Development Banks                   1,739      907   1,005       858      850   1,100        6,459
Commercial Banks                                 135      413      556      455      742   1,210        3,511
State Cooperative Banks                            -        1        1       18       39       80         139
TOTAL         1,874   1,321   1,562   1,331   1,631   2,390            10,109
IV. IBRD/IDA PROJECTS BY PROPORTION ARDC TOTAL
-----------------------percent------------------------
State Land Development Banks                    41.1    53.0    45.5    36.6    29.8    26.7             37.0
Commercial Banks                                 3.2    24.0    25.2    19.4    26.1    29.4             20.1
State Cooperative Banks                            -        -        -      0.8      1.4        -         0.8
TOTAL          44.3    67.0    70.7    56.8    57.3    56.1              57.9
V. AGENCIES BY PROPORTION IBRD/IDA TOTAL
----------------------percent------------------------
State Land Development Banks                    92.8    68.7    64.3    64.5    52.1    46.0             63.9
Commercial Banks                                 7.2    31.3    35.6    34.2    45.5    50.6             34.7
State Cooperative Banks                            -        -      0.1      1.3      2.4      3.4         1.4
TOTAL         100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0            100.0
SOURCE: ARDC - Project Report, July 1980



INDIA
FOURTH AG. REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORP. CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC - CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS 1975/76 - 1984/85
(RS M)
ACTUAL                                            PROJECTED
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
ASSETS
CASH ON HAND AND AT BANKS AND INVESTMENTS             4        2          1      319       263       200       150        100        75        70
LOANS AND DEBENTURES                             5,494    7P222    8P736   10,466   13118   16,148   19,318   23,138   27,498   32,058
INTEREST ACCRUED ON LOANS AND DEBENTURES           191       276       342       389       357       620       833    1,014    1,128    1,189
OTHER ASSETS                                         10       54       260       232       193       180        181       183       185       187
TOTAL ASSETS                                5,699    79554    9,339   11406   13,931   17,148   20P482   24,435   28,886   33,504
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
LIABILITIES
BONDS AND DEBENTURES                            1377    1,817    2,023    2,464    2,860    3,260    3,800    4,565    5,433    6,243
INTEREST-FREE DEPOSITS                              23        45        85        66        67        67        67         67        67        67
LOANS FROM GOI                                   2,501    3,400    4,276    5,024    6,465    8,605   10,815   13,545   16,715   20,215
LOANS FROM RBI                                   1?401    1,726    2t168    2?635    3,137    3,627    4rO47    4,377    4,597    4,697
OTHER IIABILITIES                                  103       145       198       369       371       419       475       516        546       542
TOTAL LIABILITIES                           5,405    7,133    89750   10,558   12,900   15,978   19,204   23,070   27,358   319764
CAPITAL
PAID-UP SHARES                                     250       350       475       575       575       575       575        575       675       825
RESERVES AND UNDISTRIBUTED INCOME                   44        71       114       273       456       595       703        790       853       915
TOTAL CAPITAL                                 294       421       589       848    1,031      1,170    1,278    19365    1,528        1,740
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                 5,699    7,554    9,339   11,406   13,931   17P148   20,482   249435   28,886   33,504
DEBT/EQUITYRATIO (STATUTORY 20:1)                 18.4       16.9     14.8      12.4      12.5       13.6      15.0      16.9     17.9       18.2



INEI IA
FOURTH AG. REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORP. CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME S EXPENDITIJRE
1975/76-1984/85
(RS M)
ACTUAL                                              PROJECTED
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80   1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
INCOME
INTEREST EARNED ON REFINANCE                       287       400       523       -642       786       928      1,108     1,325      1,579     1,854
OTHER INCOME                                        12        10         24        46        64         65        73         70        65         70
TOTAL INCOME                                       299       410       547        688       850        993     1,181     1,395      1,644     1,924
EXFENSES
INTEREST PAID ON BORROWINGS                        220       306       402        509       630       775        969     1,189      1,445     1,704
SALARIES AND STAFF BENEFITS                         13        15         17        26        41         42        49         58        68         73
GENERAL EXPENSES                                     8        10          9        13        15         18        22         27        31         39
TOTAL EXPENSES                                     241       331      .428        548       686       835      1,040     1,274      1,544     1,816
APPROPRIATION
PROFIT BEFORE TAX                                   58        79        119       140       164        158       141        121       100        108
TRANSFER TO SPECIAL RESERVE                          6        20        30          -         -          -         -          -         -          --
TAX (1)                                             31        34         52         -         -          -         -          -         -
PROFIT AFTER TAX (INC. SPECIAL RESERVE)             27        45        67        140       164        158       141        121       100        108
DIVIDEND                                            11        17        25         31        33         34        34         34        37         45
NET SURPLUS                                         11         7         13       109       131        124       107         87        63         63
(1) ARDC EXEMPTED FROM TAX FOR FIVE YEARS EFFECTIVE 1977/78.
FE1



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ARDC Summarized Cash Flows 1975/76 - 1984/85
(Rs M)
------------------------ Actual -----------------------          ------                   Projected ----------------------
1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82       1982/83      1983/84      1984/85
Resources
GOI/IDA                                           535.0        900.0         996.0        951.0      1,649.0      1,350.0      1,450.0       1,520.0      1,600.0      1,950.0
RBI/Bonds                                         990.0        940.0         856.0      1,191.0      1,246.0      1,350.0      1,600.0       1,800.0      1,900.0      2,200.0
Total Borrowings                             1,525.0      1,840.0      1,852.0      2,142.0      2,895.0       2,700.0      3,050.0      3,320.0       3,500.0      4,150.0
Repayment from Borrowers                           246.0       480.0         829.0      1,118.0      1,481.0      1,470.0      2,030.0      2,180.0       2,440.0      2,940.0
Share Capital                                      50.0        100.0         125.0        100.0            -            -             -            -        100.0        150.0
296.0        580.0        954.0      1,218.0      1,481.0      1,470.0      2,030.0       2,180.0      2,540.0      3,090.0
Net Revenue Surplus                                 17.0         27.0         43.0        109.0        131.0        124.0         107.0         87.0         63.0         63.0
Subtotal                                        1,838.0      2,447.0      2,849.0       3,469.0      4,507.0      4,294.0      5,187.0      5,587.0       6,103.0      7,303.0
Additional Resources to be identified 1/               -            -            -            -            -        776.0      1,093.0       1,493.0      1,837.0      1,987.0
Total Inflow                                    1,838.0      2,447.0      2,849.0       3,469.0      4,507.0      5,070.0      6,280.0       7,080.0      7,940.0      9,290.0
Disbursements
IDA Schemes                                     1,321.0      1,559.0      1,325.0       1,622.0      2,370.0      3,800.0      4,700.0      5,600.0       6,500.0      7,400.0
Non-IDA Schemes                                    391.0        649.0      1,018.0      1,227.0      1,752.0        700.0         500.0        400.0        300.0        100.0
Total Schemes                                1,712.0      2,208.0      2,343.0      2,849.0      4,122.0       4,500.0      5,200.0      6,000.0       6,800.0      7,500.0
Repayments to:
G01                                                    -          1.0        120.0        154.0        227.0        110.0        440.0         370.0        330.0        500.0
Bonds                                                  -            -            -            -            -             -        110.0         90.0         80.0        440.0
RBI                                                126.0        158.0        208.0        283.0        338.0        460.0         530.0        620.0        730.0        850.0
Total Outflow                                    1,838.0     2,367.0 2/  2,671.0 2/  3,286.0 2/  4,687.0 2/  5,070.0           6,280.0       7,080.0      7,940.0      9,290.0
1/ Resource gap to be met partly by borrowing from GOI as counterpart rupee funds of the credits
provided by bilateral donors and normal assistance from GOI or additional market borrowings.                                                                                  - M
2/  Difference between inflow and outflow represents cash balance, accrued interest, etc.                                                                                        IL
mn 



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Operations Review of Six Selected LDB
1.        Impact of Overdues on Lending and Portfolio Size.  Because of the
high proportion of total overdues accounted for by six LDB (Bihar, Gujarat,
Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu), a solution of their
problems would go a long way to improving the all-India LDB loan recovery
situation. Consequently, their operations have been reviewed in some detail
Their lending and recovery performance is shown in Table 1 and their financial
performance in Tables 2 through 7. Of this group, three LDB--Bihar, Gujarat
and Tamil Nadu had particularly high overdues in 1979/80 (77%-89%), which had
developed over four years or longer. As a result, lending eligibility decreased
steadily so that in 1979/80 only 7% of outlets had unrestricted eligibility
and 65% had no eligibility at all. The restrictions led to virtual halving of
annual lending from Rs 379 M in 1975/76 to Rs 209 M in 1980. However, serious
portfolio shrinkage has so far only occurred in Gujarat (from Rs 1,051 M in
1975/76 to Rs 694 M in 1979/80), but similar shrinkage would soon affect other
LDB, particularly under present eligibility criteria, if high overdues persist.
2.        In the other three States under review recent lending does not cor--
relate closely with loan recoveries. In Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, lending
fluctuated irrespective of overdues levels. In Maharashtra, however, the
lending low point (Rs 146 M in 1977/78) may have been due to lending restric-
tions because the 1979/80 all-time record lending (Rs 413 M) followed heavy
loan rephasing and consequent improved lending eligibility of most branches.
Portfolio size has been stagnant in Karnataka at between Rs 955 M and Rs 1,170
M over the last five years and has grown slowly in the two other LDB from about
Rs 2,200 M to Rs 3,000 M over the same period.
3.        Operating Results.  With maintenance or growth of portfolio size in
most States, interest revenue has also been maintained or increased. However,
of the three States with worst defaults Bihar has experienced shrinking profits
(Rs 17.5 M in 1977/78 to Rs 1.9 M in 1979/80) and there have been mounting
losses in Gujarat and Tamil Nadu (Rs 4.2 M and Rs 30.6 M respectively in
1979/80). The other three States have maintained profit levels partly by tight
control of operating expenses, to some extent to the detriment of loan appraisal
and collection. LDB in the three States with worst collection records suffered
liquidity problems to meet their obligations and had to ask for State assis-
tance (additional share capital or loans) or resort to expensive short-term
borrowing which reduced profits. While outstanding interest is always deducted
first when loan payments are received, overdue interest has nevertheless built
up. Of the six LDB, all but Bihar have satisfactory methods of accounting for
such overdues either by showing only actual collections in the profit and loss
account (Gujarat and Karnataka) or by creating adequate unpaid interest reserves



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
in the balance sheet (Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu). In Bihar,
interest receivable is reported as revenue collected without offsetting entries
in the accounts, which amounts to overstatement of income.
4.         On the basis of their accounting information, the six LDB, appear to
have remained financially satisfactory. However, the ratio between overdues
and assets has deteriorated considerably during the last five years, from an
average of 1:12 to 1:5. In addition, their assets are probably overvalued
since they contain lending and receivables, part of which would already be
or would turn into bad debt, unless loan collection performance improves
dramatically. Moreover, in some instances financial viability could only
be sustained by means of State assistance. For instance, in Tamil Nadu
injection of Rs 379 M since 1977/78 by the State government has helped LDB to
meet its commitments and to maintain the level of owned capital and reserves.
This assistance was in the form of loans, additional share capital and grant
to compensate for shortfall in repayment collection of blocked accounts. In
Gujarat, by contrast, the State government has given little financial assist-
ance to date and accumulating net losses are beginning to erode owned capital
and preventing adequate allocations to reserves. However, due to declining
lending the debt equity ratio (liabilities less owned capital to owned capital)
is still 8:1, while the ratio of owned capital (share capital, reserves and
profit) to assets is 1:9. This compares with a range from 10:1 to 6:1 and 1:11
to 1:7 respectively for the other five LDB. If the trend continues, Gujarat
will require financial assistance to remain in business. Other States have
also provided some assistance to their LDB. In Maharashtra, for instance, the
State government repurchased about Rs 94 M worth of loans, not appraised by
LDB, but made on State instructions. In addition the government also provided
a grant of Rs 40 M that helped LDB cancel loans of borrowers for dugwell
construction and where the wells had failed.
5.        Rephasing.  Up to 1979 debenture holders had not participated in
providing financial relief to LDB in difficulties. In that year RBI agreed
to allow LDB to rephase borrowers' loans (extend the repayment period), rather
than reschedule loans (spread overdue installments over the remaining repayment
period). Since that time ARDC, and other debenture holders have also agreed to
deferment of some debenture repayments by LDB, but only against State government
guarantee to maintain an agreed repayment schedule. ARDC deferments to date
total Rs 191 M to support rehabilitation plans of five LDB (Bihar had not
agreed to the proposed plan at the time of appraisal). This is only 1.5% of
ARDC's June 1980 portfolio.
6.         Portfolio Quality.  To judge portfolio quality the age of overdues
has been reviewed. Except in Gujarat, chronic overdues (more than five years
old) are covered by a factor of two or three times by LDB's owned capital.
However, it is difficult to establish accurate aging of overdues because of
loan rescheduling and rephasing. Despite such activities, the chronic over-
dues rose from 17% of total overdues of the six LDB in 1977/78 to 22% in
1979/80, and as reported to the appraisal mission, stood at Rs 465 M at that
time. The average percentage is made up of a range from 43% in Gujarat, and



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
37% in Karnataka to between 20% and 10% of total overdues for other LDB.
Taking account of rephasing, Rs 650 M would be a more realistic estimate of
chronic overdues for the six LDB under review. The rise in the total, despite
rescheduling, indicates that some debts are difficult to collect and should be
considered as bad debts.  Since their inception, no LDB has ever written oEf
a loan, so that some of the overdues are now quite old. Assuming that as much
as 50% of chronic overdues cannot be recovered, bad debts would amount to about
4.5% of the portfolio of the six LDB under review and only about 3% of the
all-India loan portfolio (assuming the six LDB account for 80% of the country's
chronic overdues). While all loans are secured by property mortgages, farm
land may be difficult to sell. Consequently, LDB have started to build up bad
debt reserves that total Rs 163.5 M for the six LDB in June 1980 and range from
Rs 62 M in Tamil Nadu and Rs 54 M in Maharasthra, representing a reasonable
beginning for establishing such fund, to only Rs 0.4 M in Bihar, which is
totally inadequate.
7.        Management.  LDB with good collection records in India generally
have strong management. Standards vary among the six LDB but operations of
all of them would benefit from detailed review to identify areas that requ:Lre
improvement. One defect that all of them suffer from is frequent change of
chief executive usually appointed by the State government. Of the six LDB
under review, those with lowest recoveries also appear to have least effective
management. In Tamil Nadu notably, much of the management and professionaL
staff at SLDB and even PLDB were deputed State employees rather than LDB
recruited staff, but there has been a recent policy change to encourage LDB
to employ its own staff cadre. Both Karnataka and Bihar lack adequate staff
to allow satisfactory loan follow-up or sufficiently intensive collection
efforts, partly because of a State ban on additional staff recruitment.
Rehabilitation plans for the six LDB, prepared by RBI and ARDC, include in--
house management studies of their operations, except for Gujarat where a study
by independent management consultants is in progress. Similar studies by
independent management consultants would be advisable also for the other five
LDB.
8.        Ownership.  The main shareholders of SLDB are individuals and
constituent PLDB (jointly 70%) and State governments (29%) (Table 8). However,
due to government financial assistance to improve their viability, State
ownership in four of the six LDB under review--Bihar, Karnataka, Madhya
Pradesh and Tamil Nadu--at 37%-45%, is much above average. Since government
share capital is redeemable, the ratio of such capital to LDB equity is one
indicator of LDB ability to buy out State governments' holdings.  The ratio
is about 16% for all SLDB and 18% even for the six LDB under review. Conse-
quently, most LDB could buy out government share holdings, but the six LDB
would be constrained from doing so by liquidity problems.



INDIA
FOURTP, AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Lending and Recovery Data for Six Selected States
-------1975/76-------           -----1976/77------          ------1977/78-------         -----1978/79 ---- -   ------1979/80- --
1           2          3        1         2         3         1        2        3          1       2          3        1        2         3
A. Collection & Lending (Rs. M)
Bihar SLDB                       116        162       655       91       187       789       122       71       798       155       52       760       99       86        785
Gujarat SLDB                     222         65    1,051       180        35       935       176       41       851       15?       30       732      113       40       649
Karnataka SLDB                   124        220       955      139       253    1,128        165      138    1,172        201      100    1,147       204       87    1,110
Madhya Pradesh SLDB               97        157       640       83       228       825       128      105       855       124      117       903      105      166    1,008
Maharashtra SLDB                 208        231    1,587       221       177    1,616        234      146    1,624        320      209    1,698       222      413    1,948
Tamil Nadu SLDB                  177        149    1,287       208       172    1,368        161      133    1,409        126      104    1,441        95       83    1,458
Total                     944        984    6,175       922    1,052    6,661         986      634    6,709    1.078        612    6,681        838      875    6,958
B.  Loan Repayment  (Rs. M)                4          5         6        4         5         6         4        5         6         4        5         6        4        5         6
Bihar SLDB                       160         44        27%    218        127        58%      311       189       61%      383      228        60%    423       324         77%
Gujarat SLDB                     507        285        56%    470        290        62%      561       385       69%      601      449         74(A}% 542      429         79%
Karnataka SLDB                   177         53        30%    233         94        40%      273       108       40%      347      146        42%    361       158         44%
Madhya Pradesh SLDB              125         28        22%    151         68        49%      233       105       45%      282      158         56%    344      239         69%
Maharashtra SLDB                 527        319        60%    597        376        63%      552       318       58%      452      132         29%    413      191         46%
Tamil Nadu SLDB                  215         38        18%    326        118        36%      455       294       65%      627      501        80%    809       714         88%
Total                   1,711         767       45%  1,995    1,073           54%   2,385    1,399         58%   2,692   1,614          60%  2,892   2,055          71%
C.  Overdues Ageing Record                 7          8         9        7         8         9         7         8        9         7        8         9        7         a         9
(As % of total overdues)              7
Bihar                              -          -         0        -         -         3        48        39       13        43       51          6      44        38        18
Gujarat SLDB                       -          -         -       53        27        20        40        29       31        33       32        35       26        31        43
Karnataka SLDB                    45         29        26       49        30        21        43        31       26        37       31         32       30       33        37
Madhya Pradesh SLDB *             60         31         9        a/        a/        a/       58        30       12        47       36         17       44       34        22
Maharashtra SLDB                  55         34        11       44        45        11        44        46       10        63        32         5       61       33         6
Tamil Nadu SLDB                   60         36         4       61        32         7        71        22        7        64       28          8       53       37        10
Total                      54          33       13       50        36         14        50        33       17        48       39        13       44       35        21
(A) 61% after rephasing
*    FY 78 & 79 are approximate
a/   classification is not clear
NOTE  Column 1 Repayment collected; Column 2 Loans issues; Column 3 Loans outstanding
Column 4 Demand; Column 5 Overdue balance; Column 6 % overdue
Column 7 up to 2 years; Column 8 2 to 5 years; Column 9 Over 5 years.



o80  -                              ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Performance Ratios: Bihar SLDB 1/
(Rs M)                           -
Accounting Information                           1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79
Assets  2/                                          911.9   1,132.3   1,235.5   1,274.L
Total Loans Outstanding                             655.0      789.0      795.7      760.0
Debts (liabilities less own capital)                834.5   1,027.6   1,111.7   1,113.0
Share and Reserve Capital 3/                         70.7       90.6      106.3      156.7
- of which Bad Debts Reserve                        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4
Income                                               65.1       80.2       97.7       89.4
- of which interest on lending  4/                54.1        64.0       79.2       67.4
Expenditure                                          57.7       66.1       80.2       85.9
- of which adm. expenses                           11.2       12.0       14.0       15.2
Net Surplus                                           7.4       14.1       17.5        4.5
Own Capital 3/                                       78.1      104.7      123.8      161.2
Overdues, total                                      43.9      126.6      189.3      227.5
Overdues, over 5 years                                  0        3.8       24.6       14.7
Ratios
Own Capital to Assets                             1:11.7    1:10.9    1:10.0    1: 7.9
Own Capital to Loans Outstanding                  1: 8.5    1: 7.6    1: 6.5    1: 4.7
Overdues to Own Capital (%)                          56.3      121.7      153.9      141.0
Over 5 years overdues to own capital (%)                0        3.6       20.0        9.1
Debts to Equity (own capital) 3/                  10.7:1    10.2:1        9.0:1      6.9:1
Net Surplus to Loans Outstanding (%)                  1.1        1.8        2.2        0.6
Net Surplus to Income (%)                            11.4       17.6       17.8        5.6
Net surplus as return of Share and
Reserve Capital (%)                              10.4       15.5       16.5         2.9
Bad Debts Reserve to over 5 years                  100.0        13.3        1.7        2.9
Overdues
Overdues to Assets 2/                             1:29.3    1: 9.0    1: 6.5    1: 5.6
Overdues to Loans Outstandine  MQ)                   31.Q       lr.n O. 7             29.9
Admin. Expenses to Loans Outstanding (%)              1.8        1.5        1.7        2.1
1/ No adjustments made unless indicated by footnotes.
2/ The assets are overvalued, if they contain-loansj which, although not yet due,
will -- with the continuation of poor credit discipline -- become overdue and
gradually bad debts.
3/ Includes also the undistributed profit from previous year's balance sheet.
4/ Includes also interest due to bank.



- 81 -
INDIA
ANNEX 2
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND                       Table 3
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Performance Ratios: Gujarat SLDB
(Rs M)
Accounting Information                       1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80
Assets 5/                                   1,885.8    1,852.3    1,806.4    1,534.8    1,417.9 -
Total Loans Outstanding                     1,051.0       953.0       851.0       732.0       649.0
Debts (liabilities less own capital)        1,729.3    1,702.9    1,656.8    1,397.1    1,259.0
Share and Reserve Capital                     153.4       152.0       149.3       144.5       163.1
- of Which Bad Debts Reserve
Income                            3/..                     ..          ..         123.5       107.9
- of which interest on Lending -               ..         ..          ..         123.4       106.6
Expenditure                                     ..         ..          ..         130.3       112.1
Net Surplus 4                                    3.1        (2.6)       0.3        (6.8)       (4.2)
Own Capital                                    156.5      149.4       149.6       137.7       158.9 -
Overdues, Total                               285.0       290.0       385.0       448.6       428.8
Overdues, Over 5 Years                             -       58.0       119.4       157.1       184.5
Ratios
Own Capital to Assets                        1:12.1      1:12.4      1:12.1      1:11.1       1:8.9
Own Capital to Loans Outstanding              1:6.7       1:6.4       1:5.7       1:5.3       1:4.1
Overdues to Own Capital(%)                    182.7       194.6       258.4       327.7       270.9
Over 5 Years.Overdues to Own
Capital(%)                  1/                   -       38.9        80.1       114.7      116.5
Debts to Equity (own capital - )             11.1:1      11.4:1      11.1:1      10.1:1       8.0:1
Net Surplus to Loans Outstanding(%)             0.30       (0.27)      0.04       (0.93)      (0.65)
Net Surplus to Income(%)                        ..         ..          ..          (5.5)       (3.9)
Net Surplus as Return of Share and
Reserve Capital(%)                           2.0         (1.7)       0.2         (4.7)       (2.6)
Bad Debts Reserve to Over 5 Years
Overdues                                     ..          ..
Overdues to Assets 5/                         1: 6.6     1: 6.4      1: 4.7      1: 3.4       1: 3.1
Overdues to Loans Outstanding (%)               27.7       30.5        45.3        61.5         66.1
1/ Includes Rs 55.2 M on accrued Loss A/C.
2/ Considering the accrued loss Rs 51 M, the own capital has actually been reduced to
Rs 108 M in 1979/80.
3/ Only the interest collected.
4/ Share Capital, Reserves and Annual Profit (Loss).
5/ The Assets are overvalued, if they contain loans, which, although not yet due,
will -- with the continuation of poor credit discipline -- become overdue and
gradually bad debts.



-82 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Performance Ratios: Karnataka SLDB
(Rs M)
Accounting Information                           1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Assets  4/                                       1,359.0   1,594.1   1,635.3   1,613.4   1,570.1
Total Loans Outstanding                            955.4   1,128.0   1,172.0   1,147.7   1,109.6
Debts (liabilities less own capital)            1,229.1   1,445.6   1,476.1   1,432.1   1,358.0
Share and Reserve Capital                         122.6      140.1      151.9      168.5      1L99.0
- of which Bad Debts Reserve                                                       7.3        8.5
Income                                             *-        *.         *.         123.9      1L19.1
- of which interest on lending 1/                 54.6      66.5       73.3       93.1       91.6
Expenditure                                        *-        *-                    111.1      106.0
- of which adm. expenses                          4.7        5.0        6.5        7.1        7.6
Net Surplus                                          7.3        8.4        7.3      12.8       13.1
Own Capital 2/                                     129.9      148.5     159.2      181.3      212.1
Overdues, total                                     53.0       94.0     108.0      146.0      158.0 3/
Overdues, over 5 years                              13.8       19.7      28.1       46.7       58.5
Ratios
Own Capital to Assets                             1:10.5    1:10.8    1:10.3    1: 8.9    1: 7.4
Own Capital to Loans Outstanding                 1: 7.4    1: 7.6    1: 7.4    1: 6.3    1: 5.2
Overdues to Own Capital (%)                         40.8      63.5       67.9       80.7       74.5
Over 5 years overdues to own capital (%)            10.6       13.3      17.7       25.8       27.6
Debts to Equity (own capital  2/ )                 9.5:1     9.8:1      9.2:1      7.9:1      6.4:1
Net Surplus to Loans Outstanding (%)                0.77      0.75       0.62       1.12       1.18
Net Surplus to Income (%)                            *-        *-         *-        10.4       11.0
Net Surplus as return of Share and
Reserve Capital (%)                              6.0        6.0        4.8        7.6        6.6
Bad Debts Reserve to over 5 years
Overdues (x)                                     *-         *-         *-        15 9       14.7
Overdues to Assets 4/                            1:25.6    1:16.9    1:15.1    1:11.1    1: 9.9
Overdues to Loans Outstanding (%)                    5.6        8.3       9.2       12.7       14.3
Adm. Expenses to Loans Outstanding (x)               0.5        0.4       0.6        0.6        0.7
1/ Contains only the interest collected.
2/ Share Capital, Reserves and Annual Profit.
3/ Includes rephasing during the year.
41 The Assets are overvalued, if they contain loans, which, although not yet due,
will -- with the continuation of poor credit discipline -- become overdue and
gradually bad debts.



83
ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Performance Ratios: Madhya Pradesh SLDB
(Rs M)
Accounting Information                          1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Assets  4/                                        882.3   1,118.4   1,206.1   1,258.6   1,420.7
Total Loans Outstanding                           640.0      824.8     855.2      902.5   1,008.3
Debts (liabilities less own capital)              813.7   1,032.6   1,098.4   1,146.6   1,287.3
Share and Reserve Capital 1/                       62.6       74.9      89.5      103.6      125.0
- of which Bad Debts Reserve                      0.8        3.0       5.0        9.0       15.0
Income                                             55.5       69.4      90.4       95.6       94.0
- of which interest on lending 2/                41.6       51.1      72.4       74.7       74.4
Expenditure                                        49.5       62.5      82.2       87.2       85.6
- of which adm. expenses                          4.2        4.9       5.3        5.6        6.4
Net Surplus                                         6.0        6.9        8.2       8.4        8.4
Own Capital  3/                                    68.6       81.8      97.7      112.0      133.4
Overdues, total                                    28.0       67.7     104.4      158.8      239.3  5/
Overdues, over 5 years                              2.2                            25.2       50.2
Ratios
Own Capital to Assets                            1:12.9    1:13.6    1:12.3    1:11.2    1:10.7
Own Capital to Loans Outstanding                 1: 9.3    1:10.0    1: 8.7    1: 8.1    1: 7.6
Overdues to Own Capital (%)                        40.6       82.6     106.5      141.9      179.9
Over 5 years overdues to own capital (%)            3.2                            22.5       37.7
Debts to Equity (own capital) 3/                 11.7:1    12.6:1    11.2:1    10.2:1        9.6:1
Net Surplus to Loans Outstanding (%)                0.9        0.8       1.0        0.9        0.8
Net Surplus to Income (%)                          10.9       10.0       9.1        8.8        8.9
Net surplus as return of Share and
Reserve Capital (%)                              9.7       9.3        9.2        8.2        6.7
Bad Debts Reserve to over
5 years Overdues (%)                            36.4                            36.0       30.0
Overdues to Assets 4/                            1:31.5    1:16.4    1:11.5    1: 8.0    1: 5.9
Overdues to Loans Outstanding (%)                   4.4        8.2      12.1       17.6       23.2
Adm. Expenses to Loans Outstanding (%)              0.7        0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6
1/  Includes the unappropriated profit from the previous year, but not the profit of
the Lurrent year. The figure does not contain "Overdue Interest Reserve".
2/  Includes also "Interest due but not received", against which a partial provision
has been made on expense side.
3/  Share capital, Reserves and Surplus.
4/  The Assets may be overvalued if they contain loans, which, although not yet due,
will -- with the continuation of poor credit discipline -- become overdue and
gradually bad debts.



- 84-
ANNEX 2
INDIA                                Table 6
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Performance Ratios: Maharasthra SLDB
Accounting Information                       1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80
Assets                                       2,720.3    2,853.8    2,935.0    2,818.2    2,939.4
Total Loans Outstanding               2/    1,586.0    1,615.7    1,608.9    1,698.1    1,948.1
Debts (Liabilities Less Own Capital - )   2,369.2    2,486.9    2,543.0    2,390.9    2,494.3
Share and Reserve Capital                      349.5       358.4      371.6       407.1       429.6
- of which Bad Debts Reserve                   30.4        30.4       45.4        54.1 3/    54.0
Income                          1/             226.2      228.1       196.9       236.8 -/   199.6
- of which Interest on Loans -                 ..          ..         ..         168.0 -    139.8
Expenditure                                    224.6       219.6      175.8       216.6       184.1
- of which Adm. expenses                       39.0        42.4       42.0        57.2        62.0
Net Surplus                                      1.6         8.5       21.1        20.2        15.5
Own Capital 2/                                 351.1       366.9      392.7       427.3       445.1
Overdues, Total                                318.1      376.5       318.2       131.9       191.2
Overdues, Over 5 Years                          35.0       41.6        31.8         6.6         8.2
Ratios
Own Capital to Assets                          1:7.8       1:7.8      1:7.5       1:6.6       1:6.6
Own Capital to Loans Outstanding               1:4.5       1:4.4      1:4.1       1:4.0       1:4 4
Overdues to Own Capital(%)                      90.1       102.5       81.1        31.0        43.0
Over 5 Years Overdues to Own                    10.0        11.3        8.9         1.6         1.8
Capital(%)
Debts to Equity (own capital)                  6.7:1      6.8:1       7.5:1       5.6:1       5.6:1
Net Surplus to Loans Outstanding(%)              0.1         0.5        1.3         1.2         0.8
Net Surplus to Income(%)                         0.7         3.7       10.8         6.9         8.0
Net Surplus to Interest                          *-                                12.4        11.1
Net Surplus as Return of Share and
Reserve Capital(%)                             0.5        2.4         5.7         5.0         3.6
Bad Debts Reserve to Overdues Older
Than 5 Years(M)                              86.9        74.2       146.5       819.7       675.0
Overdues to Assets 4/                          1:8.6      1:7.6       1:9.2      1:21.3      1:15.4
Overdues to Loans Outstancing (X)               2u.1        23.3       19.0         7.b         9.8
Adm. Expenses to Loans Outstanding (%)           2.5         2.5         2.6        3.5         3.2
1/ Realized interest only.
2/ Share Capital, Reserves and Annual Surplus.
3t Does not include the overdue interest capitalized (Rs 57 M) and paid to "Overdue
Interest Reserve", neither the interest due and not received (Rs 10 M).
4/ The Assets may be overvalued, if they contain loans, which, although not yet due, will
with the continuation of poor credit discipline -- become overdue and gradually bad
debts.



- 85 -
INDIA                                ANNEX 2
Table 7
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Performance Ratios: Tamil Nadu SLDB
(Rs M)
Accounting Information                       1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80
Assets    3/                                 1,962.0    2,087.9    2,206.0    2,248.8    2,278.8
Total Loans Outstanding                     1,288.6    1,367.9    1,408.8    1,441.2    1,457.5
Debts (liabilities less own capital)        1,794.7    1,908.0    2,023.3    2,074.6    2,030.4
Share and Reserve Capital                      146.9      164.1       186.5       191.5       279.2
-of which Bad Debts Reserve                   10.8       23.7        28.7        33.7        67.5
Income                                         141.0      155.1       175.8       150.7       139.0
-of which Interest on Lending               104.1       109.7       125.5        99.5        88.4
Expenditure                                    120.6      139.3       179.6       168.0       169.6
Net Surplus                                     20.4        15.8       (3.8)      (17.3)      (30.6)
Own Capital -1                                 167.3      179.9       182.7       174.2       248.6
Overdues, Total                                 38.0      118.0       294.0       501.0       714.0
Overdues, Over 5 Years                           1.5         8.3       20.5        40.1        71.4
Ratios
Own Capital to Assets                        1:11.8      1:11.7      1:12.8      1:12.9       1:9.2
Own Capital to Loans Outstanding               1:7.7      1:7.6       1:8.2       1:8.3       1:5.9
Overdues to Own Capital (%)                     22.7       65.9       160.9       287.9       287.9
Over 5 Years Overdues to Own
Capital (%)                 2/                0.9         4.6        11.2        23.1        28.8
Debts to Equity (own Capital - )             10.8:1      10.7:1      11.1:1      11.9:1       8.2:1
Net Surplus to Loans Outstanding(%)              1.6         1.2       (0.3)       (1.2)       (2.1)
Net Surplus to Income(%)                        14.5       10.2        (2.2)      (11.5)      (22.0)
Net Surplus as Return of Share and
Reserve Capital(%)                           14.0         9.6        (2.0)       (9.6)      (10.8)
Bad Debts Reserve to Over 5 Years
Overdues                                    720.0       285.0       138.6        84.2        95.1
Overdues to Assets 3/                         1:51.6     1:17.7       1:7.5       1:4.5       1:3.2
Overdues to Loans Outstanding (%)                2.9         8.6       20.9        34.8        49.0
1/ Includes also interest receivable. A full provision has been made on the expenditure
side for the overdue interest.
2/ Share Capital, Reserves and Annual Surplus (Loss).
3/ The Assets are overvalued, if they contain loans, which, although not yet due,
will -- with the continuation of poor credit discipline -- become overdue and
gradually bad debts.



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION PROJECT
Ownership of Land Development Banks in India (1978-1980)
Total Share    Government                  Total         Gov't to        Gov't to
State Land Development              Capital       Owned Shares    Others 1/ Equity 2/   Total Shares   Total Equity
Banks                       (Rs M)           (Rs M)        (Rs M)    (Rs M)           %                 X
Andhra Pradesh  **                   90.4             10.6           79.8      278.9          11.6             3.8
Assam  *                              3.4              2.1            1.3        3.7          61.8            56.7
Bihar  **                           112.3             50.5           61.8      161.1          45.1            31.4
Gujarat  *                          104.9             10.0           94.9      158.9           9.6             6.3
Haryana  *                           33.4              7.0           26.4       60.2          21.2            11.7
Himachal Pradesh  *                   4.8              3.2            1.6        5.0          66.7            64.0
Jammu & Kashmir *                     3.2              1.0            2.2        3.1          31.2            32.3
Karnataka ***                       105.6             43.1           62.5      212.0          40.1            20.3        1
Kerala  *                            20.0             10.3            9.7       32.1          51.5            32.2       m
Madhya Pradesh ***                   64.3             23.5           40.8      133.4          36.7            17.7
Maharashtra  ***                    300.5             60.3          240.2      445.1          20.1            13.5
Orissa  *                            21.5              8.6           12.9       27.5          41.0            31.3
Punjab  *                            43.8             10.7           33.1       90.2          24.4            11.9
Rajasthan *                          24.2              5.4           18.8       31.4          22.5            17.4
Tamil Nadu ***                      125.7             56.6           69.1      248.6          44.9            22.8
Tripura *                             0.9              0.7            0.2        0.8          76.5            81.3
Uttar Pradesh *                     215.1             60.8          154.3      391.9          28.3            15.5
West Bengal *                        24.6             14.5           10.1       29.7          58.9            48.3
Pondicherry *                         1.1              0.5            0.6        1.8          45.5            27.8
Total                          1,299.7            379.4          920.3   2,315.4           29.2            16.4
Primary Land Development Banks *  837.2               91.7          745.5      953.8          11.0             9.6
1/  Mainly Primary Land Development Banks and individual borrower member, but also about 1% from others,
including State Cooperative Banks, other cooperatives, insurance companies etc. The shares held by
PLDB were 28% and by individual borrowers 46Z (1978).
,/  Equity = share capital, reserve funds and annual surplus.
*   1978
** 1979
*** 1980



- 87 -
ANNEX 3
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis
This Annex contains selected models demonstrating the financial
impact of ARDC-financed investments under the project. Details of cash flows
for minor irrigation, land development, plantation, dairy and fisheries are
presented in Tables 2 through 7. Financial prices (1985 projected levels,
expressed in 1980 constant rupees) are given in Table 1 of Annex 4. Incre-
mental working capital has been calculated as 50% of the difference between
operating costs in the current and following year. Long-term debt repayment,
in equal annual instalments, has been derived according to the terms presented
in Tables 9 and 10 of this annex. Short-term credit repayment is calculated
as principal plus 6.25% (one half-year's interest of 12.5%). Short and long-
term debt repayment is presented in both current and constant prices, with
current repayment deflated by projected inflation rates in India. Table 8
gives details of area development and yield assumptions used in the minor
irrigation and land development models, while Tables 9 and 10 present inform-
ation on investment costs, loan terms and budgets for each of the six models.
A complete summary of the financial rates of return and sensitivity analyses
for all models examined (including those on project file) is given in Table 1.



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
(%)
Sensitivity Analysis
Point                                             Benefits Reduced,    Costs Increased 10%,
Estimate   Benefits Reduced   Costs Increased    Costs Increased            Benefits Delayed
10%      20%        10%     20%        10%         20%        1 year   2 years
Dugwell with Pumpset                 23        18       .13         18      15         14           6           12         9
Shallow Tubewell with Pumpset       48         40        32        41       35         33          19           26       17
Pumpset Only                         20        14         7        14        9          8          (-)           6         1
Well Renovation/Improvement          28        23        17         23      19         18           7           15        11
Water Purchase                                                            Over 50
Land Development                     35        29        22         30      25         24          12           19        14
Farm Mechanisation                   21        15         7         15      10          9          (-)           6        1
Coconut Plantation                   34        32        30         32      30         30          27           28        25
Coffee Plantation                    20        18        15        18       16         16          11           15       13
Tea Plantation                       20        18        16         18      17         16          13           16        14    m
Cashew Plantation                    21        19        17         19      18         17          14           17        15    1
Sheep Breeding                      50         26         2        28       10          6          (-)           5       (-)
Poultry (200 layers)                 41        35        28         35      30         29          18           15         3
Dairy                                41        22         5         24      11          8          (-)           2        (-)
Marine Fisheries                     25        12         -         13       2         (-)         (-)           1        (-)
Inland Fisheries                    43         34        24        34       27         26          11           18        9
Urban Godown                         14        12         9         12      10         10           6            9         7
Market Yard                          22        19        17         20      18         17          13           14        11
Notes: (-)indicates negative rate of return                                                                                 X 5
tD 



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMNT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
FARM CASH FLOW MODEL 1. DUGWELL WITH PUMPSET (2ha)
(Rupees)
W/O PROJ   1       2        3       4       5-8      9-13       14     15-19   20
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS
Inflow
Farm Production 1/                     4,120   4,120  9,270  11,850  14,425  14,425  14,425   14,425   14,425  14,425
Residual                                 -        -       -       -        -        -        -        720       -      8,600
Outflow 2/
Investment                               -    18,200    -         -        -        -       -       7,200       -        -
Operating Costs                        1,790   1,790  4,140   5,410   6,675   6,675   6,675    6,675    6,675   6,675
Incremental Working Capital              -      1,175    635      630      -        -       -         -         -        -
NET FLOW BEFORE FINANCING
Total                                    2,330 (17,045) 4,495   5,810   7,750   7,750   7,750    1,270    7,750  16,350
Incremental                                -   (19,375) 2,165   3,480   5,420   5,420   5,420   (1,060)   5,420  14,020
FINANCING
Long-term Loan                              -    17,290    -         -       -        -        -      6,840       -
Short-term Loan                             -     1,175    635      630      -        -        -        -         -        -
Farmer's Contribution                       -       910    -        -        -        -        -         360      -        -
Debt Service
Long-term                                -        -    2,970   2,970   2,970   2,970   1,555          -       1,415   1,415
Short-term                               -        -    1,250      675      670      -        -        -         -
Debt Service in Constant Prices
Long-term                                -        -    2,675   2,475   2,300   1,940         780      -       1,250   1,055
Short-term                               -        -    1,125      625      620      -        -        -         -        -
Net Financing                               -    19,375 (3,165) (2,470) (2,920) (1,940)   (780)   7,200   (1,250) (1,055)
NET FLOW AFTER FINANCING
Total                                   2,330    2,330  1,330   3,340   4,830   5,810   6,970    8,470    6,500  15,295
Incremental                               -         -   (1,000)  1,010   2,500   3,480   4,640    6,140    4,170  12,965
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:  23%
1/ Cropping pattern and yields in Table 8.
2/ Investment and operating costs in Table 9.



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
FARM CASU nLOW MODEL 2.  SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND PUMPSET (2 ha)
?Rupees)
W/O PROJ    1       2       3        4      5-8      9-13       14     15-19   20
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS
Inflow
Farm Production 1/                    5,960   5,960  10,745  13,505  16,435   16,435  16,435   16,435  16,435  16,435
Sale of Water                           -       -      1,285   1,285   1,285    1,285   1,285    1,285   1,285   1,285
Residual Value                          -       -                -        -         -                 720      -     2,560
Investment                              -      8,000     -       -        -        -        -       7,200     -        -
Operating Costs                       1,250   1,250   3,990   5,375   6,640    6,640   6,640    6,640   6,640   6,640
Incremental Working Capital             -     1,370      695     630      -        -        -         -       -        -
NET FLOW BEFORE FINANCING
Total                                   4,710  (4,660)  7,345   8,785  11,080   11,080  11,080    4,600  11,080  13,640
Incremental                               -    (9,370)  2,635   4,075   6,370    6,370   6,370         (110)  6,370   8,930
FINANCING
Long-term Loan                            -      7,600     -        -       -         -       -       6,840      -       -
Short-term Loan                           -     1,370      695      630          -        -        -             -       -
Farmer's Contribution                     -        400     -       -        -         -       -         360      -       _
Debt Service
Long-term                               -       -      1,575   1,575   1,575   1,575                  -      1,415   1,415
Short-term                              -       -      1,455     738      670      -                             -   -  -
Debt Service in Constant Prices
Long-term                               -       -      1 420   1,315   1,220   1,135                  _      1,250   1,055
Short-term                              -       -      1,310     685      620      -        -         -        -       -
Net Financing                             -      9,370  (2,035) (1,370) (1.840) (1,135)        -      7,200  (1,250) (1,055)
NEI PLOW AFTER FINANCING
Total                                   4,710   4,710   5,310   7,415   9,240    9,945   11,080  l1.1800   9,830  12,585
Incremental                               -       -        600   2,705   4,530    5,235    6,370   7,090   5,120   7,875
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN: 48%
IT Cropping pattern and-jfaids i
2/ Investment and operating costs in Table 9.



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
FARM CASH FLOW MODEL 3. LAND DEVELOPFENT 41 ha)
(Rupees)
W/O PROJ       1         2         3-        4         5-8        9-20
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS
Inflow
Farm Production 1/                    2405       2405      4785      5965      7155       7155         7155
Outflow 2/
Investment                              -       4670         -         -         -          -            -
Operating Costs                       1185       1185      2390      2940      3470       3470         3470
Incremental Working Capital             -         605       275       265        -          -            -
NET FLOW BEFORE FINANCING
Total                                   1220      (4055)     2120      2760      3685       3685         3685
Incremental                               -       (5275)      900      1540      2465      2465         2465
FINANCING
Long-term Loan                            -        4435         -        -         -          -
Short-term Loan                           -         605       275       265        -
Farmer's Contribution                     -         235         -        -         _          _   .
Debt Service
Long-term                               -          -        920       920       920        920
Short-term                              -          -        645       290       280        -
Debt Service in Constant Prices
Long-term                               -          -        830       765       715        640
Short-term                              -          -        520       270       260        -
Net Financing                             -        5275     (1135)    (770)    (975)        (640)
NET FLOW AFTER FINANCING
Total                                   1220       1220       985      1990      2710      3045         3685
Incremental                               -          -       (235)      770      1490      1825         2465
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:  35%
1/ Cropping pattern andyields in Table 8 
2/ Inveatment and operatina costs in Table 9.



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPNENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ENTERPRISE CASH FLOW MODEL 4. COFFEE PLANTATION (1 ha)
(Rupees)
1      2      3        4        5       6        7     8-13    14-40
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS
Inflow
Farm Production                          -      -       -       -      2900    5800    8700    9860    9860
Outflow
Investment                             2735     -       -       _        _-       -       -            -
Operating Costs                        2915   3210   3115    3525    3595    3625    3650    3650    3650
TOTAL NET FLOW BEFORE FINANCING              (5650) (3210) (3115)  (3525)   (695)   2175    5050    6210    6210
FINANCING
Long-term Loan                           5380   3050   2960    3345        -        -       -        -        -
Short-term Loan                            -      -       -       -        -
Borrower's Contribution                   270    160    155       180     695       -                -
Debt Service
Long-term                                -      -       -       -        -        -       -      6600
Short-term                               -
Debt Service in Constant Prices
Long-term                                -      -       -       -        -        -       -      3880
Net Financing                            5650   3210   3115    3525       695       -       -    (3880)       -
TOTAL NET FLOW AFTER FINANCING                  -       -      -        -       -      2175    5050    2330    6210
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:  20%                                                                                         D
m x



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ENTERPRISE CASH FLOW MODEL 5. DAIRY (2 CROSS-BRED COWS)
(Rupees)
1         2          3          4          5          6
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS
Inflow
Sales of Milk                           4690       6615       6615       6365       6175       3400
Sales of Manure                          115        250        250        250        250        250
Sales of Calves                           -         570        570        570        570        570
Residual Value                             -         -          -          -          -         680
Outflow
Investment                              8000         -          -          -          -          -
Operating Costs                         2855       4335       4335       4305       4280       1815
TOTAL NET FLOW BEFORE FINANCING                (6050)      3100       3100       2880      2715       3085
FINANCING
Long-term Loan                             9345         -         -          -          -
Borrower's Contribution                      -          -         -          -          -          -
Debt Service
Long-term                                  -       2625       2625       2625       2625       2625
Debt Service in Constant Prices
Long-term                                  -       2365       2185       2035       1890       1760
Net Financing                              9345      (2365)    (2185)    (2035)    (1890)       (1760)
TOTAL NET FLOW AFTER FINANCING                  3295        735        915        845        825      1325
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:  41%                                                                               X



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ENTERPRISE CASH FLOW MODEL 6. INLAND FISHERIES (POND 1. ha)
(Rupees)
1        2        3-5       6-9      10
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS
Inflow
Sales of Fish                        2540    10165    10165    10165    10165
Residual Value                        -         -         -         -       1500
Outflow
Investment                          15000       -         -        -         -
Operating Costs                      1045      4170      4170     4170      4170
TOTAL NET FLOW BEFORE FINANCING            (13505)    5995      5995      5995      7495
FINANCING
Long-term Loan                        12750       -         -         -        -
Short-term Loan                        1560       -         -         -        -
Borrower's Contribution                2250       -         -
Debt Service
Long-term                             -        4240      4240       -
Short-term                            -        1655       -        -
Debt Service in Constant Prices
Long-term                             -        3820      3285       -
Short-term                            -        1490       -        -
Net Financing                         16560    (5310)   (3285)        -
TOTAL NET FLOW AFTER FINANCING               3055       685     2710      5995      5995
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN: 43%



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
CROPPING PATTERNS AND YIELDS
Model 1. Dugwell And Pumpset         Model 2. Shallow Tubewell And Pumpset            Model 3. Land Development
(2ha, Maharashtra)                           (2ha, Bihar)                          (lha, Andhra Pradesh)
Gross Area            Yields             Gross Area             Yields              Gross Area             Yields
(Ha.)            (tonnes/ha)             (Ha.)             (tonnes/ha)              (Ha.)             (tonnes/ha)
1/                  1/                    1/                   1/                   I/                   I/
Without    With-/  Without    With-/  Without    With-"  Without    With-/  Without    With-/  Without    With-
Paddy                         - -                  -       1.2        1.4        2.0        2.5        -          0.8        _         3.2
Wheat              -         0.6        -         2.0      0.2        1.2        1.5        2.5        -          0.4        -         2.0
Maize              -          -         -          -       0.4        0.5        1.5        2.5       0.4          -        1.5         -
Jowar             0.8        0.4       0.9        2.5       -          -          -          -        0.2        0.2        0.9        1.3
Cotton            1.0        1.0       0.6        1.5       _-                                                     -         -          -
Groundnuts         -         0.6        -         1.5       _    -                - _                 0.4          _        0.9         _
Pulses            0.2         -        0.5         -       0.2         _         0.5         _-                              - _
Gram               -          -         -          _       0.2         -         0.7         -         _           _         _          _
Potato             --                              -        -         0.4         -         1.5        _           _         -          _
Chillies           -         0.4        _         0.7       _-                               -         -          0.4        _         0.7
Total             2.0        3.0                           2.2        3.5                             1.0         1.8
CrtPPini           100%      150%                          110%       175%                             100%       180%
1/ At full development.                                                                                                                  U.)



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
INVESTMENT COSTS. LOAN TERMS. AND BUDGETS
(Rupees)
MODEL 1. Dugwell and Pumpset               MODEL 2. SHALLOW TUBEWELL AND PUMPSET              MODEL 3. LAND DEVELOPMENT
(2 ha)                                         (2 ha)                                       (1 ha)
Investment Costs                        Dugwelli/:  11,000                         Shallow TubewellA/:   8,000                       Land Works:  4.670
Pumpset2/:   7,200                         With pumpset
Total  :  18,200                                                 8,000                        Total  : 4,670
Terms of ARDC Loan              Dugwell:  95% of investment cost            Shallow Tubewell:  95% of investment cost            95% of investment cost
12 years at 10.25%.             with pumpset         7 years at 10.252                7 years at 10.25%.
Pumpset:  95% of investment cost
7 years at 10.25%.
Gross Income                    Without                     With-/         Without                                With4/         Without              With4/
Farm Production                4,120                      14,425           5,960                                16,435          2,405                7,155
Sale of Water5/                                             -                -                                   1.285            -                    _
Total                        4,120                      14,425          5,960                                 17,720          2,405                7,155
Operating Costs
Seed                             160                         765             215                                 1,440            165                  560
Fertilizer                       525                       1,600              -                                  1,140              -                1,005
Pesticides                        30                         280             4                                     140              -                   165
Manure                            50                         460             440                                   880             220                  350
Bullock Labor                    700                       1,000             330                                   660            600                   900
Labor                            325                         770             265                                   580            200                  390
Pumpset O+M-/                     -                        1,800              -                                  1,800              -                    _
Other7/                        __                             _               _-                                                    -                   100
Total                        1,790                       6,675          1,250                                  6,640          1,185                3,470
Net Income                       2,330                       7,750           4,710                                11,080          1,220                3,685
Net Incremental Income              -                        5,420              -                                  6,370              -                 2,465
1/ Dugwell has life of 40 years.
2/ Pumpset has life of 12 years; replaced in 13th year.                                                                                                             | w
3/ Shallow Tubewell has life of 40 years; pumpset 12 years-replaced in 13th year.
4/ Full development achieved in year 4 (507 of full development gross income in year 2; 75% in year 3).
5/ Sale of water @ Rs 6.4/hour for 200 hours per annum.
6/ 700 hours per annum @ Rs 2.57/hour.
7/ Cost of irrigation - Rs 100/ha.



- 97 -
ANNEX 3
Table 10
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
INVESTMENT COSTS, LOAN TERMS AND BUDGETS
(Rupees)
MODEL 4.COFFEE PLANTATION              MODEL 5.DAIRY           MODEL 6. INLAND FISHERIES
(I ha)                       (2 animals)                     (1 ha)
Investment Cost               Establishment and operating    2 cross-bred cows:  8,000    Excavation, bunding and
costs for first 4 years: 1/    First year                       Construction 8/
Total:  15,500        Operating costs  : 2,855
Total  : 10,855             Total: 15,000
ARDC Loan Terms               95% of investment cost           99Z of cost of cows            85Z of investment cost
6 years with 2 years grace       50% of year 1 operating        4 years at 12.5%
at 10,25%                        costs
5 years at 10.25%
Gross Income
Farm Production                       9,860 2/                         -
Milk Sales                                -                        6,365 5/                           -
Fish Sales                                                             -                        10,165 9/
Other                                     -                          820 6/                          -
Total                               9,860                        7,185                        10,165
Operating Costs                         3,650 3/                     4,305 7/                      4,170 10/
Net Income                            6,210                        2,880                         5,995
Net Incremental Income                6,210 4/                     2,880                         5,995
1/  Including planting materials, fertilizers and chemicals and labor costs for cleaning, land
preparation and other farm operations.
2/  850 kgs. of robusta coffee at Rs 11.6/kg.
3/ Plant protection chemickls, fertilizer and labor.
4/ Assumed that value of banana intercrop offsets value of pre-investment paddy income.
5/ 505 milch days; 7 liters per day at Rs 1.80/liter. This represents production in 4th year.
6/  Sale of manure and calves.
7/  Cost of green and dry fodder, concentrate feed, medicines and veterinary care, and
insurance.       3
8/  Including 4200 m  of earthworks and cement construction of inlet and outlet.
9/  1,900 kgs of fish at Rs 5.35/kg.
10/ Cost of fish seed, manure, fertilizer, fish feed and labor.



- 98 -
ANNEX 4
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Details of the economic cost and benefits streams for each of the
models for which an economic analysis was performed are presented in Tables 3
and 4. Farmgate economic prices (projected 1985 levels, expressed in constant
1980 rupees) are given in Table 1 of this annex. The rates of return for each
model, a summary of which, along with sensitivity analyses, is presented in
Table 1, have been weighted according to the relative contribution of each
component to the overall investment program of the project. The administrative
costs of loan apppraisal and supervision, estimated at 5% of the value of each
loan, have been included in the economic analysis, after adjustment with
the Standard Conversion Factor (0.8). A summary of the project's anticipated
impact, in terms of area, beneficiaries, production and employment, is given
in Table 5.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES
(Rupees/tonne) -/
Financial    Economic    Conversion Factor
Paddy                             1470          1810               1.23
Maize                             1690          1690               1.00
Wheat                             1740          1740               1.00
Jowar                             1760          2025               1.15
Pulses                            3140          3610               1.15
Gram                              4020          4625               1.15
Cotton                            4230          4525               1.07
Groundnuts                        2990          2990               1.00
Chillies                          5500         13750               2.50
Sugarcane                          130           210              1.63
Potatoes                           660          760               1.15
Coconuts -(Rs/100 nuts)            250          125                0.50
Coffee                           11600        16240                1.40
Cashwe nuts                       6600         7920                1.20
Milk (Es/litre)                   1.80         1.80                1.00
Fish                              5350         5350                1.00
Fertilizer  2/                    2500         2750                1.10
Manure (Rs/cartload)                 20          22                1.10
Labor  (Rs/Manday) -/                6            4                0.60
Equipment and Construction    Various        Various               0.80
Pumpset Operating Cost (Rs/hour) 2.2            3.1                1.41
Concentrate feed, fodder
etc  4/                       Various      Various              1.00
1/ Except where stated.
2/ Same conversion factor was used for pesticides and other chemicals.
3/ Conversion factor of 1.0 used for bullock labor
4/ Concentrate feed - Rs 1200; green fodder Rs 100; dry fodder Rs 140.



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
(%M
-  Sensitivity Analysis
Point                                             Benefits Reduced,    Costs Increased 10%,
Estimate   Benefits Reduced   Costs Increased    Costs Increased            Benefits Delayed
10%      20%        10%      20%        10%       20%         1 year   2 years
1.  Dugwell with i'umpset                 -w8       32        26         33      28         27         16            21        15
2.  Shallow Tubewell with Pumpset        54         43        23         44      36         34         13            23        14
3.  Pumpset Only                         23         15         5         16       9          7          -             5         -
4.  Well Renovation/Improvement          46         38        30         39      33         31         18            24        17
5.  Land Development                     98         86        74         87      78         76         57            49        34
6.  Coconut Plantation                    25         23       21         23       22         22        18             20       18
7.  Coffee Plantation                     32         29       26         29       27         27        22             24        20   0
M.  Cashew Plantation                     27         25       23         25       24         23         20            22        19
9.  Dairy Scheme                          38         20        3         22        9          6         -              2        -
10.  Marine Fisheries                      98         69       46         71       53         50         21            28        16
11.  Inland Fisheries                      52         41       30         42       33         32         15            21        11
Overall Rate of Return               44
-   indicdtes negative rate of return
(D 



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS: MINOR IRRIGATION 1/
(Rupees)
1           2            3           4-12         13          14        15-19           20
1.  Dugwell with Pumpset
Benefits                              4,530       10,985       14,080        17,445      17,445      18,020      17,445      24,325
Costs
Investment                         15,250                                                           6,035
Operating                           1,740        4,510        5,950         7,410       7,410       7,410       7,410       7,410
Net Benefit Without Project           2,790
Net Incremental Benefit             (15,250)       3,685        5,340         7,245       7,245       1,785       72         IZTI23
2.  Shallow Tubewell with Pumpset
Benefits                              6,880       12,100       15,075        18,215      18,215      18,790      18,215      19,945
Costs
Investment                          6.705        4,385        5,985         7,505       7,505       6,035
Operating                           1,220                                                           7,505       7,505       7,505
Net Benefit Without Project           5,660
Net Incremental Benefit              (6,765)       2,055        3,430         5,050       5,050        (410)      5,050       6,780
3.  Pumpset Only
Benefits                              1,850        4,450        5,895         7,085       7,660
Costs
Investment                          6,035
Operating                             785        2,540        3,415         4,270       4,270
Net Benefit Without Project           1,065
Net Incremental Benefit              (6,035)         845        1,415         1,750       2,325
4.  Well Renovation/Improvement
Benefits                              1,770        2,930        3,515         4,100
Costs                                                                                                                         4,100
Investment                          2,095
Operating                           1,120        1,700        1,690         2,220                                           2,220
Net Benefit Without Project             650                     __8 0_ 905
Net Incremental Benefit              (2,095)         580          905         1,230                                           1,230
5.  Land Development
Benefits                              2,450        6,430        8,410        10,420                                          10,420
Costs
Investment                          3,910
Operating                           1,225        2,425        3,020         3,595                                           3,595
Net Benefit Without Project           1,225
Net Incremental Benefit              (3,910)       2,780        4,165         5,600                                           5,600
1/  Administrative cost of loans included under investment cost as 4% of value
of ARDC-financed loan (5% x Standard Conversion factor of 0.8).



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE DEVBLOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS; DIVERSIFIED LENDING 1/
(Rupees)
1           2         3           4           5            6           7            8             9          10          11           12          13        14         15          16-40      41-50
I.  Coconut Plantation
Benefit-    -                                        -                -         -             2,390       4,625       6,810         9,000      10,095      11,190      12,280                                                       12,280
Costs
Invest*ent                     2,405
Operating                      1,725        2,135    2 495        2,145       2,145        2,100        2 105       2115          2 115      2,130        2,130       2,130
Net Incremental Benefit         (4,130)    (2,135)  (2,495)        (2,145)    (2,145)           290       2           4,695         6,885       7,965       9,060      10,150                                                       10,150
2   Coffee Plantation
Benefits                            -          -          -          -          4,060        8,120      12,180       13,805
Costs
Investment                     2,495
Operating                      2 165        2,600    2 695        3  285       3,190       3210        3  225       3,225
Net Incre*ental Benefit          (4,660)    (2,600)  (2;9)    ( )                 870        4,910        8,955      10,580
1. Cashew Plantation
Benefits                           (810)       (810)    (810)        (415)        380         2,360       3,940       4,735         5,525       6.320
Costas
Investment                        740
Operating                         345         950    1,150          910       1,000           975       1 010       1,035         1,055       1 080                                                                    5,240
Net Incremental Benefit         (1,895)    (1,760)  (1,960)    (1,325)           (620)       1,385        2  930      3,700         4,470       5,m40
4. Diry' Schema
Benefits                         (3,560)      7,460    7,460        7,210       7,010        4,245
Costs
InvestmCent
operating                      2 855        4,240    4 240        4 210       4 185        1775
Net Incremental benefit         (6,415)       3,220   2            0            2,825         2,470
5, Marine Fisheries
Benefits                       227,530    313,935                                                                                                        313,935                            313,935      376,015
Costs
Investment                   277,920                                                                                                                   110,920
operating                    114 485    152.645                                                                                                        152.645                            152,645      152 645
Net Incremental Benefit       (1      5)   161,290                                                                                                        50,370                            161,290      223,370
6. Inland Fisheries
Benefits                          2,540      10,165                                                                                10,165    11.365
Costs
Investment                    12,510
operating                      1 090        4,345                                                                                 4,345      4 345
Net Incremental Benefit        (11,060)       5,820                                                                                 5,820       7,020
Administrative cost of loans included under investment cost
as 4X of value of ARDC-finaced loan (5X x Standard Conversion Factor of
0.8).



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT IMPACT
Area Benefitted       Foodgrain Production  Other Crop         Beneficiaries                 Employment
Quantity    Value    Production   Total  Small Farmers   Non-Recurring  Recurring
(thousand hectares)   (000 tonnes  (mil Rs)   (mil Rs)              (thousands)            (million mandays)
Minor Irrigation                  1,020              1,483       2,309       1,076         948         654            114.4          49.7
Land Development                    115                 227        364         259         245        175               6.5          29.4
Plantation/Horticulture              19                   -           -        219           19          2             11.5           5.7
Poultry                               -                   -           -        154           10         10                -           4.7
Sheep Breeding                                            -          -           -          47         47                             9.8
Dairy                                 -                   -           -        272           73         58                -          11.0
Fisheries:
Inland                              6                  -           -         106           9          5               1.5           3.5
Marine                              -                   -          -          85           -          -                 -           1.0    o
Storage                               -                  22         28           -           -           -              1.0           7.8
Market Yards                          -                   -           -           -           -          -              0.5           8.2
Bio-gas Plants                        -                  28          36           7          24         12                -              -
Forestry                              -                   -           -        253            -          -             11.5           0.7
Other                                 -                   -           -         98          62          41              2.7           2.2
TOTAL
1g160              1,760       2,737       2,529       1,437      1,004            149.6          133.7
ml
% H



- 104 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Riskiness and Drought in Hardrock Areas
Introduction
1.        Over 40% of the cost of minor irrigation investment under the project
will be directed towards the construction of dugwells and provision of pumpsets
in hardrock areas. Many, if not most, of these investments are, however, often
subject to a degree of risk which is higher than normal due to a combination of
unfavorable groundwater conditions and adverse weather. These factors manifest
themselves in a disproportionately high number of incomplete or low-yielding
wells, completely failed wells and crop yields severely curtailed by drought.
This risk is only partly reflected in the higher unit cost of dugwell invest-
ment and somewhat less favorable debt-service ratio in the early years of
investment (see Model 1, Dugwell and Pumpset, Annex 3) compared with invest-
ment in shallow tubewells (Model 2). Information as to the number of farmers
exposed to this extra risk is extremely limited; however, it is unlikely to
exceed 25% of all farmers in hardrock areas. In this section, the possible
effects of drought and partial well failure 1/ will be examined, along with
implications for loan repayment and ARDC lending conditions.
2.        Methodology.  The prediction of the effects of drought is fraught
with difficulties; moreover, the definition of drought currently used in
India is extremely crude. 2/
3.        However, for the purpose of this exercise, this definition has
been adopted along with reasonable, if somewhat arbitrary, assumptions aboul
the effects of drought on crop production to illustrate the possible financial
impact on farmers. While the results are useful as indicators, the actual
magnitudes should be interpreted cautiously. The following assumptions
have been used:
(a) drought occurs with a probability of one year in five (20%);
(b) a "normal" drought is defined as one which reduces both
gross income and operating costs equally by 25%, i.e.
"expected drought values" are 25% lower than normal
(without drought) values;
1/   Partial well failure implies that a farmer is unable to fully compensate
for drought-induced water shortage.
2/   According to the officially accepted definition, an area is "drought-
prone" when there is a 20% chance that annual rainfall will be at least
25% less than normal.



- 105 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c) normal probability distributions 1/ are defined around
expected drought values;
(d)  in the year before drought, short-term credit offtake is
normal i.e. equal to incremental working capital require-
ments at 50% of the difference between normal levels of
operating costs; and
(e) in the year of drought, incremental working capital, and
hence short-term credit offtake, is 50% of the difference
between the drought-reduced level of operating costs and
normal operating costs in the following year.
4.        Applying these assumptions to Model 1 (Dugwell and Pumpset, Annex 3),
two types of exercise were carried out:
(a) an analysis of the impact on net income, financing require-
ments and repayment capability in the years immediately
following investment in the event that drought reduces gross
income and operating costs by at least 50% beneath normal
levels (or 25% beneath expected drought levels). Whereas,
in any drought year, this would happen with a probability
of 25%, the true probability, conditional on the chance of
drought (20%), would be 5%;
(b) an analysis for the three years immediately following invest-
ment, of the cumulative probability of net income being equal
to or less than:
(i)  the level of net income achieved without the invest-
ment (assuming no drought without the investment); and
(ii) the level of net income achieved without the invest-
ment (assuming drought and "without project" expected
drought values equal to 50% of normal values).
5.        The results of these exercises are presented below and in Table 1.
Results
6.        The effects, in each of the three years following investment, of
a 50% fall in gross income and operating cost levels are shown in Table 1.
Although net income (both before and after financing) is reduced significantly
in each of the three years, the impact is most severe in the second year, when,
in the absence of drought, only 50% of full development benefits would have
been realized. Net income after financing in that year is actually negative,
while positive levels are maintained in the other two years. The effect of
drought is also felt in each immediately succeeding year. This arises out of
1/   With standard deviation equal to 25% of the expected drought values.



-106 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
sharply increased short-term credit requirements in the year of drought, given
the need to regain the development path. Although the higher level of shorlt-
term credit in the drought year actually mitigates the financial effects of
drought in that year, the increased burden of repayment in the following year
reduces net income after financing below normal levels, even though normal
production is achieved. Given normal burdens of repayment, the sharply reduced
levels of net income, particularly in year 2, suggest the need for additional
credit for consumption in the event of drought. An extension of the long-term
loan repayment period by ARDC by 2-3 years, although helpful, would be inade-
quate in these circumstances. For example, extensions of two and three years,
respectively, on well and pumpset loan repayment periods would reduce annual
long-term loan repayment by only Rs 300 p.a. The provision of a one or two
year grace period would seem to be necessary, particularly when drought occurs
in year 2.
7.        Given the parameters of the probability distribution, the following
probabilities of net income (before financing) being equal to or less than two
specified levels are derived:
Cumulative Probability
(%)
Year 2     Year 3      Year 4
Net Income = Rs 2,330 /a
In a drought year                45           32          14
In any year                        9           6           3
Net Income = Rs 1,165 /b
In a drought year                 16          12           2
In any year                        3           2
/a Net income "without investment" assuming no drought.
/b   Net income "without investment" assuming drought.
.. Less than 1%.
As is to be expected, the chances of net income falling at least as far as
any specified level diminish considerably in succeeding years. Thus, the
earlier the year after investment in which drought occurs, the greater the
need for ARDC to consider the rearrangement of original repayment schedules.



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
1/
FINANCIAL IMPACT OF DROUGHT IN HARDROCK AREAS-/
(Rupees)
Drought in 2nd Year         Drought in 3rd Year         Drought in 4th Year
1          2         3        2        3       4         3        4        5
Gross Income                        4120       4635     11850    9270    5925    14425    11850    7215    14425
Investment                         18200         -        -         -       -        -        -         -        -
Operating Costs                     1790       2070      5410    4140    2705       6675     5410    3340       6675
Incremental Working Capital         1175       1670       630      635    1985       -        630    1665        -
Net Income                        (17045)       895      5810    4495    1235       7750     5810    2210       7750
Financing
Long-term                          17290         -        -         -       -        -        -         -        -
Short-term                          1175       1670       630      635    1985       -        630    1665        -        o
Farmer's Contribution                910         _        -         _       -        -        _         _        _
Debt Service (in
Constant Prices)
Long-term                            -         2675      2475    2675    2475       2300      2475    2300      1940
Short-term                           -         1125      1600    1125      625      1900       625     620      1595
Net income after financing          2330      (1235)     2365    1330      120      3550      3340     955      4215
Normal net income after
financing (no drought)            2330       1330      3340    1330    3340       4830     3340    4830      5810
1/ Model 1, Dugwell with Pumpset, See Annex 3 - Table 2.  Assumes Gross Income and Operating Costs fall by
50%.
I-J
- _,.



-108 -
ANNEX 6
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Reports Relating to the Project
1. "Fourth ARDC Credit Project", Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, July 1980.
2. "Report on the Study of Overdues in Agricultural Term Loans (Direct)
of Commercial Banks", Agricultural Refinance and Development Cor-
poration, August 1980.
B.   Selected Working Papers
1.  "Problems and Prospects of the LDB Movement in Six States".
2.  "Water Resources and Minor Irrigation".
3.   Causes of Overdues".



- 109 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Organization and Management Study
Of State Land Development Banks
Terms of Reference
A.   RBI and ARDC have decided to appoint expert teams to study the organi-
zation and management of SLDB and their branches/PLDB. Each team would
consist of:
(i)   Officer of RBI/ARDC, convenor;
(ii)   Management Expert (consultant); and
(iii)   Experienced administrator of SLDB.
B.   Each Team shall make a study and evaluation of the management, staff and
administration of an SLDB and its branches/PLDB, and make recommendations
for their future functioning, to help the Standing Committee, established
to plan and supervise rehabilitation of weak LDB, develop appropriate
rehabilitation programs.
C.  Each study should pay particular attention to:
(i)   Organizational structure, including administrative
and financial controls, particularly internal audit;
(ii)   A critical analysis of the existing loan recovery
systems and, if necessary, making proposals for modi-
fications to improve effectiveness of the systems,
including incentives for staff;
(iii)   Staffing, with particular reference to:
(a)  the qualifications of senior staff, including
their orientation towards development;
(b)  the turnover of staff, particularly at senior
management levels;
(c)  replacement of State government staff by SLDB's
own staff;



- 110 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
(d)  the adequacy of staffing levels, particularly
for future lending programs;
(e)  transport facilities for staff, particularly at
field level;
(f)  the efficiency, motivation, and adequacy of
training of all staff;
(iv)   Record keeping, in particular the flow of information to
and from the branches/PLDB;
(v)   Monitoring and evaluation of operations at branch/PLDB
level.
D.   Each study should also:
(i)   Recommend a mechanism under which the State government and or
RBI will review, on a priority basis, the operation of each
PLDB below 60% recoveries to identify, on a case by case basis,
a) cases of willful default, b) cases of non utilization and
misapplication of loans, and c) cases where investment
remains incomplete. Such operations should be carried out
within an agreed time frame to be followed by an action
program, acceptable to the Standing Committee, to recover
overdue loans and to improve loan recovery.
(ii)   Review the basis of bad debt calculation for SLDB and PLDB,
and make appropriate recommendations;
(iii)   Propose procedural and staffing requirements, format and
timetable for the preparation by SLDB and their branches/PLDB
of adequate financial forecasts for several years ahead. Such
forecasts should include estimates of lending, recovery and
operational costs and should be utilized as a guide against
which performance of the institution in future years could be
monitored.
(iv)   Examine existing auditing arrangements - their adequate time--
liness, audit report contents and formats and give recommend--
ations for possible improvements if necessary, to cover the
subjects of management and financial soundness of the insti-
tutions in audit reports.
E.   Each team's report, which should be presented to the Standing Committee
within three months of the appointment of the team, should include a
detailed time-bound schedule for implementation of its recommendations and
conclusions.



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Principal Agricultural Credit Institutions
RBI/ACD
ARDC
STATE/APEX                           SCHEDULED                                                 STATE CO-OPERATIVE
CO-OPERATIVE                          COMMERCIAL                            REGIONAL            LAND DEVELOPMENT
BANKS                                BANKS                             RURAL BANKS                 BANKS
(BRAN CHES).
DISTRICT CENTRAL
CO-OPERATIVE               URBAN                 AGRICULTURAL
BANKS                   RURAL                 DEVELOPMENT               BRANCHES
(BRANCHES)               BRANCHES                 BRANCHES
LARGE SIZED  PRIMARY  FARMERS                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY CO-OPERATIVE
MULTI-PURPOSE           AGRICULTURAL               SRIELAND DEVELOPMENT
SOCIETIES                CREDIT               SOCIETIES (FSS)                                                         BANKS AND BRANCHES
World Bank - 23130



- 112 -
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Major Institutional Funding for Agricultural Term Loans
)   GOI      :         9 and 15 Years                 10 and 15 Years                RBI
k6.5 and 7.0%                     6.0 and  .
I (Open Market
Operation Supervision)
12 Years 6.75%         Institutional
ARDC            _                     BOND MARKET
(includes CB & LDB)
|         \ 5 ~~to 15 Years       /         /
5 to 15 Year                    6.5 and 7.5%     //
6.5 and 7.5% Xl/  
STATEan   5er
GOVTS.                                                             6 75%
-; to 15 Years                |          /          \                  4I/Genral-Purpose Term Debt
6.5 and 7.5%
SLDB                                    CB|
5 to 1 5 Yearsl
8.0 and 9.0%                   5 to 15 Years   ,
10.25 and 12.50%
PLDB                                             X i Over 5 Years 10%
5 to 15Years        15 to 15 years
10.25 and 12.50%              10l 25 and 12.50!.
BORROWERS
AND
DEPOSITORS
(Arrow from Lender to Borrower)
(Excludes RRB, SCB)                                                                                           World Bank - 23125
Rates and Maturities
are usual terms at June 1981



INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Organization Chart - As on June 30,1981
Bo BARD OF DIRECTORS
|CHAIRMAN
| GENERAL MANAGER  || GENERAL MAGENERAGENEL RMANAGER                                                                GENERAL MANAGER 
|    SENIOR    l   l   ~SENIOR       SENIOR             SENIOR              SENIOR
DIRECTOR            IRECTOR          DIRECTOR            DIRECTOR           DIRECTOR
PROJECT            PROJECT           PLANNING                                                            ECHNICAL                   PROGRAMMING
DIVISION I        DIVISIONAND                                                  ISION 11                   DIVISON                          U
i         l             ~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT                  _                                                                DIViSION
DIRECTOR         DIRECTOR                                DIRECTOR              C                                     EOIRECTOR
IJTTAR          MAHARASHTRA                          ADMINISTRATION        RAJASTHAN        IRRIGATION     -      HUSBANDRY
PRADESH          ADOAMANAGEMENT                                                              HYRGOOG-AR
1  ~~~             MATT~~ERVCS/IRGTO
IIBOARD                                                   ENINERN
DIRECTOR         D DIRECTOR         MATTERS                                 DIRECTOR                                                DIRECTOR
5   ORISSA  l A  TAMI L NADU   l l ,             ,   ,              ,   l  IADHYA               Di RECTOR                           PROGRAMMING
L  BIHAR   l   | PONOICHERRY        DIRECTOR           DIHECTOR             PRADESH                              HORTICULTURE
KERALALA )PATIO
MANAGEMENT         FUNDS AND                             DEVELOPMENT
INFORMATION        ACCOUNTS                              VVATER                                 DIRECTOR
DIRECTOR                                                                    DIRECTOR          MANAGEMENT
DIRECTOR           SURVEYS
WEST                  H             DIRECTOR            DIRECTOR                                               |          RCIAL
BENGAL           PRADESHRCTR                                                                                      FOE      
N E STATES                          IDA                 TRAINING
SIKKIM                              MATTERS                               DIRECTOR              FISHERIES                              DEPUTY
I   | DIRECTOR                                                                                                       D |  I   |  PUNJAB  L  IRECTOR
;   | Z             I                      l ~~~~~~~~~~JAMMU AND                                     ii
| KARNATAKA   p 0  DIRECTOR    l    l  KASHMIR    l                                           |  AUDIT CELL
|1 LATUOERAL                            DIRECTOR
ASSISTANCE                              EH 
K HARYANA N
|HIMACHAL
|PRADESH
AHMEABA, BNGAORE. BHOPAL, BHUBANESHWAR, BOMBAY. CALCUTTA, CHANDIGARH,
REGIONAL GEEICES-lE CENTERS  GAUHATI, HYDERABAD. JAIPUR, LUCKNOW, MADRAS, NEW DELHI, PATNA, TRIVANDRUM
Word BIk -I23412



I



K  _~~~~  '--V          6-                                                       I~~NDIA
/" r-                      >FOURTH AGRICJLTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELORMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC    )                                 4    Aepr=.t.macaCorrl          Genera zed  Cccurrence of Groundater, Rainfall, Evaporation  and ARDC  Regional 0ffices
AFGHANISTANrq|-                                                                                                   M ,     - itt  t m    tar  a                   re, 
,)                ij *\ 0 0                                                                  ,Tho'ic'*r >s   : .         *  r   A. ..  05 r  r
I rosnraotirdncttrr
Vt IrIt tai- a -tdtiii   d-trtir
I     Ma,ao,mewsaa~~~~                             I CitAtr nsmI       -t
An -a  ttrrr -o t-dr
ARDO Ret oral Off coo trad.d by Diro-cit ata -la, 1981
PAKISTAN>               *                                                                                           R0  oias ARDC fRe fCef  eahade  b cr Cr Directors as f Jr   A9i
ARD0 Hoaa1narfaro
- t.tae  arc Jr - Terrifosy  -avndar-es
/_/~~~~~~~/+ / f~~~~~~~ Ino$tAfe4,r,.f9nS\\\<_  <_I JA1  -ndr                                                                            i<k   b,
NErA  ~~~~~oerriirl Eoslre                                  icn
>._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. j-,                                                                        - CC        H .-~~k   >--9,~0~
'A                     7X                            i Xg_}'                                          i'',---  -_, V--f           ,w   .-                                             c& 0'i&f      
'S ' i ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --s, ,tJ
~ -.~NEP~L \'rL                   K~VBHUTA~
P-AJA57t/At-               ASIU        -  i     .t,:g\'  LU K   E5>    '<                              I S        .i,{t4_.
HA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AISADR                                                                                         Np    SE /G /                 '       K''P/S/1-oEl
a- ~ ~ ~ ~~ n              I=-               b          R         t .Q         a'\'',                                                ?
A~/SS         H f bt
w X   r .  f  :   :   :              :0  9                               :                    !:.: WES
:      if   R     i      V  ~~~~~~ ~~<S           i                  -        ;I                                                           icR
;,3',g,-   4           uS3Ri LANKA ?I SAESH3qu ESWA
-X,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
DO  d*oO  Le0 rPb/trec     DRY-t  At           /R A B
L ~ ~~~~~~~~~ N-                                                               / -          -                                 of                -                                        Z
. ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     -RORBf'~ _\-- _- _                             _             _e i v
Sea  - --  5- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'<~~~~~~e)itct#  -  -  I        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
a                                                                                                                         -           I                        looser~~~~~~~pl~RILA K
C         Ii?       200        3011
M LES
Tha toecca C noatocciar ih~~~~~~~~~ aorta Seat aeOeen~~~~~~ncia39 --   -. 
erra.a,a.,a~~~~~nicoraatar  Cr5  ,arreacimmtai                                                         IcC   atO~~~~~~~KI"D  CCCI
Z



