Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FUYA COPY
Report No. P-3196-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
February 1, 1982
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 20, 1982)
US$1             =    Rs 9.043654
Rs 1             =    US$0.110570
Rs 1 million    =    US$110,570
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made
at US$1.00 to Rs 8.0, which represents the projected
average exchange rate over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
GOI                      -  April 1 - March 31
ARDC                     -  July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
ARDC   -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CALCOB -   Committee on Agricultural Loan through
Comunercial Banks
GOI    -   Government of India
LDB    -   Land Development Bank
NABARD -   National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
RBI    -   Reserve Bank of India
RRB    -   Regional Rural Banks



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
CREDIT, LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) for on-lending to farmers for on-farm
investments through participating banks.
Amount:          US$350.0 million (US$190 million IBRD Loan and
US$160 million equivalent IDA Credit).
Terms:           For Bank Loan:  Repayment over 20 years, including
five years' grace, at 11.6% interest per annum.
For IDA Credit: Standard.
Relending        The Government of India (GOI) would provide US$4 million
Terms:         equivalent to ARDC on a grant basis to carry out a training
program and would relend US$346 million to ARDC on the
terms specified below:
From GOI to ARDC, interest would be 6.5% per annum in respect
of ARDC refinancing for up to 9 years and 7.0% for re-
financing up to 15 years. GOI to carry the exchange risk.
From ARDC to banks, interest would be 6.5% per annum for all
minor irrigation loans; for other agricultural loans,
6.5% to small farmers 1/ and 7.5% to other borrowers;
repayments to extend up to two years beyond initial
amortization schedules of loans to ultimate beneficiaries.
From banks to ultimate borrowers, interest would be 10.25% per
annum for all minor irrigation loans; for other
agricultural loans, 10.25% to small farmers and 12.5% to
other borrowers; repayment periods to be based on borrowers'
repayment capacity and the types of investments financed.
Project          The purpose of the project is to help India increase
Description:  agricultural production and to strengthen agricultural credit
1/ Small farmers are defined as those cultivating land providing a
predevelopment net return to family income not exceeding Rs 3,100
annually (at 1978 prices).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
institutions by supporting a two-year ARDC program of refinancing
loans for investments in agriculture and an intensive
training program for the staff of participating banks.
Lending under the project would be for minor irrigation (including
land development), plantation and horticulture, livestock and
fisheries, market yards and storage.
The only serious project risk would be the continuation
of high loan overdues of the participating banks.
Special measures are included in the project to deal
with this situation.
Estimated Cost:                                          (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Minor Irrigation                1,038.4     130.8      1,169.2
Diversified Lending               571.3     133.0        704.3
Training                            4.0                    4.0
Sub-total                   1,613.7      263.8      1,877.5
Price Contingencies               179.5      29.2        208.7
Total Project Cost          1,793.2      293.0      2,086.2 1/
Financing Plan:                                         (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Bank/IDA                           57.0     293.0         350.0
GOI/ARDC                        1,140.3                 1,140.3
Banks                             382.9                   382.9
Ultimate beneficiaries            213.0                   213.0
(farmers)
Total                  1,793.2      293.0       2,086.2
1/ Including taxes and duties of about US$108 million.



- ii.i -
Estimated                                         (US$ million)
Disbursements:                         FY82               FY83            FY54
Annual              40.0             150.0            160.0
Cumulative          40.0              190.0           350.0
Rate of Return:   About 44%.
Appraisal Report: No. 3629-IN, dated February 1, 1982.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT AND LOAN TO INDIA FOR THE
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India for the amount equivalent of US$190 million and a proposed develop-
ment credit to India for the amount equivalent to US$160 million (SDR 139
million) to support activities of the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation (ARDC) in providing credit to borrowers for agricultural invest-
ments. The Bank loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years'
grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The Government of India (GOI) would
channel US$346 million equivalent through ARDC to cooperative and commercial
banks for on-lending to farmers; the remaining US$4 million equivalent would
be passed on to ARDC on a grant basis to cover part of the costs of its
training program. On-lending from GOI to ARDC would be at 6.5% and 7% inter-
est per annum for up to 9 and 15 years, respectively. ARDC would on-lend the
funds to banks at 6.5% and 7.5% annual interest for up to 15 years and the
banks would lend to farmers at 10.25% and 12.5%, the repayment period depend-
ing on the type of investments refinanced and the repayment capacity of the
ultimate borrowers. The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 688
million (in mid-1981) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Over the past 30 years, the share of agriculture in GDP at factor
cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% to about 40%, while
the share of industry has increased from 15% to about 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the economic transformation that has led to sig-
nificantly higher productivity in some other developing countries.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Reports for the Second Ramagundam Thermal Power
Project (No. P-3164-IN), dated November 30, 1981.



-2-
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth of value-added in agriculture --
2.1% per annum over the three decades -- has constrained overall growth, not
only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce
foreign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial
value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and
1979/80. Over the same period, gross domestic savings more than doubled from
10% of GDP to 21.2%, while gross domestic investment rose from 10% of GDP to
just over 21.8%. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion of
domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s;
by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to below 3%. External
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.
Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1%
at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Over the past 30 years as a whole, India has placed relatively little
emphasis on exports and has tended to pursue a strategy of import substitu-
tion. The volume growth of exports between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only
3.6% per annum, about the same as the volume growth of imports over the same
period. Between 1970 and 1977, however, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In
response, the Government introduced various policy measures designed to
stimulate exports. The volume of India's exports grew on average about 9%
per annum between 1971/72 and 1976/77. Although export growth has slowed in
recent years, due in large part to domestic supply constraints, this
experience demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While
expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed
to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective
export incentives played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 5.4%,
3.1% and 7.9% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a substan-
tially better growth performance than the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 4). However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 due both to
the severe drought which reduced agricultural production and to input con-
straints in other sectors. Agricultural output fell by about 16% in 1979/80.
Industrial production stagnated, largely due to shortfalls in the production
of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infrastructural
constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence of these
developments, the remarkable price stability that India had enjoyed after
1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79, with prices
increasing 21% during 1979/80.
7.        In 1980/81, the economy recovered substantially, so that real GDP
growth for the year was about 6%-7%. During the summer and fall of 1980
foodgrain prices rose, but more slowly than other prices and more slowly than
the drop in production in 1979/80 would have suggested. This was made pos-
sible through the drawdown of substantial buffer stocks built up by the
Government in years of good harvests. These stocks ensured adequate supplies
of grain to low-income groups in urban areas through the public distribution



-3-
system and also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employ-
ment program for low-income groups in rural areas. Aided by a normal monsoon
in the summer of 1980, agricultural production rose by about 17%-19%. The
industrial sector recovered more slowly, with production in 1980/81 rising
only about 4% above the average for 1979/80, but output increased substan-
tially during the year so that production in April 1981 was about 9% higher
than in April 1980. The rise in prices slowed during the second half of
1980/81 so that by March 1981 the wholesale price index was 15.7% above its
level a year earlier.
8.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1980/81.
Fertilizer use reached about 5.6 million tons of nutrients in 1980/81, more
than double 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain
production grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer
demand, to eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per
year for the 15 years preceding 1976), and to reduce real foodgrain prices
for consumers. At the same time, India was able to build up substantial
foodgrain buffer stocks which made it possible to limit the effects of the
1979/80 drought, and to export a modest amount of grain in 1980. While the
management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a significant
achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the con-
tinued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The normal monsoon
of 1980/81 brought foodgrain production back to around the previous record
level of 132 million tons. While the performance of the recent past and the
probable future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed
demand, the balance remains delicate and the need for foodgrain imports to
maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to
time. For example, some wheat imports are likely in 1981/82 to ensure ade-
quate build up of stocks. Programs to expand irrigation, strengthen exten-
sion and encourage the efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to
receive high priority.
9.        The Indian economy has shifted back from a situation of resource
surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of
resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken domestic savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. Marginal savings
rates have recently been well above 30% in the household sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is even more apparent
in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79, India's current account
deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP and to a
growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was due to favorable terms of
trade movements after 1977 and to rapidly growing workers' remittances as
well as to the growth of exports. In 1980/81, however, the balance of pay-
ments deteriorated sharply, with the current account deficit rising from
US$850 million in 1979/80 to nearly US$3.4 billion in 1980/81. In part this
was due to unique events during the year, such as the disruption of oil
production in the Northeast, which, though the flows resumed again in
February 1981, alone added over US$1 billion to the oil import bill. Com-
bined with unprecedented oil price increases, this caused the oil import bill
to rise by over 75%, to a level equivalent to three-fourths of India's mer-
chandise export earnings. The deficit on current account rose to 2% of GDP.



-4-
India was able to finance this gap through a substantial drawing on IMF
resources (the Trust Fund and the Compensatory Financing Facility), anci
through an increase in aid disbursements and a modest drawdown in foreign
exchange reserves.
10.       The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at a high level of growth. In
particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to reduce the constraints in transportation and
other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range
of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has left in place the
more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export policy measures have improved the prospects
for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
11.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports -
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need
for additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and
sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
12.       A new Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) was approved in February 1981.
The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and power. Further-
more, the Plan reflects the Government's efforts to bring about the necessary
adjustments in the economy by emphasizing several priority areas. These
include: (i) expansion of exports and an investment program to support
increased production to replace imports of goods such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India produces competitively; (ii) an investment program
and policy framework for more efficient development and use of energy resour-
ces; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints
on production of basic industrial inputs; and (iv) continuing emphasis on the
development of agriculture.
13.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that the past programs
and policies have led to relatively low growth in certain crucial sectors,
namely power, coal, transport services, steel and cement. Potential output



-5-
growth in sectors which have benefitted from large investments in the recent
past may not materialize unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In
the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly
justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case
for policies to promote further investment. In 1980/81 these commodities
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages; increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in user industries. In the case of sectors in which there is
little scope to import the final product -- power and transportation -- the
planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is
scope for improvement in the short-run performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new
capacity are essential for adequate growth in the medium term.
14.       Despite the relatively large investment programs for the develop-
ment of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to eliminate the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages, but
the situation improved substantially during the year so that power generation
in June 1981 was around 20% higher than a year earlier. India is entering
the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production program backed by
substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI is now accelerating
its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up prospective areas for
exploration by foreign firms. Prices of petroleum products were raised
substantially in 1980 and again in July 1981 to bring domestic prices into
line with world market prices, to raise resources for further oil and gas
development and to encourage efficient use of energy. India is now committed
to an expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro
potential and development of its transmission and distribution system. In
the coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
15.       Agricultural policies, development programs and secular trends all
seem favorable for sustaining the past agricultural growth during the 1980s.
India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million tons, without having
imported foodgrains during the year. This reflects the trends of the last
decade which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the
economy. Growing output, combined with the projected fall in the population
growth rate, suggest favorable long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and
demand balances. An occasional need to import grains, particularly wheat,
could arise, but if the efforts to develop agriculture over the past decade
are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the new Plan, persistent
shortage seems unlikely. This development could give rise to a range of
policy options including a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to
increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-income families, foodgrain
exports, and diversification to the production of other, higher-value crops.
16.       Foreign exchange reserves are providing a cushion that helps the
Government of India in short-term supply management. In March 1981, however,
gross reserves were $320 million lower than the level of a year earlier and,
in terms of import coverage, fell below the six-month level for the first
time since 1977. A much larger decline in the reserve level would have been
necessary in 1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing
Facilities, amounting to over US$1 billion, not been available. India's



-6-
reserves provide some limited scope for narrowing the financing gap over the
nlext few years, but successful management of the balance of payments will
depend mainly on improved export performance, on import replacement, on the
maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances, and on a moderation in
price increases for oil imports. While India's current account balance of
payments deficits are not expected to be large relative to the size of the
economy (e.g., on the order of two percent of GDP), the absolute amounts are
large and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be
available from normal concessional sources. Accordingly, India has recently
begun to undertake substantial borrowings in the financial markets to help
finance selected major investment projects.
17.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The
primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjust-
ment policies, although the aid community can and should play an important
role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
18.       Preliminary results from the March 1, 1981 Census, combined with
1971 Census figures adjusted for under-enumeration, suggest that the popula-
tion growth rate declined from 2.3% p.a. in the late 1960s to about 2% at
present. The rate of increase of population is expected to continue falling
to around 1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. While the growth rate appears
to be declining slowly, the 1981 Census population estimate was substantially
higher than previous Government projections. The 1981 Census data are still
incomplete but preliminary reports indicate that the rise in life expectancy
was more than anticipated, suggesting that, on average, Indians can expect to
live five years longer than they did a decade ago. This no doubt reflects
improved availability of food and health services. This implies, however, an
even greater need to reduce the birth rate to bring about the needed reduc-
tion in the rate of growth of population. The Census results, therefore,
re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen a broad range of
famaily planning aetivities to develop a wider clientele and to provide that
clientele with a professional, technically competent advisory service which
can provide the full variety of available birth prevention methods. The new
P-lan continues thie hiiglh priority given to these efforts in earlier Plans.
Plie ambition of its targets - implying a rise in the proportion of protected
couples In the reproductive age group from its present estimated level of
aibout 23% to over 35% by 1984/85 - seems fully justified. Such targets imply
a serious long term commitment to moderating the population growth rate
through an improved family planning program.
19.       Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
8n% of tthe Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
ard small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line (estimated at about US$114 and
US$132 per capita per year for rural and urban areas, respectively).
Yinprovements in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large



-7-
extent on the overall growth of the economy; the circumstances require
increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm rural
employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies
and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects such develop-
ments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster implemen-
tation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty
through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the
supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encourag-
ing evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to
enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 62 loans and 134 development
credits to India totalling US$2,931 million and US$10,283 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,188 million had been
repaid, and US$3,590 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1981.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through Septem-
ber 30, 1981 totalled US$164 million, representing an increase of about 6%
over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of
disbursements as of September 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
21.     Since 1959, IFC has made 24 commitments in India totalling US$148.6
million, of which US$22.6 million has been repaid, US$27.7 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$90.8 million, US$81.9 million
represents loans and US$8.9 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
22.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, dairying, and forestry are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



-8-
23.        The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program
for the next several years. Special emphasis will continue to be given to
projects benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the
fertilizer sector assists India in the more efficient provision of another
key input in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water
supply, sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector
also form an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the
next several years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial
investments will focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key
constraints on India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
24.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
25.        India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.  Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 10% in 1980/81 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1981, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$1,828 million, of which US$819
million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,009
million.
26.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 49%, 36% and 44%, respectively, in
1980/81. On March 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.2 billion or 36% (IDA's US$5.3 billion and IBRD's US$0.9 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1980/81, about
18.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - AGRICULTURAL CREDIT IN INDIA
Background
27.     Historically, the cash needs of India's millions of rural households
were met entirely by the traditional system of family financing and village
money-lending, normally at usurious interest rates and for short periods.
But these sources were not well-suited to the investment needs of modern
agriculturists nor to the growth objectives of the nation. Therefore, in
recent years, specialized agricultural institutions -- with the ability to
appraise projects and lend for them on the basis of their productivity, with
access to funds outside the rural sector, and with the ability to fulfill
farmers' needs for production credit at reasonable cost -- have come to play
a crucial role in facilitating and accelerating private agricultural
investments.
28.     Institutional agricultural credit in India started with the adoption
of the Cooperative Credit Societies Act in 1904. Yet, by the early 1950s,
institutional credit financed less than 5% of the financial needs of the
rural population. Since then, the share of institutional finance has been
growing rapidly, reaching 10% in the early 1960s and 25% in 1971/72. The
recent growth in institutional finance can be attributed not only to social
pressures and to borrower protection legislation, but also to its lower cost
and the growing accessibility of credit institution outlets. In 1980, the
agricultural banking system had over 100,000 outlets, and less than 1% of
India's 5,000 administrative blocks remained without any outlet of an
institutional credit facility. Annual institutional agricultural credit to
farmers increased from Rs 16,750 million in 1976 to Rs 29,400 million in
1980, and GOI's Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-1985) calls for its doubling by
1984/85.
Agricultural Credit Institutions
29.     Agriculture credit operations are guided and regulated by the Reserve
Bank of India (RBI). RBI is also the main source of refinance for
short-term 1/ cooperative institutions. Medium- and long-term agricultural
credit funds come mainly from:  open-market bond operations, time deposits,
refinance from the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
and share capital contributions from State Governments. At present, the main
institutions in the field of medium- and long-term lending are the
cooperative banks and the commercial banks, each sharing roughly one-half of
lending. Since 1975, the Regional Rural Banks have also entered into
agricultural lending. All these banking windows offer similar terms and
conditions to the farmers under RBI guidance.
1/ Short-term credits are seasonal production loans to farmers for a period
of up to 18 months; medium- and long-term credits are investment loans,
for 18 months to 3 years for medium-term credit, and for over 3 years for
long-term credit.



-10-
30.     Cooperative banks are organized by individual States into two
independent groups of institutions: (a) land development banks (LDBs) for
long-term credit, and (b) State cooperative banks for short- and medium-term
credit. There are 19 land development banks, each consisting of a State Land
Development Bank which lends through its branches or refinances affiliated
primary land development banks (PLDBs). LDBs do not make seasonal loans or
lend for non-agricultural purposes. The State cooperative bank structure is
much larger and more diversified. In 1979, 26 State cooperative banks (SCBs)
provided funds for 344 district-level Central Cooperative Banks which, in
turn, supported about 94,000 Primary Agricultural Credit Societies. These
societies, which specialize ig seasonal and medium-term credit, also provide
a variety of other services to their members, including savings, input
supply, staple consumer goods supply and crop marketing facilities.
Participation of SCBs in long-term lending has been insignificant.
31.     The split cooperative structure has disadvantages.  Above all,
farmers are unable to obtain all their credit requirements from a single
cooperative organization. A study of the advisability of integrating the
two systems, conducted by GOI under the first ARDC Credit Project,
(Credit 540-IN of April 1975), recommended a gradual merger of the two
banking systems, but the recommendation met with considerable opposition from
most LDBs. More recently, another RBI committee re-examined the issue and
concluded that merger of the two systems would not be practical at this time.
Instead, the committee recommended that Primary Agricultural Credit Societies
should give agency services to LDBs for establishing contacts with potential
LDB borrowers, for initial scanning of loan applications, for loan
disbursements, and for receiving repayments; and that such agency assistance
should be tried by some selected relatively strong and well managed primary
societies. GOI has accepted these proposals. However, merger of the two
credit systems has not been totally abandoned. Measures such as bringing
short-, medium- and long-term refinancing together at the national level
under the proposed National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (see
para 37) can be expected to draw the two cooperative banking systems closer
together to prepare the ground for a possible future merger.
32.     Commercial banks' involvement with agricultural lending is relatively
recent and accounts for a modest proportion of such banks' total business.
Even so, the commercial banks' lending to the agricultural sector increased
from 5% of their total operations in 1969 to about 12% in 1979, and it is
expected to exceed 16% by the end of the Sixth Plan in 1985. The total
amount outstanding in agricultural loans by the commercial banks grew from
Rs 1.9 billion in June 1969 to Rs 24.6 billion in June 1979, of which 25%
consisted of indirect lending (for crop storage, input stocks or rural
electrification), 60% of direct lending to farmers in the form of medium-
and long-term loans and the balance of seasonal loans. Commercial banks'
ability to provide both seasonal and development loans and their flexibility
with regard to collateral are two major advantages these banks enjoy over
LDBs. However, they lack full understanding of rural operations because of
the urban orientation of their staff and do not receive as much support from
State governments as do cooperatives.
33.     Since 1975, Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) have been increasing their
activities in agricultural lending, but so far their share is less than 1% of
India's rural credit. RRBs were created to lend to the weakest section of



-1 1-
the population which has minimum access to other institutions. They employ
and train local staff with the objective of making them true rural bankers.
Each RRB is sponsored by a commercial bank. The commercial banks also
contribute to RRBs' share capital together with the Central and State
governments.
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
34.     ARDC, a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), was
established by an Act of Parliament on July 1, 1963. Its main objective is
to provide credit for agricultural investments by making long- and
medium-term funds available to land development banks, commercial banks and
other approved institutions, to refinance agricultural schemes which are
judged by ARDC to be economically and technically sound and are located
within a reasonably compact area. ARDC helps formulate schemes, particularly
in less developed States and, consequently, it is able to influence the
lending policies and procedures of the agencies it assists, thus contributing
to the development of agricultural credit institutions throughout India. LDB
loans have been the main vehicle of ARDC refinancing, although the LDBs'
share has recently been declining with a corresponding increase in the share
of commercial banks. As of June 30, 1980, the total outstanding ARDC
refinance to LDBs was Rs 9.8 billion (or 56.6% of ARDC's portfolio), to the
commercial banks 1/ Rs 7.3 billion (41.9%) and to the cooperative banks
Rs 260 million (1.5%).
35.     ARDC has about 900 professional staff, of whom about 425 are located
at Head Office in Bombay. The rest are distributed between an office in
Delhi to liaise with GOI and 14 State regional offices. ARDC has a
nine-member Board of Directors. The Chairman is a Deputy Governor of RBI.
ARDC's shareholders include RBI, State Land Development Banks, State
Cooperative Banks, the Life Insurance Corporation of India, commercial banks
and investment companies. It derives its operating funds through borrowings
from GOI, RBI and the market as well as from profits on investments. Its GOI
borrowings represent mainly the flow of IDA funds to ARDC under ongoing
projects (see para 47). For the year ending June 30, 1980, ARDC's sources of
funds were as follows: earnings, US$17 million; GOI borrowings, US$206
million; RBI borrowings, US$106 million; and capital market borrowings, US$50
million. ARDC's operating results have continued to be good. Its profits in
1979/80 were US$20 million, compared to US$15 million in 1977/78 and
US$17 million in 1978/79.
36.     Most of ARDC refinance has been for minor irrigation (63%).  Other
purposes of ARDC refinance include farm mechanization (16%), storage and
market yards (6%), land development (4%), and plantation/horticulture (4%).
The remaining 7% mainly comprises livestock, fisheries and forestry lending.
The annual percentage of funds utilized for minor irrigation has been
steadily declining from over 75% in 1974/75 to 55% in 1979/80. ARDC's
overall lending program has made a significant contribution to rural
development through financing of about 325,000 tubewells, 523,000 dugwells
and 755,000 pumpsets. Land development on irrigation schemes and land
1/ Including the regional rural banks, whose portfolio is as yet negligible.



-12-
improved by soil conservation total about 1.1 million ha and about 110,000 ha
of plantation/horticulture crops have been established or improved. ARDC
estimates that its schemes have helped to bring about 3.3 million ha under
more intensified cultivation. ARDC currently supports about 40% of direct
institutional term lending for agriculture in India.
37.     GOI has introduced a Bill in the Indian Parliament to establish a
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) by amalgamating
ARDC and the Agriculture Credit Department of RBI. NABARD would provide
refinance for short-, medium- and long-term credit for agriculture and
cottage industries. Because the integration of activities of NABARD's
constituent institutions would take time, ARDC would most likely continue to
operate as at present over most of the project period. The detailed plans of
the financial and administrative structures of NABARD have not yet been
formulated. If the establishment of the new entity is approved, GOI would
provide such plans for the Bank Group's review and would take the Bank's
views into consideration in finalizing such plans (Section 3.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
Loan Overdues 1/
38.     While the development of institutional credit has been a major factor
in recent agricultural successes (see paras 51 and 52), the problem of high
loan overdues has been the single most troublesome phenomenon of agricultural
lending in India. The problem of overdues has affected both major
beneficiaries of the ARDC refinancing - LDBs as well as commercial banks.
Therefore, this problem received major attention before and during the
appraisal of the proposed project, resulting in the inclusion of a number of
measures in the project (see para 64).
39.     The land development banks (LDB), with their longer involvement in
agricultural credit, have faced the most critical consequences. All-India
average overdues of LDBs increased from about 28% of demand as of
June 30, 1974 to 44% as of June 30, 1981. Total LDB lending has been static
and their annual share of ARDC refinance declined from nearly 90% in 1974 to
about 40% in 1980, with a corresponding rise in the share obtained by the
commercial banks. The main reason for the decline in LDBs' share is the
lending restrictions imposed by RBI and ARDC because of poor loan recovery,
particularly of six large LDBs - Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. These six States collectively account for 60% of
all LDB loan collection demand and 80% of all LDB overdues. Yet in 1979/80
they conducted only 29% of all LDB lending compared to about 50% in 1975/76.
40.     There are many reasons for high overdues, including willful default;
natural factors that result in crop failures; poor LDB organization and
management that result in inadequate loan appraisal, supervision and
collection efforts; and, in some instances, active discouragement of
1/ Collections expressed as percentage of demand, which includes principal
and interest falling due during the year plus overdues from previous
years.



-13-
collection efforts by State governments for political reasons. For example,
once overdues have built up, particularly following crop failure, political
agitation for debt remission grows, and State governments can seek to gain
political advantage by remitting collection. Such actions by some States
have created expectations of similar steps in others, thus encouraging the
borrowers to default on loan repayments. The main reasons for the
deterioration in loan collection performance over the 1979-1980 period were a
severe drought in 1979 and the effects of several national and State
elections that occurred during that period.
41.     While willful default and unfavorable political conditions for loan
collection are major factors causing high overdues, agro-climatic factors are
also important. Since LDB lending has been mainly for minor irrigation from
groundwater, it is significant that most States with good loan collection
records have reliable aquifers, while five of the six problem States have
less reliable groundwater resources, which are adversely affected by periodic
droughts.
42.     There was considerable improvement in the loan collection climate
in 1980/81, due to repeated injunctions from the highest GOI levels on the
imperative need for loan recovery and warnings that poor recovery may mean
exclusion from future Bank-Group supported lending. As a result, all State
government bans on legal action against defaulters have been withdrawn and
all States have organized vigorous loan recovery drives. Most States have
introduced special measures to improve loan recovery. This resulted in a 50%
increase in collection, from Rs 800 million in 1979/80 to Rs 1,200 million in
1980/81, in the six problem States, although such an improvement still only
resulted in the collection of about 43% of demand in those States.
Unfortunately, some measures introduced by States to encourage recovery may
be harmful; for instance, remission of overdue interest in exchange for
repayment of overdue principal can boost recovery in one year, but may
discourage future payments in anticipation of similar concessions.
43.     Past Measures to Improve Collection.  To improve loan recovery,
lending eligibility criteria were introduced during the First ARDC Credit
Project (Credit 540-IN of April 1975) and, with some modifications, were
continued throughout the two successor projects (Credits 715-IN of June 1977
and 947-IN of August 1979). They regulated the amount of new lending by
State LDB according to loan recovery. The criteria allowed unlimited lending
if recovery in the preceding year was 75% of demand or better, limited
lending based on a sliding scale percentage of previous lending if recovery
was between 50% and 75%, and no lending if recoveries were below 50%. To
complement the eligibility criteria, any LDB with overall overdues of more
than 50%, or with more than half of its branches or Primary LDB without
lending eligibility, was required to implement a time-bound rehabilitation
program satisfactory to ARDC, to qualify for ARDC refinance. Draft plans
were drawn up by senior ARDC and RBI management for five States, but were not
formally agreed between ARDC and State governments. Also, the draft plans
lacked implementation timetables.
44.     The criteria did not improve loan recovery; in fact, in the case of
new lending, their effect was highly regressive. In Gujarat, for instance,
with the longest history of high overdues, new lending fell from Rs 162
million in 1975 to Rs 40 million in 1980. As a consequence, collections (at



-14-
Rs 843 million) between 1975/76 and 1979/80 were four times as high as new
loans (Rs 211 million) over the same period. Excluding Maharashtra, which
introduced large-scale loan rephasing 1/ and consequent high lending
eligibility in 1979/80 and 1980/81, the other five major LDBs with serious
overdues problems (Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu)
collected Rs 2.2 billion over the last three years but lent only Rs 1.4
billion. Lending below recovery levels has caused low staff morale and a
drop in interest revenue. There is some evidence that loan collection at
outlets with no eligibility has decreased rather than improved.
45.     LDBs' Participation in Future Lending.  Despite the problems that
have developed with some of them, LDBs remain important rural development
institutions, and both GOT and State governments consider their continued
participation essential to the objectives of increasing agricultural
production and rural incomes. However, more effective rehabilitation
measures and improved lending eligibility criteria are needed if their future
participation in development lending is to be meaningful. Therefore, the
proposed project would include a package of measures which combines such
steps with measures to discourage adverse political interventions and willful
default (see para 64).
46.     The commercial banks have also found difficulties with loan
recoveries. Their average level of overdues, although somewhat improved
recently, still remains just under 50%. Much of the earlier overdues of the
commercial banks were the result of their rush to meet GOI-set targets during
these banks' first years of involvement in agricultural credit when they were
least able to appraise and monitor such portfolios. Since the share of the
commercial banks in total ARDC refinancing was fast approaching 50%, a
Committee on Agricultural Loans through Commercial Banks (CALCOB) was
established under the third ARDC Project (Cr 947-IN) to advise ARDC on
appropriate appraisal criteria, lending policies, and procedures for
improving recovery disciplines in the commercial banks. CALCOB considered
the introduction of eligibility criteria similar to those employed for LDB,
but rejected this 2/ in favor of standardization of loan collection,
accounting and reporting, and a closer monitoring by ARDC of the poorly
performing branches. CALCOB also found staffing levels used for agricultural
lending to be varied and recommended studies to establish staffing norms.
Under the proposed project, steps would be taken to improve these conditions
and also to initiate lending discipline to the commercial banks (see
para 64).
I/ Allowing an extra year for repayment.
2/ The main reasons for CALCOB advising against immediate introduction of
eligibility criteria were: the small proportion of agricultural loans to
total commercial banks' business, existing insurance cover against losses
provided by the Deposit Insurance and Guarantee Corporation, comparative
newness to agricultural lending of many branches, and the need to main-
tain credit flows, particularly in areas where LDB eligibility is low.



-15-
Previous Bank Group Experience with ARDC
47.     ARDC's association with the Bank Group dates back to the formulation
of ten State-based agricultural credit projects between 1969 and 1973. They
were implemented through ARDC and are fully disbursed. In the subsequent
phase, ARDC was entrusted with three general lines of credit, ARDC I
(Cr 540-IN of April 1975), ARDC II (Cr 715-IN of June 1977) and ARDC III
(Cr 947-IN of August 1979) which has recently been fully disbursed. In
addition, ARDC has taken an active part in the formulation and implementation
of another 25 Bank Group projects, by channeling long-term finance to support
investments in irrigation, tree crop development, marketing, horticultural
processing, inland and marine fisheries, seed production and sericulture.
The amount committed by the Bank Group for those 38 projects totals US$1,991
million. On June 30, 1981, total cumulative Bank Group disbursements to GOI
for onlending through ARDC were about US$859 million.
48.     The State-based projects were designed mainly to support lending
programs by LDBs and commercial banks to farmers for investments in minor
irrigation (80% of total program), land levelling and, in six States, farm
mechanization. Most of the projects required the State Government concerned
to establish or strengthen an agency responsible for monitoring the scale and
quantity of groundwater investments financed through institutional credit.
Each project required participating banks to adopt specific loan appraisal
procedures based on incremental income calculations rather than
security-oriented factors, to observe uniform lending terms and, for several,
to implement improvements in their staffing and management methods.
49.     Physical targets for minor irrigation components were achieved or
surpassed. Farm mechanization targets were also reached in most cases, but
land development loans were hampered by organizational or legal difficulties;
these have been solved since completion of the projects. Groundwater
resource evaluation improved in all project States. However, spacing and
density criteria used for siting minor irrigation investments were not
applicable to privately financed investments and were therefore only partly
effective in regulating groundwater abstraction.
50.     With the improving capability of ARDC to appraise and supervise
lending schemes and with growing experience of participating banks in
development lending, the Bank Group agreed to change the lending pattern to a
general line of credit to support lending approved by ARDC throughout India.
This was expected to bring better coverage of the whole nation and allow more
flexibility in the type of lending, since ARDC can appraise schemes that
would be too small for the Bank Group to approve individually. The First
ARDC Project was completed three months ahead of schedule, and the Second
ARDC Project was completed on schedule. Implementation of the Third ARDC
Project is ahead of schedule. Three major institution-building
accomplishments of the projects were establishment and expansion of
groundwater monitoring agencies, initial involvement and rapid expansion of
the commercial banks in agricultural lending, and the expansion of ARDC
itself from small beginnings to a major development banking institution with
a large professional staff handling annual lending of about Rs 5 billion
(US$625 million).



-16-
51.     Project results confirm the major contributions to increased
agricultural production and improved rural incomes projected at appraisal.
Physical targets were achieved but the trend towards diversified lending for
plantation/horticulture, fisheries, forestry, animal husbandry, farm
mechanization and a number of other areas has been faster than anticipated.
The commercial banks' lending has grown more quickly than expected, but LDB
participation has stagnated due to mounting overdues (see para 39). A
notable feature of the projects was the successful direction of lending
towards less developed areas and to small farmers. Instead of the 25% of
lending to less developed areas targeted, over 40% was achieved; and from a
base of about 25%-30% of lending to small farmers prior to the ARDC projects,
about 50% of the lending of the Second ARDC Credit Project was to small
farmers.
52.     A review of the 12 Bank Group financed projects completed up to 1980
indicates that about two million investments were made in tubewells,
dugwells, and pumpsets; these resulted in an estimated two million ha of
incremental irrigation. Based on evaluation studies by ARDC the extra
irrigation has brought about production of about 1.8 million tons of
additional foodgrain per year, valued at about Rs 3.8 billion and giving
about 2 million beneficiaries total net incremental income of about
Rs 2 billion. Additional employment resulting from the projects is estimated
at about one million man-years. The Bank Group finance also played some part
in diversified lending by ARDC that resulted, for instance, in the
development of 50,000 ha of plantation or orchards, the financing of about
3,500 motorized fishing boats, the construction of 5 million tons of grain
storage and a miscellany of animal husbandry investments.
53.     Project completion reports and audits by the Operations Evaluation
Department have been prepared for the ten State-based credit projects that
were financed by the Bank Group, and for the ARDC I and ARDC II credit
projects. In addition, the Operations Evaluation Department has prepared a
report with overall reviews of nine State-based projects and the first ARDC
Credit Project, which were all completed between 1975 and 1977 1/. The
review confirmed the important contribution of the credit projects to
agricultural development in India. The review found that while, due mainly
to methodological shortcomings, project benefits may have been somewhat
overestimated, "there is sufficient evidence to conclude that this set of
projects was very timely, generally received strong institutional support and
achieved an impressive measure of success..." The review concluded that the
change from State-based projects to ARDC line of credit projects was timely
and justified, despite the loss of influence by the Bank Group on State-based
institutions. This feature has been taken into account in the design of this
project. The review suggested that the Bank Group may have replaced some
resources that could have been raised locally and that may consequently have
been used for less useful purposes. GOI and ARDC are convinced that without
the Bank Group funding, and the other international funding that was
attracted as a consequence of the success of the projects, development
lending would not have expanded so quickly.
1/ Report No. 3415, "Agricultural Credit Projects: A Review of Recent
Experience in India," April 8, 1981.



-17-
54.      The review also drew attention to the continuing controversy over
benefits of farm mechanization. In general, the review agreed that there
are areas of north India where, due to rapid development and increasing labor
shortage, farm mechanization, particularly for tillage and transport, has
become necessary. In other parts of the country, with the exception of
sugarcane areas, tractor use remains controversial. ARDC is trying to ensure
that its farm mechanization lending is channeled to areas where it will be
clearly beneficial.
55.      The review also elaborated on tubewell and dug-well spacing and
possible inequities caused by monopoly of resources given to early investors
by spacing criteria. However, over the last two years, controversy about
the appropriateness of well spacing criteria has practically disappeared with
replacement of such criteria by more intensive groundwater resource
evaluation. Results of such evaluation studies generally find resources less
depleted than previously assumed. In addition, in most cases, resources
tapped by an investor do not extend measurably beyond his land holding. At
appraisal of this project, well spacing or possible deprivation of some
farmers from minor irrigation sources was not considered an issue.
56.      The review found that the loan overdues had been the most critical
problem of participating banks due to deficiencies in lending procedures,
effects of inclement weather, inadequate short-term financing available to
farmers, and political pressure in various forms. The measures included in
the proposed project (see para 64) are specifically.designed to deal with
this problem.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.      The project was prepared by ARDC.  It was appraised in May 1981 and
negotiations were held in Washington in November 1981. The Borrowers'
delegation included Mr. Kohli of the Ministry of Agriculture (GOI);
Mr. V.P. Sawhney, Joint Secretary, and Mr. Ranga Rao, Director, of the
Ministry of Finance (GOI); and, Mr. Sant Dass, Managing Director and
Mr. P. Kotaiah, Senior Director of ARDC. A report entitled "Fourth
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Credit Project" (Report
No. 3629-IN), dated February 1, 1982 is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Project Description
58.      The project would continue Bank Group support, over two years (from
about January 1982 to December 1983), for ARDC's program of lending to
farmers. The proposed Bank Group financing would support the whole of ARDC's
lending operations in virtually every district of India. However, for
administrative simplicity, the Bank Group would restrict its own
disbursements to several major categories -- minor irrigation, land
development, soil conservation and land reclamation, plantation and
horticulture, livestock, fisheries, and market and storage construction. The



-18-
project would also continue to support further training, mainly for staff of
participating financing institutions. The project would give emphasis to
lending to small farmers, which is expected to reach at least 60% of the
proposed loan and credit. Small farmers are identified on the basis of their
predevelopment annual family income from farming (up to Rs 3,100 at 1978
prices).
59.     Minor irrigation and land development activities would predominate,
accounting for about 60% of lending under the project. Minor irrigation
investments would include both groundwater and surface water development,
although groundwater would constitute the major portion of the project and
most of the loans would be to individual farmers. Loans to individual
farmers for investments in groundwater development would be for new wells,
improvement or rehabilitation of existing wells and provision of pumpsets.
Loans for medium-duty tubewells serving areas of 10 to 30 ha would be made to
groups of farmers. Loans for deep, high-capacity tubewells serving command
areas of up to 100 ha would be made to cooperatives and State corporations.
Loans for surface water development would be made to individual farmers,
cooperatives, and State corporations and consist mainly of river lift schemes
ranging in size from single farm commands to several hundred hectares.
60.     To avoid the risk of over-exploitation, lending for groundwater
programs would continue to be linked to the systematic and controlled
resource evaluation system introduced under the Third ARDC Project
(para B.1 (f) ii of, and Annex 1 to, Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement).
Under the terms of the Third ARDC Project, ARDC has prepared an all-India
compensation scheme for failed wells, which would provide a safeguard to
investors in dugwells. ARDC would finalize this scheme for adoption by
December 31, 1982 (Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement).
61.     The share of lending to agricultural activities other than minor
irrigation would be increased under the proposed project. Such activities
include: plantation and horticulture, livestock, fisheries, storage, market
yards, farm mechanization, and forestry. Farm mechanization, pumpset
electrification and forestry lending form part of the total program but, for
the sake of administrative convenience, they are not refinanced out of the
proceeds of the proposed Bank Group financing. The increase in the share of
non-irrigation lending reflects a rapidly growing demand for such loans as
well as the increasing importance attached by GOI to such activities,
particularly as a means of reaching the landless and near-landless rural
poor.
62.     The training program, started in 1975, would be continued and
intensified. By March 1981 some 2,500 senior and middle level staff and
about 18,000 junior LDB staff had been trained. In addition 1,000 senior
and middle level commercial bank staff, 350 ARDC and RBI staff and 100 staff
from other institutions were trained. The proposed project would continue to
emphasize training in loan appraisal and in monitoring and evaluation
techniques, at the College of Agricultural Banking, Poona and at 14 LDB
training centers.



-19-
Implementation
63.     Project financing and organizational arrangements would follow the
pattern successfully established through the previous projects. The proceeds
of the Bank Group financing would be channelled through and supervised by
ARDC, which would refinance up to 90% of participating banks' loans. ARDC
continues to be an organization of high caliber. To keep pace with its rapid
growth, ARDC would continue to intensify training programs, strengthen its
project monitoring and evaluation and increase its staff to handle
specialized activities.
64.     To deal with the loan overdues problem of the participating banks
(LDBs), a package of measures would be introduced, which include revised
lending eligibility criteria as well as steps to improve the management and
operations of the institutions. These measures are summarized below.
(a)  Eligibility criteria would be revised to regulate lending at the
lending outlet level (LDB branch or Primary LDB). Under the new
criteria: unlimited lending would be allowed by those outlets
which recover over 75% of demand; lending up to highest level in
the preceding five years or up to actual recovery by those
outlets which recover between 60% and 75%; and lending up to
actual recovery by those which recover less than 60%
(Paragraph A.1. of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement). State
assistance to any outlet by subscription of equity would be
permitted for notional reduction of overdues by up to 10% of
overdues, but exemptions allowed in the past for special
programs would be discontinued.
These criteria would be simple and would avoid the regressive
effects of present regulations (para 44). They would still
control lending levels and would provide easily understood
incentives to improve loan recovery by direct linkage of new
lending to recovery. Since no State LDB would be completely
disqualified, good outlets would not suffer from the failures of
the bad ones. To avoid any unforeseen and undesirable effects
of applying the criteria, the operation of the new eligibility
criteria would be reviewed and evaluated by a joint GOI/Bank
Group/ARDC team by October 31, 1982, and thereafter if found
necessary; modifications will be introduced, as required
(Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement and
Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement).
(b)  State Government interventions have sometimes caused unfavorable
conditions for loan recovery and have been among the main
reasons for high overdues of some lending institutions
(para 40). ARDC would not refinance any loans in a State where
the State authorities take any action which, in the opinion of
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) or ARDC, would adversely affect
the ability of the participating banks to collect their loans
(Paragraph F of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement). This
provision should discourage the State Governments from writing
off loans or remitting or reducing interest charges without the
agreement of RBI and ARDC.



-20-
(c) Rescheduling, rephasing and blocking 1/ of accounts are useful
to alleviate financial distress of borrowers caused by climatic
hazards. All these measures have been used in the past, but in
some cases indiscriminately, to the benefit of willful
defaulters. To avoid possible misunderstanding, ARDC has drawn
up guidelines for these measures for use by LDBs and all other
participating institutions. Blocking of accounts is expected
to be a one-time operation and can only be undertaken with the
express approval of RBI and ARDC. These guidelines were
reviewed by the Bank Group and are satisfactory.
(d) Special financial measures to strengthen the six weakest LDBs 2/
(see para 39) and schedules for their implementation, which were
approved by the respective State governments, were discussed and
finalized during the negotiations. These measures include
immediate rephasing of loans in hardship cases and one-time
blocking of chronic overdues.
(e) The results of past attempts to improve LDB organisation and
management have been disappointing because of insufficient
analysis of LDB problems and inadequate follow-up arrangements
to supervise rehabilitation measures. To overcome these
shortcomings, GOI has already established a Standing Committee
to review and to supervise the implementation of the
rehabilitation programs of LDBs with priority given to the six
weakest LDBs. The Committee, which would be assisted by a team
of management consultants, would carry out organization and
management studies of these LDBs by May 31, 1982; based on these
studies, the Committee would prepare management rehabilitation
programs, satisfactory to the Bank Group, by June 30, 1982; and
these programs would need to be accepted by each of the six
LDBs, by September 1, 1982, and thereafter implemented as a
condition of continued ARDC refinancing of the loans made by
them (Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement,
Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement and Paragraph B of
Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement).
(f) To ensure proper implementation of the management rehabilitation
programs of LDBs, ARDC would carry out, in consultation with the
Bank Group, the review and evaluation of the progress achieved
in carrying out the programs, at least three times each year.
Eligibility to receive additional ARDC refinancing by such LDBs
1/ Chronic overdues are entered into a blocked account, under which the LDB
continues to collect from the debtors under a new five-year repayment
schedule, but any shortfall in collection is paid by the State government
to the LDB and the amounts outstanding would no longer appear as such in
the LDB accounts.
2/   The States of Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra
and Tamil Nadu.



-21-
would be determined on the basis of these reviews and
evaluations (Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement).
(g) To extend LDB type lending eligibility criteria to the
commercial banks, RBI's Committee of Agricultural Loans through
Commercial Banks would identify, by December 31, 1982,
modifications required in the LDB eligibility criteria, and
measures required to apply such criteria by ARDC and the
commercial banks. Based on this identification, ARDC would,
by July 1, 1983, apply the criteria to refinance loans advanced
by the commercial banks (Section 2.13 of the Project Agreement).
As an interim measure, before refinancing any scheme by any
branch with over 50% overdues, ARDC and the concerned bank would
agree on a program to improve that branch's operations
(paragraph C.2 of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement).
65.     To strengthen the monitoring of progress in lending operations, ARDC
has initiated "district-oriented monitoring" for a sample of important
schemes and of participating bank branches. Further refinement of this
method is required and staff need to be increased. ARDC would draw up a
plan, by June 30, 1982, to strengthen regional staff sufficiently to allow
it, by December 31, 1983, to supervise schemes in each District at least once
every two years (Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement). To improve and
standardize the commercial banks' progress reporting system, ARDC would
prepare a standard format by June 30, 1982 and introduce such format to all
ARDC-refinanced schemes by September 30, 1982 (Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
66.     The total project cost, which is the total cost of investments for
ARDC refinance over two years (January 1, 1982 to December 31, 1983), is
estimated at US$2,086 million (including duties and taxes of about
US$108 million). The foreign exchange component is about US$293 million or
14%. Included in this cost is about US$1,169.2 million for minor irrigation,
land development and related activities, US$704.3 million for diversified
lending (non-irrigation on-farm investments), US$4.0 million for training and
US$208.7 million for price contingencies.
67.     The proposed Bank Group financing of US$350 million would cover about
18% of the cost net of duties and taxes (about 17% of the total project
cost). The remaining 83% of the total project cost would be financed by
ultimate beneficiaries (10%), participating banks (18%) and GOI/ARDC (55%).
A financial arrangement, satisfactory to the Bank Group, would be executed
between GOI and ARDC under which GOI would make US$4.0 million of the loan
proceeds available to ARDC as a training grant and would onlend US$346.0
million to ARDC, repayable partly over nine years and partly over 15 years at
6.5% and 7% annual interest, respectively (assuming ARDC will continue to
qualify for the standard 0.25% rebate for prompt payments of principal and
interest), to refinance approved lending by participating banks to final
borrowers, in accordance with appraisal criteria which have been reviewed by
the Bank Group and are satisfactory. Further details of the lending terms
are outlined in the Credit, Loan and Project Summary. Interest rates to



-22-
final borrowers are expected to remain positive (see paragraph 68).
Execution of the financial arrangements between GOI and ARDC would be a
condition of loan and credit effectiveness (Section 5.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement). GOI is having discussions with a number of other donors
for possible additional external support for the ARDC lending program during
the project period. The UK, Canada, Netherlands, EEC, and others may wish to
contribute towards ARDC lending, but the identity of donors and the amounts
of assistance have not been finalized. GOI would provide ARDC with all the
resources required to execute the project, either from the proceeds of
external assistance or from its own resources.
68.      In 1979/80, due primarily to a sharp decline in agricultural output
together with heavy increases in the price of imported oil, the remarkable
price stability which India had enjoyed since 1975 came to an abrupt end,
with prices increasing at 21%. From this peak, the inflation rate has since
receded to a current annual level of 10-11% and the average annual rate over
the next five years is not expected to exceed 8%. Interest rates to final
borrowers of 10.25% and 12.5% (depending on loan type) should therefore be
pOSitive in real terms for the foreseeable future. Over the last fifteen
months, GOI has increased these rates by between 0.75% and 2%, indicating a
willingness to respond to inflationary pressures which should safeguard
future real interest rate levels in the event that prices rise more quickly
than projected. These rates, at the bottom end of the overall GOI prescribed
long- and medium-term rates ranging from 10.25% to 15%, reflect GOI's aim of
supporting agriculture. They are broadly in line with lending rates to small
scale industry. Short-term rates are generally somewhat higher, ranging up
to 19.5%.
Procurement and Disbursement
69.     Procurement under schemes involving relatively small investments by
individual farmers would be based on farmers' choice through local dealers
and contractors. Typical items would be pumpsets, tubewells, dugwells, dairy
cattle, bullock-carts and pneumatic-tire carts, motors for fishing boats and
farm mechanization equipment such as tractors, power tillers and sprayers.
ARDC would establish guidelines for the selection of pumpsets which would
include equipment performance standards established by the Indian Standards
Institute, and standards for a given investment item (e.g., size and
horsepower of pumpset) relating to farmers' typical situations (e.g., size of
area to be irrigated). Normal commercial channels provide an adequate choice
of locally manufactured equipment and good servicing facilities, and prices
are competitive with those on world markets. Procurement under such schemes
as construction of storage warehouses, market yards, and agro-processing
facilities would normally be based on local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to ARDC and the Bank Group. International competitive bidding
would not be practical given the relatively small size of investments
involved and their scattering throughout the country and over time.
70.      The Bank Group's disbursements would be against ARDC certified
statements of loans made by participating banks and refinanced by ARDC, and
of expenditures on training. The Bank Group's disbursement would be against:
(i) 34% of ARDC refinance for minor irrigation and diversified agricultural
lending, and (ii) 90% of the cost of training. Documents would not be
submitted to the Bank Group for review, but would be retained by ARDC and be



-23-
available for inspection by the Bank Group during supervision. This
procedure has been applied to all Bank Group supported agricultural credit
project disbursements because of the extremely large number of individual
loans involved. Disbursement forecasts are based on the performance of three
predecessor ARDC line of credit projects; the Bank-wide disbursement profile
for agricultural credit projects does not fit in this case.
Economic Benefits and Risks
71.      The project's primary economic benefit would be an increase in
agricultural production for domestic consumption and export. At full
development, the annual value of incremental production is estimated at about
US$650 million in 1980/81 farmgate prices.
72.     Economic rates of return have been calculated for a sample of
investment models used in the financial analysis of the project. As they
are based on the experience gained under on-going ARDC schemes, they can be
regarded as indicative of the rates of return which would accrue. Results of
the calculations indicate that the economic rates of return range from about
32% for coffee plantation to over 50% for shallow tubewells and pumpsets,
land development and inland fishery schemes. The overall economic return of
the project, calculated as a weighted average of all models, would be 44%.
73.     Project beneficiaries would include about 1.4 million farmers spread
throughout India. At least 60% of the beneficiaries would be farmers with
annual per capita incomes of US$114 or less; US$114 per capita is the current
absolute poverty line in India. Implementation of the investments will
itself generate an increase in the demand for rural labor amounting to nearly
150 million man-days, over 75% of which will be accounted for by minor
irrigation. A permanent increase in employment, amounting to almost 140
million man-days per year, will in turn be created through increased crop,
livestock, forestry and fishery production, involving more intensive
cropping, improved farm practices, and higher standards of animal husbandry.
74.     Besides the generation of directly productive benefits, a central
aim of the project will be to secure and, where necessary, strengthen the
institutional framework for long-term agricultural credit in India. Under
the three previous ARDC projects, significant progress has been made in the
development of ARDC itself as an effective apex institution. Under this
project, these gains will be consolidated through measures to improve the
appraisal and supervision capabilities of ARDC. As the lending program is
stepped up, the management and staffing needs of ARDC, at both the regional
and central levels, will be kept under continuous review. In addition,
technical and managerial standards in the participating banks will be
upgraded both through training and through the inclusion of organizational
and managerial reviews as integral components of LDB rehabilitation programs.
75.     The only serious risk attending the project would be continuation
of poor loan recovery, described in para 38 of this report. In recognition
of this risk, the project is introducing specific measures to improve the
ability of participating institutions to deal with the problem, and to permit
close monitoring of their progress by the Bank Group. Part of the loan
repayment problem arises from climatic hazards that pose risks to investors
which may cause genuine difficulties in punctual loan repayments,



-24-
particularly in the case of investments for dugwells in hardrock areas. An
analysis of the potential effects of drought on borrowers' repayment capacity
in such areas shows that project investments will themselves contribute to
reduction of drought-induced risks and that loan repayment difficulties
arising from climatic risks can be overcome by a sufficiently flexible loan
repayment schedule. Appropriate repayment flexibility would therefore be
introduced into project lending terms.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.     The draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements between India and
the Association and the Bank, respectively, the draft Project Agreement among
the Association and the Bank and the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
77.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
78.     The execution of a Financial Arrangement between GOI and ARDC is an
additional condition of effectiveness of the Credit and the Loan
(Section 5.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
79.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit and loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit
and loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
February 1, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TAHLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL            3287.6                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 5 PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    60.0        100.0      190.0              232.3                  1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       111.1        152.5     241.8              499.4                   1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)   434850.0    547569.0  659217.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9           19.7      22.0                17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        132.3       166.6      200.5              153.6                    373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7         308.0      355.8              360.3                   2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           40.1         42.4      41.1               37.4                     39.8
15-64 YRS.                           56.8        54.7       56.0               59.2                     56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1          2.9       2.9                3.5                      3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.8          2.3       2.1                2.1                      2.3
URBAN                                2.5          3.3       3.3                3.4                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       44.2         40.3      34.0                27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       22.7         17.4      13.5               10.2                      7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1          2.8       2.3                2.5                      1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       64.0      3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           12.0      22.6               20.4                     44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            98.0       102.0       93.0              107.1                    123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     93.0        92.0       91.0               98.6                    112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            52.0        51.0       50.0               56.9                     62.5
OF WHICH ANDIAL AND PULSE         17.0        15.0       13.0               14.2                     19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       27.1         20.4      14.8               14.6                      4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.2           47.5      51.9               57.7                     64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        134.0     125.0                89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.0      33.0               30.1                     45.9
URBAN                                 ..        60.0       83.0               65.8                     68.0
RURAL                                 ..          6.0      20.0               20.1                     34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         18.0      20.0               17.6                     53.4
URBAN                                 ..        85.0       87.0               71.0                     71.0
RURAL                                 ..          1.0       2.0                4.8                     42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            4850.4/c    4889.0    3617.4              3857.7                   4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       9630.0OT     8296.5    6429.4             6411.8                   2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             2149.0/d    1612.9    1311.1              1132.8                    588.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..     363.5              322.3                    579.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..   10429.1             5600.5                   1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2          5.6       5.2
LRANA                                5.2         5.6        4.8
RURAL                                5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUhBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.6          2.8
JRtAN                                2.6          2.8
RURAL                                2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT         LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC                ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  61.0          73.0       79.0               85.9                     99.8
MALE                   80.0         90.0       94.0                94.4                    100.6
FEMALE                 40.0         56.0       63.0                64.5                     98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   20.0         26.0        28.0               38.0/aa                  53.5
MALE                   30.0         36.0       37.0                34.6baa                  58.4
FEMALE                 10.0         15.0       18.0                18.0/aa                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   8.0              1.0        1.0                 3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              29.0         41.0        41.0               32.8                     34.2
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0          ..                19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.0          33.4       36.0                52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.7           1.1        1.3                 1.7                    12.7
KADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            4.9         21.5       32.5                35.3                    174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.0          0.0         1.0                 3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0          16.0       16.9                14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0              6.3        3.8                 3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  256699.4
FEHALE (PERCENT)                     31.2         32.4        31.9               29.3                     37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0          74.0       71.0               69.8                     50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0        11.0               14.1                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  43.6          40.3       38.9                39.7                    40.2
MALE                                   58.0          52.6       51.3                51.5                    49.8
FEMALE                                 28.2          27.1       25.7                23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.0          1.1        1.1                 1.1                     1.1
INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7            26.3/e    22.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7            48.9/e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1             6.77i       7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6            17.27T    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      132.0               134.1                    248.6
RURAL                                   ..          ..      114.0               111.6                    193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                  ..                    249.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..          ..                 ..                    234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..            ..      40.3                41.7                     21.2
RURAL                                  ..            ..       50.7                51.7                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
laa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
ltPlNlTtONS OF _SOCLAl. lICiATORS
Nots.:  Although the data ore dro-   fot.  srcsgnrlyuddth oeatrtto                                   ndribe,It should also ho octd that tioysy   no                Ie et
ostlo..eIlYconpareble because. of the lack of stander loe   .daficihcoo   -ud cocets usedi byd d Iiffen     ceeoeTnholeigth   ae    b  dots ss, Ion-
thelt.... useful to descr ibe orders of aedittude,   dicto  treds, sod orateIa                   .. reol   mejo' dtff.I. .betwee  oa:tII..
The                                                           theac    rup   r    hons   otoygopo b  subject coutr  osd 12) a cooe-y grc'p eith snnhot big her arrae  nrt  Ibso thn Ieu..try grou.P
of  heoujec  outr  fnopi  or"Cpiolluyls   iltopothe   gou Eer."lItIl  Trea  icobMoreen   Kiddls East" In chcse bacaua  of stonger
sajoocY of c hroccclt   in r-P has dais for thet lodi--or   ttors cbonh                     ag    f cnote   e         tetdtscedepedorcseaailtofes
adirouoforn   oato es  boe.. carlsd  ttroelreerge  f                            -r id -eo   to enotber.  These acraaser  only -cafot Ic copsig the  auao
LANtD ARiA fcboasPd.D.c.)                                                                              n iano  parhopit1al td -Icit   ra,ed rurelI - Popo,~lutio  (total,
Total- Toal er tar ara coprisng lcdoraerdtolad oenos.cohot, sd rusi)  ividd bychtao ropocti-a canbr of hoeplra1 beds
oeclolcars  - loisocoof egriculcoa  areacoed tooporeotly to per..s..tty                       acatlebl  to. robir sod Priuste generaI  ardiepecislisad hoerite  adfon-
too roopa, p-acre, eI.aoit ad kitoe   adnso   c10foion; 19IS dote.                                 ialtit  Ieneter I. Hospitals see eetrblteehn   posotrtIaafe
GNP PER CAPTA (USt) - COP pa-o  r   aroa  atircraI vaie k;                   rn  cel-                  dyialcr          o   eroe.rrlhsptl,berr  cectoIPi=                  ds hsatOh
culsoad by eon coterecon seibod as cold leek Otlec (1977-79   as);1960,               and sediot  cnestoParst=atly acffod by s ohyslorse  ibut by
19I    n   99dt.edclsgeor   cs,sdia  oto.) ohih offeo inptat    ro
dati.  and po Id  e lietd roege. of sealce1 ro.-raro              Io  ear
ENtRGY CONStttPTION PER 0  APITO - Aeca ..   ocu-eytion of oomnearial ..oogy (coal                      tital porposee urban hospitals inlad   Wm. prce-ipellgeerI h bopisla,
sod lienlta,ptret,_   o...rI   get end bydr-,. -cl-a  and geotheottuirIr-                           and roro  boapitalfO leoni or roro1 hrpitele and eadital sa  saterty
ntcty    oklgeor   ol  qiaerptcFt;1960, 1970, ard 1979                                               r ttse..tsIeisdhaiasselro                           nyudrttl
daa                                                                                                Adetssioe.   a  TtstalMd - It  rater of edalsirn t  o  disohargee
free hosPitale divided b-y the ecuber of beds.
POPI'LATtIN ADOl fITL. StTATITICS
Totl  oultin  Mid-booI (rhoosndoL  - is of July 1: 1960, t970, and 1979                          HOOTtt6
lohr  orleio ,ioeot of total).-.R Itl  of atha  co cota  poplation:                        Ahosolcnitsof aIrupo I                   ninidaerhsonbigqttr
aeong...ntriae; 19t1,  .97,ad17  date.                                                             she hootahold for _I. ettaios  pross
Peculaion Peolecolons                                                                              Ovrse  u       Ie of Ier ..e per roes - total. urba. et rd       s   kosree1ru--
Poutolninyar  tt    Cron  ppueio   pojcios  oehse  o  ig                h    fps_s.t. Perro,        o  lluha,  odoca  occpied oo toa
totl ppulcio  byegsandaeIan tI1istr rP,toticy sdl fasityrss.                             rliee   reetisp 'telegsridInpeeosesrrtresd
escort  ortaotl   oa-,ts- alec herothree                 o l tti he-ren  dcIne. tn               of total,. ure,  n   urldaligtreetiay
Eteh ....nrry Ir th-c.e. igred one of chess riotcsirtIt  of ocotality                       EDUICATIONr
end fertility treode fo  pIjctc  upse                                                         Adiuenad tErIlgent eaton.
iloy(pzfiiflay.loy.  - _Ire .ere   Pore P.rru toor circa Is no grouh elogIr...                   chr    - ttl. etas sod fel-GI.os. total, eale and fm
rtaitcocaoe  uequai cthadcuuicIecs ,ataroioontIcurr...nrlorrfolo-stb                                                                   .re.iaoa   .ec..... 5  of rIeectc
sat   ceii  Ith aiC _chis-    only after fotityI rates delio  nopir    colaE                                       itca;crrl  icoludes childreI              gd iI
ott replresent  lon  of uct cot ryrdoicrts   hrro   eerno                                   oc  but odj-od for difforoc.  leogthe of pricaryeduitlt.               o
of oeerrylacn  crolEcutyf         h   tctuyypltoneoscutitrc   ur.teotalhodocurihngo...llorot na   ocrd10  tont
It tie loop 2000, urd tie cute ~f doclioc of fortulity rate cc replac-                           S-codary rohool -ttl   ueadtsl                   C-aputd or tooy;. "noIarly
eot I   Icol                                                                                       sduooeiuneqoiat  loaetforcrof upyrood piaycnotlt
leerscaticooy pp-ultloc00_ratird - Th. Yeur  h-o  ototicroy Icolcpcc-idoo.                               ccl  ocainl   ccaiorh t-ollciterucit   fcc PuPtA
!tie  1,,baa .   ...oroehed.                                                                       osuaily of 12 c  17 yoera of a ge; cororeycd-oeccr               r  gro-lly
ooatcceeito                                                                                    soclcdtd.
Pa ioh.-rd-yeer  .poplatIon Por- aqur  kttu...eter (100 bactarre) of                      .tuttioc_              _r_oot)Fretof"accoyt lctco    oilit loot
total ara7961. 119.70 sod 1979 docI.                                                               inctude ttehoi-ol, indusorio1, or  thr Vyog.. cud.  opertet. itdsd-
Per- s   k.h. aoclulccu   aud - Cosputod us Ituon for edricclrorl lord                               aoty or at droatoutte of .. secdery i-tttt_iocs.
oclc: 1960. 1970 and 19 76 data.                                                                 pui-ere           tio - Irca`.'y  Iod ....oodur- Tota  siudects: "ocllo t
P.oralatio  Ass Stucur  faoet)  -hitldoso  f0-14 year).  orlgsn(15-                                    piary an1-1cao           .otl  dioidcd by ...chce of toa-he is Ichcia
64 7000.1, and ostirod (6l ysnt. ond over) as r-erceroegof nid-y-a  pcpu-                             orapondin0 Ist-I..
19in;i60, 1970, sod 1979 dato.                                                                Adult littsrcY rote  oect)- Literoteodulto  (.lohlercrodo~d ocico)
Porulacioc booth Orte frercarl - rocol - catnuol,groet'It'o  of Itotl ecd-               ass IPorce-cgo of totel edult popottoc seed 15 your  an  oto
P tculacioc  rouch Rato lo-r...cl - orbar- An..u.l  groth ratee of arber popu-                 COtIC9TION
aIot  too 150-hi. i1A60-7O. erd 1970-79                                                        P...s.o.rICura foo  th .u...d ro-ulotlco   - P.....Ego   tac    -poyietcou
PoPoluftio; 1910. 1970,. so  1979 doto.                                                            OslicsyOtiooh
Crudo leech tat  (roe chc.....d) - Alo.uol dooths  . per       ...oedo of eid-y...                 Radio Rte..tr-ro  (to  tico....      oa.I  c   -All cyPro of rocolorro  fur radio
ouuti_c; 1960. 1970, tcd 199dtIbodei   ootrlpuilic  per                                                                                  ..atod of P.polooicoorIdco
CrostOocodaoolc cate- .creg79eidoor ottbceIrn            o arill be-oI                       Iicarsdraroo    rtuc eto                   yercicrceotloocfre1 dlo
til ity    _ oe;.usall  flo-yer  tergo  er 9r   i  itl  1970,t an :079.                            soot  .. co-tion  brichsid II-.crlr.
PFsito PlrIt..lon  -Aortc       hcsi(i      Aeedl - dou1 ourber ofnarepor PV laceIoer  ltro  chocoo2    toou -ton)                                   - T  rcior  too broo d  Iut ic
of biteth--oc-1o d_cicet ucdar nopice  of narocol rosily PIa...icg p-Rogre.                        gonerl pobIi   r   hou..r  poytotcc   et-          ue    tioedT   ootr
Fasily PIu...io   -OU...c   p- frc o faaorIedr...ao- Paccat   farcdioco-toiouc.dodi  yaoraieoo~tracoof TV ooooooa  coeffe_
ousoc of cbtid ieslr  gog 715-44 years) n   use    thtc-occ-ro1 d-oceer tosne   tcioo...-(ccc thoc....d -ccolorico   - thor  tho  toloto
attrid atrit  u_ ge oroup.                                                                   coeino   dlygcor   nrotaeoo" , deflcnld are IPerodical
POWl AND NUITRITION                                                                                    to be  'daily' if itcypra... i IIocot fouc tor a. or...k.
lodto of Pond  IcdciocoCpte(997-ol-ldno of pot  .opi,aaruI                                         Cireva iAo-1 ictoodae perII   Caroco  7c-tote.d 00 thr t-nit ot
ordcio   fal   od    odtc.Pouto   soclo1de  ted  -d feed ard                             ticketbisold duriog tie  Yr-,  rtludicog cdetu loot to dtio-io tiora
ic.ttcd of -ogar  01ith cot rdihl  aod  -ocet       -ut     1t  (e.g. coff.t an
outuou   ocerg   producer pIor onghto: 1961-hI. 1970,  Ird197  data.                           Totl Labor Porto fihouoadu  - Etootoicul...             crpcoc. Iocte-odtog
(or tcit  ourro   ulro   rooit o  couocerf                     - Copuod  fo..ose  forIaI ot) ocerotd but ot_lodor,  hou.eoco-, ucudeoto,cc
"'erY ao lo  ofto  food sylc   cuelable  i Otor-to   pe   aiacorn    uuoo  co   hue.lfotoc    ctotocuo                                                                    er
perda. keoilo1  otpplitecyra  do-atic, -odortiot, lep-ot                    -  -oaoo -cp-blc; 196i, 1970 urd 1W979dota.
-op-t, ord ch.ir   osok   Ntoplc   ccueacu   ed  tae                                          Frneol    otr) - Feoir labor forte at- ocotoco  cora  laborlot
bc_tric_   _dr:  Sl-    1970, d     aud  197  dor.                                               190 od 179iot
y0  otoopi-do byraei farond po duo)           -1.-. - Poeirocfoprcplrhotciocto  tac  (c- rceoc -1 total  .  .....oo  f9osoi                                   9 oolepcee
acooceib,hI-ce  ofccI       poetprdyod7   cn   foia   n                                   hD   91  acd 1979date,dmee I_c --od-or -Ii-!anc yab                      ucu
hO.ttCdFod  too_  ,lOl- 1971     1 ccd 1977 data.                                               to  ti   1979 dturofoer
F!Lsaoa  rorcocco  rs  coufc prulor  - fPotei  apfoty of food-do-
cooe  froy Icfc  sod puloeod      c c           fva pa   do0,i9 i-t.9yad      1907 daa            dototl-
a_cec   ...u.l-C   f   ....iu ryi_d'tt blprhieacooyoUSDAfrocid dI tlolri         co-i...ro,  otroto p                                 frrr.orc   P., rIct .cororrc40preu
crIog dc_urooto  f..o. .f it..o..h.oc, -id, 1970 duod 1(7t9 -tfIA_ data,1of ccc1ci0la..d17   ..    h.    t   .t .IO.r
abit:16, 19f  uhid  1(7   oa                                                                t   bodb Stctorpobcted oltli,   h-  d-I   h rotdidoobgeeoituA
-rtar   orcair_ Ico Io .p.o cicA4      001da o            f  r..f_    i'.tfI dtt  3t a Pdey0     ecntdi-       Iue curc  too-,t Loo (c    ocaiol-rtocdrra
of-oe po -doecd-     1cr  ietb.                                                                   luoltc potoy  trou7footccthociccch. r--irlc.  hIn      nol--
P,rat pt,tt prtco fycoro  oft  .itrulI lf-d pttl.   P-.iau  ..plytartf f- dut-                      tiliolydqachcpo   cotb   o-odrq.rnetI
hor cc yropl  _ttl, orba..oo  ouol  dci ocanoc96a6bl             197e       19tron dt t.aWm ofoRdoble ON
oatt och  u tai  reeyrcactd  ioci_ ca   Iplcc         ud  ultc  0h01107 00               P-      -      tota-c'-occe poett   toce    -hro   to   c -tld) of ae-r-i pe  cat-a
of hhlcorretc    -.ylui: ...  ...oapoobaI upI f_publir  ..rcoo  Icuc  of thruor'   Coa   ro                                       tdrtc   fo   1Cua
orutatdpuuiltcYtdI            toooiollott,OtahOeouI                                             -ollt- djuncOe          o -totho  coot Ifli2 tnr         odar        40
cocol drod t   hoooObo   ro-olourifcfrotbd                    a.   crua    for                   olotd  eo...        ctec  irlcrfhroyIeld                IYtlrcc 
-AL     ctocTouodeIcIoe.HocofCrcrretrooil                                                              oorlPrtc   fyplio    cbc  o    otfhcroult
boehroIpocploft -ul -,cAo   utdc...faoroubdeoce-o  di-oscia
Poreoco orh   thcolCIac- -f--drlcu db-hOb   toe   f  reclco   t
note  quolcfocd  ftea a stdtcoi orheop-l or oroosrotry  betel""
ooaio   o  rthpyto-tuo   o  Ioddb   uiro    pra1llt
..lroodreo- er-dp-utrctdbrorr,ptatilt-1ul  tor-uc....o,          ~



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPIENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA 7N 1979   US5190
GROSS RATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979/80                                                                    ANIP3AL LATE OF CROWST  (M. constant Pricesl
USS BIn.          %            1955/56-1959160    1960/61-1964/65       1965/66-1969/70      1970171-1974/75    1975176-1976/79
GNP at Market Prices                     134.16         100.0                3.7                 3.6                  3.6                  2.8                  4.5
Gco.. Domestic Investen.t                 29.24          21.8
Gross Nation-l Saving                     28.55          21.3
Current Account Balance   I/              -0.85         - 0.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 197V
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force               V.A. Par Worker
US$ Bln.              7.             Hl.       X                 USS         7. of National Average
Agricult-re                           39.8                39.6           181.3      71                220                 56
Industry                              25.5               25.3             28.1      11                906                230
Service.                              35.3               35.1             46.0      18                767                195
Total/average                        100.6               100.0           255.4    100                 394                100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Governaent                                               Central Governe.nt
Rs. Bln.              % of GDP                                   R. BIln.             7. of GDP
1979/80       1979/80   1975/76-1979/80                          1979/80       1979/S0    1975/76-1979180
Current Receipts                     208.18          19.2           18.9                               108.96         10.0            10.6
Current E.penditures                 206.44          19.0           17.7                               117.67         10.8            10.6
Current S.rpl.s/Deficit                 1.74          0.2            1.2                               - 8.71        - 0.8              -
Capital E.penditcres   f/             81.81           7.5            7.4                                56.93          5.2             5.1
Enternal Assistance (net)  d/           7.97          0.7            0.9                                 7.97          0.7             0.9
KONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES             1970/71       1973/74      1974/75      1975176      1976/77       1977/78      1978/79      1979/80        Deember 1979        Dec_ebr 1980
(Rs Billion o-t.tanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Moc-y                  109.6        175.7        194.6        222.9          272.8        329.1       .398.9         468.2            448.3             521.7
Bank Credit to Government (net)        52.6          87.3         95.3        101.1          110.2        134.7        153.9         192.2            176.4             231.4
Bank Credit to Cossercial Sector    64.6            107.0        126.7        153.9          185.0        212.2        253.5        306.5             294.7             335.9
(Percentage or Index N-bers)                                                                April-DBc 1979    April-D.c 1980
Money and Quasi Money as . of GDP   27.2             29.8         27.9         30.2           34.0         36.5         40.8          43.1
Wholesale Price Inde.
(1970/71 - 100)                     100.0        139.7         174.9        173.0         176.6         185.8        185.8        217.6             212.2            253.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                    7.7         '0.2         25.2         - 1.1           2.1          5.2            -          17.1              14.6             19.5
Bank Cr-dit to Coverentent (net)        10.8                       :                           9.0         22.2         14.3         24.9              24.9  j/          31.2  h/
Bank Credit to C-ercial Sector    19.4               i2.0         18.4         11             20.2         14.7         19.5         20.9              17.5  I/          14.0  h/
4   The per capita GNP estimate is at aerikt prices, calculated by the converSion technique used in the World Bank Atlaa, 1979.
All other conversiens to dollar. in this table  re at th  -verage eaehange rate prevailing during the pertod covered.
/ Quick E.ti.ates.
c/  Computed fro- trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one obserl-tle  before fir-t year and one observtion
after last year of listed period.
d/  World Bank esti-ates; nst necessarily consistent with official figure.
t/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and dvances to third partie  h-ve been netted out.
i/ Percentage change from end-December 1978 to end-December 1979.
h/  Percentage change from end-Derembar 1979 to end-Dece-ber 1980.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                    1977/78     1978/79    1979/80    1980/81 /NERCUADISE EXpoRTS (AVRAGE 1976/77 - 1979/805
US$ Mln.       7
Exports of Goods                        6,315       6,978       7.958      8,998             Eagineering Goods             768 j/       11
Imports of Goods                      -7,188       -8,519    -11.249    -15,624              Tea                           462          7
Trade Balance                          - 873       -1,541    - 3,291    - 6,626              C_s                           605           9
NFS (net)                                 691         773         633        463             Clothing                      460           7
Resource Balance                        - 182       - 768    - 2.658    - 6163                      Proadcth               425           6
Jute Mamfactures             284           4
Interest Payments (net)  i/             - 89         - 35         350        303             Iron Ore                      298           5
Other Factor Payments (net)                -           -           -           -             Cotton Textiles               289           4
Net Transfers i7                        1,077       1,216       1,458      2,462             Sugar                         132           2
Others                     3,028          45
Balance on Current Account                806         413       - 850     -3 398
Total                      6.751         100
Official Aid
Disbursements                       1,628        1,695       1,891      2,389             EXTERNAL NUW. KARCH 31. 1980
Amortization                         - 645       - 702       - 676      - 707                                                  US$ billion
Transactions with 1HF                   - 330       - 158         -         1,035            Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.6
All Other Items                           617         286       - 143         133            Undisbureed                                 5.7
Outstanding, Including                    21.3
Increase in Reserves (-)               -2,076      -1,534       - 222        548                 Undiebursed
Gross Reserves (end year)               5,823       7,357       7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (end year)  h            5,668       7,357       7,579       6,691            DET SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80  h/!!  10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                   IIJ.DIIDA LMIDIK. DECDUiEt 31. 1980
Imports                                 1,811       2,043       3,977      7,012                                                  US$ million
of which:  Petroleum                1,811        2,043      3,977       7,012                                              IBRD        IDA
Exports                                    32          24          26        n a             Outstanding and Disbursed         806         4,895
Undisbursed                      572         3,547
Outstanding, including         1,378         8,442
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971          US$1.00 - Re 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972      US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 * US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       lontlng Rate
Spot Rate end-December 19"e             US$1.00 - Re 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$O.126
Spot Rate end-December 1980             US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
h Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all inve Ment income (net).  Major payments are interest an foreign loans
and charges paid to DIP, and major receipt is interest *arned on foreign *eects.
J/ Figures given include workers' rmittancos but exclude official grant assistance, wbich is
included within official aid disbursmnts.
t/ Excludes net use of DIP credit.
/ Figure for 1979/80 is estimated.
r/ Amortization and interest paymnts on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
ApriL. 1981



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981) 1/
Fiscal                                                       US$ million
Loan or    Year of                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Approval         Purpose                          Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
45 Loans/                                                   1,515.98        -
62 Credits fully disbursed                                       -    4,065.4           -
342-IN    1973      Education                                   -        12.0         2.42
456-IN    1974      HP Apple Processing & Marketing             -        13.0         5.01
1011-IN    1974      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                   52.0         -          9.15
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                             -        30.0        15.80
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                         -        83.0        28.16
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                             -        27.7        12.37
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                        -        16.4         4.70
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                  -        40.0        13.47
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                         -       105.0        17.09
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                       -       150.0        40.11
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                -         4.0         1.46
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development               -        18.0        10.23
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                145.0         -         74.58
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                                   40.0         -         10.77
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                          25.0         -        21.59
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                     80.0         -         16.09
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                    25.0         -          7.36
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development                   -        30.0        22.06
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development                   -        20.0         6.98
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                     -       150.0        36.81
687-IN    1977      Madras Urban Development                    -        24.0         4.08
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research              -        12.0        12.00
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                         14.0         -          7.23
712-IN    1977      Madhya Pradesh Agric. Development           -        10.0         5.10
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                   -        23.0        13.49
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development              -         8.0         5.46
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                      -        70.0        28.83
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension                  -        13.0         6.84
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                           -        58.0        25.71
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                          79.2         -          7.81
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage                    -       107.0        77.58
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II                        87.0        19.11
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                 -        8.0         6.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector                  25.0         -         12.87



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
Fiscal                                                         US$ million
Loan or     Year of                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Approval        Purpose                          Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power              105.0         -        53.99
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                        -       117.6       76.35
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                         -       200.0       126.45
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                  -        14.0       13.75
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                          -        85.0       62.96
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                    -        17.5        13.97
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                           -        16.0        14.97
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII                   120.0         -        46.76
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                              -       150.0      130.60
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                      -       196.0      182.09
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                          -       111.0        39.98
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                            -       190.0       145.84
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage              -        38.0       20.17
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research              -        27.0        24.82
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension            -        25.0        15.86
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                        -        30.0        15.55
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power                  50.0         -        50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power                    -       200.0      170.31
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                           -       129.0       98.57
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply                    -        48.0        44.06
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II              -       175.0       95.54
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry               -        23.0        18.39
947-IN    1980      ARDC III                                    -       250.0       23.24
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                            -        20.0        19.52
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II                   -       210.0       170.70
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry                  -        37.0        29.62
981-IN    1980      Population II                               -       46.0        45.22
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                        -        32.0        30.44
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                              -        18.0        16.56
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                       -       175.0       164.42
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                        -       300.0      278.36
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                                   -        22.0        21.65
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension               -        10.0         9.81
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport                    -        56.0        53.71
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                       -        54.0       52.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                              -       80.0        76.65
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                        100.0         -        66.71
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                     25.0         -         25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                       -      225.0       201.16



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
Fiscal                                                         US$ million
Loan or     Year of                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Approval         Purpose                         Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                       30.0         -         28.92
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                          400.0         -        379.77
2050-IN*   1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                     100.0         -        100.0
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                           -        30.6        29.8
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                           -        72.4        72.4
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II                 -        37.3        37.3
1108-IN    1981      Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation            -       128.9      128.9
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                     -       288.9       263.6
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation                   -        49.8       49.8
1125-IN*+  1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project                   -       368.0      368.0
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.               -        21.6       21.6
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.                -        26.2        26.2
1138-IN    1981      Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Ext. II         -        34.7       34.7
1146-IN*   1981      National Cooperative Dev. Corp. II          -       116.5       116.5
1172-IN*+  1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II            -      372.7       372.7
1177-IN*+  1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation             -       223.4      223.4
Total                                         2,931.2  10,282.6
of which has been repaid                    1,103.4       84.6
Total now outstanding                         T1,27.   1      U
Amount Sold                          133.8
of which has been repaid           133.3        0.5         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/             1,827.4  10,198.0
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                 818.6   3,589.6
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Net yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan       Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9         -       0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2         -       0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8         0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                          6.6         -       6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.0       8.6
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited          15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0             -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited              15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.              2.9        0.3      3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited                2.3         -       2.3
19g1             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                 1 5        0.2       1.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          136.7       11.9    148.6
Less:   Sold                           26.0        1.7      27.7
Repaid                        22.6         -       22.6
Cancelled                       -          1.3      7.5
Now Held                      81.9         8.9     90.8
Undisbursed                   66.1         1.5     67.6



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1981)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through September 30, 1981 totalled US$164 million, representing an
increase of about 6% over the same period last year. The undisbursed
pipeline of US$3,590 million as of September 30, 1981, reflects the lead time
which would be expected given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under both loans 1475 and 1843 are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected
to be completed until 1984, as a result of delays in the employment of con-
sultants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical
specifications and tenders and the construction itself. In view of the high
increases in bulk storage construction costs, the Government is proposing to
reduce the bulk storage component of the project in favor of additional bag
storage capacity; this proposal is currently under consideration by the
Association.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is making good progress, but project facilities
will have to be reduced due to cost escalations. The project's research
activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to difficulties in
obtaining technical assistance.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 19/6
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorilv, although as of
June 1981, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the projects were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines.  Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Credit 1112, which became effective in June 1981, provides for the continued
expansion, over a three-year period, of the Indian telecommunications net-
work, particularly in rural areas. It also provides for the modernization
and upgrading of three existing telecommunications equipment factories, and
the establishment of three additional ones. Initial implementation and
procurement actions are proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 1125  Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400.0 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier have not materialized because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that have been dropped. Because of
the above, the project completion date has been delayed. Credit 1125 is
proceeding satisfactorily with initial implementation and procurement actions
proceeding to schedule.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable
it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project Direc-
tor and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting
efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1 984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the recently com-
pleted first Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390), is
proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
of Credit 848 has been completed but subsequent procurement delays and slow
release of construction funds are likely to delay the project by about 12
months and result in cost increases. Physical progress under Credit 899 is
satisfactory. Initial delays in implementation of institutional arrangements
and tariff measures proposed for the project are now being overcome. Project
progress in this area is being closely monitored. Implementation of Credit
1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been
prepared for rural schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban
schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consult-
ants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more
extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about
15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
With respect to the second project, early project implementa-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily, with evidence that the lessons learned
under the first project are being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Kar-
nataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all DCS
is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a
satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has been the major
constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy
Project, thirteen subprojects have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Cor-
poration and a further five subprojects are in various stages of preparation
and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well underway
though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a result in the start of
project operations.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 mijilon credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 3U, 196Z
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135  Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
These eleven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular, significant gains
have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in govern-
ment brought a review of the organizational principles underlying the new
extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a
Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the
project, revised implementation plans have been prepared, and project
activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly in key



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
supervisory and managerial posts, are severely hampering project implementa-
tion; a review is underway to reassess whether the project can be implemented
as intended. In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Com-
posite Agricultural Extension Project, field work is off to a good start.
In Kerala, project implementation began in three of eleven districts after
some initial start-up delays. Early progress on civil works and initiation
of the program in the remaining eight districts will be required to regain
the initial implementation schedule. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, project
implementation is encouraging. Project review missions are helping sustain
project momentum.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays.  The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time. Some of the coconut rehabilitation areas are being
changed based on the demand of credit from the farmers.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146  Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
As of December 1981, when Credit 871 was last reviewed, the construc-
tion program has progressed slightly more slowly than anticipated due to
shortages in supplies of steel and cement. Disbursements have been progress-
ing well and are ahead of the appraisal targets. Credit 1146, which was
signed in July 1981, provides credit for the construction of cooperative
godowns and cold-storage and marketing facilities to support the pre- and
post-harvest supply and marketing requirements in nine States; promote the
development of cooperative institutions in these States; and expand coopera-
tive subproject preparation and appraisal activities within the cooperative
sector. Project implementation has been slower than anticipated, and disbur-
sements as of December 1981 are considerably less than projected at



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
appraisal. NCDC is taking steps to ensure that adequate preparatory work is
done in all nine participating States.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 19/9;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study financed under this Credit and completed in November 1979
established the technical feasibility of setting up two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district. Further studies are underway to assess the
socio-economic impact of such investments.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities are progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). Project implementation has been slow because of initial
problems in coordination and monitoring particularly at the national level.
Although the projects are generally about three years behind appraisal tar-
gets, their implementation has gained greater momentum since 1980 and the
stage is now set for all infrastructure and investments planned under the
projects to be completed by June 1984.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033  Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
financed and delivered in service. Total fleet strength has increased from
1,530 buses at the inception of the project to nearly 2,000 buses, in accord-
ance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion has lagged somewhat
behind fleet expansion, but caught up in November 1980. However, delays in
construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. As a result, the loan closing date has been
extended by three years. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat behind
schedule, although now proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of works
under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily, a good start having been made on
the important early procurement steps. However, financial and managerial
performance is lagging behind expectations and must now receive project
authorities' full attention if physical and financial performance targets are
to be achieved.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The first year program of rural road construction is underway. The
whole project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads and to
improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part of the State's
overall rural development efforts. Equipment has been ordered and is being
delivered.
Ln. No. 1394  Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
As of July 1981 when the first of these projects was last reviewed,
the harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had
encountered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies
had been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily following the resolu-
tion of design problems. The road component is also progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980.
The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of
State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project
monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. However, hatchery planning
has been delayed as a result of a delay in the establishment of the engineer-
ing cell within the Central Project Unit.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba The-mal Powpr Pro jP.t; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
1978: Effective Date: Augue 14. 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and        US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Ln. No. 2076 Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date (expected): April 6, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/
Credit 1053, at Farakka. Loan 2076 supports the development of the second
stage of the Ramagundam plant, involving the construction of three 500 MW
generating units. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been
carrying out construction and operation of these power stations. Loan 1549
is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata Electric
Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast load growth
in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects are
progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and Korba, construction works are
on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the implemen-
tation schedule for the Ramagundam project.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925  Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation proceed-
ing satisfactorily in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar
Pradesh--in all major components except construction activities which remain
about 18 months behind appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project is designed to expand cashewnut production in the States
of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa. The progress in cashew
plantations as well as other components is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Initial procurement delays having now been overcome, implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily on this project. However, project completion
will likely be delayed by approximately six months due to the initial delays.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded, and
consultants are preparing feasibility reports of other watershed schemes.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Minor
start up delays in staffing are being corrected.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction, over a four-year
period, of about 160 tank irrigation schemes throughout the State of Kar-
nataka. Start-up activities have commenced.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Loan not yet effective. Tendering for major equipment is underway.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
FOURTH ARDC CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project
6 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
ARDC
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank Group and
date of the first mission to consider the project
July 1980 and May 1981
-(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
April 26, 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
November 25, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
April 1982
Section II:      Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a)  GOI to provide NABARD's financial and organizational
plans for the Bank Group's review (para 37);
(b)  ARDC to finalize an all-India insurance scheme for
failed wells for adoption by by December 31, 1982
(para 60);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c)  Lending of the participating banks' outlets to be
related to their level of actual recovery (para 64a);
(d)  Operation of new lending eligibility criteria for
LDBs to be reviewed by a joint GOI/Bank Group/ARDC
team by October 31, 1982 (para 64a);
(e)  ARDC not to refinance any loans in the State where
the State Government takes actions that adversely
affect loan recovery (para 64b);
(f)  ARDC to carry out detailed review of LDB rehabilita-
tion programs and lending eligibility at least three
times a year in consultation with the Bank Group
(para 64f);
(g)  ARDC to apply LDB-type eligibility criteria to com-
mercial banks by July 1, 1983. As an interim
measure, ARDC to agree with the participating commer-
cial bank on an improvement program before refinanc-
ing any scheme by any branch with over 50% overdues
(para 64g);
(h)  ARDC to draw up a plan, by June 30, 1982, to
strengthen its project monitoring and evaluation
(para 65); and
(i)  Execution of the financial arrangements between GOI
and ARDC to be a condition of credit and loan effec-
tiveness (para 67).



ii       r^                                                                                                   I NDIA
gy*   >                     \N                             FOURTH AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION CREDIT PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC    )                                        A- /           ,.           Generalized  Occurrence of Groundwater, Rainfall, Evaporocon  arid ARDC  Regional Offices
OF     g ' ,c. xvd
AFGHANISTAN                             ii                                            %-Zrcrirni:ii
I           d0 oci.ro  T Hi, -1_ 
TiNal,                  It C  -   -i
LO  ARDC R,,g-Ira cff heoredId no  rector on -t-Jut      198
PAKI STAN_AROCC                                                                    H    d-A-
7                                                                                                      4eoa      ora,et]d    , -,br. . dI S(os ]
TRIW:  ~         ~        u/A NS                     NEPA r~.r.                       '
n-i-I b. d.-UA                          te             E/
D'<,6  --5  1?      SRi LANKA                                                 i          o-e        jo-
reeee.e,r...eOaeW.WDoearr.d ioo.o0rM  aeeoer                                                                                              r      0  I0    200   300A    40   Cl                           nT
aYleee.a,.d.orer. rerere e / t    * f edberee e,e,o,ee.or 7e0M                                                                                                  S _.e,ai,arodNErA
eeera,rrer.O oeiareror            rA                                                                                                                   r
a,.    _~                                                                                                                           ' err  r                                                     2e
70                                                                                                at~~~~~~~~~~~~ r7 0J



