CREDIT NUMBER /V09 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth ARDC Credit Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                      c9%       , 1982


﻿CREDIT N%MBER /469 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated .-- (                , 1982, between INDIA,
acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equiva-
lent to one hundred ninety million dollars ($190,000,000) (here-
inafter called the Loan);
(C)  the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made;
(D)   the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation, a statutory corporation
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower (herein-
after called ARDC), or any successor thereof, with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to ARDC the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank
and ARDC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable    o the Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the Bank and ARDC of even date      herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "ARDC Financial Arrangements" means the arrangements to
be entered into between the Borrower and ARDC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(c) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrowe- and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, as made
appl.Lcable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(d)  "State" means any State or Union Territory of the Bor-
rower;
(e) "LDB" means any State Cooperative Land Development Bank
established and operating in a State in accordance with the laws
of that State or of the Borrower, and where an LDB is a federa-
tion of Primary Banks, the term "LDB" shall include all such
Banks;


﻿- 3 -
(f) "SCB" means any State Cooperative Bank established arid
operating in a State in accordance with the laws of that State or
of the Borrower, and the term "SCB" shall include any District
Cooperative Bank and any Primary Agricultural Credit Society
associated with such SCB;
(g)  "CB" means any Commercial Bank established and operat-
ing in the Borrower's territory in accordance with the laws of
the Borrower, and the term "CB" shall include any Regional Rural
Bank;
(h)   "Participating Bank" means any LDB, SCB or CB making
loans which are, or are proposed to be, refinanced by ARDC under
the Project;
(i) "Small Farmer" shall have the meaning assigned to it in
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement among the Borrower, the
Association, the Bank and ARDC;
(j)  . "Beneficiary" means any person, including a Small
Farmer, group of persons, cooperative society, corporation or
other entity which is eligible to receive a loan from a Partici-
pating Bank under the Project;
(k)  "Scheme" means any minor irrigation or other agricul-
tural development project which is, or is proposed to be, carried
out under a loan which is, or is proposed to be, refinanced by
ARDC under the Project;
(1) "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(m) "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower; and
(n)   "Act" means the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation Act No. 10 of 1963, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to one hundred thirty-nine million Special Draw-
ing Rights (SDR 139,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1992, and
ending August 15, 2031, each installment to and including the
installment payable on August 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditzons.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause ARDC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARDC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The -Borrower shall (i) for the purpose of Part A of the
Project, relend the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan allo-
cated from time to time to Categories (1) and (2), and (ii) for
the purpose of Part B of the Project, make available the proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (3), to ARDC under financial arrangements to be entered
into between the Borrower and ARDC under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, including
those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ARDC
Financial Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the ARDC Financial Arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall participate with the
Association and ARDC in the review and evaluation of the criteria
for LDB's eligibility to receive financing from ARDC as and by
the dates provided in Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:


﻿- 6 -
(a)   maintain the Standing Committee established for the
purpose of supervising the carrying out of the rehabilitation
programs referred to in paragraph B of Schedule 3 to the Project
Agreement by the LDBs specified therein, and of such other re-
habilitation programs with respect to other LDBs as the Borrower,
the Association and ARDC may agree, and to provide the necessary
support and guidance to such LDBs in carrying out the same; and
(b)  cause and enable said Committee to continue to employ
suitable consultants to carry out, by May 31, 1982 and under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association appropriate
organizational and management studies for the LDBs specified in
paragraph B of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement, including the
preparation of plans designed to improve their performance in
accordance with suitable time schedules.
Section 3.04. In the event the Borrower authorizes or
approves the establishment of a new entity to undertake primary
responsibility for the provision of credit for agricultural
development in the Borrower's territory, and to assume the rights
and obligations of ARDC, including those under the Project Agree-
ment, the ARDC Financial Arrangements and any other agreement or
agreements of ARDC, the Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, for its review and comments, the Borrower's plans with
respect to the proposed organization and financial and admini-
strative structures of such entity and shall take the Associa-
tion's views into consideration in finalizing said plans.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ARDC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of ARDC under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that ARDC will be eble to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿-7-
(c)   The Borrower or ARDC, or any other authority having
jurisdiction, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ARDC or for the suspension of its operations.
(d)  The Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of ARDC to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(e) ARDC shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARDC
or by others whereby any of the property of ARDC shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.
(f) A default shall have occurred in the performance by the
Borrower or by ARDC of any of its obligations under the ARDC
Financial Arrangements.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)  any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (f) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and ARDC; and
(b)  any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)  the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of ARDC have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the ARDC Financial
Arrangements on behalf of the Borrower and ARDC, respectively,


﻿-8-
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary govern-
mental and corporate action; and
(c)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except for the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARDC and is
legally binding upon ARDC in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the ARDC Financial Arrangements have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and ARDC and are legally binding upon the Bor-
rower and ARDC in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date   /1c#    )6    1902I       is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.-
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.04 and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01.   The Secretary of, or any Additional Secre-
tary, Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under
Secretary in, the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of te
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi 110001
India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                           953-31354
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 10 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By /,         W      1
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
1.   Tb table below sets forth the Categories of items financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation
of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of     Amount of
the Credit    the Loan
Allocated     Allocated           % of
(Expressed    (Expressed     Expenditures
in SDR       in Dollar         to be
Category          Equivalent) Equivalent)         Financed
(1) Loans for minor    107,200,000  146,600,000     34% of the
irrigation (ex-                                amounts dis-
cluding pumpset                                bursed by
electrifica-                                   ARDC to re-
tion), land                                    finance such
development                                     loans
and soil con-
conservation
and reclama-
tion
(2) Loans for plan-     30,150,000   41,300,000     34% of the
tations, hor-                                  amounts dis-
ticulture,                                     bursed by
livestock,                                     ARDC to re-
fisheries, stor-                               finance such
age and mar-                                   loans
ket yards
(3) Training             1,650,000    2,100,000     90%
TOTAL     139,000,000  190,000,000
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no


﻿- 12 -
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Association or the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consis-
tent with the aforementioned policy of the Association and the
Bank.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $15,000,000 may
be made on accounts of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after January 1, 1982. In addition, except as the
Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, and
until all amounts of the Credit allocated to any Category shall
have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be made
from the Loan Account under such Category except under commit-
ments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions referred to. .n Section 1.01 of the Loan Agree-
ment.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
and of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Ass)ciation or 6he Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association or the Bank are not needed to meet
other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures 'n order that firther with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this


﻿- 13 -
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan and the Association or
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association under this
Agreement or the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit or of the Loan as, in
the Association's or the Bank's ' reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit or of
the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist in furthering the agricultural
development of the Borrower's territory and in improving the
operations of the agricultural credit institutions operating
therein. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
The carrying out of a two-year program to finance invest-
ments by Beneficiaries in minor irrigation (including land
development, soil conservation and reclamation and pumpset
electrification) and other agricultural development (including
livestock,  horticulture,   fisheries,   storage  and  marketing,
forestry,   farm  mechanization,   integrated  rural  development
programs and agro-processing facilities) through the refinancing
by ARDC of loans made for such purposes by the Participating
Banks.
Part B:
The carrying out by ARDC of a training program to upgrade
the professional skills of the staff of the agricultural credit
institutions operating in the Borrower's territory, including the
staff of the Participating Banks.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1983.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
ARDC Financial Arrangements
(1)  The proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement shall be relent by the
Borrower to ARDC on the following terms:
(a) in respect of ARDC refinancing not exceeding 9 years:
(i) interest rate of not less than 6.75% per annum,
less 0.25% for repayment of principal and interest
by the due dates;
(ii) repayment of principal at the end of 9 years;
(b) in respect of ARDC refinancing in excess of 9, but not
exceeding 15, years:
(i) interest rate of not less than 7.25% per annum,
less 0.25% for repayment of principal and interest
by the due dates;
(ii) repayment of principal at the end of 15 years; and
(c) the Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
(2)   The proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement shall be made available
by the Borrower to ARDC in accordance with the Borrower's normal
arrangements for such development assistance.
(3) The terms and conditions applicable to ARDC's refinancing of
loans made by the Participating Banks for minor irrigation and
other agricultural development projects under Part A of the Pro-
ject, shall be governed by the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   a        day of
1981.
FORS      EA R Y


