l0OCUMi         LOAN NUMBER,,90      IN
Loan Agreement
(Fourth ARDC Credit Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND IDEVELOPMENT
Dated c-4       " 414               , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER ) 05 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   A& tt Au Q      -Al , 1982, between INDIA,
acting by its President (hereinffter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the International Development Association (the Asso-
ciation) (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement),
by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association to pro-
vide additional financial assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by the Development Credit Agreement the Association
is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to one hundred thirty-nine million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 139,000,000);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures
on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in this Agreement are made;
(D)   the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation, a statutory corporation
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower (here-
inafter called ARDC), or any successor thereof, with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to ARDC the proceeds of the Loan as herein-
after provided and the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the
Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank
and ARDC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (s,aid
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions), namely, that paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is deleted
and the following substituted therefor:
"11. The term 'Project' means the Fourth ARDC Credit
Project, as described in the Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth ARDC Credit Project) between the Borrower and the
Association of even date with the Loan Agreement and as the
description thereof may be amended from time to time by
Agreement among the Borrower, the Bank and the Association."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise cequires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions applicable thereto have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Development Credit
Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association for the purpose of the Project, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agress to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred ninety million dollars ($190,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1


﻿-3-
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Section 2.03 and Article III of, and Schedules 1 and 2 to, the
Development Credit Agreement are incorporated in, and made a part
of, the Loan Agreement, provided that the terms "Association" and
"Credit", whenever they appear in such Section, Article and
Schedules shall be read, respectively, "Bank" and "Loan".
(b)   As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to the Borrower and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall have not terminated prior to the termination of
this Agreement: (i) the obligations of the Borrower to consult
with and to furnish or cause to be furnished, information,
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank


﻿-4-
shall be satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such
obligations is rendered to the Association; (ii) the obligations
of the Bank to consult with and to furnish information to the
Borrower shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are
fulfilled by the Association; and (iii) all actions taken (in-
cluding the giving of approvals or the granting of waivers) by
the Association pursuant to the Develoment Credit Agreement shall
be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement and in the name and on behalf of
both the Association and the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such


﻿-5-
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the events set out in Section 4.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement are specified pursuant to paragraph
(k) thereof.
Section 4.02. For    the purposes of Section     7.01 of the
General Conditions, the events set out in Section 4.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement are specified pursuant to paragraph
(h) thereof.
ARTICLE I
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, except
for the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date a      d6, 298), is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement referred to in this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect between the Borrower and the
Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of, or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary


﻿-6-
in, the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi 110001
India
Cable address:                     Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            953-31354
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W,
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
B y
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By {/a.Q~                      ~-A
Regional Vice President
South Asia
... ....I


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On Each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1987
through   August 15, 2001                  6,335,000
On   February 15, 2002                          6,285,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 9 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                    1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                           3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                   9.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                   10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                   11.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  44      day of       ,198
7. RY


