OFFICAL         L           53 A i
The World Bank                                 1818 H Street N.W.       (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS$OCIATION          U.S.A.                   Cable Address: INDEVAS
Date   KI"U     ja
Mr. Jos6 Luis Gioja
Governor of the Ptovince of San Juan
Paula Albarracin 4e Sarmiento 134 Norte
Ciudad de San Juan (5400)
Provincia de San Juan
Repfiblica Argentina
Excellency:
Re: IBRD Loan 7853-AR (San Juan Social Inclusion and Development Project-SWAp) Additional
Instructions: Disbursement
I refer to the Loan Agreement (the Agreement) between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") and the Province of San Juan (the "Borrower) for
the above-referenced Project, dated August 31, 2011: The Agreement provides that the Bank
may issue additional instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Loan 7853-AR
("Loan"). This letter ("Disbursemen Letter"), as revised from time to time, constitutes the
additional instructions, and replaces the original Disbursement Letter dated August 31, 2011.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Quidelines") (Attachnent 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter.
The manner in *hich the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Loan is
specified below. *tions and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and
subsections in tho Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the
capitalized terms 4sed have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines or the
Agreement.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Loan:
* Reimbursement
* Advance
* Direct Payment (for Part C of the Project only, if necessary)
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is four
moos after the Closing Date specified in the Agreement. Any changes to this date will be
notified by the Bank.
ES CO           011rAP~%!IL


﻿(iii) Disbursement Conditions (subsection 3.8). Please refer to the Disbursement Condition(s)
m the Agreement (see Section IV.B of Schedule 2 to the Agreement).
II. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
(1) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1). A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should
be furnished to the Bank at the address indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen
signature(s) of the official(s) authorized to sign Applications:
The World Bank
Torre Bouchard
Bouchard 547,
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Attention:  Penelope J. Brook
Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
(1Y) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications
for withdrawal, together with supporting documents, to the address indicated below:
Banco Mundial
Setor Comercial Norte,
Quadra 02, Lote A
Edificio Corporate Finance Center
70 andar
70712-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Attention: Loan Department
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4). The Bank may permit the Borrower to electronically
deliver to the Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the Bank's Client
Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the Bank by electronic
means may be effected if: (a) the Borrower has designated in writing, pursuant to the terms of
subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign and deliver Applications
and to receive secure identification devices ("Tokens") from the Bank for the purpose of
delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such officials designated by the
Borrower have registered as users of Client Connection. If the Bank agrees, the Bank will
provide the Borrower with Tokens f:r the designated officials. Following which, the designated
officials may deliver Applications electronically by completing Form 2380, which is accessible
tuhro   Client Connection (http-s://clientconnection.worldbank.org).  The Borrower may
iitinue to exercise the option of preparing and delivering Applications in paper form. The
Bank reserves the right and may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the
electron delivery of Applications by the Borrower.
ES COMFI ~EL DEL OMINAWL                Page 2of 13
Cdol.I wc6UO Ac P6ND


﻿(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of Tokens to Process Applications. By designating officials
to accept Tokens and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Borrower
confirms through the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and
Conditions of Uso of Secure Identification Devices in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Appliations and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens") provide4 in Attachment 6; and (b) to deliver the Terms and Conditions of Use of
Tokens to each subh official and to caise such official to abide by those terms and conditions.
(v) Minimum VaAue of Applications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications for
the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance component under Part C of the Project is
Arg$300,000.
(vi) Advances (soctions 5 and 6) for the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance
component unde Part C of the Project.
* Type of Designated Accounts (subsection 5.3): Segregated (Specifically for the
Project, and exclusively to deposit Loan proceeds in respect of Part C of the Project)
* Currency of Designated Accounts (subsection 5.4): Arg$ - Argentine Pesos
* Financial Institution at which the Designated Accounts Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5): Banco de San Juan S.A.
* Ceiling (subsection 6.1): Arg$ 1,500,000.
(vi) Advances (s*ctions 5 and 6) for the Eligible Expenditures Program components under
Parts A and B ofthe Project.
*  Type of Designated Accounts (subsection 5.3): Pooled (Borrower's Single Treasury
Account)
*  Currency of Designated Accounts (subsection 5.4): Arg$ - Argentine Pesos
* Financial Institution at which the Designated Accounts Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5): Banco de San Juan SA.
*  Ceiling (subsection 6.1): Eligible Expenditures, which are a subset of the Eligible
Expenditures Programs, incurred by the Borrower for the reasonable costs of Personnel
Expenditures, as provided in the pertinent report referred to in Section II.B.2 of
Schedule 2 to the Agreement (i.e. Interim Unaudited Financial Report), and subject to
the amounts and conditions set forth in Section IV of this Disbursement Letter (Other
Disbursement Instructions - Withdrawal Application Schedule).
Page 3 of 13
Cd . RoG   R)
Mtl53A I   aeto ttM


﻿III. Reporting on Use of Loan Proceeds
A - For the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Component under Part C of
the Project:
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4).  Supporting documentation should be
provided with each application for withdrawal as set out below:
*  For requests for Reimbursement, if applicable, and for reporting
J                                    eligible expenditures paid from the Designated Account: records
(Attachment 3A, "SOEs" with supporting documents, evidencing
eligible expenditure, e.g., copies of receipts, supplier invoices ) for
payments made for: (i) Consulting Firms under contracts valued at
USD 1C0,000 equivalent or more; (ii) Individual Consultants under
contracts valued at USD 50,000 equivalent or more; and (iii) goods
under contracts valued at USD 300,000 equivalent or more.
*  Statement of Expenditures in the form attached (Attachment 3B,
"SOEs" with no supporting documentation) for payments against all
other contracts below SOE thresholds.
* List of Contracts Subject to Bank's Prior Review in the form
attached (Attachment 5)
For requests for direct payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g.,
copies of receipts, suppliers' invoices.
(ii)  Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from  the Designated
Account (subsection 6.3): Minimum frequency: Quarterly.
(Iii)  Other Supporting Documentation Instructions - A Designated Account activity
reconciliation statement and Bank Statement should be submitted with each
withdrawal applicatio:. reporting on the use of Loan proceeds from the Designated
Account.
B - For thl Eligible Expenditures Program components under Parts A and B of the
Proiect:
 (i)  Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be
provided with each application for withdrawal as set out below:
For requests for Reimbursement, if applicable, and for reporting Eligible
Expenditures paid from the Designated Account:
ES COM/FPa,grpof 13


﻿*  Interim Unaudited Financial Report in the form attached (Attachment 4)
detailing, inter alia, by sector - Education and Health -, and the amounts
to be advanced and actual Eligible Expenditures
(il) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account
(subsection 6.3): As described in Section IV of this Disbursement Letter (Other
Disbursenient Instructions - Withdrawal Application Schedule).
(ii) Other Supporting Documentation Instructions - A Designated Account activity
reconciliation statement, comparing amounts advanced by sector with actual eligible
expenditures by soctor, should be submitted with each withdrawal application reporting on the
use of Loan prqceeds from the Designated Account. Any balances arising from such
reconciliation willbe deducted from subsequent advances to the pertinent sector.
IV. Other Disbursement Instructions
Withdrawal Appilcation Schedule
1.     Each withdrawal application for Category (1) shall be presented using the following
schedule:
(a)    a first withdrawal shall be made, on the Effective Date or promptly thereafter, as a
reimbursement for payments made for Eligible Expenditures under EEPs during the
twolve month period prior to the date of the (original) Disbursement Letter dated August
3 1,! 2011 (which is consistent with the Loan Signing date), in an amount not exceeding
$9,975,000 equivalent in Pesos, if the Agency has furnished to the Bank the pertinent
intrim unaudited financial report (referred to in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the
Agreement), prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual,
documenting the Eligible Expenditures under the EEPs for the period mentioned herein;
(b)    a second withdrawal as an advance (in or around September 1, 2011) for Eligible
Expenditures under the EEPs to be paid for in the four calendar month period after the
date of the (original) Disbursement Letter dated August 31, 2011 (which is consistent
with the Loan Signing date), in an amount not exceeding $12,000,000 equivalent in
Pesos, if the Agency has furnished to the Bank the pertinent interim unaudited financial
report (referred to in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement), prepared in
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, forecasting the Eligible
Expenditures (including an indication of the percentage of Eligible Expenditures to be
financed under the Loan in respect of the EEPs) for the period mentioned herein;
(c)    a third withdrawal as an advance (in or around March 1, 2012) for Eligible Expenditures
under the EEPs to be pid for in the six calendar month period subsequent to January 1,
2012, in an amount not exceeding $12,000,000 equivalent in Pesos, if the Agency has
furnished to the Bank: (i) evidence, acceptable to the Bank, that the Borrower's
Legislature has approve d an annual budget for the year 2012, acceptable to the Bank, for
the EEPs; (ii) the pertinent interim unaudited financial report (referred to in Section
Page 5 of 13


﻿II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement), prepared in accordance with the provisions of the
Operational Manual, documenting the Eligible Expenditures under the EEPs for the
period mentioned in (b) herein, and forecasting the Eligible Expenditures under the EEPs
(including an indication of the percentage of Eligible Expenditures to be financed under
the Loan in respect of the EEPs) for the period mentioned herein; and (iii) evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank (as reflected in the pertinent Project Report mentioned in Section
II.A of Schedule 2 to the Agreement), that: (A) at least 70% of the EEP-HS and at least
70% of the EEP-ES, both for the calendar year 2010, have been disbursed by the
Borrower in said calendar year; and (B) the Borrower has complied with the DLIs for the
calendar year 2010;
(d)    a fourth withdrawal is an advance (in or around September 1, 2012) for Eligible
Expenditures under the EEPs to be paid for in the three month period subsequent to July
1, 2012, in an amount not exceeding $6,500,000 equivalent in Pesos, if the Agency has
furnished to the Bank the pertinent interim unaudited financial report (referred to in
Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement), prepared in accordance with the
provisions of the Operational Manual, documenting the Eligible Expenditures under the
EEPs for the period mentioned in (c) herein, and forecasting the Eligible Expenditures
under the EEPs (including an indication of the percentage of Eligible Expenditures to be
financed under the Loai in respect of the EEPs) for the period mentioned herein;
(e)    a fifth withdrawal which consists of a reimbursement (in or around March 1, 2013) for
payments made for Eli*gible Expenditures under the EEPs during the three month period
subsequent to October 1, 2012, in an amount not exceeding $6,500,000 equivalent in
Pesos, and both inclusive, as well as, if applicable, a disbursement of all undisbursed
Loan proceeds under Category (1), if the Agency has furnished to the Bank: (i) the
pertinent interim unaudited financial report (referred to in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to
the Agreement), prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual,
documenting the Eligible Expenditures under the EEPs for the period mentioned in (d)
herein, and any other applicable pending period, and (ii) evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank (as reflected in the pertinent Project Report mentioned in Section II.A of Schedule
2 to the Agreement), that: (A) at least 70% of the approved annual budget mentioned in
paragraph (c) (i) above for the EEP-HS and for the EEP-ES, both for the calendar year
2012, have been disbursed by the Borrower in said calendar year; and (B) the Borrower
has complied with the DLIs corresponding to EEP-ES for the calendar year 2011, and
with the DLIs corresponding to EP-HS for the calendar year 2012; and
(f)    If, as a result of the timing of the Effective Date, Eligible Expenditures under the EEPs
have already been incurred by the Borrower prior to any withdrawal of the Loan as
projected in paragraph I (a) through (e) above, withdrawals under said paragraphs will be
deemed to constitute reimbursement of Eligible Expenditures under the EEPs already
incurred to the extent such withdrawals in fact correspond to such incurred Eligible
Expenditures.
Effect of Partial Compliance with Disbursement Linked Indicators (as said term is defined
the Appendi to the Agirementi and the 70% Rule
2.     If the Bank has:
ESCmfEmCRA                                                                ag f1
DO10R


﻿(a)    received evidence of par;ial compliance of the 70% rule and of the DLIs mentioned in
paragraphs (b) and (c) below, then the maximum amount of the corresponding
withdrawal shall be reduced by an amount equal to the highest reduction resulting from
the 4pplication of paragrmphs (b) or (c) below, and the amount to be advanced in respect
of the EEP-HS and/or EEP-ES shall be reduced in the proportion to the percentage of
non-compliance of the 70% rule or the DLI for the pertinent sector (as applicable);
(b)    received evidence of partial compliance with the 70% rule that corresponds to the
relevant withdrawal referred to in paragraph I (c) and (e) above, then the maximum
amount of the corresponding withdrawal shall be reduced in proportion to the percentage
of non-compliance of the 70% rule in respect of the EEP-HS and/or of the EEP-ES (see
Formulae below):
[Formulae:   % of the projected EEPs disbursed / 70% = X%; X% - 100% = negative
Y%; negative Y% multiplied by the maximum amount of the withdrawal corresponding
to te relevant paragraph I (c) or (e) above = reduction to be taken from the maximum
amount of the withdrawal corresponding to the relevant paragraph I (c) or (e) above]; and
(c)    (i) eceived evidence of partial compliance with one or more DLIs that corresponds to the
relevant withdrawal referred to in paragraphs 1 (c) and (e) above, then: (A) except as
provided in (ii) below, the maximum amount of the corresponding withdrawal shall be
reduced in proportion to the percentage of non-compliance of the corresponding DLIs
(see Formulae below); (B) in respect of the relevant withdrawal referred to in paragraph I
(c) above, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank a time-bound action plan to achieve, in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank, such target or targets set forth in the pertinent DLI for
the calendar year 2010; and (C) as soon as the Bank is satisfied that such action plan has
been implemented, the Bank shall authorize, at the time of the fifth withdrawal referred to
in paragraph I (e) above, the withdrawal of the amount by which the corresponding
withdrawal had been rediced under this paragraph 2 (cXi):
[Formulae : % achievement of the relevant DLI / target % for the relevant DLI = X%;
X% - 100% = negative Y%; negative Y% multiplied by the maximum amount of the
withdrawal correspondirg to the relevant paragraph I (c) or (e) above = reduction to be
taken from the maximm amount of the withdrawal corresponding to the relevant
paragraph I (c) or (e) above]; and
(ii) received evidence of partial compliance with one or more DLIs that corresponds to
the relevant withdrawal referred to in paragraphs 1 (c) and (e) above in which the actual
progress of compliance (as "actual progress of compliance" is measured by the actual
incremental increase at the end of the pertinent calendar year over the Base Line for the
year 2008 for any given DLI) is below 50% of the expected progress of compliance (as
"expected progress of compliance" is measured by the expected incremental increase at
the end of the pertinen: calendar year over the Baseline for the year 2008) , then the
maximum amount of the corresponding withdrawal shall be reduced in the proportion to
the difference between the actual progress of compliance and the expected progress of
compliance.
ESCI F  .ELRI~~                        Page 7ofl13
r.       RLANDO )OFRE
e.u .  pjOrsmas IM Sector POW


﻿The Formulae mentioned in this paragraph 2 (c) (i) above shall not apply if: (i) the
incremental increase over the Base Line for the year 2008 for any given DLI is below
50% in which case the provisions in (cXii) above shall apply; and (ii) the target achieved
by the Borrower for any given DLI is equal or below the Base Line for the year 2008 for
the pertinent DLI in which case no withdrawal shall be made in respect of the
corresponding DLI.
For purposes of this paragraph 2 (c), each DLI will carry the same weight.
Rollover of Amounts not Disbursed
If the Bank has reduced the withdrawal provided for in paragraph 1(c) above due to partial
compliance with the 70% rule and/or the relevant DLIs, then the Bank shall authorize the unwithdrawn
portion of the Loan resulting from this partial compliance to be carried forward to the fifth withdrawal
referred to in paragraph I (e) above.
Submission of Loan Withdrawal Applications and Definition of Elifible Expenditures
4.     Loan withdrawal applications under Category (1) of the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to
the Agreement shall be presented to the Bank by the Borrower in accordance with the disbursement
schedule referred to in paragraph I of this Section IV.
Eligible Expenditures under Part A of the Project are those set forth in Category (1) of the table
in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement (which consists of Personnel Expenditures). As
mentioned in paragraph I of Section IV of this Disbursement Letter, the pertinent interim unaudited
financial report shall document the Eligible Expenditures under the EEPs for the pertinent period, and
include an indication of the percentage of Eligible Expenditures financed under the Loan in respect of the
EEPs.
V. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement Handbook available on the Bank's public website at http://www.worldbank.org
and its secure website "Client Connection" at http://clientconnection.worldbank.or. Print
copies are available upon request.
From the Client Connection website, you will be able to download Applications, monitor
the near real-time status of the Loan, and retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement
information.
If you have not already done so, the Bank recommends that you register as a user of the
Client Connection website (http://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website you will
,7be able to download Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Loan, and retrieve
-jxlatfd policy, financial, and procurement information. For more information about the website
and   registration  arrangements,   please   contact   the   Bank    by    email   at
<cliestconnection@worldbank.org>.
ES COPIA  flFL ORIGINAL               Page8ons
OR    JOFRE
doi. RO
.s..   I m k e Secto POWc


﻿If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Victor Ordonez, Finance
Officer at vcondeWworldbank.org using the above reference.
Yours sincerely,
Pen I   J, Brook
Director
Argenina, Paraguay and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Attachments:
*  Attachments number 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 provided in the original Disbursement Letter, dated
August 31, 2011, remain without any changes.
*  Attachment number 6 - Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices in
connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting
Documentation, dated January 20. 2010
Prepared by Jose Janeiro, amended by Victor Ordonez Conde, CTRLN
Cleare4WM-W cc: Alejandro Alcula, LEGLA
Norbert Fiess, LCSPE
Daniel Chalupowicz, LCSFM
ES COPIAFEL      RIGINAL
Page 9 of 13
Cd r. RO    ANDO )OFRE
Suqerentt   a'  N Sector POW
Aecie San Ian de Desarroode nuersione


﻿Cc with copies: Mr. Hernán Gaspar Lorenzino
Minister of Econony and Public Finance
Agencia San Juan de Desarrollo de Inversiones
Mr. Félix Camarasa
Executive Director
The World Bank
3
ES COPIAFIELDE    IGINAL
LANDO ]OFRE             Page 10 of 13
sue a e ua fnogp d ea   Stdo f Pibko
Ag21cia S nan jua  e  O MV~   de IftveflIfi


﻿Attachment 6
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Devices
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
January 20,2010
The World!Bank (Bank)' will provide secure identification devices (Tokens) to permit
the Borrower2 to deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments
under the Agreen*nt(s) and supporting documentation (such applications and supporting
documentation to ther referred to in these Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to
the Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
A.     Identificaon of Users.
1. The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter (ASL)
duly delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to deliver
Applications. The Bank will provide Tokens to each person identified in the ASL
(Signatory), as provided below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if a
Signatory is no longer authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2. Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clienconnection.worldbank.org ) prior to delivery of Tokens. Registration on CC
will require tist the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The Signatory shall
not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC Password in written or
other form. Upon registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be assigned a unique
identifying account name.
B.     Distribution, Initialization and Return of Tokens.
1. The Bank will phytically deliver a Token to each Signatory in a manner to be
determined by and satisfactory to the Bank.
2. At the time of delivery of a Token to a Signatory, the Signatory will receive a
copy of these Terms and Conditions of Use for purposes of initializing the
Token.
"Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
"Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the
recipient of a grant.
ES COPIABED      ORIGNtAL              Pg     f1
Z . Dr%A  "     l OFKE


﻿3. The Bank will verify that the Token, Temporary Password and Terms and
Conditions of Use have been duly delivered to and received by the CC User.
4. Promptly upon receipt of the Token and Terms and Conditions of Use, the
Signatory will access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and
register his/her T:ken and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be
used in connection with the use of his/her Token, after which the Token will
be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering
Applications. Upon initialization of the Token, the Signatory will be a
"Token User". ITe Bank will maintain in its database a user account
(Account) for ead Token User for purposes of managing the Token of the
Token User. Neither the Borrower nor the Token User will have any access
to the Account.
5. Prior to first use of the Token by the Token User for delivering Applications,
the Borrower shall ensure that the Token User has received training materials
provided by the Bank in use of the Token.
6. Tokens shall be promptly returned to the Bank upon request of the Bank.
C      Management of Tokens.
1. Tokens will remaii the property of the Bank.
2. Use of the Token is5 strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by
the Token User in the manner prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s)
and these Terms aid Conditions. Any other use of the Token is prohibited.
3. The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of
the Token by the Token User, other representatives of the Borrower, or third
parties.
4. The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank
(such representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank
in delivery of a Token to each Token User) that each Token User is provided,
understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of Use, including
without limitation the following:
Security
4.1. The Token User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN
in written or other form.
4.2. The Token User shall not allow anyone else to utilize a Token to deliver an
Application to the Bank
ESC   L-LORGtMAL                  Page 12 of 13
ESCO         L LORG
e, a       LANDO 10FR


﻿4.3. The Token User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure
to logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4. If the Token User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost
his/her Token he/she shall immediately notify clientconnection@worldbank.org.
4.5. The Borrower shall immediately notify the Bank at
cliegconnection@worldbank.org of any lost, stolen or compromised Tokens, and
take other reasonable steps to ensure such Tokens are disabled immediately.
Care of Tokens
4.6. Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore should
be handled with due caze, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to
extreme temperatures, crushed or bent. Also, Tokens should be kept more than
five (5) cm from devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as
mobile phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices.
Tokens should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At close
range (less than 5 cm), these devices can output high levels of EMR that can
interfere with the proper operation of electronic equipment, including the Token.
4.7   Without derogating frcm these Terms and Conditions of Use, other
technical instructions on the p:.oper use and care Tokens are available at
http://www.rsa.com.
5. Replacement
5.1. Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Tokens will be
replaced at the expense of the Borrower.
5.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Token in the
case of misuse, or not to reactivate a Token User's Account
6. Reservation of Right to disable Token
6.1. The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a Token User
to use a Token for any reason.
6.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently
disable a Token, de-activate a Token User's Account or both.
ES VAIE  OIGOLPage 13 of 13
I,
Cdot.         DO)0FRE
u               POW
Subpmentti d   I f l


