Y  t-\ E-T
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No.  PU-107a
APPRAISAL OF
ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
November 10, 1972
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Public Utilities Projects Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group, It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =            Israeli Pound (IC)
I£ 1                                   100 agorot
US$ 1                                  It 4.20
US$ 1 million             =            It 4,200,000
IC 1                                   US$ 0.24
I£ 1 million              =            US$ 238,095
ABBREVIATIONS
mm     =      millimeter               0.039 inches
m-     =       square meter    =       1.196 square yards
m3     =       cubic meter     =       264.2 US gallons
kg     =      kilogram         =       2.205 lbs
ha     =      hectare                  2.471 acres
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Israel and local authorities = April 1 to March 31



ISRAEL
APPRAISAL OF THE ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................. ...oo..o.o...   i
Is  INTRODUCTION ..........* .......................*.   1
II.   THE SEWERAGE SECTOR ..........* ............. ........   1
The Sewerage Problem      ..................................   1
Sector Organization  . o..................................   2
III.   THE PROJECT .............  .......o... oo...........   3
Project Description ........   ................. .........   3
Project Costs ......... ***.***0.**.. .******...*...**..   4
Procurement and Disbursement ......00                  0.................   5
Project Administration * .* * o * * oo* ee......oeeeeeoeeo Seo..   6
Ecology .*.....*....*Ce...S....*...o.o.** .....*....so  8
Effect on International Waterways      .....................    8
Project Supervision      ...................................   8
IV.   JUSTIFICATION ................. 9.....*...*..*....**   9
V.   THE BENEFICIARIES . ....******..*..********.************  10
Introduction *.........................................  10
Local Authorities ....eee *eeeeee *eeee eceecee. .... ... .  10
Financial Administration ..................               11
Audit . ........ e .............eso......................  12
Central Administration eeeeeeeeeeee.eeeeeeeee.eeeeeee..  12
VI.   FINANCE ................ o*eoo.ee oee .o.o  ...so ......o.  13
Past Record and Present Position e.ee.ee.ee.e.ee..ee  13
Financing Plan ...........eeeeeee see. ....e e.e.e .........  13
Terms of Loans ..........e.. e.ee.eee.eeeeeeeeee.eeeeee.  14
Revenues  .eeeeeeeeee.eeeeeeee......eeeee.e...ee....  16
Financial Forecasts .... eeeeee...ee               ..    17
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......... ....   17
This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of Messrs.
Reekie and Jones o.Z IBRD and Messrs. Stevens and Laugeri of WHO which
visited Israel in April-May 1972.






ISRAEL
APPRAISAL OF THE ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annexes
1.   Communities and Works Included in Project
2.   Program of Expenditure on Tertiary Treatment and Treatment
of Industrial Wastewater
3.   Details of Project Costs
4.   Basis of Design
5.   Calculation of Foreign Exchange Component
6.   Proposed Procurement Arrangements
7.   Disbursement Schedule
8.   Disbursement Procedures and Lending Arrangements
9.   Chart of Project Administration and Control Organization
10.   Details of Overall Local Authority Finances
11.   Details of Financial Position of Commercial Banks
12.   Financial Forecasts - Central Sewerage Loans Fund
13.   Proposed Sewerage Tariffs
Map
1.   Location of Projects






ISRAEL
APPRAISAL OF THE ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for improvements to the sewer
systems of 75 communities throughout Israel, for which a Bank loan of US$30
million is proposed. This would be the first time a national sewerage proj-
ect has been financed by a Bank loan. Israel's rapid development over the
last 20 years has not been accompanied by a corresponding expansion of its
sewerage facilities. As a result, a great deal of crude or inadequately
treated sewage is discharged, with detrimental effects on the nation's
limited water resources and the environment, as well as presenting a poten-
tial health hazard. In addition to dealing with these problems the project
will improve Israel's water supply position by making available increased
quantities of effluent of a quality suitable for re-use.
ii.       The Government has proposed a national sewerage program of which
the project, with a construction period of five years, will form the first
stage. The individual sub-projects have been prepared by consulting en-
gineering firms on behalf of the existing local sewerage authorities, each
of which will be responsible for the construction of its own works. The
project is estimated to cost US$75.33 million and the proposed loan, which
would be made to the Government, would cover the full foreign exchange costs,
estimated at 40%. Of the balance the Government would lend 30% and two com-
mercial banks would each lend 15%, through a Central Sewerage Loans Fund
administered by the commercial banks. The sub-borrowers would be charged
interest at 9% and the Government would bear the inflation and foreign ex-
change risks.
iii.      A Project Director has been appointed with responsibility for the
control, administration and execution of the project. He will have adequate
supporting staff and arrangements have been made to ensure that his decisions
will be implemented by the local authorities. Arrangements have also been
made to ensure that the Water Commissioner, who is the Project Director, will
be able to require the effective operation and maintenance of all sewerage
facilities of every participating authority.
iv.       All procurement will be subject to international bidding.  Bids
for supply of goods or equipment will be compared on the basis of C.I.F.
prices with a 15% margin of preference for goods manufactured in Israel.
With a view to encouraging international bids, contracts for civil works
will be combined as far as practicable to form joint tenders for groups of
local authorities.
v.        Each local authority will keep separate accounts for sewerage
broadly in accordance with the pattern of accounting arrangements used for
its other activities. Acceptable financial forecasts have been prepared for



- ii -
each local authority and submitted to the IBRD. The present auditing arrange-
ments are unsatisfactory and the Government proposes to introduce procedures
for the local authorities' accounts to be audited by firms of professional
accountants.
vi.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$30 million, repayable
in 25 years including a five-year grace period.



ISRAEL
APPRAISAL OF THE ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1971 the Government of Israel asked the Bank to consider a loan
to help finance a sewerage project, which would form the first stage of a
continuing national sewerage program. The proposed project is estimated to
cost about It 316 million (US$75 million). A Bank loan of US$30 million is
proposed to finance the foreign exchange costs.
1.02      The project consists of urgently needed improvements to the sewer
systems of 75 separate urban communities. The individual sub-projects have
been designed by a number of Israeli consulting engineering firms. Their
work has been supervised and coordinated on behalf of the government by an
Israeli firm, Tahal Consulting Engineers Limited, which produced the feasi-
bility study for the project.
1.03      Pre-appraisal missions visited Israel in July and November 1971
and agreed on the scope of the project and basic design criteria. An ap-
praisal mission, comprising Messrs. Reekie and Jones of the IBRD and Messrs.
Stevens and Laugeri of WHO, visited Israel in April/May 1972. Following
review by the mission, the construction program was rescheduled. This re-
port is based on the Tahal feasibility study and the findings of the ap-
praisal mission.
II. THE SEWERAGE SECTOR
The Sewerage Problem
2.01      The provision of sewerage, and more particularly, of adequate
treatment facilities, has lagged far behind Israel's rapid rate of develop-
ment. The population has increased from about one million in 1950 to over
three million today; in 1971 the estimated gross national product was about
IU 8,800 (US$2,100) per capita. While a few small communities still depend
on individual septic tanks and percolating pits, most of the urban areas have
central sewer systems. Some of these systems are very limited in extent,
serving a small proportion of a community and discharging crude sewage while
others are more extensive with sewers serving most of the built-up areas and
incorporating some form of sewage treatment. The great majority of treatment
works consists of oxidation ponds (shallow lagoons, in which purification
of the waste matter is by natural transfer of oxygen from the air). In only
two instances is conventional secondary biological treatment provided and
these plants, like most of the oxidation ponds, are seriously overloaded.
The standard of maintenance in all but a very few authorities is poor.



-2-
2.02      In a number of seaside towns, notably Tel Aviv and Nahariyya,
crude sewage is discharged to the sea with detrimental effect on the bath-
ing beaches. In many inland towns crude or inadequately treated sewage is
discharged to water courses which are otherwise dry for much of the year.
This is ecologically and aesthetically objectionable and can be a serious
health hazard.
2.03      Potentially the most serious consequence of inadequate treat-
ment and disposal of sewage is the deterioration of the quality of the
country's limited fresh water resources. Both the surface waters, of the
River Jordan and Lake Kinneret, and the groundwater aquifers are endangered
by pollution from various sources, the most important of which are sewage,
industrial effluents and agricultural chemicals. Such deterioration of
water quality is not normally an "all or nothing" effect, only a process
which gradually restricts the uses to which the water can be put without
more expensive treatment. However, as the water used in Israel is already
near tolerance limits in many places, even a gradual deterioration may
soon have a serious effect.
2.04      Israel is estimated to have a total fresh water potential of only
about 1,500 million m3 per annum and total water use has already reached
that level. The country must now, therefore, consider augmentation from
less conventional sources including the reuse of sewage. The reuse of
effluent for agricultural irrigation is already widespread and totals
about 20 million m3 per annum; but the use to which it is put is often
limited by the quality.
2.05      The Government considered that a national sewerage plan with
a continuing construction program was required to overcome these problems
of poor sanitary facilities, potential health hazards, possible restric-
tions on development and deterioration of the environment and of the nation's
water resources. Outline schemes were therefore drawn up for the most
urgently needed works, estimated to cost about IL 500 million (US$120 million).
From these the schemes of highest priority were selected to form the proposed
project.
Sector Organization
2.06      Sewerage in Israel is among the various services administered by
municipalities, local councils and regional councils, collectively known
as local authorities. In three instances, however, a number of local
authorities have transferred their responsibilities for joint sewers and
treatment works to Associations of Towns, which have the legal status of
local authorities.
2.07      Implementation of sewerage works under the jurisdiction of local
authorities is supervised by the Ministry of the Interior. However, because
of the potential effects on the activities of other ministries, the supervision
and planning of sewerage works is controlled and coordinated by an Inter-
Ministerial Committee, consisting of the Directors-General of the Ministries
of the Interior (Chairman), Agriculture, Health, Housing and Finance and the
Water Commissioner.



- 3-
2.08      Israel's water resources, the quality of which is vitally affected
by the adequacy of the nation's sewerage facilities, are publicly owned. Pro-
duction and supply is regulated by the Water Commissioner who is responsible
to the Minister of Agriculture. Production and wholesale distribution through-
out the country is the responsibility of a national public utility company,
Mekoroth, which provides water from Lake Kinneret and other sources for
agriculture and for wholesale distribution to local authorities.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The project, which will have a construction period of five years,
consists of 78 sub-projects to improve the sewer systems of 75 local author-
ities and 3 regional associations of towns. It will include the construction
of about 500 km of sewers and force mains, about 80 pumping stations and about
40 treatment works. The communities to be served range in size from a few
hundred persons in small villages to over 850,000 in the Greater Dan (Tel
Aviv) area. The population of the local authorities included in the project
now totals about 2.3 million and is expected to have increased to about 3.5
million by 1985. All the sub-projects are within the 1948 cease-fire lines
and the location of each is shown on the attached map. A brief description
of each sub-project is given in Annex 1. During the project period, develop-
ment priorities may change. It is therefore proposed to provide for a periodic
review of the scope of the project and to arrange for amendment to and sub-
stitution for the sub-projects as appraised. Any amendments or substitutions
will be subject to IBRD approval.
3.02      The project does not include any tertiary treatment 1/ works.  How-
ever, in the Haifa, Dan and Ayyalon Regional Schemes the necessary tertiary
treatment will be provided outside the project. At Haifa part of the sewage
flow will receive tertiary treatment to enable it to be re-used for industrial
purposes. In the Dan and Ayyalon schemes considerable additional expenditure
will be required for tertiary treatment to enable the effluent to be re-
charged to the groundwater aquifer for re-use. Further study is required to
determine the most suitable and economic type of treatment. Also excluded
from the project are house connections and small sewers in new housing de-
velopments, the cost of which will be met by the property owners or developers.
3.03      The Government has recognized that the full benefits of environ-
mental improvements can be reaped only when all the major sources of pollu-
tion are brought under control, and has accordingly prepared a separate
national program to deal with the problem of industrial waste-water disposal.
The proposed annual expenditures during the project period on this program
1/   A third stage treatment given to sewage in instances where the use or
disposal of effluent demands a quality higher than can be achieved
from the biological processes normally used.



and on the proposed tertiary treatment facilities referred to in paragraph
3.02 are shown in Annex 2.
Project Costs
3.04      The cost of the project is summarized below and full details are
given in Annex 3.
Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   % of total
--Millions IE       … ---Millions US$ ----   expenditure
Sewers             35.71    16.04   51.75    8.50    3.82   12.32       16.4
Force Mains        14.06      7.57   21.63    3.35    1.80    5.15       6.8
Pumping Stations   13.61    12.57   26.18    3.24    2.99    6.23        8.3
Treatment Works    51.88    51.41  103.29   12.35   12.24   24.59       32.6
Disposal
Facilities        3.62      2.94    6.56    0.86    0.70    1.56       2.1
Land                 1.19      -      1.19    0.28      -      0.28      0.4
Total
Construction
Costs           120.07    90.53  210.60   28.58   21.55   50.13       66.6
Engineering        23.51      4.81   28.32    5.60    1.14    6.74       8.9
Contingencies
- Physical    21.05    13.98   35.03    5.01    3.33    8.34       11.1
- Price       25.52    16.95   42.47    6.08    4.04   10.12       13.4
Total             190.15   126.27  316.42   45.27   30.06   75.33    100.0
3.05      These costs, which were estimated by the consultants in consultation
with the appraisal mission, are based on outline designs and layout plans and
on unit rates derived from average bid prices for similar works in Israel in
1970. In some sub-projects detailed engineering is fairly far advanced; the
overall average allowance of 15% for physical contingencies should therefore
be adequate. The allowance for price contingencies estimated by the consultants
anticipates an average annual increase of 5% in both foreign and domestic prices;
the domestic price contingency reflects Government policy to restrict inflation
to this level. However, during periods of full employment domestic prices
have increased by about 8% per annum. If this trend should continue, the total



cost of the project would increase by about If 20.5 million (US$4.9 million).
During negotiations assurances were obtained that, if the cost of the project
exceeds the estimated figure, the Government will ensure that the additional
finance will be made available to complete the project within the five-year
construction period.
3.06      The project components are satisfactory.  For each of the sub-
projects the Inter-Ministerial Committee (Paragraph 2.04) required the
consultants to propose alternatives and indicate the preferred solution to
each local problem. While it has not been possible to examine each sub-
project in sufficient detail to verify that the least-cost solution has been
proposed in each of the 78 cases, each has been the subject of a desk study
and a brief site inspection by Bank or WHO staff to ensure that the proposal
is reasonable. A more detailed financial and engineering examination was
made during pre-appraisal and appraisal of nine of the largest schemes
covering about 60% of the total cost and four of the smaller schemes.
Examination was also made of the engineering or financial aspects of those
sub-projects where scrutiny of the feasibility reports indicated particular
problems. The demand forecasts are based on population projections prepared
by the Ministry of the Interior. The per capita flows and loadings are
based on water consumption figures and a few typical analyses of sewage
samples, adjusted to allow for future increases in living standards. The
basis of design of the project is shown in Annex 4.
3.07      The foreign exchange component of the project was estimated on the
basis of expected direct imports plus the estimated import content of those
domestic production sectors whose products will be used for the project.
The calculation of the foreign exchange component is shown in Annex 5. The
proposed IBRD loan of US$30 million would cover the full estimated foreign
exchange component of the project, which constitutes approximately 40% of
the total project cost.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.08      All procurement will be subject to international oidding, in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Bids for the supply
of goods or equipment will be compared on the basis of C.I.F. prices with 15;
margin of preference or the actual duty, whichever is lower, for domestic
suppliers whenever foreign suppliers tender. Contracts will be combined as
far as practicable to form joint tenders for groups of local authorities to
encourage bids from foreign contractors. Amendments to legislation have been
made to permit or require local authorities to enter into joint tendering
arrangements. In the case of civil works contracts, which include the supply
of pipes, grouping presents no great difficulty, but it is expected that most
of these contracts will be won by Israeli firms. Because of the variety of
electrical and mechanical plant and equipment required for the various sub-
projects, there is less scope for combining these contracts and in a number
of instances it may be necessary to take tenders for only one sub-project.
Where tenders for the supply of plant or equipment are relatively low in
value and the goods are manufactured in Israel, foreign firms are likely to
show little interest in bidding. Agreement has been reached on the grouping



- 6 -
of contracts to be issued up to March 31, 1974. Details of the proposed
procurement arrangements are shown in Annex 6.
3.09      The Bank loan would be disbursed against 40% of all project costs,
the estimated average foreign exchange component (paragraph 3.07). The
estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 7 and the disbursement
procedure is detailed in Annex 8. A number of project works, estimated to
cost about IL 3.2 million (US$0.8 million) are considered urgent. Tenders
for these will not be grouped and will be subject to IBRD bidding procedures
with an abbreviated tender period of six weeks. Retroactive financing is
proposed of not more than US$250,000 in respect of engineering costs incurred
after December 1, 1971. The Executive Directors have been advised of the
proposed retroactive financing in the Monthly Operational Summary.
3.10      A construction program has been agreed up to March 31, 1974.  In
January of each year, starting in 1974, the Project Director will submit to
IBRD his proposed program for the following Israeli fiscal year. This pro-
gram will include details of any amendments to or substitutions for the
sub-projects as appraised, and, where appropriate, details of proposed com-
plementary expenditures on works not included in the project, for example
for industrial waste water treatment.
3.11      It is proposed that, if construction costs less than is estimated,
any surplus funds be disbursed against additional sub-projects which form
part of the national sewerage program and which would be completed within
the project period. These additional sub-projects would be subject to
IBRD appraisal procedures and approval.
Project Administration
3.12      Because local autonomy is an important factor in Israel's govern-
mental structure, and in the absence, at present, of compelling reasons for
centralization, sewerage administration should be left largely in the hands
of existing local authorities, subject only to the same pattern of control
and supervision as is applicable to other local governmental administration.
Except in the main urban areas little physical interconnection of sewer
systems is either necessary or practical, though in a small number of cases
joint maintenance arrangements would be beneficial. However, it has been
agreed that the organization and administration of the project requires some
form of centralized arrangements for supervising the execution of the sub-
projects by the 75 local authorities and 3 regional associations of towns.
3.13      The Central Government has appointed the Water Commissioner as
Project Director. He will ensure that the works which form part of the
project are in accordance with the plans approved by the Inter-Ministerial
Committee, which is responsible for the coordination and supervision of the
project. He will ascertain that the appropriate tender and bid evaluation
procedures are followed, keep the project timetable under review and arrange
for any necessary adjustments or substitutions. Because of the Water
Commissioner's other commitments, an Assistant Project Director will be
appointed to work full-time on the project. A chart of the proposed project
administration and control organization is in Annex 9.



3.14      The Ministry of the Interior, the government authority with statutory
power to approve local authority borrowing, will give approval for project
loans on the basis of recommendations from the Project Director. His depart-
ment will be suitably staffed and adequate arrangements will be made to ensure
that his decisions regarding the project will be implemented, and that each
of the local authorities will participate in the project.
3.15      Tahal Consulting Engineers Limited has been designated Project
Engineer, responsible to the Project Director for the coordination and super-
vision of the work of several consulting engineering firms employed by the
individual local authorities for the preparation of the sub-projects. These
firms will also be responsible for procurement and supervision of construction
under the overall surveillance of the Project Engineer. These arrangements
should be adequate for the technical supervision of the project.
3.16      Each sub-project will be constructed, operated and maintained by
either a local authority or a formally constituted association of such
authorities. Each is already legally responsible for sewerage and most have
been operating sewer systems over a number of years. The operations of the
authorities are subject in all respects to detailed government supervision.
3.17      While the Water Commissioner can control discharges of sewage and
enforce standards of treatment, the provision of sewer systems and other
aspects of operation and maintenance are controlled by the Ministries of
the Interior and Health. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
adequate arrangements will be made to enable the Water Commissioner or other
official designated by the government to require the effective operation
and maintenance of all sewerage facilities of the participating authorities,
and that his department will be organized and staffed in such a way as to
ensure the supervision and enforcement of adequate standards. Provision
will also be made for the improved collection of data on quantities and
strength of sewage and effluent to permit timely provision and expansion of
facilities, and to allow the design of the later stages of the project to
benefit from the operational experience on the earlier stages. The necessary
inspectorate and testing and data collection arrangements could be provided
by contract with Mekoroth or some other suitable agency.
3.18      Administration, financial control and general technical supervision
of the new sewerage works should be within the capability of existing local
authorities. However, detailed operation and maintenance of the new systems
is likely to be beyond the current capabilities of many of them. Each author-
ity will be required to enter into a contract for operation and maintenance
with Mekoroth or some other suitable agency, unless it can be clearly shown
to the satisfaction of the Water Commissioner that the authority can operate
and maintain its own system without such arrangements.
3.19      Whatever arrangements are made for operation and maintenance,
additional staff will be required with increased technical skills. To meet
this need the Government will have to institute a suitable training program.
Mekoroth already has staff training arrangements covering a variety of skills



- 8 -
and these arrangements could be adapted and expanded to meet the needs.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government will adopt
a training program   satisfactory to the IBRD, not later than December 1, 1974.
3.20      The Ministry of the Interior will supervise the administration
of the new systems as it now does for existing systems and for local
government generally. The Ministry of Health will supervise the public
health aspects of the project as it now does for existing systems.
Ecology
3.21      The project, which includes provision for the extensive re-use of
waste-water, will materially improve the environment and the conservation of
water resources. It will substantially reduce the quantities of untreated
and inadequately treated sewage which will be discharged to wadis, rivers
and the sea and of pollutants reaching underground aquifers. By improving
the treatment processes, the offensive smells produced at many treatment
plants will be reduced.
Effect on International Waterways
3.22      The project will improve the quality of effluents which are already
being discharged to the Gulf of Aqaba (Elat) and the River Jordan. At Elat
all the effluent will normally be used for irrigation and the discharge will
be to the sea only in an emergency.
Project Supervision
3.23      Because of the large number of sub-projects involved, responsibility
for much of the detailed supervision will inevitably fall upon the Project
Director's office. The Project Director will be required to send periodically
to the Bank summaries of the technical and financial progress, indicating
particular difficulties which are arising. Bank supervision missions will
concentrate upon these problems and make such other investigations of progress
as they consider appropriate. During the early stages of construction, when
an assessment will have to be made of the effectiveness of the supervisory
arrangements implemented by the Project Director, semi-annual supervision
missions will be needed. Once satisfactory arrangements have been established
it should be possible to reduce the frequency of such missions.



- 9 -
IV. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      The objectives of the project are to protect and conserve Israel's
limited water resources and to improve the country's environment and public
health, with related tourism benefits, by reducing pollution and by providing
sewer systems and treatment plants required to serve the growing needs of
Israel to 1985.
4.02      These objectives can be attained only if every s'ignificant urban
community participates in the national program. However, the separate sub-
projects pursue the objectives differently, depending on their location.
Beach pollution, for example, is a major concern only along parts of the
coast and around Lake Kinneret, while agricultural re-use of effluent is
less important in the north of the country than further south. Each sub-
project has been verified to be a reasonable solution to the sewerage prob-
lems of the community it is to serve (paragraph 3.06). However, in view of
the large number of sub-projects and the difficulty in measuring benefits
from pollution control, this section is addressed to the justification of the
national sewerage program as a whole, not of each of the 78 sub-projects.
4.03      The project benefits include all those normally associated with
sewerage improvements such as the elimination of public health hazards, of
aesthetic nuisances, and of the need for individual septic tanks and private
disposal arrangements. Failure to improve the inadequate collection and
treatment of sewage will risk increasing incidence of disease and a deteri-
oration of the environment for the Israeli population. There would be a
corresponding reduction in the country's attractiveness to tourists which
would imply a serious setback to Israel's development effort; the tourist
industry is now a large and rapidly growing foreign exchange earner for the
country.
4.04      The project is expected to have far-reaching effects on the conserva-
tion of water resources (paragraph 2.03). Although it is impossible to fore-
cast when, in the absence of the project, the water would become unfit for a
particular use, protecting Israel's scarce and now fully utilized fresh water
supplies would be one of the most important benefits of the national sewerage
program.
4.05      The country is estimated to have a total fresh water potential of
only about 1,500 million m3 per annum and total water use has now reached that
level. By 1985, the project will add to the usable water in the country about
170 million m3 of treated sewage per year, and thereby make possible a signif-
icant increase in the area that can be irrigated for agriculture. Present
constraints on irrigated agriculture are due to lack of water, not lack of
suitable land. There is at present some resistance by farmers to the use of
effluent but this should be overcome when alternative supplies of water are
no longer available at prices which they consider reasonable.



- 10 -
4.06      These benefits, which relate to the preservation of quality of life
and the potential for future economic growth, are not readily quantifiable,
but will certainly exceed those measured by the 9% financial return on the
investment in each sub-project. Since the project will be wholly debt
financed, this return will take the form of service of the debt incurred by
each local authority for its sub-project (paragraph 5.01).
V. THE BENEFICIARIES
Introduction
5.01      The administration of the project requires a central authority to
serve as borrower from the Bank on behalf of the 78 participating authorities.
The proposed IBRD loan for 40% of the project cost will therefore be made to
the Government of Israel which will bear the foreign exchange risks. These
funds will be pooled with loans from the central government (30 percent) and
from two commercial banks (30 percent) in a Central Sewerage Loans Fund created
specifically for the project. This fund will be administered, under the
supervision of the Ministry of Finance, by two commercial banks which are
the normal bankers for most local authorities. The pool of funds will be on-
lent to the 78 authorities, which are the beneficiaries of the project. The
project will be wholly debt financed, because the local authorities are un-
able to finance any part of the investment costs. The local authorities will
repay the loans received out of sewerage revenues. Details of the lending
arrangements are described in Section VI.
Local Authorities
5.02      Each local authority in Israel is responsible for sewerage Jn its
community except for three areas of continuous urban development where re-
sponsibility for trunk sewers, pumping stations and treatment works serving
the areas of more than one local authority has been transferred to a regional
authority known formally as an Association of Towns. Each Association of
Towns, though established for a special purpose, has similar legal status
to that of a local authority.
5.03      The local authorities comprise about 30 municipalities, about 115
local councils and about 50 regional councils. Municipalities have the widest
responsibilities and include urban areas with populations ranging from 10,000
to well over 100,000. Most of the remaining urban areas are administered by
local councils, with populations ranging from less than 2,500 to about 25,000.
Regional councils administer rural areas outside the jurisdiction of municipal-
ities and local councils.  Some areas of the country (e.g. the international
airport and certain other government-controlled areas) are not under the juris-
diction of any local authority but are directly administered by the central
government.



- 11 -
5.04      The powers and duties of local authorities are strictly regulated
by legislation. The law gives the Minister of the Interior and central gov-
ernment officials, wide powers of control over local authority finances and
administration. Each local authority must have its budgets approved annually
by the central government and no authority may borrow for capital expenditure
without governmental consent.
5.05      Current expenditures of the authorities are financed from both
national and local sources. The central government provides grants towards
expenditure on specific services deemed to have a national character, and
also makes general grants to supplement local revenue from taxes and service
charges. Most capital expenditure is financed from loans, the resulting debt
service forming part of annual current expenditures in future years.
5.06      The main problems facing local authorities are those of limited
autonomy and limited financial resources. Many local communities would like
greater autonomy but successive governments have been reluctant to reduce the
scope of their control.
Financial Administration
5.07      The financial administration of each authority is in the hands of
a treasurer, who is responsible to the mayor. Standards vary among author-
ities, but within the bounds imposed by governmental accounting and budgetary
procedures, the treasurers seem reasonably capable and their departments are
well organized. Billing is usually efficiently handled, frequently by compu-
ters. Collection procedures are not always followed as effectively or as
promptly as they might be but there are no serious problems with the public.
Where debts are owed by one authority to another, more serious delays and
prolonged inter-authority arguments occur from time to time.
5.08      Financial records of the authorities are maintained on a modified
cash basis. There is considerable accrual of expenditures but very little
accrual of revenue. Revenues and expenditures are allocated to standard bud-
get categories laid down by the central government. Neither fixed assets
nor long-term liabilities are recorded in the accounts and no allowance is
made for depreciation. A few of the larger authorities have their own compu-
ters, whilst the majority make use of joint centralized computer arrangements.
In each case, monthly statements are produced.
5.09      The budgetary accounts are divided into two main parts:  an "ordi-
nary" budget which deals mainly with recurrent annual revenues and expendi-
tures and an "extra-ordinary" budget which records receipts and payments on
development projects. The two budgets are only partly analogous to an operat-
ing budget and a capital budget because transfers are made arbitrarily between
the budgets. There has been no attempt thus far to earmark sewerage revenues
against sewerage expenditures. Since sewerage tariffs have not been sufficient
to cover all sewerage expenditures, a considerable part of these expenditures
have been financed from general revenues.



- 12 -
5.10      The basic accounting arrangements are generally satisfactory, but
worthwhile improvements could still be made. The Ministry of the Interior
is il. the process of establishing a new control department to review these
arrangements and to carry out a continuous evaluation and supervision of local
authority finance, administration and management.
5.11      Separate accounts will be kept for sewerage within the framework
of the accounting procedures for all local authority activities. The pro-
posed arrangements will be adequate to ensure the proper financial manage-
ment of local authorities' sewerage activities.
Audit
5.12      Accounts of local authorities are checked periodically during each
financial year by officials of the Ministry of the Interior. In addition,
the State Controller's Office, as part of its responsibility for public fi-
nance generally, checks the accounts of each authority, but not necessarily
annually. An annual audit of local authority accounts, as normally under-
stood, is not made and annual audited financial statements for individual
authorities are not published.
5.13      The government recognizes that this situation is unsatisfactory and
is arranging to introduce procedures for the accounts of all local authorities
to be audited by firms of professional accountants. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that local authority accounts (including those for sewer-
age) will be audited in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Central Administration
5.14      The local authorities are subject to administrative supervision by
the Ministry of the Interior and other government departments. However, al-
though the Ministry of the Interior has a number of competent staff in charge
of local authority supervision, their work has in the past been hampered by
staff shortages, inter-departmental constraints, budgetary limitations and a
lack of specialists in municipal finance. The government acknowledges that
the present situation is not entirely satisfactory and the sewerage project
is giving impetus to a number of improvements, including closer liaison be-
tween government departments and better relationships with local authorities.
In addition the Ministry of the Interior is considering the possibility of
the short-term recruitment of advisors, specializing in various aspects of
municipal finance.



- 13 -
VI. FINANCE
Past Record and Present Position
6.01      Although future sewerage activities are to be separately accounted
for and largely self-financing, they cannot be isolated from the general prob-
lems of local authority finance; cash shortages in other activities could
result in temporary difficulties for the sewerage account.
6.02      The financial performance of local authorities is not satisfactory.
For a considerable number of years, local authorities have not been permitted
by the Government to raise local taxes and charges to levels which, together
with Government grants, would cover all current payments. In addition, the
repayment periods of many loans for capital expenditure have been considerable
shorter than the lives of the related fixed assets, in a situation not justi-
fied by the local authorities' cash positions. To cover the resulting cash
shortages, the authorities have been forced to seek debt relief by raising
additional loans and to include the resulting debt service in subsequent arin
nual budgets. The government has become increasingly aware of the detrimental
effects of these policies on local authority finances. It is therefore re-
viewing its financial policies, including grant arrangements, to permit
and encourage authorities to balance their ordinary budgets in the future.
6.03      Aggregate figures for the ordinary budgets (paragraph 5.09) of all
local authorities in Israel show present operating expenditures (including
debt service) to be of the order of IL 1200 million, of which about 10% is on
sanitation, including sewerage and solid waste disposal. Deficits not covered
by current revenues amount to about 5% to 10% of expenditures.
6.04      Development expenditures from the extra-ordinary budget (paragraph
5.09) are running at IL 300-350 million of which about IL 20-25 million is on
sanitation. In 1969/70 about 70% of these expenditures were financed from
loans, with government grants and owners contributions accounting for about
10% each and the remaining 10% coming from such sources as property sales and
ordinary budget contributions. Details of overall local authority finances
are given in Annex 10.
Financing Plan
6.05      The project is to be financed wholly by loans to the local authori-
ties (paragraph 5.01). It will be government policy not to permit any other
construction of sewerage works during the project period, except for cases
where additional works are considered urgent and adequate provision is made
for their financing.



- 14 -
6.06      The total cost of the project, (paragraph 3.04), is It 316.42 mil-
lion (US$75.33 million) which would be financed by loans from the following
sources:
If       US$         %
-millions-
IBRD                                 126.00    30.00       39.8
Government                            95.21    22.67       30.1
Bank Leumi le Israel B.M.             47.605   11.33       15.05
Bank Hapoalim B.M.                    47.605   11.33       15.05
316.42    75.33      100.00
6.07      The Central Sewerage Loans Fund (paragraph 5.01) will be administered
by the two commercial banks, for which they will receive an administration fee
(paragraph 6.09). The two banks, Bank Leumi le Israel and Bank Hapoalim are
among the largest in Israel and are competent to help finance and to administer
the Loans Fund. An outline of their financial position is shown in Annex 11.
Each of the banks will keep separate accounts relating to their Loans Fund
operations and annually produce to the Ministry of Finance   statements
audited by their external professional auditors. Currently these firms are
Bawly Millner & Co., Somekh, Chaikin, Citron & Co., and Haft & Haft, which
are acceptable to the IBRD. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that the consolidated annual financial statements of the Loans Fund will be
prepared from these records and from those of the Ministry of Finance. They
will be certified by the Accountant General and sent to the IBRD X thin six
months of the end of each fiscal year.
6.08      The commercial banks will lend from the Central Sewerage Loans Fund
the full cost of executing the project works by each of the participating
authorities. These loans will be made only on the recommendation of the
Project Director and will be subject to normal supervision by the Ministry
of the Interior over local authority capital expenditure and borrowing. Proj-
ect financing arrangements will be set out in agreements between the Govern-
ment and the two Commercial Banks, in a form satisfactory to the IBRD.
Execution of these agreements would be a condition of effectiveness of the
loan. On-lending arrangements from the Central Sewerage Loans Fund would be
defined in subsidiary loan agreements between the two Commercial Banks and
the individual participating authorities, in a form acceptable to the IBRD.
Details of the lending arrangements are described in Annex 8, and the finan-
cial forecasts of the Central Sewerage Loans Fund are shown in Annex 12.
Terms of Loans
6.09      The Central Sewerage Loans Fund will make loans to the participating
authorities to be repaid over 25 years without a grace period. Based on the
current IBRD lending rate of 7.25% the rate of interest to be charged will



- 15 -
be 9%, allocated as indicated in the following table. The table also shows
the amortization and grace periods applicable to the loans to the Loans Fund.
Interest   Amortization   Grace
Rate        Period       Period
%O       %      yrs          yrs
1.   Commercial bank loans - interest                  9      16 /1         -
2.   IBRD and Central Government Loans:
(a)  interest                         7.25
(b)  fee payable to government in
exchange for its undertaking
to meet inflation and foreign
exchange losses                  0.75
(c) fee payable to commercial
banks for loan administra-
tion                             1.00       9       20            5
/1   The loan relating to each fiscal year during construction is to be
treated as a separate 10-year loan. Amortization periods will there-
fore overlap to cover 16 years altogether.
6.10      The loans made to the Loans Fund by the commercial banks will be
linked to the cost of living index, as is customary in Israel on commercial
bank development loans. The central government has undertaken to meet the
difference (known as linkage) between the basic amortization and interest
payments due from the local authorities and the appropriately indexed pay-
ments due to the banks on their shares of the loans.
6.11      The Government's undertaking to bear the risks of inflation on the
commercial bank loans and the foreign exchange risks on the IBRD loan con-
forms to its general policies on development loans to local authorities and
acknowledges the national benefits which will result from the project.
6.12      There will be insufficient principal repayments received from local
authorities during the earlier years to meet demands upon the Loans Fund for
repayments to other lenders, because of the relatively short life of the
commercial bank loans. The central government proposes to cover this dif-
ference by waiving scheduled repayments and allowing interest to be capitalized,
as necessary, on its own loan to the Fund, thus making in effect, supplementary
loans to the Fund at 8% interest. These will be recovered annually after the
commercial bank loans have all been repaid. This is an acceptable arrange-
ment, since the stream of repayments from the local authorities will cause the
Fund to be completely self-liquidating over the 25-year repayment period,
regardless of the repayment periods for particular lenders.



- 16 -
Revenues
6.13      In the past, tariffs have been set with very little regard to the
costs they have been intended to cover and have not been revised to reflect
rising costs, notwithstanding the provisions of the law, and revenues have
not been specifically earnarked for sewerage. An important objective of the
project will be to remedy this situation. The basis of the proposed sewerage
tariffs is shown in Annex 13.
6.14      The law provides for the levy of a sewerage connection charge upon
each property when connected to a sewer system. The charge, which is deter-
mined with reference to the areas of sites and the floor areas of buildings,
is intended to cover the expense of installing or purchasing a sewer system
or any stage thereof. Since there was doubt as to whether the cost of a
treatment plant could legally be included in the charge, the law has been
amended to ensure that this can be done.
6.15      The law also provides that operation and maintenance expenses may
be covered by the levy of a sewerage fee based on water consumption; by a
flat rate annual fee; or from general local taxes.
6.16      The Ministry of the Interior has completed a review of sewerage
financing policy and they propose that the following conditions will apply
to each authority beginning in the financial year 1973/74:
(a) a separate account will be kept of all operation, maintenance
and debt service expenditures on sewerage, which will be
covered from specific sewerage revenues;
(b) except as the government shall otherwise agree all annual
debt charges on the project loans together with those on all
other loans incurred after April 1, 1973, will be covered
from sewerage connection charges, which will continue to be
levied as described in paragraph 6.14;
(c) except as the government shall otherwise agree, all other
sewerage expenditures, including operation and maintenance
expenditures and any annual debt charges not covered from
sewerage connection charges, will be covered from annual
sewerage fees levied upon water consumption; and
(d) any revenue from sewerage connection charges, not required
for the servicing of debt incurred as in (b) above, will be
used to meet other sewerage debt service obligations and
for new capital works on sewerage.
6.17      During negotiations assurances were obtained that, unless the IBRD
shall otherwise agree, from April 1, 1973, participating authorities will be
required to implement the financial arrangements detailed in paragraph 6.16
and to set tariffs sufficient to produce revenues which will cover the ex-
penses of operation, maintenance and debt service on all sewerage activities.



- 17 -
Financial Forecasts
6.18      The government prepared detailed financial forecasts for the sewerage
accounts of each of the 78 authorities in the project. As a result of the
appraisal, revised projections were prepared and submitted to the IBRD.
Although the detailed projections are not reproduced in this report, the
existence of a satisfactory financial plan for each authority is a necessary
condition of project implementation. The revised projections are acceptable.
The statements show, at current prices until 1977/78, and thereafter at
constant prices, annual projections of capital receipts and payments for
sewerage together with annual projections of sewerage operating revenues and
expenditures prepared in accordance with the principles shown in paragraph 6.16.
These forecasts constitute a master plan for raising the necessary revenues
by each authority. Before being granted approval to undertake works and to
borrow from the Central Sewerage Loans Fund, each authority will be required
to have made provision for passing bylaws imposing either the tariffs referred
to in the plan or tariffs which will generate at least equal revenues. The
imposition of tariffs is the prerogative of each separate authority, although
subject to government approval.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following matters:
(a)  the combining of contracts for joint tendering (paragraph
3.08);
(b)  the submission of annual construction programs to IBRD
(paragraph 3.10);
(c)  the adequacy of proposed arrangements for separate sewerage
accounts (paragraph 5.11).
7.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)  in the event of cost overruns, the necessary finance will
be made available to complete the project within the
five-year construction period (paragraph 3.05);
(b)  The Project Director will have suitable supporting staff,
arrangements will be made to ensure that his decisions
regarding the project will be put into effect, and that
local authorities will be required to participate in the
project (paragraph 3.14);



- 18 -
(c) adequate arrangements will be made to enable the Water
Commissioner or other official designated by the
Government to require and supervise the effective
operation and maintenance of all sewer systems of the
participating authorities and to improve the collection
of data (paragraph 3.17);
(d) each authority will be required to enter into a contract with
Mekoroth or some other suitable agency acceptable to the IBRD
for operation and maintenance unless it can show that it is
fully competent to maintain its own sewer system (paragraph 3.18);
(e) adequate arrangements will be made for training (paragraph
3.19);
(f) the local authorities' accounts will be audited in a manner
acceptable to the IBRD (paragraph 5.13);
(g) the certified annual financial statements of the Loans Fund
will be sent to the IBRD within six months of the end of
each fiscal year (paragraph 6.07);
(h) no authority will be eligible to receive a loan from the
Central Sewerage Loans Fund unless it has: -
(i)  signed a subsidiary loan agreement with one of the
two participating commercial banks (paragraph 6.08);
and
(ii) made provision for passing bylaws imposing tariffs
to generate revenues in accordance with the master
plan of financial forecasts prepared by the
Government (paragraph 6.18).
(i) except in cases where the IBRD and the Government shall other-
wise agree, authorities will be required to implement the
financial arrangements detailed in paragraph 6.16 and to set
tariffs sufficient to produce revenues which will cover
operation, maintenance and debt service on all sewerage
activities (paragraph 6.17).
7.03      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan should be the
completion of loan agreements in a form satisfactory to the IBRD, between
the Government and the two Commercial Banks setting out the project financing
arrangements (paragraph 6.08).
November 10, 1972



ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Communities and Works Included in Project
Ref.No.  Sub-Project             Pp     ono             Total Cost
1971        195          I£        U           Brief Description of Sub-Project
(thousands)
A.1      'Afula               18,000      25,OOC      1,638        390      Sewer system to be extended and treatment
plant expanded.
A.2       Akko                34,000      60,000       1,610       383       Separation of combined sewer system, laying
of sewers, enlargement of pumping stations
and force mains.
A.3      Karmilel              4,000      12,000       2,348       559       Installation of sewers.
A.4      Ma'alot Tarshiha      5,500      18,000       2,126       506       Additional sewers, new pumping station and
force mains.
A.5      Migdal Ha'emeq        9,500      15,000       1,229       293       New biological stabilization ponds and sewers.
A.6      Nahariyya            23,000      38,o00       4,515     1,075       Primary treatment plant, pumping station nnd
sea outfqll.
A.7      Nazareth             35,000      60,000       2,523       601    ( New treatment plant and expansion of sewer
A.8      Nazerat 'Illit       16,000      40,000       1,903       453    ( system.
A.9      Qiryat Shemona       15,600      30,000       1,133       270       acpansion of sewer network and trentment plant.
A.10     Shefar'am            11,600      28,000       1,743       415       Sewer network plus connection to regional             .
system.                                                 I ;
A.ll     Tiberias             25,000      37,000       3,037       723       Completion of sewer system with pumping stations        | -
and force mains, and enlargement of treatment
plant.                                                a.'
A.12     Zefat                13,500      20,000       3,134       746       Construction of sewers, pumping station, force         Q
main and treatment plant.                             $



Ref.No.  Sub-Project              Population              Total Cost
1971        19d5          I                     Brief Description of Sub-Project
(thousands)
B.1      Binyamina              3,000        5,000       1,529        36b      Construction of new sewers, pumping stations
and force mains.
B.2      Haifa Region         320,000      500,000     21,146      5,035        Expansion of network of delivery mains and
treatment plant.
B.3      Hadera                37,000       51,500       4,127        983      New treatment plant, main pumping station,
force main and sewers.
B.4      Haifa                230,000      330,000       1,706        h06       EKtension of sewer network.
B.5      Nesher                 9,700       18,000         585        139      Additional sewers.
B.6      Or 'Aqiva              6,800       12,000       2,156        513       Construction of sewers, pumping station and
new treatment plant.
B.7      Pardes Hanna          13,400       18,000       1,091        260      New pumping stntion, force m4in *nd treatment
plant.
B.8      Qiryat Ata            30,000       t0,000       1,338        319       Construction of sewers and force main.
B.9      Qiryat Bialik         16,000       29,000         768        183       Construction of sewers, force main and
pumping station.
B.10     Qiryat Motzkin        16,200       29,000      1,157         275       Construction of sewers, pumping station and
force main.
B.1l     Qiryat Tiv'on         12,000       1),000        711        169       Construction of sewers, pumping station and
force main.
B.12     Qiryat Yam            18,300       30,000         892        212       Construction of sewers, pumping station and
force main.
B.13     Tirat Karmel          14,000       18,000         777       185        Construction of pumping station and force main.
B.14     Zikhron Ya'aqov        6,0oo       10,000       1,302        320       Construction of additional sewer, pumping
station, settling pond and sea outfall.
CD



Ref.No.  Sub-Project             Population             Total Cost
1971        1905         I£        US          Brief Description of Sub-Project
(thousands)
C.1      Be'er Yataqov         4,200       6,500       1,391        331      New sewers, pumping station and force main.
C.2      Bet Shemesh          11,000      25,000       2,382        567      Construction of sewers and new treatment
plant.
C.3      Even Yehuda           4,000        7,000      1,007        240      New sewers, pumping stations, force mains
and stabilization ponds.
C.4      Gedera                6,000       8,000       2,758        657      Implementation of complete sewerage facilities;
sewer network, pumping station and treatment
plant.
C.6      Hod Hasharon         13,000      18,000         911        217       Ectension of sewer network And expAnsion
of treatment plant.
C.7      Kefar Sava           25,000      40,000       1,872       4L6        Ectensions to sewage treatment plant and
plant for treatment of industrial effluent.
C.8      Lod                  30,000      51,000       3,566        849       Completion of sewer system.
C.9      Ayyalon Region      ll4l,000    232,000      15,130      3,602      Regional scheme for the collection and
conveyance of effluents and raw sewage,
includes pumping stations, force mains and
treatment works.
C.10     Nes Ziyonna          12,500       15,000      1,836        437       New sewers and extensions to pumping station
and treatment plant.
C.11     Netanya              67,000     110,000       9,697      2,309       Ectension of sewer network and construction
of pumping stations and treatment plant.
C.12     Petah Tiqwa          85,000     110,000       h,456      1,061       Additional sewers.
C.13     Qiryat 'Eqron         4,200        7,000      1,025        244       Construction of sewers.                                o
C. 11h    Ra'ananna           13,000      15,000         710        169       Construction of pumping station, additional
sewers, modification of main pumping station
and enlargement of treatment plant.
(n



Ref.No.  Sub-Project              Population              Total Cost
1971        1985         I£         US          Brief Description of Sub-Project
(thousands)
C.15     Ramla                3h,000       55,000       1,349        321       Extension of sewer system and pumping station.
C.16     Rehovot              37,000       55,000       3,872        922       EKtension of sewer system and construction
of pumping stntions and force mains,
C.17     Rishon Le Zion       60,000       90,000       6,491      1,545       Ectension of sewer system and construction
of pumpina stations end force mains.
C.18     Rosh Ha'syin         12,00C       15,000       1,460        348       Construction of sewers.
C.19     Tel Mbnd               3,500       5,000       1,100        262       Sewers, pumping station, force main and
treatment plant.
C.20     Yavne                10,000       16,000       1,435        342       Treatment plant and modification to pumping
station and force main.
D.1      Azor                   5,500      lC,00C          521       124       New sewers, pumping station and force msin.
D.2      Bpt Yam               90,000     120,000       2,810        669       Additional sewers, new pumping ststions and
force mains.
D.'      Bene Beraq            75,000     100,000       2,035        485       New sewers, pumping stations and force mains.
D.      i3reater Dan          870,000   1,315,000    125,291    29,831         Extension of regional sewers, pumping stations
Region                                                               and treatment plant.
D.5      MivIatayim            47,000      67,000          611       145       Completion of sewer network.
D.;)    .Herz7 iyya            Jc,000      55,00c       3,713o 884             EKtensions to sewer network and treatment
plant.                                                 sI
D.7      ifolon               100,000     160,00C       2,75')       656      Cronstruction of sewers and force main.                  0
D. F     Or Yehul6o           1 C,0C0      2,,0CG       2,6o0        619       Etensions to sewer network, pumping station            X
anc treatment plant.
<D
0).      ' iryat Ono           17,500       25,00o      2,7U3        653        &tenrsin of sewer system and construction              n
of r r,i,1n   ; Ft;tion and3 treatment plant.



Hef.No.  Sub-Project             iubp-ation               ^t-   os
l91           19d5       If,        USs-       Brief Description of Sub-Project
(thousands)
D.10     R4mat Gan           135,000      165,000      1,645        392       Construction of sewers.
D.ll     Ramat Hasharon       19,000       35,000       3,082       730       Additional sewers and pumping fpcilities
and modification of existing treatment plant.
D.12     Tel Aviv-Yafo       385,000      530,000      5,051      1,203       Construction of sewers and pumping stations
and force mqins.
E.l      'Arad                 6,500       20,000      1,360        32h       Construction of sewers, pumping station,
force main and treAtment plant.
E.2      Ashdod '2,000                     95,000      5,019      1,195       Construction of sewers, pumping stations,
force mains and treitment plant.
E.3      Ashoelon             100,000      80,ooo      3,198        761       Construction of sewers and pumping stations
and modifications to treatment plant.
E.'j     Be'er Sheva'         8c,000      140,000      6,518      1,552       Construction of sewers, pumping station,
force main and extension to treatment plant.
E.5      Dimona               2',OC0       50,00C       1,3L1       319       Construction of new sewers, pumping station
and force main and extension to treatment
plant.
E.56      lat                 15,000       2,4,000     5,066      1,206        bctension of sewer system and treatment plant.
E.7      Netivot               5,100       15,000      1,661        395       Construction of sewers and a new treatment
plant.
E.8      Ofaqim               11,000       15,000         8h0       200       New trentment plant, pumping station and
force main.
E.9      Qiryat Gat           21,000       40,000       1,068       254       New sewers and treitment plant.
E.10     Qiryat Malakhi        8,500       15,000       1,735       013       New sewer network and pumping stntion and
extension to treotment plant.
(D
E2. 1    Sederot               7,500       loi,500     1,522        362       New sewers, pumping ststion, force main
and a treatment plant.



Ref.No.  Sub-Project              Population             Total Gost
1971        19b5         I!         U           Brief Description of Sub-Project
(thousands)
F.1      'Atlit                3,000        5,000         273         65       Construction of sewers, pumping station
and force main.
F.2      5anne Tiqwa           3,000        5,000         181         L3       Construction of sewers.
F.3      3an Yavne             3,000        5,000         56L        134       Construction of sewers, force main, pumping
station and stabilization ponds.
F.)-,    Hazor                 5,500        9,000         370         88       &pansion of treatment plant.
F.5      Qadima                h4,000       8,000         258         61       Construction of sewers and disposal facilities.
F.6      Ramat Yishay            900        4,000       1,101        262      Sewers, pumping station, force main and
oxidation ponds.
F.7      Rosh Pinna              800        1,200         661        157      Installation of sewers and expansion of
treatment plant.
F.8      Yeroham               5,400       10,000         782        186       Construction of sewers and improvements to
treatment plant and disposal facilities.
F. 9     Yehuo                 9,000       10,000         4Gl         95      Installation of sewers and exnansion of
treatment plant.
F. I 0   Yonne'am Illit        5,000        8,0C0         931        222       Ehlargement of sewer network end extension
of Qiryat Tiv'on treAtment plant.
(D1
AEu u Pt II  ) /2                                                                                                                   r



ANNEX 2
ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Propoaed Program for Capital Expenditure on Tertiary
Treatment of Swerage and on Treatinnt of Tndustrial
Waste Water. (To be Financed outside of Bank Project)
1972/3    1973/4    1974/5    1975/6    1976/7    Total
-----------------Millions of It's--------------------
Tertiary Treatment
(a)  Dan Region         4.8        1.0        1.0       4.0        4.8     15.6
(b)  Ayyalon Region      -          -         1.7       2.2        3.7      7.6
(c)  Haifa Region        -         1.8        1.3        -          -       3.1
Industrial Waste-
Water Treatment         2.4       14.0       17.1       8.7        4.7     46.9
TOTALS             7.2       16.8       21.1      14.9       13.2      73.2
July 12, 1972



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I



ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Details of Project Costs
Ref.No. and Tbwn         Sewers  Fbrce  Pumping   Treatment  Disposal    Land  Sub-    Engin-   Contingencies               TOTAL
Mains  Stations  Plant        Fqcilities         Total   eering  Physical   Price
-----------------------------------------IL thousands--------------------------------------------
Al 'Afula                   656                         457                   10    1,123       140      183       192         1,638
A2 'Akko                    507     219    335                                  3    1,064      132      174       240         1,610
A3  Karmi'el               612   1,031                                               1,643      197      276       232         2,348
AL  Ma&alot Tarshiha        h13      75      88         564          272             1,412      184      235       295         2,126
A5  Migdal Ha'Emeq         475                          342                   30       847      108      139       135         1,229
A6  Nahariyya                                        2,359           168     636    3,163       375      632       545         4,515
A7  Nazareth               921                          835                          1,756      232      294       241         2,523
A8  Nnzerat ' niit          560                         744                          1,304      174      218       207         1,903
A9  Qiryat Shemona          230                         555                   10       795      108      131        99         1,133
A10 Shefarlam            1,019       87      91                                      1,197      144      200       202         1,713
All Tiberins               930      234    669          280                          2,113      256      347       321         3,037
A12 Zefat                   625       7    168       1,009           336      20    2,165       283      354       332         3,134
El  Binyamina              298      305    230           55           42      10       940      122      156       311         1,529
B2  Haifa Region                  1,677             12,600                          14,277   2,091   2,b56    2,322           21,1b6
B3  Hadera                 938       90    651       1,171                      3    2,853      393      483       398         4,127
B   Haifa                1,207                                                       1,207      145      203       151         1,706
B5  Nesher                 388                                                         388       47       65        85           585
B6  Or 'Aqiva               707             164         450          164             1,485      198      249       224         2,156
B7  Pardes Henna                    126    341          266                     3      736      103      123       129         1,091
BE  Qiryat Kta              243     4o6    290                                         939      121      159       119         1,338
B9  Qiryat Bialik           219     106    219                                         544       69       90        65           768
B1O Qiryat M?tzkin          332      43    377                                  3      755      100      126       176         1,157
Bil Qiryat Tiv'on          203       03    229                                 4       479       62       79        91           711
E12 Qiryat Yam              171     123    306                                  3      603       80      101       108           892
E13 Tirat Karmel                    215    320                                         535       68       85        89           777
B14 Zikhron Ya'aqov         274      48    284          136          132       50      924      119      146       153         1,342
Cl  Beler Ya'aqov          620      210      35                                        865      103      145       278         1,391
C2  Bet Shemesh            688                          988                          1,676      222      275       209         2,382  w I
C3  Even Yehuda            178       77    175          120                   78       628       72       76       231         1,007  CDX
C4  3edera               1,127      280    241          257                          1,905      240      319       29)4        2,758  ' W
cS  Hod HaSharon            341     252                                       16       609       78       99       125           911  °
C7  Kefar Sava             341                          873                   51    1,265       169      207       231         1,872
S10
ct?



Ref.No. and Town         Sewers  Force  Pumping   Treatment  Disposal    Land  Sub-    Ebgin-   Contingencies            TOTAL
Mains  Stations  Plant       Facilities         Total   eering  Physical  Price
----------------------------------------IF thousands-------______________________________________
C8  Lod                  2,342      22     88                                     2,452      298     414       4102        3,566
C9  Ayyalon Region               5,501  2,180       2,380                  100   10,161   1,199   1,690    2,080          15,130
CIO Nes Ziyonna            382            165         460         217             1,224      168     206       238        1,836
C11 Netanya                334     784  1,947       1,444       2,068        7    6,584      940   1,115    1,058         9,697
C12 Petah Tiqwa          3,077                                                    3,077      369     518       492         4,456
C13 Qiryat ']qron          457                                    182               639       74     107       205        1,025
C14 Ra'ananna              212            185          85                    3      485       72      82        71           710
C15 Ramla                  819             99                                       918      114     155       162        1,349
C16 Rehovot                676   1,612    390                                     2,678      322     449       423         3,872
C17 Rishon Le Zion       3,325     474    709                                     4,508      543     758       682        6,491
C18 Rosh Ha'Ayin           100            175         185         450               910      103     153       294        1,460
019 Tel Mond               203     170    241         140                           754      101     129       116        1,100
C20 Yavne                          105     31         740                           876      122     150       287        1,435
Dl  Azor                   251      32     83                                       366       47      60        48           521
D2  Bat Yam                631     200  1,042                                     1,873      248     313       376         2,810
D3  Bene Beraq             978      96    329                                      1,403     176     234       222         2,035
D4  Greater Dan Region  6,890   4,190  6,750       62,540                        80,370  11,720  13,812   19,389        125,291
D5  (3iv'atayim            416                                                      416       51      70        74           611
D6  Herzliyya            1,220                      1,300                         2,520      339     424       430         3,713
D7  Holon                1,408     269    219                                     1,896      2241    319       317         2,756
D8  Or Yehuda              713            164         630          280            1,787      240     304       269         2,600
D9  Qiryat Ono             417      75    219         840          370            1,921      259     327       236         2,743
Dlo Ramat Can            1,118                                                    1,118      135     190       202        1,645
Dll Ramat Hasharon         418     1126   735         1185                   12   2,076      267     333       406         3,082
D12 Tel Aviv - Yafo      3,586     170    315                                     4,071      171     213       596         5,051
El  Arad                   163     321    307         150                           941      120     156       143        1,360
E2  Ashdod                 294     259  1,606         770         498             3,1127     461     561       570        5,019
E3  Ashqelon             1,226     320    433         192                         2,171      272     360       395        3,198
E.  Be'er Sheva'         1,084     596  1,362         941          505       25   4,513      600     754       651        6,518
E5  Dimona                 308      56     55         312         155               916      120     154       151        1,3411
E6  Elat                   1171                     2,790                         3,261      1169    555       781        5,066
E7  Netivot                588                        187           77            1,152      152     197       160        1,661
S9  Ofaqim                          68    303         220                           591       82      96        71           840
CD
CD



Ref.No. and Town       Sewers  Force   Pumping   Treatment  Disposal    Land    Sub-Total  Ehgin-   Contingencies               TOTAL
Mains   Stations  Plant        Facilities                       eering  Physical  Price
-_    -   -__---- _---- -------------------IE thousands -------------------------------------------
E9  Qiryat Gat            239                          148       357                    7           94      126       104         1,068
EL0 Qiryat Malakhi        t28              235         535                            1,198        162      199       176         1,735
El1 Sederot               279      108     260         330        64           10     1,051        138      171       162         1,522
Fl  'Atlit                          26     142                                  3       171         21       27        51J          273
F2  Ganne Tiqwa           113                                                            113         13      19        36           181
F3  Gan Yavne              88       22      55          95        90                     350         42      59       113           564
Fh  Hazor                                              212                     18        230         23      32        85           370
F5  Qadima                149       45                            58                     152         21      26        59           258
F6  Ramat Yishay          293       29     140         130                     80       672          78      99       252         1,101
F7  Rosh Pinna            373                           23                               396         48      66       151           661
F8  Yeroham               180                          225        75                     480        64       82       156           782
F9  Yehu                  112                          135                               247         33      42        79           401
F1O Yoqne'an 'Illit       270                          280                               550         74      94       213           Q31
T'OTALS                51,754  21,630  26,177    103,295    6,560           1,188   210,604    28,324  35,025   42,467          316,420
July 12, 1972
0
t,
CD
co



I
I



ANNEX 4
ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Basis of Design
1.        In general the design of the project has been based on the
following criteria:
B.O.D.I/                 40 to 70 grams per capita per day
Suspended solids         50 to 80 grams per capita per day
Sewage flow              100 to 200 liters per capita per day
2.        In each case the figures chosen from the above range are related
to the location and standard of living of the community and are based on
metered water consumption and, in a few instances, on analyses of sewage
samples. In any instance where figures outside the above ranges have been
used the consultant has been required to justify them.
3.        The following figures have been used in the design of treatment
works:
B.O.D.1/        Minimum        Depth in
Loading         Retention      Meters
kg/ha        time in days
Anaerobic lagoons      1000 - 3500           2          2.5 - .0
Facultative lagoons    200 (max)        20  -  35       1.0 - 1.5
Aerobic lagoons         120 (max)        20  -  35      1.0 - 1.5
4.        Aerated lagoons are 1.8 to 5.0 meters deep depending on type of
aerators used.  The oxygenation capacity provided is 1.0 to 1.5 kg oxygen
per kg B.O.D. to be removed. The power provided is generally 3 to 4 watts
per mi.
5.        Sewers are designed with velocities of flow generally in the range
1.0 to 3.0 meters per second and exceptionally 0.6 to 5.0 meters per second.
1/ B.O.D. = Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
August 1, 1972



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I 



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5 pages
ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Calculation of Foreign Exchange Component
Share in
Input                        item     Import         Foreign exchange
-~^~*                      (percent)  coefficient   component (percent)
(a) Asbestos Cement (A-C)
Gravity Sewers
A-C pipes and accessories              35         0.43             15.1
Mechanized earthwork                    28        0.39             10.9
Concrete works                          9         0.30              2.7
Labor in pipe laying and other
work paid in local currency          17          -                 -
Contractor's profit                    11         0.20              2.2
Total                                 100                          30.9  say 31.0
(b) Asbestos Cement (A-C)
Force Mains
A-C pipes and accessories              55         0.43             23.7
Mechanized earthwork                   18         0.39              7.0
Concrete works                          7         0.30              2.1
Labor in pipe laying and other
work paid in local currency           9          _                 _
Contractor's profit                    11         0.20              2.2
Total                                 100                          35.0
(c) Pumping Stations
Purchase of electro-mechanical
equipment                            42         0.83             34.9
Assembly and installation of
above equipment                      18         0.06              1.1
Mechanical contractor's profit           7        0.30              2.1
Mechanized earthwork                    6         0.39              2.3
Concrete works                         23         0.30              6.9
Qivil contractor's profit               4         0.20              0.8
Total                                 100                          48.1  say 48.0



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5 pages
Share in
Input                        - item   Import           Foreign exchange
(percent) coefficient      component (percent)
(d) Oudo_eaePmigSain
Purchase of electro-mechanical
equipment                             56        0.83             46.5
Assembly and installation of
above equipment                       23        0.06              1.4
Mechanical contractor's profit          10         0.30              3.0
Mechanized earthwork                     7        0.39               2.7
Concrete works                           3        0.30              0.9
Civil contractor's profit                1        0.20              0.2
Total                                  100                         54.7 say 55.0
(e) Stabilization Ponds
Mechanized earthworks                   72        0.39              28.1
concrete works                           8        0.30              2.4
Labor                                    9          -
Contractor's profit                     11        0.20              2.2
Total                                  100                         32.7 say 33.0
(f) Mechanical Treatment Plants
Electro-mechanical equipment            38        0.83             31.6
Assembly and installation of
above                                 10        0.06              0.6
Mechanical contractor's profit           7        0.80              5.6
Construction                            30        0.30              s.o
Mechanized earthwork                     9        0.39              3.5
Civil contractor's profit                5        0.20              1.0
Electric power                           1         -
Total                                  100                         51.3  say 51.0
(g) Aerated Lagoons
Electro-mechanical equipment            30        0.83             24.9
Assembly of above                       10        0.o6              0.6
Mechanical contractor's profit           5        0.80              4.0
Mechanized earthwork                    39        0.39             15.2
Concrete                                 9        0.30              2.7
Civil contractor's profit                7        0.20              1.4
Total                                  100                         48.8 say 49.0



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5 pages
Share in
item       Import         Foreign exchange
Input                       (percent)    Coefficient    component (percent)
(h) Sea Outfalls
Steel pipes and accessories             34          0.76               25.9
Mechanized earthwork and
transportation                       10           0.37                3.7
Welding and metal work                   8          0.17                1.4
Use of tugboats and divers              26          0.74               19.3
Foreign specialist                      11          o.83                9.1
Contractor's profit                     11          0.20                2.2
Total                                  100                             61.6 say 62.0
Basis Of Above Tables
(a) The item for contractor's profit has been based on the
following:
(i)  Apart from pumps, mechanical plant for sewage
treatment works is not manufactured in Israel
and it is assumed that 80% of the value of all
contracts for the supply and erection of plant
will be won by foreign finms.
(ii)  A limited range of sewage pumps is manufactured
in Israel and it is assumed that 30% of the
contracts for supply and erection of pumping
plant will be won by foreign firms.
(iii)  It is assumed that only 20% of the contracts
for civil works will be won by foreign firms.
(b)  The percentage share in each item by value is based upon
calculations by Tahal as amended during appraisal.
(c) The import coefficients are based on estimates by the Bank
of Israel as amended during appraisal. They have been
calculated either directly, in the case of specific
identifiable imports, or indirectly from input/output
tables established by the Bank of Israel. Typical examples
of the calculations are shown below.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5 pages
Typical calculations of import coefficients
Share in   Basic          Contribution to
item     Import         weighted import.
(i)   Concrete Works                   (percent)  coefficient   coefficient of input
Wages and salaries                      34.7        -
Steel                                   17.9       0.57             10.2
Import charge on steel                   3.2        -                 -
Lumber                                   4.1       0.44              1.8
Cement                                  11.4       0.74              8.4
Transport                               11.6       0.34              3.9
Equipment                                4.1       0.44              1.8
Aggregates                              13.0       0.32              4.2
Total                                  100.0                        30.3 say 30.0
(ii) A-C Pipes
Wages and salaries                      28.0        -
Asbestos                                22.2       0.96             21.3
Cement                                  14.1       0.74             10.4
Fuel, parts and repairs, and
other purchased inputs                 6.3        -                 -
Depreciation                            17.8       0.62             U1.1
Profits                                 11.6        -
Total                                  100.0                        42.8 say 43.0
(iii) Steel Pipes and Accessories
Wages and salaries                       6.3        -
Non-metallic minerals                    1.6       0.21              0.3
Fuel                                     1.1       0.75              0.8
Direct impdrt of iron and steel         71.8       0.92             66.0
Parts and repairs                        0.7       0.44              0.3
Wire products and tools                  0.8       0.56              0.4
Other purchased inputs                   0.4       0.28              0.1
Depreciation                            13.5       0.58              7.8
Interest and profit                      3.8        -
Total                                  100.0                        75.7 say 76.0



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5 pages
The foreign exchange components of treatment plants and disposal facilities
were calculated as followst
Total Cost    Fbreign          Fbreign exchange
It million    exchange              costs
component         It million
percent_
(a) Treatment Plants
Mechanized Treatment Plants            82.08       51                  41.86
Aerated Lagoons                        15.93       49                   7.81
Stabilization Ponds                     5.28       33                   1.74
Total                                 103.29                           51.41
(b) Disposal Facilities
Force Mains                             3.76       35                   1.32
Outdoor Pumping Stations                1.55       55                   o.85
Sea outfalls                            1.25       62                   0.77
Total                                   6.56                            2.94
July 12, 1972






ANNEX 6
ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Proposed Procurement Arrangements
1.        All procurement will be subject to international bidding in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
2.        Bids for the supply of goods or equipment will be evaluated on
the basis of C.I.F. prices with a 15% margin of preference for domestic
suppliers, whenever foreign suppliers tender. There is a minimum import
duty of 20% on all imported goods.
3.        Bids for mechanical and electrical equipment may be for only
one local authorityls requirements, although in some instances it will
be possible to have joint tenders. Some of these tenders are there-
fore expected to be relatively low in value; where, in these instances,
the equipment is manufactured in Israel (sewage pumps, for example), it
is thought that foreign suppliers will show little interest in bidding.
4.        In the case of civil engineering works, contracts will, as far
as practicable, be combined to form joint tenders for groups of local
authorities, with a view to encouraging international bids.  These joint
tenders will generally have an estimated value of not less than IS 1.0 million.
In a number of small communities where it is not practicable to combine the
tenders with those from other communities, separate tenders may be invited
or the proposed sewerage works may be incorporated in contracts for similar
work (e.g. for water supply or drainage) within that community. The total
value of the sewerage works to be tendered in this manner will not exceed
IE 10.0 million. Tenders for sewer construction will include for the supply
of pipes.
5.        Legislation has been amended to permit or require  local authorities
to enter into joint tendering arrangements and to establish Regional
Tender Boards. Joint tender documents will be issued by and returned to
the Project Director who will arrange for their evaluation and will then
submit them to the appropriate Regional Tender Board. Each Board will have
the authority to accept the tenders on behalf of the appropriate local
authorities, which will be bound by the Board's decision.
6.        Because of the large number of contracts which will be involved,
standard contract documents will be compiled by the Project Director aid
submitted to the Bank for approval. Only variations in these documents will
then be submitted to the Bank at the time of inviting the individual
bids. It is proposed to pre-qualify contractors for the civil engineering
contracts.
November 0, 1972



t                       



INEX 7
ISRAEL SEWERA.GE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                           Cumulative Disbursement
at end of quarter
-----US$ thousands-----
1972/73
March 31, 1973                                                   183
June 30, 1973                                                    700
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                             1,775
December 31, 1973                                              3,619
March 31, 1974                                                 5,996
June 30, 1974                                                  8,391
197V75
September 30, 1974                                            10,476
December 31, 1974                                             12,392
March 31, 1975                                                14,293
June 30, 1975                                                 16,120
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                            17,800
December 31, 1975                                             19,391
March 31, 1976                                                20,959
June 30, 1976                                                 22,462
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                            23,858
December 31, 1976                                             25,194
March 31, 1977                                                26,530
June 30, 1977                                                 27,793
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                            28,894
December 31, 1977                                             29,689
March 31, 1978                                                29,995
June 30, 1978                                                 30,000
November 8, 1972



ANNEX 8
ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Disbursement Procedures and Lending Arrangements
1.        An authority seeking approval to its sub-project will submit
details of its proposals to the Project Director, including financial
projections, and tariff proposals.
2.        When the Project Director has approved the sub-project for
inclusion in the project he will recommend that the Ministry of the
Interior grant the appropriate statutory approval to the local authority
to raise a loan.
3.        When the local authority has received approval to borrow, it
will enter into a loan agreement with one of the two commercial banks
in a standard form acceptable to the IBRD.
4.        Contracts will be approved for disbursement by the IBRD in
accordance with usual procedures.
5.        Claims from contractors for payment will be examined by the
engineer of the sub-project concerned and his recommendations for payment
submitted for approval to the Project Director within 14 days, for interim
payments and within 28 days for final payments.
6.        Upon receipt of the recommendations of the engineer, the Project
Director will issue a certificate to the commercial bank authorizing
payment on behalf of the local authority with a copy to the Accountant-
General of the Ministry of Finance. This certificate will be issued
within 7 days for interim payments, and within 14 days for final payments,
of the receipt by the Project Director of the engineer's recommendations.
7.        Within a further 7 days the Accountant-General will authorize
the commercial bank to pay the contractor on behalf of the local authority,
while simultaneously depositing funds with the commercial bank to cover
the Government and IBRD components of the payment.
8.        The local authority will be requested to provide the commercial
bank with written permission to disburse directly to contractors on its
behalf.  Where the local authority wishes to make payments by check the
above procedures will be appropriately modified.
9.        Periodically, the Accountant-General of the Ministry of Finance
will submit to the IBRD a list of project disbursements for appropriate
reimbursement by the Controllers Department. Reimbursement will be made
to the Ministry of Finance in local currency purchased from the Bank of
Israel with foreign currencies determined by the IBRD. The Accountant-
General will retain the appropriate supporting documents for inspection
by IBRD staff.
November 8, 1972



ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Chart of Project Administration and Control Organization
IBRD                                                                    Israel Government
Commercial Banks                             Ministry of Finance              Ministry of the Interior            Ministry of Health
Central Sewerage Loans Fiund
(operated by Commercial Banks)                                              Inter-Ministerial Committee
Project Director
(Water Commissioner)
Assistant Loject Director
Project Engineer
Mekoroth                   (Tahal Limited)
Local Authorities
Note: 1.  Although the loan is to be made to the Ministry of Finance, on project matters the IBRD will communicate
directly with the Project Director.
2. For construction of the project the individual local authorities will employ consulting engineers
who will be directly supervised by the Project Engineer.
July 12, 1972



ANNEX 10
ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Details of Overall Local Authority Finances
(Actual - 1965/66 to 1969/70)
Ordinary Budget
(1in million I.L.)
Year ended March 31          1966           1967           1968           1969          1970
Current Revenue:                                     %             %              %             %
Local taxes                248.7   41    283.6   h2    297.5   43    348.5   39   37L.9   39
Fees and charges           176.9   29    196.3   29    206.1   29    229.0   26   266."   28
Government grants          121.6   21    139.0   20    195.5   28    209.0  2L  .246.3   25
547.2   91    618.9   91    699.1  100    786.5   89   887.6   92
Current Expenditures         602.7  100    678.0  100    698.7  100    883.8  100   962.4  100
Current Surplus (deficit)!/ (55.5) (10)   (59.1)  (9)        0.4   -      (97.3) (11)  (74.8)  (8)
Loans to Cbver Deficits       18.0           40.0          103.7           66.2          75.4
Cash Surplus (shortage)      (37.5)         (19.1)         104.1          (31.1)          0.6
Exctra Ordinary Budget
Tin million I.L.)
Year ended March 31          1966    %      1967    %      1968    %      1969    d    1970    %
Capital Expenditures         248.0          221.0          195.0          236.0         310.2
Sources of Finance:
Ordinary Budget             11.3   5        6.0   3        7.5   4        7.6   3      10.1
Loans and Contracters
Credits                  170.0  69     165.0  75      17J.6  90      185.3  79    229.2  7T
3overnmnent Grants           -              -              -              3.3   1     ,i.O  11
Other Sources3/             66.7  26       50.0  22       12.9   6       39.8  17      36.8  12
248.0 100     221.0 100      195.0 100      236.0 100    310.2 100
/ Net total of all surpluses and deficits combined.
/ Contributions by property owners, property sales and rechargeable works.
July 13, 1972



ANNEX 11
Table 1
ISMEL S5WERAGE PRtOJECT
Condensed Balance Sheets
Bank Leumi Le-Israel B.M.
12-31-69            12-31-70            12-31-71
IL                  IL                   ItE
million     %       million       %      million      %
ASSETS
Premises, Property and
Equipmentl/                          44.2     1.2        55.9      1.1        71.2      0.9
Deposits with Treasury                 34.0     0.9        77.7       1.5      107.4      1.4
Investments                           365.9     9.8       444.5       8.6      513.5      6.5
Loans and Other Accounts /            952.1    25.5    1,627.9       31.3    2,007.9    25.6
Loans out of Deposits for
Granting Loans                      309.6     8.3       410.5       7.9      643.3      8.2
Treasury Bills                         18.1     0.5        27.9       0.5       58.7      0.7
Cash Balancesi/                     2,010.8    53.8    2,554.8       49.1    4,445.1    56.7
3,734.7   100.0    5,199.2    100.0    7,847.1   100.0
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Capital and Reserves
Share Capital                        37.4                37 4                 60.0
Capitalized Reserves                 23.2                23.2 /               25.6
General Reserves and
Undistributed Profit               25.1                31.5              _ _4i.7
_  85.7     2.3    _  92.1        1.8      127.3      i.o
Capital Notes - Convertible         - _15.0     0.4    _ _15.0        0.3    _ _25.0      0.3
Deposits for Granting Loans
Government                          102.9               128.6                167.6
Banks and Bank of Israel            155-0               202.b                387.5
Other                                52.3                _1.0                 92.o
310.2     8.3       412.8       7.9      °47.7      8.3
Deposits and Other Accounts5/       3,323.6    89.0    4,679.3       90.0    7,047.1    89.8
3,734.7   100.0    5,199.2    100.0    7,847.1   100.0
Normal banking obligations
on behalf of customers
matched by counter-claims           653.1               509.7                 761.2
LJAt cost less depreciation.
gLAfter provision for doubtful debts.
I/Including balances with Bank of Israel and Banking Institutions.
vTIncluding proposed issue of bonus shares.
$/Including deposits from subsidiary companies, inner reserves, proposed dividends
and provision for payment of capital notes dated 1970-1972.
July 12, 1972



ANNEX 11
Table 2
ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Condensed Balance Sheets
Bank Hapolim B.M.
12-31-69            12-31-70            12-31-71
IL                  IL                  IL
million     %       million      %      million      %
ASSETS
Premises, Property and
Equipment /                          30.7     1.3        36.3     0.9        46.5      0.7
Investments                          318.0    13.3        396.8    10.5       548.3     8.8
Loans and Other Accounts?/           545.1    22.8    1,161.9    30.8    1,659.8    26.5
Loans out of Deposits for
Granting Loans                   1,167.3    48.9    1,562.6    41.4    2,575.2    41.2
Cash Balances2/                       327.2    13.7       ol8.o    10.4    1,424.0    22.6
2,388.3   100.0    3,776.2   100.0    6,253.8   100.0
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Capital and Reserves
Share Capital                       34.7                 42.1                58.2
Capitalized Reserves                12.9                 17.9                30-
General Reserves and
Undistributed Profit              12.1             _  15.8                 1o.7
59.7     2.5        75.8     2.1       113.5      1-.
Deposits for Granting Loans
Government                         287.8                324.8               4o4.9
Banks and Bank of Israel            107.2               125.8               300.7
Other                               781.7            1,14i5.6             1, 94.,
1,170.7    49.3    1,596.h    42.2    2.717.¾    L3.5
Deposits and Other Accounts 2       1,151.9    48.2    2,104.0    55.7    3,422.5    5L.7
2,388.3   100.0    3,776.2   100.0    o,253.8   100.0
Normal banking obligations
on behalf of customers
matched by counter-claims           351.9               313.7               425-o
1/At cost less depreciation.
2/After provision for doubtful debts.
3/Including balances with Bank of Israel, Banking Institutions, ana subsidiaries.
/ Including proposed issue of bonus shares.
/ Including deposits from subsidiary companies, inner reserves and proposed dividends.
July 12, 1972



ANNEX 11
Table 3
ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Condensed Profit And Lo8s Accounts
Bank Tui. Ioe Israel B.M.
1968/69           1969/70           1970/71
million     %    million    %    million        %
INCOME
Interest on loans, etc.i/             280.1   100.0   396.1   100.0   61           100.0
EXI NDITURE
Interest on deposits, etc.            150.8    53.8   239.4    60.4   392.0    63.4
Administrative and general expenses    97.2    34.7   121.1    30.6   166.5    26.9
248.0    88.5   360.5       91.0   558.5    90.3
Profit before taxation                 32.1    11.5    35.6        9.0    60.0       9.7
Provision for taxation                _13.5      4.8    14.6       3.7     32.2      5.2
Net Profit after tax                   18.6      6.7    21.0       5.3     27.8      4.5
Dividends                     2/        5.2      1.9      5.6      1.4      8.6      1.4
Retained earnings and reserves-        13.4      4.8    15.4       3.9    19.2       3.1
Bank Hapolim B.M.
INCOME
Interest on loans,etc.L/              182.5   100.0   3224.1   100.0   633.0   100.0
EXPENDITURE
Interest on deposits, etc.            123.82    67.8   254.2    78.4   533.1    84.2
Administrative and general expenses    45.252    24.8    51.0    15.7    67.2    10.6
169.0    92.6   305.2    94.1   600.3    94.8
Profit before taxation                 13.5      7.4    18.9       5.9     32.7      5.2
Provision for taxation                  7.2      3.9      7.8      2.4    15.3       2.4
Net Profit after tax                    6.3      3.5    11.1       3.5     17.4      2.8
Dividends                               3.2      1.8      4.4      1.4      5.3      0.9
Retained earnings and reservesi         3.1      1.7      6.7      2.1    12.1       1.9
I/Including dividends fron subsidiary companies, cost of living linkages and exchange
rate linkages, after allowing for doubtful debts.
2Including transfers to inner reserves.
July 12, 1972






ISRAEL SEWERAGR PHOJ3ET
Oentxal SewOage Loam Fnd
Fore a4t Sources Aad Awlioation of IunAs
Ca'oital T1fmetions
(Millions of I.i.)
Periods ending March 311                  1       9 7  1974         19$        1976       1977      197&        9         1979       1981       1982      1983       1          2  19      8 
Loans raised
Commercial Banks                           1.1      21.8       25.2       20.5      17.3        8.9        0.4         -          -         -
Central Government -  inais/               1.9      26.2       23.7       19-7      16.7        6.1        0.9         -         -          -          -    _       _
- supplementary/        -         -        0.5        1.0        1.3        1.6       7.0        7.6        8.1        8.8        9.5       22.4         -
IB.tD                                     0.8       24.4       34.8       28.0      23 4       14.6         -          -         -         -           -          -          _
3.8      72.4       84.2       69.2      58.7       31.2        8.3        7.6       8.1        8.8        9.5       22.4         -
RepaySents by local authorities                  -        0.1        1.0        2.3  1          .6     4.9  5 .9       6 L.           7-1        7-7                   o4 84129.7
.2 .21_5                                     1 62.3    96 1     14.2      14.1       15.2       16.5      j*       :                      129.7
APPLICATIONS
Loans renaid
Commercial Banks                            _        0.1        1.5        3.3       4.9        6.5        7.7        8.5        9.2      10.0       10.9       32.5        0.1         -
Centzal Government - main                             -          -          -          -         -         2.2        2.4        2.6       2.8        3-0       18.6       26.3       37.3
- supplementary        --                                                                         -          -          -          -         1.7       23.2      42.9
IBROD                                                                                                       -       -1-   -_JI            -*-        -4-QO      24.0         24 4 .
0.1       1.5        3-3        4.9        6.5       12.9      14.1       15.2       16.5       17.9       77.3       84.3     129.7
Loans made to local authorities                 3.8      72.4       b3.        68.2       57.4       29.6       1-3         -          -               -                -                     -
_1.8                                       62.33L61              14.2      14.1          2       1                     77.3                19
1/ Annual periods until March 31, 1983, thereafter five-yearly periods.
1/ lain Project Loan.
s3/ Supplementary loans to make good temporary cash shortages (paragraph 6.12).
November 8, 1972



ISRASL SLVERAGE PROJBCT
Central Jewerage Loans Fund
Forecast Income Statements
Current Transactions
(hjillions of I.L.)
Periods ending March 311/                     197        2 194     l         1976       1977      1978       17        1980       1981      a82        1983      188~/    .  22 l" 
REVENU
Interest from local authorities.         0.1        3.6      10.6       17.3      22.8       26.4      27.4       26.9      26.3       25.6      25.0      111.9       82.4      37.1
Reimbursement of commitment charges      0.1        0.8       0.6        o.4       0.2 
by Central Government.
0.2      _h         11.2      lU        23.0       26.4       27        26.9       _6.                           11.         82.4         1
Interest payable to:-
Commercial Banks.                      0.1        1.1        3.2       5.1       6.5        7.3       7.1        6.4       5.6        4.8        3.9       6.4         -         -
Central Government - mainr/              -        1.1        2.9       4.5       5.8        6.6       6.9        6.8'      6.6        6.4        6.2      27.3       19.4       8.4
- supplementaryV   -           _          _         _        0.1        0.2       0.3        0.9        1.5       2.2        2.9      23.7       23.2      11.1
IBRD                                                                               7-2 3.L  _± h 7  8.6  9.1       8.9       8.7        8.4        8.2      36.1       25.9      11.3
0.1       3.1        9.2      15.0       19.6      22.7       23.4      23.0       22.4      21.8       21.2      93.5       68.5       30.8
Charge payable to Central
Government for exchange
losses and linkage                   -         0.2       o.6        1.0       1.4        1.6       1.7        1.6       1.6        1.5       1.5        6.6       4.7        2.1
Cosmitment charges                       0.1        0.8       o.6        0.4       0.2         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Administration fee to Commercial Banks   -          0.3       0.8        1.3        1.8       2.1        2.3       2.3                  2                   11.8        9.2       42
0.2                 11.2      1.77       23.0      26.        43         3:2       26.9          ..1 2510 ill.9              82.4       17
1/ Annual periods until March 31, 1983, thereafter five-yearly periods.
1 I.ain Project Loan.
/ Supplementary loans to make g,nod temporary cash shortages (paragraph 6. 12).
November 8, 1972



ISRAEL SSWiACGE PROJECT
Central Sewerage Loans Fund
Forecast Balance Sheets
(Millions of I.£.)
Table 3
As at March 311                             i97 1974             21       9 1976      1977 1    19178                1980      1981       1982      1981        l8W   19228   199
ASSETS
Loans to local authorities               l        7. 1     1 I8.8    224.7    278.S       303.2     298.6      292.t     28S.0     277.1      268.9     21_.0      t-
IAILITIES
Loans from:
Commercial Banks                      1.1       22.8      46.5      63.7       76.1      78-5      71.2       62.7      53.5      43.5       32.6       0.1         _
Central Government - msain/           1.9       28.1      51.8      71.5       88.2      94.3      93-0       90.6      68.0       85.2      82.2      63.6       37.3        -
- supplementaryVJ   -         -         0.5       1.5       2.8       4.4       11.4      19.0       27.1      35.9       45-4      66.1      42.9         _
IB:D                                    0.8       25.2      60.0      88.o      111.4     126.0     123.0      119.8     116.4      112.7     108.7      84.2       49S 
3.8      76.1     158.8     224.7      278.5     303.2     298.6      292.1     285.0     277.3      268.9     214.0      129.7
Table 4
Forecast of Debt Charges Payable by Local Authorities
Periods ending l.arch 312J                             1971    1 1          1976      1977      1978   1979          1980      1981       1982      1963       198&' 1 92/
Interest                                 0.1       3.6      10.0       17.3      22.8      26.4       27.4      26.9      26.3       25.6      25.0      111.9      82.4       37.1
Principal payment                         -        0.1       1.0        2.3       3.6       46.                            7.1        7.7       S.4       54.9      843       129.7
Total deb' charges                      0.1        3.7      11..6*3-             26.4      32  22               31.4      .2:L       3.32       13.      166.8     166.7      166.8
LI/ Annual periods until i4arch 31, 1983, thereafter five-yearly periods.
a/ iain Project Loan.
.2/ Supplementary loans to make Good temporary cash shortages (paragraph 6.12).
ITovember 8, 1972






ANNEX 13
Page 1
ISRAEL SEWERAGE PROJECT
Proposed Sewerage Tariffs
1.        The law requires local authorities to make a sewerage charge based
upon land area and floor area to be paid as a connection charge 'to cover the
cost of installing or purchasing a sewer system." The law permits local au-
thorities to levy a sewerage fee to cover maintenance costs. Where the rate
of charge has not been fixed, the cost of installing the sewer system may be
included in the cost of maintenance.
2.        Debt charges arising from installation costs will, therefore, gen-
erally be recovered from connection charges. To the extent that the debt
charges are not covered by connection charges they will be recovered from
fees or other revenues.
3.        Because sewerage charges have in the past not been revised upwards
as necessary, the installation costs of existing systems have not been fully
recovered from charges paid by present users. Consequently a policy decision
has been made to recover outstanding debt charges on existing systems together
with expenses of operation and maintenance from annual fees, so as to spread
the burden over all users.
4.        For future systems, the connection charges will be fixed at a
level which will normally cover all debt charges. In a few cases where
the necessary connection charge exceeds a standard maximum established by
the government the balance of debt charges will be borne by annual fees.
5.        In general, the project is planned for the population estimated
for 1985, by which time the facilities should be fully utilized. An esti-
mate is to be made of increments to floor area and building pilot utiliza-
tion for each year until 1985.
6.        The whole of the debt charges on the project will be required to
be recovered annually from connection charges by September 1997. It has
been provisionally decided that 25% of total debt charges will be recovered
from connection charges on plots and 75% from connection charges on build-
ings. For projection purposes it will be assumed that the connection charges
for plots will be collected in single sums when building construction begins,
and that connection charges on buildings will be collected in installments
over 15 years from the same date. To the extent that improvements to the
system (e.g. installation of treatment facilities where none previously
existed) are deemed to benefit premises already connected, modified charges
will be levied against these premises on similar lines.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
7.        The charges determined above will be revised from time to time
to take account of:
(a) increased construction costs or additional construction
resulting in additional debt charges;
(b) changes in the pace and size of building construction;
(c) other relevant factors.
8.        The same procedure will apply for future construction works.
9.        The procedure for fixing charges should result in the accumula-
tion of surpluses during earlier years. These are to be invested, and dealt
with as described in paragraph 6.16(d) of the report.
10.       Projections will be made of operation and maintenance expenses
over a period of approximately five years at estimated current prices and
total cost divided by estimated net water consumption during that period
to determine a fee per unit of water consumption. The resulting revenues
will be matched against expenditures for individual years. Where, for a
single year, a temporary accumulated deficit results which is greater than
can be covered from other cash resources of the authority (including temporary
loans and temporary surpluses from connection charges) the fees will be ad-
justed.
11.       The Ministry of the Interior, as supervising authority, has de-
veloped a computer program to produce financial projections and to determine
a standard pattern of charges for each authority. Copies of these projec-
tions have been submitted to the IBRD.



I1RD-I09
50  /                          ~~~~~~~~~JULY1972
L E B ANON ,
ISRAEL
ISRAEL SEWERAGE   S--z_*'  Y' ARAB
PROJECT                  NAHARIYYA       3To;hihoHo        j  REPUBLIC33-
AKKC.  N 0 R TH    tN Fn
U    Sewerage Sub-Projects  HAI          'y  T0ikok hj
-.--Cease-fire Line 1948  ~        t  h.      SSHEARM           ,re
o   Towns                     A      t,,b Tio'on 0NAZARETH       <
1-         Mg ol Ho'Em oq 
Rivers                      j                A. u liti?
E:>  Lakes                         ZZikh,roYo'oqoy                ,
I Rinyoonoo  5.               |
U0| . 'rjXqw    /0 9  SN.on
/H2DERA !
1NETANYA
,l.1h. Mond
~  Roan'   UKEFAI"SAVA
*~~~~~~~~d H2g o Ayint
TEt AVIV-YA5         oTIOWA
*   ~~~~~ R A L                                                   0
-32-        >    ~~RIHON LE,ZIONC wLOD jT  RAL3
Ir   No iy,ronoiU  UAMLA 0.>
4^  IOirrorUD  ST  R I C T
*  ASHD       s             .
00E  *Q~oyo J E R L S A L E M   QJERUSALEM
/       QiryotMo1okhi "BOhsI-,            r
1            'SHELON        D I STRICT,
O/\                *Oiroy Go, /         
0,~
+       /      2 f~~~~S.d       )                      ; 
/   N                                           !i  JORDAN
/BsERSHEVA      SAod A d
SOUTHERN             D       I S T R I C       
\                       ~~~~~~Dimo-  
'\                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
.\                           ~~~~(.
H  A  N   E  G  E  V         /
ARAB                                              |
RE PUBLIC I 
OF              K                            (.
EGYPT
-300           -                                 /          AN    
\   . it)onoLEEANON|  EPUBLIC
I          ~~ISRAEL
7hn boen.n o- oWepooooo by d.                                     JORDAN\
Wonid,R-Xcndiftff.h.-                                                   -     SAUDI
O   10   ZO  30   40  SO          \                       L                 ARABIA
KilonoStens                                  ARA.. BO    MR5
o      I?       2p     3p                          R
Miles                  ofEGP
Aba55                         e



