Report No. PID5677
Project Name                     Tajikistan-Post-Conflict (@) .
Rehabilitation Credit (PCRC)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Rehabilitation Credit
Project ID                       TJPE53133
Borrower                         Republic of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency              Office of the Prime Minister
Date this PID prepared           October 27, 1997
Projected Board Date             December 16, 1997
1.      Background.    Tajikistan has been wracked by political
instability and civil war since its independence from the Former
Soviet Union in 1991. The civil war erupted in Tajikistan in May
1992, as different regional and political affiliations struggled for
power after the collapse of the previous system. The armed conflict
continued for the next five years with varying degrees of intensity,
with major hostilities concentrated in 1992 and 1993. An estimated
50,000 people died, 600,000 people were displaced inside the
country, some 60,000 Tajiks fled to neighboring Afghanistan and as
many as half a million people were forced to emigrate to other CIS
countries.
2.      In the first phase of the conflict, the heaviest fighting and
physical destruction took place in the south of the country (Khatlon
area), shifting later to the center-east (Karategin-Garm-Tavildara
area). Houses, roads, bridges, schools, hospitals, water systems
and other key infrastructure facilities were destroyed. The war
also had a severe impact on the country as a whole, significantly
disrupting economic activities and exacerbating poverty. Over the
last few years, military expenditures increased to the detriment of
other more productive or socially oriented sectors.
3.      A complex negotiation process between the Government of
Tajikistan and the United Tajik Opposition (UTO) began in 1994, with
the signing of a cease-fire in Tehran, and culminated on June 27,
1997, in Moscow, with the signing of the General Agreement on the
Establishment of Peace and National Accord in Tajikistan. The peace
agreement lays the foundation for peace and security in the country
and is based on a 12-18 month transitional period, during which the
agreements' provisions are to be further specified and implemented.
The principal mechanism for implementing the peace agreement is the
Commission for National Reconciliation (CNR), which is chaired by
Mr. Said Abdullo Nuri, the leader of the UTO, and is composed of 26
members, 50 percent nominated by the Government and 50 percent by
the UTO. After the inaugural session in Moscow (July 7-11, 1997),
the CNR reconvened in Dushanbe in mid-September 1997. Parliamentary
elections are expected to take place in the second half of 1998.
Members of the UTO will be represented in the Government and
political parties, which were outlawed in 1993, are now free to



function without Government intervention.
4.      The peace accord, no less than the war and the unstable
security situation which preceded the peace, poses enormous
challenges to Tajikistan's Government. The immediate impact of the
peace is to require substantial near term government expenditures
for the implementation of the peace agreement, including
demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants and establishing
the CNR. Peace and improving security will also intensify pressures
on the Government to meet deferred social safety net obligations.
While the Government will reap a peace dividend in the form of
reduced defense expenditures and higher tax revenue from areas
currently out of government reach, the realization of most of these
resources will take some time. The combination of urgent near term
peace-related expenditure requirements and more gradual realization
of a peace dividend thus leaves the Government with a serious near
term financing problem.
5.      At the Government's request, IDA prepared the proposed PCACI
to the Republic of Tajikistan for US$10 million equivalent. The
proposed Credit is consistent with the CAS discussed by the Board on
May 16, 1996. A donors' conference is planned for Vienna in
November 1997 under the sponsorship of the United Nations to
assemble financing for relief and near term reconstruction. The
Bank's contribution to this effort would be through the proposed
Credit and a companion Post-Conflict Assistance Project II being
prepared for Board consideration in early 1998 to deal with short
and medium term reconstruction requirements in the Karategin Valley
region, which has been virtually overlooked by the Government and
the donor community.
6.      Project Scope and objectives.   The main objectives of the
proposed Credit are to ease the foreign exchange shortage so that
critical imports can be acquired and thereby help restore to some
extent production, employment and consumption in the post-conflict
economy of Tajikistan. The proposed Credit will provide non-
inflationary financing for the budget. The counterpart funds
generated by the Credit will help the Government to meet the near-
term costs associated with the peace accord while maintaining
progress toward financial stabilization. The Government intends to
use the counterpart proceeds of the Credit to reduce the arrears
towards the social safety net throughout the country and to finance
some of the expenditures related to resettlement of refugees, IDPs,
and demobilized soldieries. This will provide an early and direct
indication of the benefits of peace and demonstrate the Government's
desire to include the entire population in the process of national
reconciliation.
7.      Environmental Aspects.   In accordance with the Association's
operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex
E), the proposed operation has been placed in Category "C" and
does not require an environmental assessment.
8.      Poverty Impact.   The Credit includes specific measures to
provide assistance to the most vulnerable groups-children,
- 2-



pensioners and those affected by war.
9.      Benefits.  The proposed Credit would allow imports of critical
inputs and help finance essential expenditures in a manner that is
non-inflationary. The Government's proposed program to strengthen
the funding of the social safety net for the most vulnerable in the
country - children and pensioners - through payment of arrears would
partially offset the adverse impact of the war on poor, will help
increase purchasing power in towns and villages and is an important
signal that the Government is turning its attention from war to peace.
10.     Risks.  The main risk associated with the proposed Credit is
that the peace process may unravel and cause a resurgence of
hostilities. The June peace agreement represents a major step in
the peace process by bringing the Government and the main opposition
group together. Recent acts of violence have, however, spurred both
the Government and the UTO to forge a common front against the
renegades and move swiftly to implement the peace accord. The
social assessments portray a weariness of war among the people and
the chances of civil strife will be reduced, if the population sees
a difference in their lives as a result of peace process. The
proposed Credit will help Government to make this positive "difference".
Contact point:          M. R. Ghasimi, Team Leader:
The World Bank
1818 H St., NW
Washington, D.C., 20433
Tel.:    (202) 473-5868
Fax:     (202) 477-1692
Note: This information is provided for an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank Infoshop week ending November 14, 1997.
- 3 -



