Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19317
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 30220-TJ)
June 15, 1999
This documentation has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1999)
Currency Unit = Tajikistan Rubles (TR)
US$1 = TR1000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CIS         Commonwealth of Independence States
CNR         Commission for National Reconciliation
FSU         Former Soviet Union
GOT         Government of Tajikistan
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IDP         Internally Displaced Persons
IMF         International Monetary Fund
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
MOF         Ministry of Finance
NBT         National Bank of Tajikistan
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PCRC        Post Conflict Rehabilitation Credit
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
UTO         United Tajik Opposition
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Ishrat Husain
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Task Manager: M.R. Ghasimi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT (PCRC)
CREDIT NO. 30220-TJ
CONTENTS
Preface .........................................i
Evaluation Summary ..........................................1
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ..........................................5
A. Introduction ...................................5
B. Project Objectives and Evaluation of Objectives ....................................6
C. Achievement of Objectives ....................................7
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................7
E. Project Sustainability ....................................8
F. World Bank Performance ....................................9
G. Borrower Performance ....................................9
H. Assessment of Outcome ....................................9
I. Future Operations ...................................                                                 10
J. Key Lessons Learned ...................................                                               10
Part II. Statistical Tables ..........................................11
Annexes:
I.       Mission's Aide-Memoire
II.      Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
MAP IBRDNo. 25721
This documentation has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 30220-TJ)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Post-Conflict
Rehabilitation Credit (PCRC) to Tajikistan, for which Credit 30220-TJ was approved by the
Board on December 16, 1997, and made effective December 19, 1997.
The closing date of the credit was December 31, 1998, the original closing date. The
credit in the amount of SDR7.3 million (US$9.7 million) was fully disbursed upon
effectiveness.
The ICR was prepared in the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector
Unit of the Europe and Central Asia Region. The ICR was based on a mission conducted in
February 1999, by Mr. Ghasimi (Task Manager) and Mr. Hurwitz (Consultant). It was also
based on materials from the project files, including the President's Report, Letter of
Development Policy, notes prepared for the initiation of the credit, and Back-to-Office reports
from the three supervision missions. The ICR has been reviewed by Mr. Pervaiz Rashid
(ECSPE).
The Borrower also contributed to this ICR by providing information to the ICR
mission, reviewing a draft of the ICR and its own evaluation of the project's preparation,
implementation and impact.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT
(Credit 30220-TJ)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Tajikistan, the poorest country in the Former Soviet Union (FSU), has been wracked
by political instability and armed conflict since independence in 1991. In May 1992, civil
war erupted among various political and regional forces and armed conflict continued for five
years. The years 1992 and 1993 saw major upheavals, which caused 500,000 Tajiks to flee to
other FSU countries, 60,000 went to Afghanistan, 600,000 were displaced within the country,
and 50,000 died. Homes, health care facilities, schools and roads were devastated, and
poverty increased.
2.    Despite the unrest, Tajikistan undertook a program of economic reform in late 1995,
with initial improvements in liberalizing prices and trade. However, in late 1996, increased
defense expenditures, among other factors, caused an accumulation of considerable budgetary
arrears, including those to beneficiaries of the social safety net.
3.    On June 27, 1997, the Government of Tajikistan (GOT) and the United Tajik
Opposition (UTO) signed a peace agreement which provided a foundation for security and
increased prosperity. The agreement created a Commission for National Reconciliation
(CNR) to oversee implementation of the peace agreement. UTO has representation of 50
percent in CNR, the Government has the other half, and UTO members serve in the
Government. Political parties that were previously prohibited are now free to function.
Project Objectives
4.    Subsequent to the peace agreement, the Government was under heavy budgetary
pressure and had reduced its support of the social sector. The GOT urgently requested
balance of payments support from the World Bank to acquire critical imports and to help
restore production, employment and consumption in Tajikistan's post-conflict economy. The
World Bank promptly responded to the GOT request with the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation
Credit (PCRC). This was a quick-disbursing adjustment operation and the GOT, in its Letter
of Development Policy (LDP), was committed to using counterpart proceeds according to
project objectives to: (i) reduce social compensation arrears; and (ii) finance expenditures
related to the implementation of peace.
5.    The PCRC objectives were clear, realistic and linked to monitorable performance
indicators. These objectives were also appropriate for Tajikistan's situation because they
supported establishment of conditions that were conducive to economic growth. To quickly
demonstrate the benefits of the peace and support poor households, the GOT considered that
1



meeting social assistance obligations, particularly the family allowance, was critical. It was
equally crucial to support CNR operations so that CNR could demobilize opposition forces
and help them re-integrate into society as well as repatriate refugees and internally-displaced
persons (IDP).
6.    The PCRC was closely coordinated with other donors' activities in Tajikistan. While
the project could not have been foreseen in the 1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), its
goals were completely consistent with the CAS.
Implementation Experiences and Results
7.    GOT achievement of objectives in the PCRC was substantial. Regarding the first
objective, using US$6.8 million of the disbursement proceeds by March, 1998, GOT reduced
social compensation arrears from 8 months to 3 months, and military pension arrears to zero,
in accordance with the LDP. Going even further, GOT decreased social compensation arrears
to zero by June, 1998. Pursuing the second main project goal, GOT used US$2.9 million
from the disbursement proceeds to support implementation of the peace agreement. This
effort included: (i) supporting CNR operations; (ii) repatriating and reintegrating refugees and
IDPs; (iii) transporting refugees returning from CIS countries and rehabilitating their homes;
and (iv) demobilizing and reintegrating ex-combatants, especially opposition fighters from
Afghanistan. The assistance was successful in facilitating efforts to repatriate opposition
soldiers, refugees and IDPs.
8.    The entire US$9.7 million proceeds of the PCRC were disbursed upon credit
effectiveness to a Treasury Account in the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT). A first
payment of US$4.4 million was disbursed from this account to the Ministry of Finance
(MoF), which utilized the funds to support the activities described above. A joint report of
the Prime Minister and CNR Chairman was provided to the World Bank affirming that the
first payment had been used as planned, after which a second payment of US$4.4 million was
disbursed. A similar procedure was used for the third payment of US$0.9 million.
9.    GOT's cooperation in implementing the project was excellent. The program of
informal monitoring was strong and independent surveys and studies confirmed that funds
were being used appropriately and generally were achieving project objectives. Acceptable to
both the Government and the CNR, an effective Project Coordination Unit (PCU) Director,
an ex-Minister of Labor, was appointed.
10.   Macroeconomic performance improved over the period of the PCRC. However, this
improvement occurred unevenly. Real GDP growth improved, and progress on inflation was
significant. The GOT's fiscal deficit declined from 5.8 percent of GDP in 1996 to 3.3 percent
in 1997 and to around 3.8 percent in 1998. The exchange rate of the Tajik ruble, however,
deteriorated from 340 TR per US$ at the end of 1996 to around 1000 TR at the end of April
1999.  The devaluation of the Tajik ruble hampered Tajikistan's macroeconomic
performance. The factors contributing to the devaluation of the Tajik ruble included: (i) a 20
percent decline in the world market price of cotton; (ii) a severe decline in the Russian
economy and the Russian ruble beginning in August, 1998; and (iii) a continued uncertainty
among potential partners concerning Tajikistan's security situation.
2



11.   Project Sustainability is judged as likely. By March, 1998, social compensation
arrears were reduced to 3 months and military pension arrears to zero. Project sustainability
is ensured through Bank's dialogues and under Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), which
has supported Government's reduction of the social compensation arrears to zero by June
1998. Support to CNR was successful in accomplishing project goals. Conforming to the
peace agreement, CNR will be dissolved and residual requirements, mainly reintegrating
soldiers into civilian life, will be undertaken by Government utilizing its own resources.
12.   World Bank performance was highly satisfactory. The World Bank responded by
preparing the PCRC in little more than a month, then proceeded to credit effectiveness by
December 19, 1997. The PCRC provided immediate support to the Government by
furnishing additional resources to reduce social compensation arrears and support the peace
process. The borrower regarded the World Bank team as highly competent and responsive.
13.   Borrower performance was satisfactory. Most significantly, the GOT conformed fully
with the policies stated in the LDP. The quality of the PCU management-and staff was high,
and the Government's program of informal project monitoring was effective (e.g., two
independent studies confirmed that social compensation arrears had been cleared).
Outcome and Key Lessons
14.   The Outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The PCRC helped Tajikistan in creation of a
positive enabling environment for growth and poverty reduction and supported the peace
process. The project achieved its objectives and those achievements are likely to be
sustained. But to enhance economic growth, the enabling environment needs to be
strengthened and extended, and the peace needs to endure.
15.   Future Operations. The major objective of the project to reduce social compensation
arrears was achieved, is being sustained by GOT and supported under the follow-up SAC. In
addition, the World Bank is maintaining a dialogue with GOT in helping to obtain support
from other donors and is planning to support the Government with another adjustment
operation to sustain the Government's reform program.
16.   Key Lessons included:
*  An Adjustment Operation with no Specific Conditionality, but Strong
Government Commitment, can be Efficacious. The PCRC was a quick-
disbursing adjustment operation with no specific conditionality. In its LDP,
the Government committed itself to use counterpart proceeds for specific
purposes the GOT believed would be beneficial. This was very successful,
and fulfilled a critical need of the Government in a timely way.
*  Flexibility  and  Speed  are  Critical Elements  for  Post-Conflict
Rehabilitation Operations. The June 1997 peace agreement was a landmark
event. The conclusion of this political accord necessitated quick action to
consolidate the peace and the GOT, under severe budgetary pressure, urgently
requested balance of payments support from the World Bank. The World
Bank responded by preparing the PCRC in little more than a month, relying on
3



Government commitment to utilize the funds in the manner agreed. The
PCRC became effective less than six months after conclusion of the peace
agreement and, hence, has proved to be extremely relevant to continued
stability and progress in economic reform.
* Timely World Bank Support Can Make a Major Contribution to
Sustaining Peace. While the Government and the UTO had come to a
political agreement, the PCRC provided timely financial resources which
supported the initial phases of the peace process. In the words of one GOT
official, "without World Bank support, peace could not have been sustained."
4



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT (PCRC)
(Credit 30220-TJ)
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Introduction
1.    Tajikistan is the poorest country in the Former Soviet Union (FSU), with a 1997 per
capita income of US$330. GDP declined about 50 percent in the first half of the 1990s, with
the end of Moscow's budget transfers (around 40 percent of GDP). The population is large
relative to arable land, with 70 percent living in rural areas. Only 7 percent of the
mountainous country's land is arable. Agriculture contributes about 25 percent of GDP and
50 percent of employment, with the main agricultural products being cotton (half of the
agricultural output), vegetables, grains and livestock. Industry accounts for 35 percent of
GDP and 15 percent of employment.
2.    Since independence in 1991, Tajikistan has been wracked by political instability and
civil war. War erupted in 1992 and continued for 5 years with varying degrees of intensity.
There was substantial destruction of schools, hospitals, and infrastructure. An estimated
50,000 people died (of a population of 5.8 million), 600,000 were displaced within the
country, 60,000 fled to neighboring Afghanistan, and 500,000 to other FSU republics. The
war had a severe impact on the country, disrupting economic activity and intensifying
poverty. Military expenditures increased to the detriment of other more productive or
socially oriented sectors.
3.    In the midst of this turmoil, Tajikistan began implementation of economic reforms
later than most FSU republics. It adopted a reform program in November, 1995, which
concentrated on restoring macroeconomic stability, restructuring agriculture, privatizing
state-owned enterprises, and protecting the most vulnerable groups. Initial results were
promising, with extensive liberalization of prices and trade, and a substantial decline in
inflation. Program implementation was satisfactory until late 1996, when defense
expenditures expanded substantially in response to increased fighting. These increased
expenditures were financed by a combination of monetary expansion and budget arrears,
including accumulation of significant arrears to beneficiaries of the social safety net.
4.    Peace Agreement. Lengthy negotiations between the Government and the United
Tajik Opposition (UTO) concluded in a peace agreement signed on June 27, 1997.' The
peace accord provided for the Commission for National Reconciliation (CNR) to oversee the
' However, armed gangs and military groups have emerged that have murdered, looted, and kidnapped Tajiks
and foreigners. These groups represent a serious threat to implementation of the peace accord and to
resumption of economic activity.
5



peace agreement, with 50 percent representation by the Government and 50 percent by CNR.
Members of UTO are now represented in the Government and previously outlawed political
parties are free to function.
B.    Project Objectives and Evaluation of Objectives
5.    In the context of the situation described above, immediately following the peace
agreement, the Government of Tajikistan (GOT) urgently requested balance of payments
support from the World Bank to acquire critical imports. The Government was under severe
budgetary pressure and had reduced its support of the social sector.2 The World Bank rapidly
responded with the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit (PCRC), a quick-disbursing
adjustment operation, with no specific conditionality.3 In its Letter of Development Policy
(LDP), the Government committed itself to use the counterpart proceeds of the credit
according to project objectives to: (i) reduce social compensation arrears, and (ii) finance
expenditures related to the immediate implementation of the peace process.
6.    The objectives of the PCRC were appropriate and consistent with establishing an
environment in which economic growth could take place. The GOT believed that meeting
social assistance obligations, particularly the family allowance, offered the best chance to
support poor households, and demonstrate early benefits of the peace. At the same time, it
was considered crucial to financially support the operations of the CNR, so it could go about
its difficult tasks of repatriating refugees and internally-displaced persons (IDP),
demobilizing opposition forces and helping them re-integrate into civil society. The PCRC's
objectives were very appropriate to creating a positive enabling environment for growth.
7.    The objectives were clear, realistic, and were linked to monitorable performance
indicators (see Table 5 in the Statistical Tables). While the PCRC could not have been
foreseen in the 1996 CAS, its overall goals to facilitate peace and create an enabling
environment for growth were completely consistent with the CAS.
8.    The PCRC was closely coordinated with other donors' activities in Tajikistan. Most
coordination was handled by the Government with support from the UN, World Bank, and
IMF, as well as with NGOs and bilateral donors. In addition, a UN-led donors meeting was
held in Vienna in November, 1997, at which time a number of donors indicated the assistance
they would provide.
9.    In terms of the World Bank's program in Tajikistan, the PCRC was preceded by three
projects: (i) the Institution Building and Technical Assistance Credit; (ii) the Pilot Poverty
Alleviation Project; and (iii) the Agriculture Recovery and Social Protection Project. The
PCRC was closely followed by the Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Credit, which
assisted the GOT to repair and reconstruct physical and social infrastructures in the Karategin
Valley region.
2 In 1997, the Government restructured its program to better target social assistance to society's most vulnerable
groups. However, because nearly a quarter of the population was covered, the Government did not have the
resources to remain current in its payments.
Except for a negative list of items which could not be purchased.
6



C.    Achievement of Objectives
10.   Overall, the GOT's achievement of its objectives in the PCRC was substantial.
Regarding objective (i) concerning the reduction of the social arrears compensation, the GOT
used US$6.8 million of the disbursement proceeds of the credit to reduce arrears in social
compensation payments and military pension payments.4 By March, 1998, Government
reduced social compensation arrears from 8 months to 3 months, and arrears in military
pensions to zero, in accordance with the LDP.  Subsequently, under the Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC), social compensation arrears were reduced to zero by June, 1998
and have been maintained at this level since then.
11.   Regarding  objective  (ii)  concerning  support for  expenditures  related  to
implementation of peace, the GOT utilized US$2.9 million from the disbursement proceeds
of the credit to support the peace process, including:
*  Activities related to repatriation and reintegration of refugees and IDPs;
* Costs for transportation of refugees returning from CIS countries and for
rehabilitating their homes;
*  Costs for demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants, especially for the return
of opposition fighters from Afghanistan; and
*  Support to the CNR, including operational, transport, communications and office
equipment.
Appropriate Macroeconomic Framework for Stabilization
12.   Tajikistan's macroeconomic performance improved over the period of the PCRC, but
progress was uneven. Real GDP growth was -4.4 percent in 1996, 1.7 percent in 1997, and
5.3 percent in 1998. Progress on inflation was significant. From 2000 percent in 1995,
inflation declined to 40 percent in 1996, 164 percent in 1997, and to less than 3 percent in
1998. The Government's fiscal deficit declined from 5.8 percent of GDP in 1996 to 3.3
percent in 1997, and around 3.8 percent in 1998. However, the exchange rate of the Tajik
ruble deteriorated from 340 TR per US$ at the end of 1996 to 815 at the end of 1997 and
around 1000 TR at the end of April 1999. The current account balance improved from -7.4
percent of GDP in 1996 to -5.5 percent in 1997, but then worsened to -10.3 percent in 1998.5
D.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   The PCRC was approved by the Board on December 16, 1997, and made effective
December 19, 1997, in accordance with the schedule in the Report and Recommendation of
the President.  The entire credit, equivalent to US$9.7 million, was disbursed upon
effectiveness to a Treasury Account in the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT). From this
account, a first payment of US$4.4 million was disbursed to the Ministry of Finance (MoF),
4 Of the first disbursement of funds to settle safety net arrears, 79 percent went to children under eight, 6 percent
to unemployed pensioners, and 15 percent to military pensioners.
5Data are from IMF reports. Note that part of the devaluation of the ruble and the worsening of the current
account was caused by the decline in the world market price of cotton and the August 1998 Russian economic
crisis. See para. 15.
7



and the proceeds used as stated in the LDP. A joint report of the Prime Minister and
Chairman of the CNR was issued on March 28, 1998 to the World Bank affirming that the
first payment had been used as intended, whereupon the second payment of US$4.4 million
was disbursed. Finally, a second report to the World Bank by the same parties was issued on
October 30, 1998, confirming that the funds had been used in support of the peace process,
whereupon the final disbursement of US$0.9 million was made from the Treasury Account.
Factors Not Generally Subject to GOT Control
14.   Despite close cooperation between the Government and the UTO to support the peace
agreement, the security situation has remained fragile. In November 1998, rebel groups (not
connected to UTO) managed to take temporary control of several cities in northern Tajikistan.
This uncertain security situation has undoubtedly had a negative effect on economic
development.
15.   Two additional external events adversely affected Tajikistan's economic performance
during the PCRC: (i) the decline in the world market price of cotton, Tajikistan's main export
product, by about 20 percent during 1998, and (ii) the severe decline of the Russian economy
and the value of the Russian ruble beginning in August, 1998. The decline in cotton prices
reduced the value of exports and tax revenues, while the Russian crisis was estimated to have
had a negative impact on Tajikistan's balance of payments of about 2 percent. These events
contributed to the devaluation of the Tajik ruble, and also hampered the modest improvement
in Tajikistan's macroeconomic performance that occurred during this time (para. 12).
Factors Generally Subject to GOT Control
16.   GOT cooperation in implementation of the project was excellent. An effective Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) Director, an ex-Minister of Labor, was appointed who was
acceptable to both the Government and the CNR. Also, as noted above, funds were disbursed
from NBT to the MoF after receipt of reports affirming that funds were being used in
accordance with project objectives (as stated in the Government's LDP). The Government's
program of informal monitoring was strong and independent studies confirmed that funds
were being used properly and were generally achieving project objectives.6
E.   Project Sustainability
17.   Sustainability is judged as likely. As noted earlier, by March 1998, Government had
successfully reduced its social compensation arrears to 3 months, and in military pensions to
zero, in accordance with the LDP. By June, 1998, social compensation arrears were reduced
to zero and have since been maintained at that level. Under the SAC, the Government is
committed to keeping these payments current. Future adjustment lending operations and
economic sector works should further support sustainability of reform.
18.   Regarding support for the peace process, assistance to the CNR was successful in
facilitating efforts to repatriate opposition soldiers, refugees and IDPs.  CNR, as an
organization, will be dissolved in accordance with provisions of the peace agreement, and any
6 In addition, the MoF received receipts for all expenditures made by CNR.
8



residual requirements, mainly reintegrating soldiers into civilian life, will be undertaken by
the Government utilizing its own resources (as it is currently doing). There is also the
possibility of donor support for these functions, which has been requested by the
Government.
F.   World Bank Performance
19.   Overall, World Bank performance was highly satisfactory. The most frequent term
used by GOT and UTO officials in describing World Bank performance in relation to the
PCRC was "extremely timely." After 5 years of civil war, the signing of the peace agreement
on June 27, 1997 was a landmark event. However, the conclusion of this political accord
necessitated quick action to repatriate opposition fighters, reintegrate them into society, build
CNR into a functioning entity, and demonstrate early benefits of the peace by supporting poor
households. In short, major economic resources were needed quickly to sustain the incipient
peace process.
20.   The World Bank responded to this need by preparing the PCRC in little more than a
month, then moving forward quickly to project effectiveness by December 19, 1997. An
efficient project structure was created, with a strong PCU Director, and an effective procedure
by which funds were disbursed from NBT to the MoF in accordance with reports that funds
were being used in accordance with project objectives. The PCU and the World Bank
conducted two independent studies confirming that arrears had been cleared on social
compensation payments. The borrower regarded the World Bank team as highly competent,
and appreciated the Project Launch Workshop held in Dushanbe in January 1998 as an
effective means to disseminate information concerning the credit.
G.   Borrower Performance
21.   Borrower performance was satisfactory. First, it should be noted that the Government
conformed fully with the intentions stated in the LDP on how to use the credit proceeds.
Also, the NBT and MoF moved quickly to establish a procedure by which funds borrowed
under the credit were disbursed upon receipt of evidence of satisfactory use of the funds.
MoF also set up a mechanism by which funds were moved from Dushanbe to oblast and
rayon MoF offices, and then from there to local distribution centers.7 The PCU and the
World Bank conducted independent studies of the process by which the credit proceeds were
used and in terms of what impact it achieved. The quality of the PCU management and staff
was very high, and the Government's program of informal project monitoring was effective.
H.   Assessment of Outcome
22.   The outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The PCRC has achieved its objectives and
those achievements are likely to be sustained. The PCRC has made a real difference on the
ground. It was a positive force for Tajikistan's movement toward peace and, hence, toward
7 It should be noted that a portion of the funds received at the oblast and rayon levels were not immediately
disbursed. This was explained by the high costs of providing the necessary documentation and the failure of
beneficiaries to apply. The World Bank is assisting the Government to conduct a household poverty survey and
to use the results of this survey to develop a comprehensive reform of social compensation systems.
9



creation of an enabling environment for growth. However, the peace needs to endure and the
environment strengthened before sustained growth can be expected.
I.    Future Operations
23.   The major objective of the project to reduce social compensation arrears was
achieved, is being sustained by GOT and supported under the follow-up SAC. In addition,
the World Bank is maintaining a dialogue with GOT in helping to obtain support from other
donors and is planning to support the Government with another adjustment operation to
sustain Government's reform program.
24.   With respect to the second objective, Government is now funding these functions
through the budget. However, the World Bank has maintained a dialogue with Government
on implementation of the peace process and has been assisting GOT in obtaining support
from other donors.8
J.    Key Lessons Learned
25.   An Adjustment Operation with no Specific Conditionality, but Strong
Government Commitment, can be Efficacious. As noted earlier, the PCRC was a quick-
disbursing adjustment operation, with no specific conditionality. In its LDP, the Government
committed itself to use the counterpart proceeds of the credit for specific purposes the
Government believed would be beneficial. This worked out very successfully, and fulfilled a
critical need of the Government in a timely way. Complementary World Bank operations
provided a framework for key policy reforms.
26.   Flexibility and Speed are Critical Elements for Post-Conflict Rehabilitation
Operations. After a 5-year civil war, the Government concluded a peace agreement with the
UTO. However, the GOT was under severe budgetary pressure and urgently requested
balance of payments support from the World Bank to take measures to help implement the
peace and create a positive enabling environment for growth. The World Bank responded by
preparing the PCRC in little more than a month. The World Bank relied on Government
commitment to utilize the funds in the manner agreed. The PCRC became effective less than
six months after conclusion of the peace agreement and, hence, has proved extremely relevant
to continued political and security situation and progress in economic reform.
27.   Timely World Bank Support Can Make a Major Contribution to Sustaining
Peace. While the Government and the UTO had come to a political agreement, the PCRC
provided timely resources to implement the initial phases of the peace process. In the words
of one GOT official, "without World Bank support, peace could not have been sustained."
s The Vienna Donors Conference, noted earlier, was one aspect of this support.
10



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                                  X
Sector Policies                                                                    X
Financial Objectives                                                               X
Institutional Development                                                          X
Physical Objectives                                                                X
Poverty Reduction                               X
Gender Issues                                                                     X
Other Social Objectives                                                           X
Environmental Objectives                                                          X
Public Sector Management                                                          X
Private Sector Development                                                        X
B. Project Sustainability       Likely                  Unlikely               Uncertain
Highly
C. World Bank Performance       Satisfactory           Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                 X
Preparation Assistance         X
Appraisal                      X
Supervision                    X
Hiwy
D. Borrower Performance         Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                      X
Implementation                                        X
Covenant Compliance                                  X
Operation (if applicable)       X
Highly                                        H
E. Assessment of Outcome         Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
x



Table 2: Related World Bank Credits
(million of US$)
Credit     FY                   Project                   Total     Undisbursed
Number
36810-TJ     1996  Institution Building/Technical Assistance    5.00            1.44
29460-TJ     1997  Pilot Poverty Alleviation                   12.00            7.28
29170-TJ     1997  Agriculture Recovery and Social             50.00           0.00
Protection
30220-TJ     1998  Post Conflict Rehabilitation Credit          9.74           0.00
30370-TJ     1998  Post Conflict Emergency Reconstruction      10.00            8.07
Credit
31220-TJ     1999  Structural Adjustment Credit                50.00          30.86
31230-TJ     1999  Emergency Flood Assistance                   5.00           4.80
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      September 1997       September 1997
Preparation                                    October 23, 1997     October 23, 1997
Appraisal /Negotiations                       November 7, 1997    November 3, 1997
Board Presentation                           December 16, 1997    December 12, 1997
Scheduled Board Approval                     December 16, 1997    December 16, 1997
Effectiveness                                December 23, 1997    December 19, 1997
Project Completion                           December 31, 1998    December 31, 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(millions of US$)
FY96   FY97    FY97    FY98           FY98    FY99
(Q4)    (Q1/2)   (Q3/4)   (Q1/2)    (Q3/4)  (Q1/2)
Appraisal estimate                                               10.0
Actual                                                           9.74
Of which
IDA Credit                                                       9.74
Actual as % of estimate*                                         97%
Date of final disbursement                                       12/98
*Difference from appraisal estimate is due to exchange rate fluctuation
12



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators                                          Status
(a) Improve performance of the social safety net for the  Successfully Completed.
most vulnerable groups in the country, particularly, children
under the age of eight and pensioners by providing the
counterpart of US$6.8 million from the disbursement
proceeds of the credit.
(b) Help meet near termn costs associated with the peace  Successfully Completed.
accord by providing the counterpart of the remaining
US$2.9 million from the disbursement proceeds of the
credit.
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                            Status    Impact of study
First Social Safety Net Arrears Survey              Complete      Enabled
disbursement of
second payment;
simplified
administrative
procedures
Second Social Safety Net Arrears Study              Complete      Enabled
disbursement of
third payment
Table 7: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate        Actualllatest estimates
(US$ million)              (US$ million)*
Item                                    Total                       Total
IDA                                      10.0                       9.74
Cofinancing Institutions                  0                           0
Total                                    10.0                       9.74
*Difference from appraisal estimate is due to exchange rate fluctuation
13



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Tajikistan
Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Loan Agreement
Covenant  Present      Original                 Description of Covenant            Comments
Agreement  Section    Type      Status   Fulfillment Date
PCRC       3.01 (a)      9         C       Continuous            The Borrower and the Association  Exchange of views on
shall from time to time, at the  project implementation
request of either party, exchange    continues.
views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program .the
project.
PCRC       3.01 (b)      9        C        Continuous            Prior to each such exchange of  The PCU has provided the
views as reflected in Covenant  Association reports on the
Section 3.01 (a), the Borrower  progress achieved in
shall furnish to the Association for  carrying out the program.
its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably
request.
PCRC       3.01 (c)      9        C        Continuous            Without limitation upon the     After disbursement of the
provisions of section 3.01 (a), the   credit, no action has been
Borrower shall exchange views   taken by the Borrower to
with the Association on any     reverse the objectives of
proposed action to be taken after   the program.
the disbursement of the Credit
which would have the effect on
materially reversing the objectives
of the program or any action taken
under the Program.
PCRC       3.02 (a)      I       NYD    When requested           Have the Deposit Account audited  NYD
by IDA              in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association.
PCRC       3.02 (b)      I       NYD    When requested           Fumish to the Association as soon  NYD
by IDA              as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the date
of the Association's request for
such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall
reasonably request
PCRC       3.02 (c)      I        C      When requested          Furnish to the Association such  NYD
by IDA              other information concerning the
Deposit Account and the audit
thereof as the Association shall
have reasonably requested.
Covenant types:                                          8. = Indigenous people                 Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                     9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from       10. = Project implementation not covered    C = covenant complied
beneficiaries                                            by categories 1-9                   with
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds               11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary    CD = complied with after
4. = Counterpart funding                                    or other resource allocation        delay
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/  CP = complied with
6. = Environmental covenants                                regulatory/institutional action     partially
7. = Involuntary resettlement                            13. = Other                            NC = not complied with
NYD= not yet due
14



Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title     Describe and comment on lack of compliance
All OM Statements complied with
Table 10: World Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle         Weeks                 US$ (thousand)
Preparation to Appraisal
Appraisal*                                   4.3                                         9.8
Negotiations through Board approval          5.2                                        14.1
Supervision                                  9.8                                        29.4
Completion
Total     19.3                                        53.3
*A total of 2.5 staff weeks and US$5.5 was charged to the Post Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project (TJ-
PE-53386).
Table 11: World Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2
Stage of project cycle   Month/   No. of Days Specialization1   Implem.   Developm. Types of
Year   Persons  in                     Status     objectives
Field
Through Appraisal.
Appraisal through    Aug/1997        1    23 TM
Board approval*
Supervision
1 .                   Jan/1998      1    10 TM             S          S           N/A
2.                 March/1998        1    12 TM            S          S           N/A
3.                    Oct/1998       1    13 TM            S          S           N/A
Completion            Jan/1999      2    20 TM, C          S          S           N/A
Total                          78
I - Key to Specialized staff skills: 2 - Key to Performance Ratings: 3 - Key to Types of Problems:
F= Financial Economist         S= Satisfactory                    etc.
E= Economist
A= Project Advisor
S= Social Sector Specialist
FI= Field Implementator
TM= Task Manager
C= Consultant
*The August 1997 mission was charged to the Post Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project (TJ-PE-53386).
15



Annex I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT (PCRC)
(Credit 30220-TJ)
COMPLETION MISSION 'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    An IDA mission consisting of M.R. Ghasimi (Task Manager) and Elliott Hurwitz
(Consultant) visited Tajikistan during January 25-February 11 to assist the Government with
and gather information for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Post-Conflict
Rehabilitation Credit (PCRC).  Members of the mission discussed the PCRC with
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, National Commission for Reconciliation, and the
PCU. The mission wishes to thank the Government of Tajikistan and the staff of the Resident
Mission for their helpful cooperation and warm hospitality.
2.    The mission discussed with the agencies and noted two areas in which the
Government utilized counterpart funds from the credit: (1) the reduction of social
compensation arrears; and (2) financing expenditures related to the immediate
implementation of the peace process. The discussions included a description of what was
accomplished under PCRC compared with the original scope and objectives (as described by
the Government in its Letter of Development Policy), project sustainability and future
operation, adequacy of IDA performance, and key lessons learned from the project. The IDA
team will make detailed judgments regarding these points in the near future, which will
comprise IDA's assessment of PCRC.
3.    The mission also provided additional information to the Government on the Borrower
Contribution to the ICR (which it is understood has recently been provided to IDA and to be
included, unedited, as an appendix to the ICR). Finally, the mission explained that IDA will
also send its own assessment of the project to the Government for comments. If the
Government has any comments on IDA assessment, they will be included as an annex to the
ICR.
4.    It was the mission's preliminary judgment that the PCRC was successful in achieving
the following objectives:
*  The Government reduced arrears in social compensation payments to 3 months and
military pension payments to zero by March 1998. Social compensation payments
were subsequently reduced to zero by June 1998.
* The Government successfully used proceeds of the credit to support the peace process,
including: (i) activities related to repatriation and reintegration of refugees and IDPs;
(ii) costs of transportation and of rehabilitating homes of refugees returning from CIS
16



countries; (iii) costs for demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants; and (iv)
support to the Commission on National Reconciliation.
5.    The mission concluded that the PCRC has been a positive force for Tajikistan's
movement toward peace and, hence, toward creation of a positive enabling environment for
growth. However, the peace needs to endure, and the environment for private enterprise
strengthened and extended before sustained growth can be expected.
17



Annex II
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT (PCRC)
(Credit 30220-TJ)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Introduction
The collapse of the economic system and the ensuing civil war in Tajikistan have resulted in
huge losses in all spheres of life of the population, especially persistent of budget deficits,
which did not foster carrying out of the measures for rehabilitation of the country's economy.
Upon signing of the General Peace Accord and implementation of the peace support process,
supplementary resources have been required.
At this very difficult stage, the World Bank has allocated to the Rehabilitation Credit the
amount of USD 9.7 million for carrying out social security payments to vulnerable groups of
the population, who have suffered as a result of the conflict, and also for the support and
implementation of lasting peace in the country.
Aims and Direction of the Credit
The primary goal of this Credit was to decrease the deficit of the state's budget due to its
indebtedness on social security payments to the poorer elements of the population as well as
payments of short-term expenditures for execution of the Peace Agreement's terms and
conditions.
This Credit in the amount of USD 9.7 million is mainly used for the following:
(a) Payment of debts to the republican budget through the social security system
(compensatory payments, pensions, and allowances) .................................... USD 6.8
million
(b) for support of peace process (repatriation and reintegration of refugees,
demobilization and reintegration of UTO combatants, and CNR
operations .................................................... USD 2.9
million
Implementation Mechanism
Striving for efficient use of this Credit, the Government of Tajikistan in coordination with the
World Bank has established the following implementation mechanism for this Project.
The National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) has made payments of the tranches. The full amount
was received in USD by the NBT. These proceeds were converted into Tajik rubles (TR)
18



through an established procedure and were placed in treasury accounts of the NBT. The
Ministry of Finance (MOF) of the Republic of Tajikistan has made the payments in three
tranches after receiving the Bank's no-objections certificates, which were given on the basis
of approved reports for each tranche.
The expenditures of the Project components to the social security network and support of the
peace process were directly made through the Special Accounts of the MOF. The Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) has been given the responsibility for control and supervision of
Project implementation. On,the basis of reports submitted by the MOF on the Project
expenditures, the PCU conducted an analysis and prepared reports on the progress of
utilization of the proceeds of Credit tranches. Subsequently they were provided to the Prime
Minister of the Republic of Tajikistan, the Chairman of the Commission on National
Reconciliation (CNR) and the World Bank for their review.
REMARK: During the reporting period, the PCU has prepared and submitted two
reports on the utilization of the first tranche (dated 03/23/98) and the
second tranche (dated 10/30/98) of the Credit to the Prime Minister's
Office, the CNR Chairman and the World Bank.
Project Implementation Results
Summary of Third Tranche of the Credit:
After approval of the report on the use of second tranche (dated 30 October 1998) and
perrnission for the use of the third tranche for the purposes of supporting the peace process,
the MOF has received funds for a total amount of TR 705.8 million (USD 936,100) at the
exchange rate of USD 1 = 754 TR towards the cost of supporting the peace process. During
the period from 1 November to 31 December 1998, a total amount of TR 342.9 million (USD
454,700) were utilized, including:
i)             Activities related to repatriation and reintegration of refugees
and displaced persons (cost of transportation of refugees and their baggage
- TR 13.5 million; allocation of micro-credits for repair and rehabilitation
of households - TR 0.5 million; food aid - TR 5.3 million; supply of the
houses of repatriates with fuel - TR 18 million; expenses of reception
point for refugees - TR 3 million; and other expenditures for repatriation
activities - TR 13.5 million). TOTAL: TR 53.7 million (USD 71,200);
ii)            Activities on reintegration and demobilization of United Tajik
Opposition (UTO) ex-combatants (expenditures for repair and
reconstruction of assembly sites of UTO battalions in Tajikabad district
and other locations - TR 34.2 million; transportation and fuel - TR 78.1
million; food aid - TR 3 million; and other expenditures related to the
certification of combatants and the purchase of hardware - TR 2 million).
TOTAL: TR 50.2 million (USD 66,600); and
iii)           For coverage of operational cost of CNR (provision with
vehicles, fuel and furniture - TR 111.4 million; communication charges -
TR 1.3 million; repair of the office and major assets - TR 6.2 million;
accommodation and boarding of security workers and members of various
19



sub-committees of CNR - USD 95.0 million; and logistics and utilities,
etc. - USD 37.7 million). TOTAL: TR 238.9 million (USD 316,900).
As of December 31, 1998, the balance of still unused Credit proceeds amounts to TR 362.7
million (USD 481,400).
Final Report on the Use of the Credit
Overall in 1998 an amount of USD 9,736,100 (TR 7,310.2 million) was wire transferred to
the Special Account of the MOF and the following expenditures were paid as of December
31, 1998:
1 .    Indebtedness of the republican budget regarding compensatory payments,
pensions and allowances - TR 5,103.4 million ( USD 6,800,000), including:
(a)   Compensatory payments and allowances:
In this regard, an amount of TR 4,482.9 million (USD 5,971,100) was used.
This constitutes 61.3% of the total utilized amount. The proceeds were
disbursed in two phases to the local Hukumats. The financial bodies at the
sites were making payments directly in accordance with the recommendations
of the Ministry of Finance.
The total number of beneficiaries of compensatory payments amounted to
1,317,000 with major portion of these payments allocated for children of
vulnerable citizens. For assessment of the work of local financial departments
and efficiency of coverage of such expenditures, the PCU together with a
group of specialists from the World Bank conducted a sociological
investigation in 12 districts of the Republic. As a result, an aide-memoir was
prepared and sent to the MOF. Consequently, the Ministry has taken practical
measures for strengthening of control of the use of allocated proceeds
(instructive materials were sent to all of the districts and, in some sites,
seminars were conducted and responsible persons from the side of MOF were
defined). Besides, the heads of several number of local financial institutions
have been subjected to administrative penalties for the shortcomings and
omissions that were encountered.
BENEFIT: These payments have substantially enabled the Government to:
- Decrease the accumulated indebtedness in the social sector;
- Reduce financial tension on the budget; and
- Assist vulnerable groups of the population.
(b)   Pensions
As a result of the accumulation of debts on payment of pensions to the
pensioners, workers of interior departments, defense and security systems, a
total amount of TR 620.5 million (USD 820,400) was disbursed in two stages
20



for coverage of indebtedness of the republican budget. These payments were
made through the accounts of the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of
Interior, the Ministry of Defense, State Committee on Protection of Border,
Customs Committee. In several Hukumats of the districts, pensions were paid
to 6,600 pensioners.
This was a very effective input for the support of this class of the
population and serves as an important indicator of trust in the Government
in strengthening the peace process.
2.    For coverage of expenditures related to the support and strengthening of peace
process and execution of terms and conditions set forth in General Peace Accord a total
amount of TR 1,844 million (USD 2,454,700), which is equivalent to 25.2% of the total cost
under this Project. Expenditures were made through three tranches on the basis of
documentation certifying the utilization of the expenses.
Out of the first tranche, the MOF paid all of the indebtedness related to repatriation and
demobilization of the UTO combatants and expenses related to the negotiation stages of the
peace process.
Consequently, it has been determined that those documents certifying all of the indicated
expenses will be considered for payments subject to the respective permission of the
Government of the Republic of Tajikistan and the approval of the CNR). As a whole, the
aforementioned mechanism of work has fostered efficient expenditures and has enabled a
reasonable assessment of the needs for expenditures.
The expenditures have been mainly addressed to the following:
(a) Repatriation and reintegration of refugees and displaced persons
A total of TR 495.6 million (USD 659,800) was used for these purposes from
three tranches (27% of the total expenses for the peace process). These
expenses were mainly related to transportation of refugees and their baggage,
food aid, provision of fuel during the winter period and allocation of credit for
rehabilitation of their damaged households (initially up to TR 100 thousand,
and up to TR 300 thousand later in accordance with the concurrence of the
Government). Furthermore, the expenditures of State Immigration Service at
check posts and transit points as well as organization of repatriation of
refugees from Afghanistan and CIS countries were also covered.
OVERALL, these expenditures were an essential aspect ot ettorts and
endeavors of the Government in the repatriation of refugees from other
countries and promotion of their reintegration into the social life of the
country as well as assisting internally displaced persons in relocating to
their places of permanent residence.
21



(b) Demobilization and reintegration of UTO combatants
For implementation of this essential condition of the Peace Agreement, a total
of TR 570.2 million (USD 759,200) (equivalent to 31% from the total cost of
support of peace process) was used. Expenditures related to transportation and
purchase of fuel enhanced the return of more than 600 combatants from
Afghanistan to their permanent assembly places in Gharm and Tajikabad
districts. Besides, a total amount of TR 541.7 million was utilized for repair
of assembly places of UTO combatants in Leninsky, Kofarnihon, Darband,
Tavildara (Tavildara settlement and Childara village), Gharm, Tajikabad,
Jirgatal, Vanj and Rushon districts as well as in Khorog and Dushanbe. All of
these incurred expenditures were made in accordance with the instructions of
the Government of Tajikistan and the requests of the CNR.
It necessary to note that during payment of the above-mentioned expenditures,
the PCU was periodically informing the Government of its activities. In the
letter No. 191 dated 07/09/98, the PCU has submitted information to the
Defense Secretary of the Republic of Tajikistan, Mr. Amirqul Azimov, with a
request to authorize the controlling bodies of the Government to check for the
proper and efficient use of the proceeds given to the district Hukumats.
BENEFIT: These expenditures have facilitated establishment of steady
peace and stability in the country and maintained security of the
population.
Problem: The process of integration of UTO ex-combatants into the power
structures of the Government may increase the risk of various provocations
and reduce the effectiveness of the Government's peace-making efforts.
(c) CNR Operations
The most important role in implementation of the peace process and rendering
of assistance to institutional reforms belongs to the Commission on National
Reconciliation, which consists of equal number of members from the
Government and the UTO. Therefore, the supply of necessary inputs to and
support of CNR operations constituted the core of implementation of the peace
process. During the reporting period, a total of TR 778.1 million (USD
1,035,900), equivalent to 42% of total expenditures for peace support, was
used. These expenditures include the following:
Repair and reconstruction of CNR building - TR 155 million (USD
207,300);
Procurement of vehicles, furniture and equipment - TR 161.2 million
(USD 214,700);
22



Lodging and boarding of security workers and members of various
subcommittees of the CNR in October Hotel (until March of 1998,)
Vaksh and Governmental Dacha (until November of 1998) - TR 226.7
million (USD 300,700);
Transportation and fuel - TR 132.3 million (USD 176,00); and
Logistics (hardware) and utilities (communication charges, CNR
building rental, repair of vehicles and other equipment, etc.) - TR
102.9 million (USD 137,200).
All of these expenditures were incurred mainly through the accounts and
structure of Governmental Dacha on the basis of written requests and
confirmations from the CNR authorities. Especially, coverage of expenditures
related to the boarding and lodging of various committees before the
beginning of the CNR operations at October Hotel as well as to the security
group (almost 100 persons) and the CNR members in the Vaksh Hotel and
Governmental Dacha was required to guarantee the CNR operations.
Achieved Results
Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit has constituted the core of support of the
Government's peace-making efforts and enabled the Government to:
*: Remove indebtedness of the state's budget to the social sector
that was created during the civil war; reduce the budget deficit
and help suffering children and pensioners. This has reduced the
negative impact of the war to the vulnerable classes of
population;
*: Provide final repatriation of the refugees, carry out partial
demobilization and reintegration of UTO combatants and
support the CNR operations, which has been an important
instrument of stability in the country.
Conclusions
1. Due to a number of objective and subjective constraints, the country is in a very difficult
stage of the peace process. This requires the continuation of the CNR operations for a
certain period as well as finalization of the repatriation and demobilization process of the
UTO combatants. Furthermore, special attention should be given to the ultimate
reintegration and support of repatriated and displaced persons. Therefore, utilization of
the remaining balance of these proceeds in the amount of USD 481,400 during the first
half of 1999 for the above-mentioned purposes shall be very beneficial and efficient for
establishment of peace and national reconciliation.
23



2. For achievement of goals in the actual reintegration of refugees and demobilization of
UTO combatants, we need to find supplementary sources of funding for their training
and/or retraining as well as employment, such as creation of new work places, especially
in rural and mountainous regions of the Republic.
3. It is necessary to note that World Bank personnel, especially Mr. Muhammad Reza
Ghasimi, have provided significant assistance during the implementation phase of the
Project with their recommendations and guidance.
Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
24



' t  -'   ,  VJ 1TAJIKISTAN
*.~~~~~'  \ To ~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
,To Tashkent                    ./pTo Tashkent-    MINROD
e\\%,                                                                                       -i-t--' 9   t  t~ss   ,^/   g  < pRAILROADS
<  ffis  ;<,   g I  \   /      ,   /                                                          *0      SELECTED CITIES
(   .. .-   jfo/-   UZBEK.                          0       AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER
To Gulist!                                            To Quqon                         )                                  OBLAST CENTER
UZBEKISTAN                   ~       stOn        ' Khojond,."'  -7?                                                                              f    NATIONAL CAPITAL
_Ko ni b     4      -                                                    AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) BOUNDARIES
To Dzhizak                                                               0                                                               OBLAST BOUNDARIES"
- 8 '"  - -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Area with ,,a oblast-level administrative divisions, where ray-ns are under direct republic jurisdiction.
+p; ,/ Ura-Tyutse k                                                          v X_S.'L...J  An oblast is named only when its name differs from that of its administrative center.
KYRGYZ                 REP.                                  To Osh                                           75n
LENINABAD                                                                                               e        ,                                         C H I N A
L_.OBLAST'    -"
'7                      >  8AT   - 
-39'                                                                             50 0 /~~    1"   )  :dk   ~ /                      z: *                                                                                39
},^ (Oz <                            ^ t / K       s        trekrUOI 5  To Shufu
To Denau   g(  
.f                                                                                        09    }                   / / t<~GORNO-
K       - /,   Ka ia                        Kulyab                             e                            BADAKHSHANSKAYA J S/
To Termizhorog /gra:
Ar.l S-  KAZAKHSTAN
The boundaries, colors,                                                                                                                   _*                                     A     lSe
other informatioI shown                 A   F G           A    N    I S  TABaIa
on this map do not                                                                                                                                                   J-        Z, BEKISTAN
imply, on the part of                                                                                                                                               TURK3:NISIAN            t             r          RE
The World Bank Group,              0              50            100            150 KILOMETERS                                                              ..........                         L
any judgment on the ego/                                                                                                                                            TURKMENISTAN  KYRGYZREP 
3n status of ony territory,            I                                                                                           AV;AI>55so  
or any endorsement                  0                      50                      100 MILES                                 PAKI STA  N                                                 Duhbti
or acceptance of such                                                                                     ..                                                 SAI RP           -                                             ATj~5.~
boundiaries.                                                                                                                      72                                OF ISLAMIC REP./''t   i/                  '       CHINA      "I
0                                               69i                                        .7.2i                                                                     OF IRAN               - AFGHANISTAN       -



