Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-71 99-TJ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED POST-CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT SDR 7.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
November 20, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 30, 1997)
Currency Unit    =      Tajik Rubles
TR 1            US$0.0018
US$             TR 541
PERIOD AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
The Tajik Rubel replaced the Russian Rubel on May 10, 1995, at an initial conversion rate of TR = Rus R100
Russia Rubles per US $ 1  Tajik Rubles per US $1
1993  932               1995  95
1994  2,192             1996  300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARSP  -  Agriculture Recovery and Social Protection
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CNR   -  Commission for National Reconciliation
CU   -  Coordination Unit
ERS  -  Economic Reform Support
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
GNP  -  Gross National Product
IBTA   -  Institution Building and Technical Protection
IDA   -  International Development Association
IDF  -  International Development Fund
IDP  -  Internally Displaced People
IFC   -  International Finance Corporation
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
NBT  -  National Bank of Tajikistan
PCRC   -  Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit
PFP  -  Policy Framework Paper
PPAP  -  Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Project
UNHCR   -  United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNOPS  -  United Nations Office for Project Services
TAJIKISTAN - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:                       Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:                     Ishrat Husain, ECCO I
Sector Director:                      Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Sector Leader:                        Robert J. Anderson, ECSPE
Task Team Leader:                     M. R. Ghasimi, ECSPE



International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR
EXECUTIVE                                                    For consideration on
DI RECTORS'                                                  Tuesday, December 16,1997
MEETING
IDA/ R97-159/1
FROM: Vice President and Secretary                      November 26,1997
TAJIKISTAN - Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit
Corrigendum
The attached replaces page 11 of the President's Report and Recommendation on a
proposed credit to Tajikistan for a Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit (IDA/ R97-159, distributed
on November 21,1997), which was missing two lines in paragraph 30.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President's Executive Conmmittee
Senior Management, Bank, IFC and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






authorities undertake not to use the proceeds for items covered in the negative list and to have
the account audited upon IDA's request by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
31.   Environmental Assessment Requirements.  In accordance with the Association's
Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment.
E. Benefits and Risks
32.   Benefits. The proposed Credit would allow imports of critical inputs and help finance
essential expenditures in a manner that is non-inflationary. The Government's proposed program
to strengthen the funding of the social safety net for the most vulnerable groups in the country -
children and pensioners - through payment of arrears would partially offset the war's adverse
impact on poor, help increase purchasing power in towns and villages and provide an important
signal that the Government is turning its attention from war to peace.
33.   Risks. There are substantial risks. The main risk associated with the proposed Credit is
that the peace process may unravel and cause a resurgence of hostilities. Still some groups have
not fully reconciled with the peace process. Sporadic attacks and violence, including the recent
attacks on the Presidential guard, make the peace process quite fragile.
34.   By bringing the Government and the main opposition group together, the June peace
agreement represents a major step in the peace process. Recent acts of violence have spurred
both the Government and the UTO to forge a common front against the renegades and move
swiftly to implement the peace accord. Social assessments portray the people's weariness with
war and the chances of civil strife will be reduced if the population sees a difference in their lives
as a result of peace process. The proposed Credit will help the Government make this positive
"difference."
V. RECOMMENDATION
35.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
November 20, 1997
11l






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED POST-CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 7.3 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIISTAN
CONTENTS
Credit Summary .................................................1
I. INTRODUCTION .................................................3
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS ......................4
III. GOVERNMENT'S NEAR TERM PROGRAM ................................................6
A. Implementing the Peace Process ............................................6
B. Strengthening Implementation of Ongoing Economic Reforms ...................7
C. Developing a Medium Term Reform Strategy ................................................8
IV. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT .................................................9
A. Objectives ...........................................9
B. Rational of Bank Involvement and Strategy ..........................................9
C. Coordination with Donors ..........................................   10
D. Implementation Arrangements           ...................................... 10
E. Benefits and Risks ..........................................         11
V. RECOMMENDATION ................................................              11
ANNEXES:
Annex 1:       Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2:       Key Economic Indicators
Annex 3:       Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 4:       Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 5:       Tajikistan at a Glance
MAP IBRD No. 29170
This.document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



REPUBLIC OF TAJKSTAN
Proposed Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit
Credit Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Tajikistan
Amount:                   SDR 7.3 million
Terms:                   IDA terms, with 40 years maturity, including a 10 year grace
period.
Commitment Fee:          A variable rate not exceeding 1/2 of 1 % of the undisbursed
Credit balance, set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA
and beginning 60 days after signing.
Executing Agency:         Office of the Prime Minister
Objectives:              The main objectives of the proposed Credit are to support the
Government's efforts to: (a) ease the foreign exchange shortage
so that critical imports can be acquired; and (b) improve the
performance of the social safety net for the most vulnerable
groups in the country, particularly, children under the age of
eight and pensioners.
Benefits:                The proposed Credit would allow imports of critical inputs and
help finance essential budget expenditures in a manner that is
non-inflationary. Strengthening the funding of the social safety
net for children and pensioners through payment of arrears will
partially offset the war's adverse impact on poor and help
increase purchasing power in towns and villages.
Risks:                    The main risk associated with the proposed Credit is that the
peace process may unravel and cause a resurgence of hostilities.
Although the June peace agreement between Government and the
United Tajik Opposition (UTO) represents a major step in the
peace process, peace is still fragile. Recent progress on macro
stabilization, combined with a good relationship between the
Government and the UTO, auger well for implementation of the
peace agreement. Additionally, provision of critical imports and
support to the social safety net will demonstrate the strength of
the peace.
Rate of Return:          Not applicable
Poverty Category:         The proposed Credit includes measures to provide assistance to
the most vulnerable groups - children, pensioners and those
affected by war.
Appraisal Report:        Not applicable



Disbursement:             The proposed Credit is classified as a rehabilitation operation and
would be provided in one tranche. Upon effectiveness of the
Credit, disbursements will be deposited into a Government
account without need for evidence of imports of eligible goods.
The Borrower will undertake not to use the proceeds for items
covered in the negative list and to have the account audited upon
IDA's request.
Map:                      IBRD No. 29170
Project ID Number:        TJ-PA-55133
-2 -



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
POST-CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIINSTAN
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Post-
Conflict Rehabilitation Credit (PCRC) to the Republic of Tajikistan for SDR 7.3 million. The
proposed Credit would allow imports of critical inputs and support the social safety net for the
most vulnerable groups in the country, mainly children and pensioners.  The Credit, a
rehabilitation operation disbursed in one tranche, would be on standard IDA terms and repayable
over 40 years.
2.    Tajikistan became a member of IBRD and IDA in June 1993 and IFC in 1994. To date,
assistance from the World Bank Group has consisted of policy advice, an IFC investment in
Zarafshan Gold Company and three operations by the World Bank. In May 1996, the World
Bank Board approved the first operation --Institutional Building Technical Assistance (IBTA)--
and discussed a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). In September 1996, the Board approved a
first rehabilitation credit-- The Agricultural Recovery and Social Protection (ARSP) Credit. A
third credit, the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (PPAP), was approved by the Bank in April
1997. In August 1997, the Bank provided an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant to
Tajikistan to finance an external debt advisor to strengthen the Ministry of Finance's capacity for
external debt management. A Country Economic Memorandum was issued in August 1994. At
the request of the Government, the World Bank organized the first Consultative Group meeting
for Tajikistan in Tokyo on October 31, 1996.
I. INTRODUCTION
3.    Tajikistan has been wracked by political instability and civil war since its independence
from the Former Soviet Union in 1991. Civil war erupted in Tajikistan in May 1992, as
different regional and political interest struggled for power after the collapse of the previous
system. The armed conflict continued for the next five years with varying degrees of intensity,
with major hostilities concentrated in 1992 and 1993. An estimated 50,000 people died, 600,000
people were displaced inside the country, some 60,000 Tajiks fled to neighboring Afghanistan
and as many as half a million people were forced to emigrate to other CIS countries.
4.    In the first phase of the conflict, the heaviest fighting and physical destruction took place
in the south of the country (Khatlon area), shifting later to the east-central part (Karategin-
Gharm-Tavildara area). Houses, roads, bridges, schools, hospitals, water systems and other key
infrastructure facilities were destroyed. The war has also had a severe impact on the country as a
whole, significantly disrupting economic activities and intensifying poverty. Over the last few
years, military expenditures increased, to the detriment of other more productive or socially
oriented sectors.
-3 -



5.    The years of civil war in Tajikistan also saw the emergence of a number of armed gangs
and paramilitary groups that have murdered, looted and taken hostages, including prominent
Tajik personalities and international personnel. At this point, these bands represent one of the
most serious threats to the consolidation of peace and the return to normal economic activity.
6.    A complex and lengthy negotiation process between the Government of Tajikistan and
the UTO culminated on June 27, 1997, with the signing of the General Agreement on the
Establishment of Peace and National Accord in Tajikistan. The peace agreement lays the
foundation for peace and security in the country and is based on a 12-18 month transition period,
during which the agreementfs provisions are to be further defined and implemented. The
principal agency for overseeing the peace agreement is the National Commission for
Reconciliation (CNR), which is chaired by Mr. Said Abdullo Nuri, the leader of the UTO. The
CNR is composed of 26 members, 50 percent nominated by the Government and 50 percent by
the UTO. After the inaugural session in Moscow (July 7-11,1997), the CNR relocated to
Dushanbe in mid-September 1997, and is now beginning operation. Members of the UTO will
be represented in the Government. Political parties, outlawed in 1993, are now free to function
and Parliamentary elections are scheduled for the second half of 1998.
_1. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
7.    Tajikistan is the poorest country in the FSU, with a 1996 per capita income of US$330.
Seventy percent of the country's 5.8 million people reside in rural areas. The population is large
relative to the available arable land. Only 7 percent of the country's 143,000 square kilometers,
which are mostly mountainous, is arable. The economy is predominantly rural, with agriculture
contributing about 25 percent of GDP and 50 percent of employment. Tajikistan's main
agricultural products are cotton (which accounts for about half of total agricultural production)
and vegetables, grains and livestock. These products, especially cotton, are heavily dependent
on imports and external markets. The industrial sector accounts for 35 percent of GDP and 15
percent of employment and is dominated by approximately 7000 state-owned enterprises. The
availability of hydroelectric power has influenced the pattern and structure of this sector.
Aluminum, chemicals and other energy-intensive industries are the sector's mainstays.
8.    The war shattered the economy and inflicted extensive human and physical devastation.
The combined effect of the war, the breakup of the FSU (which broke trade links and ended
generous budget transfers from Moscow, amounting to about 40 percent of GDP) and severe
floods, (which damaged much of the remaining infrastructure) resulted in a roughly 50 percent
decline of Tajikistan's GDP during the first half of the 1990s. Additionally, imprudent
borrowing immediately following the collapse of the FSU gave rise to a crushing debt burden.
By the end of 1996, Tajikistan had accumulated nearly US$850 million of external debt (about 84
percent of GDP), mostly assumed on commercial terms between 1992 and 1994. Actual debt
service payments have remained relatively low, however, as the country is rescheduling its debt.
9.    After a halting attempt at stabilization and a structural reform program in late 1995 and
much of 1996 supported by a first credit tranche stand-by arrangement with the IMF and a
rehabilitation credit from IDA, the macroeconomic situation deteriorated in late 1996 and the
first half of 1997. The budget deficit far exceeded that in 1996, rising to around 10 percent of
GDP in the first half of 1997. By the end of June 1997, the social safety net arrears amounted to
TR 5.1 billion--about one-third of the total state expenditure arrears and 1.0 percent of GDP,
-4 -



equivalent to 8 months of entitlements. Reserve money increased by 115 percent and broad
money by 50 percent during the first half of 1997. The Tajik ruble depreciated sharply in official
markets, from an average rate of TR 300 per US dollar in 1996 to TR 541 by the end of June
1997. Inflation was 52 percent during the first half of 1997, compared to 40 percent during the
whole of 1996.
10.   The loss of financial control and backsliding on structural reform during this period
stemmed largely from renewed hostilities during the peace agreement's negotiation. Tax
revenues declined and expenditures for defense and law enforcement increased relative to the
budgeted amount. The mandatory evacuation of several expatriate advisors, including Bank and
IMF staff, in early 1997 in response to the deteriorating security situation contributed to the loss
of financial control. As noted below, (para. 17), when the security situation improved in mid
1997, the Government moved promptly to reestablish financial discipline and remove some of
the controls imposed on the economy during the 1996-97 period.
11.   The peace accord, no less than the war and the unstable security situation that preceded
the peace, poses enormous challenges to Tajikistan's Government. The immediate impact of the
peace is the need for substantial near term Government expenditures to implement the peace
agreement, including demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants, reintegration of
refugees and the IDPs and operation of the CNR. Additionally, the formal end of hostilities has
created popular pressure to produce tangible benefits from the peace process.  While the
Government will reap a peace dividend in the form of reduced defense expenditures and higher
tax revenues, the realization of most of these resources will take some time. The combination of
urgent near term peace-related expenditure requirements and more gradual realization of a peace
dividend leaves the Government with a serious near term financing problem.
TAJIKISTAN: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1996-98
(In millions of US dollars)
1996      1997        1998
Current Account                -92         -18         -61
Exports                    770        727          786
Imports                    808        732          836
Services (net)             -54         -13         -11
Capital Account               -134         -18          -2
Overall Balance               -226        -36          -63
Financing items                226         11         -27
Financing gap                    0         25          90
Source: IMF
12.   Looking beyond the next six to nine months, the Government faces the daunting tasks of
(a) adjusting its economy to substantially lower levels of spending than it was able to afford
when it had access to large budget transfers and borrowing within the FSU, and (b) establishing
an environment conducive to rapid, equitable and sustainable economic growth. Unavoidably,
this will require sweeping changes in the role and modus operandi of Government, with
substantial impact on social services and the level of protection provided by the safety net and a
decisive program of structural reform. It will also require substantial amounts of assistance, in
the form of generous debt relief (see para. 8) and sustained balance of payments support on
concessional terms.
-5-



M. Government 's Near Term Program
13.   The Government's near term  strategy has three pillars: (i) implementing the peace
agreement; (ii) strengthening implementation of ongoing economic reforms; and (iii) developing
a medium term reforn strategy.
A. Implementing the Peace Agreement
14.   The Government peace program will focus on four areas in an effort to sustain the peace
process for the country as a whole and for those most directly affected by the conflict:
*   Political Reconciliation and Democratization. The CNR will be strengthened to
oversee the peace process during the transitional period to help prepare for national
elections and assist with institutional reform, especially on important legal matters.
*  Repatriation and Reintegration of Refugees and IDPs. Efforts will be accelerated
to support the voluntary repatriation of all refugees, with priority given to some
20,000 refugees currently in northern Afghanistan. In addition, while many IDPs
have already returned to their homes, the program will support the return and
reintegration of those who have not.
*   Demobilization and Reintegration of Ex-Combatants. An estimated 5,000-7000
ex-combatants will either be demobilized and assisted to pursue civilian
occupations or integrated into the government defense establishment. At the same
time, the overall defense capability of Tajikistan will be reorganized, leading to an
estimated 30% reduction of personnel.
*   Relief, Reconstruction and Development. Assisted by the donor community, the
Government's relief and reconstruction efforts will focus on three phases: (i) short
term relief and reconstruction to carry severely affected people through the winter
and provide them with the means to reestablish their lives. In regions directly
affected by the civil war, the highest relief priorities are food, shelter and basic
social services and measures to restore economic productivity, particularly in
agriculture, for Spring 1998 planting. Funding the social safety net for the country
as a whole, including reducing arrears, is an important element of establishing
popular support; (ii) reconstruction of essential economic and social services and
restoration of purchasing power and employment are the priorities set by needs
assessment for the second half of 1998 and 1999; and (iii) longer term
reconstruction, especially roads, telecommunications and power supply, where
implementation requires longer lead times.
-6 -



B. Strengthening Implementation of Ongoing Economic Reforms
15.   Compared to other FSU republics, Tajikistan started implementing economic reforms
late, adopting an economic reform program in November 1995. The reform program's initial
phase has concentrated on: (i) restoring macroeconomic stability; (ii) restructuring the
agricultural sector; (iii) privatizing state-owned enterprises; and (iv) protecting the most
vulnerable groups.
16.   Restoring Macroeconomic Stability. Tajikistan undertook its first comprehensive
effort to restore macroeconomic stability in 1996. Supported by an IMF stand-by arrangement
and the ARSP credit, the Government implemented tight monetary and fiscal policies and
controlled inflation. Exchange and trade policies were liberalized and the few remaining price
controls were removed. The results were promising, with inflation declining to 40 percent
during 1996, compared with 2000 percent during 1995.  Program  implementation was
satisfactory until late 1996, when defense expenditures increased significantly in response to
renewed fighting. The increased defense expenditures were financed by a combination of
monetary expansion and budget arrears, including significant amounts owed to components of
the social safety net.
17.   Since the signing of the peace agreement, the Government has made good progress in
stabilizing the macro environment. Reserve money growth declined in July-September to about
6 percent per month, compared to a monthly average of 12 percent in the first half of 1997. The
foreign exchange auction is now being regularly held. Inflation is decreasing because of slower
credit expansion and a lower budget deficit. Since July 1997, the Fund staff has visited
Tajikistan several times to reestablish the policy dialogue, review the Govermment's draft 1998
budget and discuss a coherent macroeconomic strategy for the reminder of 1997 and 1998 that
could be supported by financial resources from the Fund.
18.   Privatization of State-owned Enterprises. The privatization program began in 1991
but was interrupted in 1993 by the deteriorating security situation. When security improved in
late 1994, privatization resumed but was hindered until the Tajik ruble was introduced as the
national currency in 1995. Security and war-related disruptions were compounded by the
absence of an effective legal and institutional framework, lack of Government commitment and
macroeconomic instability. As a result, less than 8 percent of state-owned enterprises were
privatized by the end of 1996.
19.   The Government's privatization program is currently supported under the World Bank
IBTA credit. A new privatization law, passed by Parliament on May 16, 1997 and signed by
President on June 11, 1997, substantially improves the legal framework and states clearly that
equality and competitiveness among buyers will be one of the guiding principles for
privatization. Furthermore, the Government approved new corporatization procedures in June
1997 that allow corporatization to be completed faster, with preparation of several short
documents.
20.   Restructuring the Agricultural Sector. By focusing on structural changes in
agriculture, which is the backbone of the Tajik economy, the Government has tried to slow the
economic decline and increase employment opportunities, household income and economy's
foreign exchange earnings. The Government's reforms in the agricultural sector include (a)
liberalizing agricultural prices, (b) liberalizing agricultural marketing, and (c) restructuring state
- 7 -



collective farms. The Government has removed price controls on all agricultural commodities.
Beginning in mid-1996,'industrial and agricultural water users were required to pay for water.
To liberalize agricultural marketing, the Government eliminated the state order system' for all
agricultural commodities. The Land Code has been revised to reflect new Government
guidelines for the farm restructuring program that called for transparent and equitable criteria for
selecting farners to receive land and authorized unrestricted transfer and the inheritability of
land access rights. While agricultural producers have benefited from higher cotton prices as a
result of the 1996 liberalization, the Government re-imposed some restrictions on cotton exports
in late 1996, which hindered the development of private trade in cotton.
21.   In September 1997, the Government once again eliminated these restrictions and
simplified cotton export mechanisms. The cotton marketing agency (Glavklopkoprom) has been
transformed into a joint stock company and other trading companies have been allowed to
compete with Glavklopkoprom. The Government has also taken a number of other measures to
strengthen agricultural reform. The creation of the Land Reform Committee has removed the
land reform process from the exclusive domain of the Ministry of Agriculture and given it
greater visibility and political support, and significant progress is being made in land reform.
22.   Protecting the Most Vulnerable Groups. In 1996, the universal bread subsidy and
child allowances were replaced by a social welfare system targeted to the society's most
vulnerable groups. Under the new system, family allowances were provided to those with
children under 16 at a rate of TR 72 per child in households with per capita income not
exceeding two minimum wages per month. The family allowance was also paid to non-working
pensioners and registered unemployed. In March 1996, the family allowance was raised to
TR 500 per child. The system has an estimated 1.3 million beneficiaries, at a total cost of
TR 7.8 billion (17 percent of the 1996 budget expenditures and 2.5 percent of GDP).
23.   To better target the social safety net and reduce the overall budgetary burden, in
April 1997, the Government decided to maintain the monthly family allowance of TR 500 per
child but reduce its eligibility to families with children under 8 and per capita income of less
than one minimum wage per month. Payment mechanisms were also improved. Family
allowances are now paid in the mother's place of work or if the mother does not work at the
workplace of other relatives. If the parents and other relatives are all unemployed, payments are
made to the Social Protection branch of the family's place of residence. Eligibility for
compensation is determined by a commission that includes representatives of the work place or
the social protection branch, based on aggregate family income over the most recent three
months. Notwithstanding these improvements, due to the program's scope (covering one-fourth
of the population) and the budget constraint, the Government has been unable to remain current
on family allowance payments.
C. Developing a Medium Term Reform Strategy
24.   The combination of the peace accord, early steps toward stabilizing the macroeconomy
(para. 17) and renewed progress on structural reform (para. 19-23) provide solid evidence that
the Government is serious about its reform program. However, considerable hard work remains
before the Government's reform program can be regarded as well established. The reform
agenda needs to pursue not only macroeconomic stability, but also privatization of farms and
state enterprises, strengthening the financial sector and diversifying exports. Near term support
-8 -



is being provided by the Fund and IDA, through their post-conflict oper;ations. The Fund's post-
conflict emergency assistance operation is scheduled for consideration by the Fund's Board in
December.  In addition to the proposed Credit, IDA is preparing a second post-conflict
reconstruction credit. In order for the Government's reform program to become well established
and focused, the Government must concentrate on its medium term strategy to deepen the reform
program. Support for the medium term strategy will be provided by the Fund and IDA. Fund
support for Tajikistan is planned under an ESAF arrangement planned for 1998, including
preparation of a Policy Framework Paper. IDA support will be in the form of the proposed
Economic Reform Support (ERS) scheduled for Board presentation in June 1998. The latter
operation will be accompanied by a CAS to support the Government's effort to develop a
coherent medium term strategy.
IV. Features of the Proposed Credit
A. Objectives
25.   The proposed Credit's main objectives are to ease the foreign exchange shortage so that
critical imports can be acquired, thus helping restore production, employment and consumption
in Tajikistan's post-conflict economy. The proposed Credit will provide non-inflationary
financing for the budget. The Government has indicated that the counterpart funds generated by
the Credit will help meet near term costs associated with the peace accord, while maintaining
progress toward financial stabilization. The Government intends to use the Credit's counterpart
proceeds to reduce the arrears for the social safety net throughout the country and to finance
some expenditures related to resettlement of refugees, IDPs, and demobilized soldiers. This will
provide an early and direct peace benefit and demonstrate the Government's desire to include the
entire population in the process of national reconciliation.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy
26.   Tajikistan's population has borne enormous hardships inflicted by the war and disruption
of economic activities, which the Government has not been able to offset in any significant way.
After years of suffering, the population is judged by many to be near the breaking point--an
inauspicious condition for beginning to implement the peace process, especially as another
winter looms. Tajikistan's balance of payments situation continues to be very difficult and gross
reserves have dwindled to no more than 2 weeks of imports. The proposed Credit will help meet
some of the country's urgent balance of payments requirements. Immediate social measures,
such as vaccinations or other health needs, have largely been provided by the Government and
other donors. The Government intends to use the Credit's counterpart proceeds to meet social
assistance obligations, particularly the family allowance, which offers the best chance of
supporting poor households in a politically neutral fashion, in order to demonstrate early benefits
of the peace. This approach is strongly supported by both the Government and UTO
representatives in the CNR. At the Government's request, IDA prepared the proposed Credit to
provide assistance to the country's most vulnerable groups and help implement the peace
agreement. IDA supports the Government intentions to use the counterpart funds to reduce the
-9-



arrears in the social safety net and to implement the peace agreement within the criteria specified
by the Government in the attached Letter of Development Policy.
27.   The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Tajikistan was discussed by
the Board on May 16, 1996. In view of uncertainty about the security situation and the pace of
reform, the CAS called for a flexible approach to the Bank Group's assistance strategy in
FY96/97. The FY96/97 lending program was designed to foster a supply response, based on
employment intensive growth combined with direct steps to protect the most vulnerable groups.
Future lending was to depend on progress toward reform and the process of national
reconciliation. The proposed Credit, the second rehabilitation credit to Tajikistan, is in response
to Government's request from IDA to provide urgent balance of payments assistance and help the
Government finance peace-related budgetary expenditures. The proposed Credit provides
critical imports; counterpart funds will be used to meet the near term non-inflationary costs of
the peace accord and will help jump-start the economy and mitigate poverty.
C. Coordination with Donors
28.   Given the enormous problems faced by Tajikistan, the peace process will require
coordinated assistance by the international community. This coordination is being handled at the
local level by the UN and World Bank resident offices. The UN has taken the lead in
coordinating the relief effort, which is being implemented by its specialized agencies, bilateral
donors and non-governmental organizations. Special effort is being made to include non-
governmental organizations because of their extensive role in providing direct assistance to
affected people, including implementing components of World Bank projects. A donors'
meeting on relief and short term recovery was held in November 1997 in Vienna, at which a
number of donors indicated the assistance they will provide to the peace process. Over the next
few months, the Bank's contribution to this effort would be through the proposed Credit and a
companion Post-Conflict Reconstruction Credit being prepared for Board consideration in early
1998 to deal with short and medium term reconstruction requirements in the Karategin Valley
region, which has received little assistance so far from the Government and the donor
community. The Government has requested the World Bank to chair a Consultative Group
meeting during 1998 to review financing for the country's medium term reconstruction and
recovery.
D. Implementation Arrangements
29.   A Coordination Unit (CU) has been created in the Office of the Prime Minister to
provide IDA with necessary information on the use of the counterpart funds and implementation
of Government's reform program. The head of the CU will report directly to the Prime Minister
and has been approved by the CNR.
30.   The borrower will the Republic of Tajikistan, as represented by the Ministry of Finance.
The Credit, in the amount of SDR 7.3 million, will be disbursed in one tranche and will follow
the simplified Association procedures for adjustment operations. The proceeds of the Credit will
be deposited in a Ministry of Finance special account at the NBT. IDA disbursement procedures
provide for credit disbursements without the need for evidence of imports of eligible goods, the
- 10-



31.   Environmental Assessment Requirements. In accordance with the Association's
Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation
has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment.
E. Benefits and Risks
32.   Benefits. The proposed Credit would allow imports of critical inputs and help finance
essential expenditures in a manner that is non-inflationary. The Government's proposed program
to strengthen the funding of the social safety net for the most vulnerable groups in the country -
children and pensioners - through payment of arrears would partially offset the war's adverse
impact on poor, help increase purchasing power in towns and villages and provide an important
signal that the Government is turning its attention from war to peace.
33.   Risks. There are substantial risks. The main risk associated with the proposed Credit is
that the peace process may unravel and cause a resurgence of hostilities. Still some groups have
not fully reconciled with the peace process. Sporadic attacks and violence, including the recent
attacks on the Presidential guard, make the peace process quite fragile.
34.   By bringing the Government and the main opposition group together, the June peace
agreement represents a major step in the peace process. Recent acts of violence have spurred
both the Government and the UTO to forge a common front against the renegades and move
swiftly to implement the peace accord. Social assessments portray the people's weariness with
war and the chances of civil strife will be reduced if the population sees a difference in their lives
as a result of peace process. The proposed Credit will help the Government make this positive
"difference."
V. RECOMMENDATION
35.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
November 20, 1997



CAPBA3HPH                        ,.U flPEMbEP-MMHHHCTP
RYMXYPHH TOLRHKHCTOH                                     PEC[IYBJHUKH TAA)1HKHCTAH
199
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Tajildstan: Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit
November 8, 1997
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
I.    This Letter of Development Policy (LDP) focuses on the emergency needs of Tajikistan
in support of the peace process. Donor support is essential if peace and stability are to be
achieved. Quick budget support from IDA is critical, as Government is under pressure to: i)
meet its immediate financial obligations under the peace accord and ii) demonstrate to the
population at large the tangible benefit from the accord. The emergency economic framework,
which underpins the rationale of this operation, is spelled out. Finally, the LDP discusses briefly
Government's reform intentions beyond the current emergency program.
2.    Tajikistan was already the poorest Republic in the FSU and, with independence in
September 1991, it suddenly lost significant budgetary transfers (estimated at 40 percent of
GDP) from Moscow. Soon after independence, the civil war erupted in 1992 and intensified
during the second half of that year. The armed conflict continued, with a varying degree of
intensity, during the subsequent five years. The collapse of the economic planning system,
together with the civil war, traumatized deeply the people of Tajikistan and initiated a steep
downward spiral of income and employment. Many human lives were lost and hundred of
thousands, notably those with valuable skills, fled the country.  Tajikistan's physical
infrastructure, economic assets and human capital have been severely affected.
3.    These factors, combined with lack of economic reform until the mid-1990's, led to a
sharp drop in income and a high level of unemployment. In 1996, GDP was less than 40 percent
of its level in 1991. Cotton production, the main agricultural activity and source of foreign
exchange and budget revenues, declined by two-thirds. Most other economic activities are now
operating at less than one-fourth their capacity at the turn of the decade. At US$ 330 per capita
income, Tajikistan ranks among the poorest countries in the world. Poverty is wide-spread and it
is estimated that 4 out 5 Tajiks are below the poverty line. Yet, Tajikistan is still not afforded
the status of Least Developed Country (LDC) by the United Nations.
4.    Faced with these difficulties, the Government of Tajikistan: i) launched in late 1995 a
comprehensive economic reform program to move Tajikistan from planned to market economy;
and ii) engaged itself into serious peace talks with the United Tajik Opposition (UTO).
Establishing permanent peace in Tajikistan will benefit not only the Tajik people but also the
whole region of Central Asia.



-2 -
The Peace Process-The Need for External Support
5.    Achievements.  The Government of Tajikistan and the U.T.O signed a General
Agreement on Establishing Peace and National Reconciliation on June 27, 1997 in Moscow.
This was the culmination of a series of inter-Tajik peace talks which started in April 1994 under
the auspices of the United Nations. Under the peace accord a Commission for National
Reconciliation (CNR), which consists of 26 members split equally between Government
and UTO and which is headed by Mr. Said Abdullo Nuri, was established and started its
operation in mid-September of this year. The peace accord calls for the repatriation and
reintegration of refugees and armed forces. Parliamentary elections will be held in about
a year from the 'date the CNR started its work. Other important decision have already
been reached on the representation of UTO in Government structure (30 percent), in the
central commission for election and referendum (25 percent); recognition of political
parties which were outlawed in 1993; and international guarantees for the implementation
of the accord.
6.    Action Plan. The signing of the peace accord represents only the beginning of
hard work to ensure the sustainability of peace. Strong commitment of all parties--
Government, the former opposition and the donor community--is required to support
peace stability. The implementation of the peace accord will result, in the short run, in an
increase in government spending (repatriation and reintegration of refugees and displaced
people, demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants, rehabilitation of physical
infrastructure, establishment of the CNR, and community-based activities support.) In
the medium run, the peace dividend is expected to be in the form of both expenditure
savings (on security/defense) and revenue increases (on account of better tax collection
effort -- many areas in Tajikistan are currently out of reach because of lack of security --
and economic recovery.
7.    The implementation of the peace accord is estimated to cost at least USD
65 million over the next 12-18 months, the bulk of which will have to come from external
resources given our limited capacity. Since the signing of the peace accord Government
has spent TR 3.1 billion (about USD 4.1 million). This came at the expense of priority
areas, namely the social safety net, pensions and salaries. For the remainder of 1997,
Government additional spending on the peace process is estimated at TR 2.5 billion
(USD 3.4 million).  These figures include expenditures on the rehabilitation of
infrastructure (estimated at about 10 percent). In the 1998 budget we allocated TR 819
million (about USD 1.1 million) to cover further the cost of refugees. This amount is
small in relation to government obligations vis-a-vis the peace process as a whole.
8.    The donor conference which is scheduled to take place in Vienna, Austria in late
November 1997 under the auspices of the UN is a step in the right direction. It will give
the peace accord visibility and enable Tajikistan to mobilize resources. The two lending
operations envisaged by IDA, the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit and the Post-
Conflict Reconstruction Credit will go a long way in the implementation of the peace
accord. Under both operations, Government is committed to use efficiently the resources



-3 -
made available by IDA and donors in support of the peace accord. Government intends
to use USD 3.0 million from the disbursement proceeds of Post-Conflict Rehabilitation
Credit to cover the immediate cost of the peace process. We intend to use Post-Conflict
Reconstruction Credit for the rehabilitation of physical and social infrastructure in the
Karategin-Gharm-Tavildara region (center-east of the country). The Khatlan region, the
other war-affected area, has benefited in the past from Government and donor support,
including the World Bank under the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project.
9.    Government is committed to undertake two sets of actions. First, we will
implement the following measures by March 1998: repatriate and reintegrate refugees
(estimated at 20,000 in Afghanistan alone); demobilize and reintegrate ex-combatants
(estimated at 5,000-7,000); and re-admit political parties in the country. Second, we
intend to reform the power structure (ministry of defense, ministry of interior, ministry of
security and border forces), with the view of eliminating redundancies. For this, we plan
to formally request technical assistance from the World Bank and UJNDP. Government
has already announced to reduce staff in these ministries by 30 percent.
The Economic Reform Program--An Overview
10.  In late 1995, Government adopted a comprehensive economic reforn program
which focused on four major areas: macroeconomic stability, land reform and farm
restructuring, privatization of state-owned enterprises, and social protection. In 1996 we
cut the budget deficit in four to around 5 percent of GDP, contained credit expansion and
liberalized foreign exchange regime. As a result, inflation was reduced from 2000
percent in 1995 to 40 percent in 1996. Also, the current account deficit of the balance-of-
payments remained under control, largely due to debt rescheduling. Among the key
policy measures adopted by Government to achieve these results were: rationalization of
taxation on cotton and aluminum, reduction in budget subsidies, adoption of positive real
interest rate, and rescheduling of the public debt. The major balance of payments issue
facing Tajikistan is its large debt, which at the end of 1996 was US$ 850 million.
11.   On the structural front, we fully liberalized prices, with the exception of utilities;
eliminated state orders on aluminum and all agricultural commodities, including cotton;
and liberalized cotton marketing. Regarding privatization, we have made significant
progress on reforming the legal and institutional framework, but we have yet to move
aggressively on actual privatization.
12.   Although it is too early to talk about results on the ground, it is encouraging to see
already the effect of price and trade liberalization on wheat supply and bread production.
The fear of higher prices for bread (following the elimination of subsidies) did not
materialize and instead a whole industry, largely informal, was created to meet the
demand for bread at lower prices. GDP decline is expected to come to a halt in 1997.
13.   Theses achievements could not have been possible without the support of Bretton
Woods institutions, the donor community, and Tajikistan's major creditors. At the



-4-
request of the Government of Tajikistan, the World Bank organized the first Consultative
Group meeting in Tokyo on October 31, 1996. This forum gave us a unique opportunity
to brief the donor community about Tajikistan's effort in reforming its economy. It also
enabled us to get commitment of USD 185 million for balance-of-payments support,
investment and technical assistance. However, to date, only a limited amount has been
disbursed due to a number of factors, namely the deterioration in the security and
macroeconomic framework during the first quarter of 1997.
14.   The implementation of the reform program has not been easy and the deterioration
in the security in the country in the Fall of 1996 and early 1997 did not help either.
Slippages in the financial program have emerged as early as September 1996 and
intensified in the first half of 1997. Financial imbalances reemerged as a result of higher
expenditures and lower revenues. The budget deficit during the first half of 1997 stood at
over 10 percent of GDP, 2-3 times the level in 1996. This, together with credit expansion,
resulted in higher inflation-- 52 percent in the first half of 1997. The exchange rate
depreciated rapidly in nominal terms from an average=of-TR-300-per US-dollar in 1996 to
TR 541 by end-June 1997. And net international reserves dropped far below the
minimum requirement. Also, some slippages on the structural reform emerged, namely
related to cotton exports and the social safety net.
Getting the Macroeconomic Framework Back on Track
15.   With the peace agreement now in place, the Government is focusing closely on
the economic reform program and taking the necessary corrective measures, in close
consultation with the IMF and the World Bank. Thus, in July 1997 we issued a decree
(Nb. 763) which re-established the Government's economic policy direction for the short
run.  Specifically, we stopped the administrative allocation of credit and foreign
exchange, and resumed the regular auctioning of the foreign exchange. Furthermore, we
eliminated the restrictions on cotton exports (decrees 400 and 823) and transformed the
cotton marketing agency into a joint-stock company (decree 425). We have negotiated an
Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance program under the IMF emergency financing
mechanism covering the period October 1997-June 1998.
16.   Under the emergency financial program supported by the IMF, Government
agreed to contain the budget deficit (on a cash basis) at about 0.6 percent of GDP in forth
quarter of 1997 and 2.8 percent of GDPin 1998. Measures taken to increase revenues
include further elimination of exemptions, improvement in tax collections and
introduction of a low, uniform tariff rate. In 1998, expenditures arrears will be reduced
substantially. The Government will pursue a prudent credit and monetary policy
consistent with a target annual rate of inflation rate of 21 percent in 1998. The level of
reserves will be increased to cover about four weeks of imports by mid-1998 and six
weeks of imports by end 1998. With respect to the foreign exchange, Government has
unified the foreign exchange auctions and broadened the access to auctions to include
non-banks.



-5-
17.   During the post-conflict period (12-18 months), the Government's budgetary
priorities are: i) to support the peace accord; ii) to protect the social sectors and social
safety net; and iii) to service the external debt within the framework negotiated with our
major creditors. Expenditures in these areas are expected to account for 46 percent of the
draft 1998 budget (excluding the expected donor financial assistance in support of the
peace accord). We also intend to protect the purchasing power of the civil servants by
granting 20 percent salary increase in January 1998 and another 10 percent in July of the
same year. Expenditures on security and law enforcement are budgeted for about 10
percent. Although, the 1998 budget allocates 9 percent of total expenditures to defense,
we expect this share to drop over time. As a first step, the Government has announced to
restructure the power ministries and reduce the staff by 30 percent.
Protecting the Social Sectors and Safety Net
18.   As an integral part of its reform program, Government adopted a 3-tier strategy to
protect the most vulnerable groups of the society: macro stability and growth; protecting
expenditures on education and health; and targeting assistance to the poor (cash
compensation and income generating activities through public works). Under this
strategy, salaries and pensions are expected to be paid on time. The strategy was
supported by two IDA credits, Agricultural Recovery and Social Protection and Pilot
Poverty Alleviation Project (which is expected to impact on about 5 percent of the
population over a two-year period), and by an IMF financial program. Actual
implementation of the strategy has run into major difficulties since the fall of 1996.
19.   Protecting Social Expenditures.  A combination of revenue shortfalls and
increased allocation of resources to defense and security have resulted in less resources
devoted to the social sectors. Actual expenditures on both sectors amounted to 15 percent
of total expenditures and 3 percent of GDP in 1996 compared to the targets of 20 percent
and 6 percent, respectively. The figures for the first half of 1997 show similar results.
The two sectors continue to show arrears which increased substantially in nominal and
relative terms in the first half of 1997. Arrears in education were largely with respect to
salaries and pension, while arrears in health were largely with respect to operations and
maintenance.
20.   As a result of the budget constraint, health and education services continued to
deteriorate fast. At present, about one-fifth of school children (7-18 years old) are not
receiving any formal education. For girls the ratio is 25 percent. The drop-out rate is on
the increase. The health indicators have deteriorated too. For instance, we witnessed an
increase in the rates of infant and maternal mortality. Immunization coverage is falling.
In 1996, it is estimated that about 18,000 cases of typhoid fever were registered, a nine-
fold increase over the previous year. The number of malaria cases (mainly in the South
and Gomo-Badakhshan) doubled over the same period and many cases of tuberculosis
have recently been reported.



-6-
21.   Faced with this situation, we have implemented a number of structural measures,
including some cost recovery. For instance, parents contribution to teacher salaries (in
kind and cash) is increasing and student's education is increasingly financed by
employers. In health, in most cases patients have to buy their own drugs and bring their
own food. The marketing of pharmaceutical products has de-facto being privatized,
though with little regulation (quality control, consumer protection) or appropriate storage
facilities. But we recognize that a lot more needs to be done in both sectors. In the short
run, we are committed to protect the budget allocation to the sectors. And over the
medium-term, we intend to deepen the reforms and seek donor support. We intend to
work out the sector priorities, in consultation with the World Bank, during the preparation
of the Country Assistance Strategy.
22.   The Social Safet, Net.  As part of the social safety net (SSN) program,
Government decided in 1996 to replace the universal bread subsidy and child allowances
with a social welfare system targeted at the most vulnerable groups of the society. The
beneficiaries were estimated at 1.3 million and the total cost at about 2.5 percent of GDP.
The bulk of the beneficiaries are children aged 8 years or less. Actual outcome in 1996
was disappointing, despite the fact that Government used US$ 15 million out of the
disbursement proceeds from ARSP to finance the social safety net. Payment to the social
safety net has dropped regularly since December 1996. By end-September 1997, arrears
totaled TR 5.9 billion (about USD 7.9 million)--over one-third of total state expenditure
arrears and 1.1 percent of GDP. This is equivalent to 8 months of entitlements.
23.   The move from universal bread to targeted-bread compensation was a step in the
right direction. In April 1997, the Ministry of Finance narrowed down the target group
by excluding children between the age of 8 and 16 and assigned the responsibility for
paying compensation to local Governments to reach faster the beneficiaries. Eligibility
for compensation is determined by a commission which includes representatives of the
work place or the social protection branch (where beneficiaries receive their payments)
and is based on aggregate family income received over the most recent three months.
However, further improvement is needed.
24.   Salary and Pension Payments. In 1996, we made good progress in reducing the
amount of salary and pension arrears and in making payment on time. However, since
the Fall of 1996, arrears have begun to accumulate again, reaching TR 2.5 billion or 1.4
months equivalent of salary as of end-September 1997. Education alone accounts for
nearly half of the salary and pension arrears. In a number of ministries, salaries and
pension represent over half of the ministry arrears.
25.  In July 1996, Government merged the pension fund, the social insurance fund and
the unemployment fund into a single entity--the social protection fund--to improve
efficiency in mobilizing revenue and cutting cost.  With better enforcement by
authorities, revenue collection increased in 1997 (for instance, from TR 450 January 1997
to TR 850 million in September 1997.) Furthermore, Government has taken measures in
March 1997 to reduce the cost of the distribution of pension, by assigning the savings



- 7-
bank (Sberbank) to handle the payment. Although the Social Protection Fund has been
current on its pension disbursements (including the minimum pension), the Sberbank,
encountered difficulties in reaching the beneficiaries in the Khatlon region in July/August
1997 due to the deterioration in the security. These difficulties have been overcome since
then. The Ministry of Finance has, however, accumulated arrears of TR 520 million (as of
end-September 1997) for pensioners who are covered directly by the State budget and not
by the SPF. These are military and security guard pensioners (about 6,300) who,
according to the Constitution, did not have to pay the 38 percent salary tax out of which
pension is paid.
26.   Action Plan. Government is committed under Post-Conflict rehabilitation Credit
to protect social spending. We have allocated in the 1998 budget over a quarter of total
expenditures to education (13.2 percent), health (9 percent) and the social safety net (4.4
percent). In addition, we will use USD 7.0 million from the disbursement proceeds of the
credit to reduce the arrears towards the SSN to no more than 3 months (about TR 2.1
billion) by March 1998. We will also eliminate all the arrears with respect to the pension
payments (estimated at TR 520 million or USD 0.7 million at the end of September
1997). To prevent arrears from recurring again, Government intends to adopt a more
realistic budget, in consultation with the World Bank and the IMF. In the case of the
social safety net, Government will review the effectiveness of the existing system and
implement, in consultation with the World Bank, a better targeted program by June 1998.
Reforming the Real Economy--The Road Ahead
27.   Two areas of immediate priority to us from the point of view of growth and
efficiency -- land reforn and privatization of state-owned enterprises -- are being tackled
under the IBTA project. Already some progress has been made and we intend to further
speed up the reform process. We are working closely with the World Bank in preparing
two operations -- Economic Reform Support (FY98) and Farm Privatization Support
(FY99) -- to underpin the reforms.
28.   Land Reform. Government adopted guidelines for farm restructuring program
that includes transparent and equitable criteria for land allocation, allowing the
unrestricted transfer of land access rights, ensuring inheritability of land access rights,
and ensuring no restrictions on crops or marketing channels. The land code was revised
and adopted by Majles Oli in December 1996. Furthermore, Government created the
Land Reform Committee which is solely responsible for the design and implementation
of the land reform program. To date, 5-10 percent of total arable land is in private hands
in one form or another. A lot however remains to be done, namely the actual
implementation of the land reform and farm restructuring program, land registration,
privatization of the cotton ginneries and marketing agency, and full liberalization of
irrigation water prices.
29.   Privatization. Government's main objective of the privatization program is to
improve efficiency. To date, over 2,100 objects (about 30 percent of the estimated total



- 8 -
number) have been privatized. To speed up the privatization process, Government has
prepared, under IBTA, the necessary legal aspects of the privatization process (law on
privatization, regulations on valuation, segmentation and investment funds). A timetable
for privatization is being worked out by the Government in consultation with the World
Bank, with the objective of privatizing all small scale enterprises by September 1998.
Implementing the Post-Conflict Program
30.   To facilitate the coordination and implementation of the peace accord, in addition
to the establishment of the CNR, the President appointed Mr. Kadriddin Giyasov, Deputy
Prime Minister, to be the overall coordinator on the Government side. Furthermore,
Government has established a Coordination Unit (CU) within the Office of the Prime
Minister to coordinate and oversee the implementation of the two projects supported by
the World Bank. Government has also appointed, in consultation with the CNR, Mr.
Shukurjon Zuhurov, Minister of Labor, as head of the unit. The functions and
responsibilities of the CU are spelled out in Attachment 1.
31.   The disbursement proceeds of the total amount of the credit ($ 10 million) will be
held at the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) on behalf of the Ministry of Finance.
These foreign exchange funds will then be bought by the NBT and/or auctioned,
according to a timetable to be determined by the NBT, in consultation with the World
Bank and the IMF. The counterpart funds (Tajik rubles) will be blocked at the Treasury
account at the NBT. They will be released to the Ministry of Finance in two portions (of
USD 3.5 million each) for the social safety net component and three portions (of USD 1.0
million each) for the peace process component. Attachment 2 provides detailed
expenditures related to the peace process over the period July 1997-March 1998.
32.   The disbursement of the first portion of line of credit component will be done
upon effectiveness of the Credit. Subsequent portions will be released, in consultation
with the World Bank, upon completion reports by the CU confirming the effective use of
funds. The reports will be submitted to the Prime Minister, the Chairman of the CNR and
the World Bank. These reports will be supplemented by independent surveys, to be
conducted by the CU and the World Bank, to assess the effective use of resources. We
will inform the public at large about the Government program in reducing the
compensation and pension arrears and in supporting the peace process.
Conclusion
Government is committed to implement quickly the peace accord and the emergency
economic program.  The Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit augurs well for this
endeavor. By supporting the budget, it will facilitate the implementation of the peace
process and demonstrate to the population the tangible benefit from the peace accord. It
will also, together with the IMF emergency program, help Government stabilize the



99-
macro framework and thus enable the Government to pursue vigorously its structral
reforms.
Attachments
1. Terms of-reference of the Coordinaton Unit
2. Ildicative Government Expendites on the Peace Process
Sincerely yours,
Yakyo Azrov
prime Minister
Republic of Tajikistan



- 10-
Attachment 1
Terms of Reference for the Coordination Unit under the proposed Post Conflict
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Credits
1.    To facilitate effective implementation of Tajikistan's two Post-Conflict Rehabilitation
and Reconstruction Credits, currently under preparation by the World Bank, a Coordination Unit
(CU) for project administration will be established in the Prime Minister's office.
2.    The CU will be headed by a full-time Coordinator who would report directly to the
Prime Minister and whose appointment would be approved by the Commission for National
Reconciliation (CNR). The Coordinator will need to have effective planning, managerial
capacity, sufficient rank and political standing and be able to obtain quick decisions from the
country's top decision-makers and execute them rapidly.
3.    The Government will provide the necessary office accommodation and related logistical
support, including local assistants and support staff such as secretaries and drivers to the CU. An
allocation of US$ 150,000 has been made in the 1998 budget to cover the operating cost of the
CU.
4.    The relevant agencies (the CNR and ministries of Finance and Social Protection in the
case of Post Conflict Rehabilitation Credit and ministries of Transport and Roads
Administration, Health, Education and Agriculture and /or other appropriate agencies in the case
of Post Conflict reconstruction Credit) would designate a liaison officer to the CU to provide
coordination in all aspects of project implementation and to represent the interests of their
respective agencies in matters relating to project execution, so as to ensure timely and
satisfactory project completion. These liaison officers may not be physically located in the CU.
5.    The CU's responsibilities include monitoring progress in project implementation and
providing the coordination that is required among the various participating agencies to ensure a
common and consistent approach during all project implementation phases. The CU will be
responsible for procurement and disbursement of the projects. Grant financing for the technical
assistance that will be required to assist the CU in the procurement and disbursement aspects of
the projects is being sought.
6.    Other responsibilities of the CU would include, but would not be limited to, public
announcement of the procedures for both credits and the timetable for distributing the payment
to the beneficiaries under Post Conflict Rehabilitation Credit in order to enhance transparency
and accountability. The CU will provide progress reports on the use of proceeds of the credits to
the Prime Minister, the CNR and IDA.
7.    The CU will remain responsible for administration of the Special Account, overall
accounting and auditing of project accounts for Post Conflict Reconstruction Credit and
preparation of Project Completion Report for both credits.



Attachm ent 2
Tajikistan - Indicative Government Expenditures on the Peace Process a)
June 27, 1997 - March 31, 1998
June 27 - Oct - Dec, Jan - Mar, Total      June 27 - Oct - Dec, Jan - Mar, Total
Expenditure Items Sept.30, 1997         1998                  Sept30,  1997         1998
1997                                       1997
In millions of TR                          In thousands of USSb)
1. Refugees
Transportation             94       105         97        296        126       141        129        396
Credit                     50       100          0        150         67       134           0       201
Compensation                1          5         3          8          2          6         3         11
Food                       26          0        24         50         34          0        32         66
Lodging                  272         48        341        661        364         65       456        885
Checking points            23          0         0         23         31          0         0         31
Medical                     6          6         7         20          8          9         9         26
Other c)                1,895     1,489        625      4,009      2,537      1,993       837      5,367
Subtotal 1        2,368      1,753     1,096      5,217      3,169      2,347      1,467     6,984
2. CNR
Office maintenance       170         43          0        213       228         58          0        285
Transport                  58         0          0         58         77          0         0         77
Equipment                  63       244          0        307         85       327          0        411
Wages                      15        15         15         45         20        20         20         60
Other                       0         0         41         41          0          0        54         54
Subtotal 2        306        302         56        664       410        404         74        889
3. Demobilization
of Soldiers
UTO battalion              20        33          0         53         27        44          0         71
UTO Operating              80       172        126        378        107       230        169        506
expens.
Demobilization              0          7        15         22          0          9        20         29
Subtotal 3         100        212       141        453        134        283        189       606
4. Rehabilitation        304        280        285        869       407        375        382      1,163
Total 1 (1-3)           2,774     2,267      1,293      6,334      3,713     3,035      1,731      8,479
Total 2 (1-4)           3,078     2,547      1,578      7,203      4,120     3,410      2,112      9,642
a) Totals may not add up due to rounding
b) Exchange rate 1       747 TR
c) Other expenditures include clearing residence places of m ines,
organization of boarding schools for orphans, repairment of electricity and telephone lines, etc.
Source: Office of the Prime Minister
21. 10. 97 15:20:08



Annex II
Page 1 of 1
TAJIKISTAN - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS a/
1995    1996 b/ 1997 (Jan-June)
GDP (real growth, %) cl                   -12.5    -4.7         1.5
CPI (end of period, %)                   2132.0    41.0        36.5
CPI (average, %)                          609.0    418.0       32.4
Unemployment Rate (%)                     25.0     30.0        30.0
(Registered)                               1.2      1.7         1.6
General Govemment
Revenues (% of GDP)                        15.2     16.2       14.8
Expenditures (% of GDP)                   26.5      19.4       27.2
Social Safety Net                         1.1      2.4         0.4
Social Sectors                            5.4      2.9         4.2
Expenditures (% of total spending)
Social Safety Net                         4.1      12.4        1.5
Social Sectors                           20.3      15.2       15.3
Budget Deficit
Cash                                     -11.2    -4.2        -12.4
Accrual                                  -21.5    -2.3        -12.8
Arrears (% of GDP)
Expenditures                              10.3     2.3         2.2
Taxes                                     0.0      4.9         2.2
Balance of Payments
Exports (US$, mill.)                      657.0    464.0       304.0
Cotton                                   212.0    146.0       68.0
Aluminium                                385.0    266.0       121.0
Imports (US$, mill.)                      628.0    540.0       350.0
Current Account deficit (% GDP)            0.0    -122.3       -49.0
Net Reserves (US$, mill.)                  4.0     -8.4        -36.8
Extemal Interest Payment (US$, mill) d/   28.0      13.0
Extemal Debt
Extemal Debt (US$, mill.)                 817.0    850.0      850.0
External Debt (% of GDP)                  143.0    90.0        121.8
Monetary Data
Domestic Credit (end of period, real growth, %)
Net Credit to Govt.                       ..      133.7       30.6
Net Credit to Economy                    211.5    87.6        27.6
Interest rate (average lending, %)        157.5     8.2         8.2
Exchange Rates (end of period)
Official Rate                            288.0    328.0       541.0
Black Market Premium (%)                  2.5      3.7        12.8
Notes:
a/ For lack of appropriate deflator, CPI was used in all calculation of real figures.
b/ 1996 fiscal data are for the period May 11 -December 31.
c/ 1997 growth rate is the expected rate for the whole year.
d/ Interest payment of $13m in 1996 were held in trust account.



Annex III
Page 1 of 1
TAJIKISTAN
PROPOSED POST-CONFLICT REHABILITATION CREDIT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
1.    Time taken to prepare:                   One and a half months
2.    Project prepared by:                     Government with IDA assistance(*)
3.    Identification mission:                  September 1997
4.    Negotiations:                            November 7, 1997
5.    Planned Board Presentation:              December 16, 1997
6.    Planned effectiveness:                   December 23, 1997
7.    Expected project completion:             December31, 1998
* This Credit was prepared by a Bank staff team composed of: Messrs./Mme. M. R. Ghasimi,
Project Team Leader; Robert J. Anderson, Sector Team Leader; Ishrat Husain, Director; Robert
E. Christiansen; Mustapha Rouis; Jonathan Brown; Felix Jakob; Paolo Caputo; Maniza Naqvi;
Kieth Rennie; Ian Newport; Ahmed Jehani; Tariq Hassan; and Subash Chandra. Omar Hadi
provided support under a tight deadline.



Annex IV
Page I of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Tajikistan
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
As of 09/30/97
(In Millions of US Dollars)
Project ID   Credit No.   Fiscal         Borrower                     Purpose              IBRD   IDA   Undisbursed        Closing
Year                                                                                             Date
TJ-PE-44202  IDA29460       1997   GOVT. OF TAJIKISTAN    PILOT POVERTY ALLEV.                 0.00  12.00      11.40      06/30/00
TJ-PE-43231   IDA28610      1996   GOVT. OF TAJIKISTAN    INST. BLDG./TA                       0.00   5.00      2.85       12/31/00
TJ-PE-8863   IDA29176       1996   GOVT. OF TAJIKISTAN    AGRI. RECOV. SOC. PROTECT.           0.00  50.00      0.00       12/09/97
Total                                                                                          0.00  67.00      14.25
Active Loans    Closed Loans     Total
Total Disbursed (IDA)            :             2.75           50.00      52.75
of which has been repaid                 0.00            0.00       0.00
Total now held by IDA            :            17.00           50.00      67.00
Amount sold                      :             0.00            0.00       0.00
of which repaid                          0.00            0.00       0.00
Total Undisbursed                .            14.25            0.00      14.25
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
Tajikistan
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
as of 08/31/97
(In Millions of US Dollars)
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY        Company           Loan      Equity    Quasi   Pratic   Loan        Equity    Quasi       Pratic
Approval
1997       Zeravshan Gold    0.00       1.20      6.30     0.00    0.00        1.20     5.26       0.00
Total Portfolio                   0.00       0.00      6.30     0.00    0.00        1.20      5.26       0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex V
Page I ofZ
Tajikistan at a glance
Europe 8
POVERtY and SOCIAL                                          Central    Low.
TaJihIstn     Aab  income   s aOeeopmotdsamnc
Popubloia mid-16 ffiffos                             6.0       479    3.220   i
GNP pwecapa I1096 (USS)                              330     2.180      500o              Lb !Phd5l
GNP 1996 M Eions S                                   Lo0    1.043    1.601
Avon*g annul growth, 19904                                                     1
P-*''onpI)                                            1.9       0.3     1.7                                      S-
Labor ftc% (S)                                       2.5        0.5     1.7      PW
hostw emm  adabJ  ~                      ilw)                  _                                 I
Urbinpepbn{ X  dXoWopbl                               32        SS       2; 
Lb  _pcrx  t df  t*Ub                                 67         a       6S
*meOlf tOOOA:t                                      42        22       89
c     dm wa*      m_ ddn wmdWS)                        -                 _
Amnaaaoadwee(SVofpvEini)                                                 53
mm uuflVS   puleUot,.e1.)                            2                 34
Gros piowy aobmmnt (U duof     .gs pepW q             s         *7      105              =
male,                                               0l        or      112   1      -n .iiF
Parade                                 33~~~~~~~~~~~t  97  93
KEY ECONOM RtATOS mNd LONG47ETl
1975    1#4       1s"       18"9
GDP (bE    U=                                 .        -        1.8      10   1
Gras domead_anWGOP                            -        -       17.4    17.3   i         opwsus           _
EVportso   ods andsorn'cesIGOP                _        -       36_      24.0
Gssdom  d    bawkgAGOP                        -        -       10.4      13
Gross ad        plGOlP                                 -       102       2.1                      i
Curwn acout bai,ceIGOP                             -            0.1     -SA
ntarea petmIP                                 _        -        0.0      0.0     SS*'s
Toal dsbWOP                                   -        -       364      460          
TOW dmbt Sric.IUpots*                         -        -        00       0.
Pnt    vkoddbdUGOP               _                 _           34.3       -
lnl vwad _Wpf                                 _        _       95.4        __
GP                                         -10.8    -125       -6.        _-
GNP pr e_pit                                1 .13   -13S       ._I8
Exps of goods and _swice                      -      40.2     -30.0
STRUCTUE Of the ECONOMY
17      1968       1995    188#            ia,uetaut               .a s
Awbhaw                                                  -      25.2     2a.       .,_                     _
Industry                                           -           48.6     49.3
serv6cas                                       -        -      26.2    24.1   '   I
Pdvut cl    ln                                          -      79.7     3.1   f _
6ana gowment corsumor                                   -       8S.9    10.6
Imob of goods and seodee                                .      43.5    36.0                                           .
1878.85  1585.8      158      18
Agiubib                                                         AO -.     1.1 
k,a&sY                                                          4 - -63  -3.0 
LUUiScu1a ftn-                                                   -        -     3.
sandes                                         -               -26.5   .12.S
P&ftN   munwon                                 -               -30.6       -       a
Ganwal governmen comumplon                     -        -         .4       .
Gmaedommskhiwabmit             -        -      4~~~~~~-1.7        a
GOSS 1150I1 product                                 -11.3      -12.5     -60               - 
Nos:1096 data arom pellmlnry adaa.Figurine MiaM  ae for yewala UtvUaa Uose pecifld.
b The amond                                                     so       . 
ha hi_m_late.



Ann=c 
PageZof2
PRICE3 nd GWVERNMET FINAWCE
1975    imab 19           193
~%Chat"9)
sJffo pf4Cg                                -        -     109.0   419.3      16
IlicpIt GOP dbto                                    - tw.9            -
cun         _Is ;                                                                       -                     an
cwultnM ,                               .                  16.0                     5'  " =    =  
Cunat   dg bd                              -        -         -
Ovamm                                      -        -      -11.0    t.3
TRACE
Tetd _"m Mh)                               _        _       Su5    464 .,,_
A_Nm1                                           1          385   2136
coma                                                      212      144
TOWhwpeeWt (_                      _2i                              S2 
PX * tt -    -  -                                             -              i.   JIn
AACeof PAMETS
7       19        19      19 
Emp0WZ N      dW    w g                     _       _       SB?     464
Imoi ofcd ai _V                             - n 4        15           5
NVeu*a_s                                 -        _       - 2S     4t    ;ti                     .
&W          a  Tfok=fn"o                                                                .a i                
'1_lb_s _ 1 vi11 I f25                               4!   14.
Ch lmnt    t  w~u be_anc_7   I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'44
R n._. pd g gd  (n4 7 JS0)                  -        -        -       14
Caveab rb Ibca&tSSJ                        _               28.8   1St.7
B1ERNAL M* TANd RESOUlCE PLOWS
1575    1l8 1es      6    199
(m3US3                                                                     w C         _.pmwdew1Im
IBRo                                                        0        0 _T
IDN                                      ..                  2 _0 O                               i
NDdt aO*                                                             4
OII     W= (MSRO                                             0 
R-A  k%".   -rn   U                                                    14
C=ompoaNn rob e augeurce 2Iowat
OiE                                                                                    _  1  
P        dTM"     _Wn    _EON    FLOWS 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17                      Is"   _ 99_    1s _ 
CMW-                                      _        _         0      55      A-AD. 
Nefo   _                                                     o      30     _ __      o __             r-_____ _____
heruatp eftyAfndmng wi  em-                                 SW       N.
F         *R                             _                               terv
Netafaer                                  _        _         0      30
ISR__O                                                      00
o Esin  f  ono ls fw            rSoet Un        f     tsn                    d u



MAP SECTION



STAN .~~J
TAJIKISTAN
rorohiei            ,7prel,k,,gPOS-CONFLICT REHABILITATION  CRE-DIT
N.,,)                   ASiIT                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Conflict AreasRod
KHUJAND  ~ ~          UZBEKISTAN                  *    SlceCtes----   Railroads
EKI STAN                                            N.,.,..                     2                         Na~~~KH~Lf0    Sletiona Caita                         neraieasondre
roo,as, G.-toQt-o                                                                  0    Autonomous Oblast Centers                  ----Rural Districts
ZAFAROSOD                                          KONEOKDoOM KcAutonomous Oblast Boundaries
T.                                                                                                                                                   Intern Knboon p.0 Obat  ete  bastioa Boundaries
UZBEKISTAN                                                                              Area ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~with no oblast-levol administrative divisions, where rayons are under direct republic juriscdiction.
UZB  SHAHRI5TON *r'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~   ~ ~ ~ ~ "'E~~~~                                 An obicist is named only when its name differs from that of its administrative center.
;~~~~~~~  , ~~~~~~~KYRGYZ                              REP.
AIN    "PE~~~~~~~~~~CHN
39'
To Shufu
.VA~.  IYVA   K                                                                           ARNuH NUOzero
Karakul' ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      N
SHAHRINAV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ao e
~~ ~enk.lt,,9  osd ony otis,,  I    A A                                                                                                                   M    URGABSA                 "      "    YRY  E
~~~ inforenstion shuusn on tins snep~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bl
do sot imply, on tire port of  I   I  I  I                                                                                               "\os5i,05~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '
The WoriSBonts S3mup,ony  0                   5~~~~%I0               10MMLS                                       Mr.iTAi                                  ..
~~ iudse.st on the te~~~~~~ot stotUus of                                                                                            "IN11
soy Cerritor7, or oset' sodonem ens                      .                   .J                                               ISLAMIC REP.     >          ~      ~        ~N-~'   CHIOANO-
or osoponc of uchbouslnees   9'                                                                                                                P IAN         /..,--  FGHNISTNU..YA4                       "



