                      PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                           Report No.: AB6769
                              Burundi - Energy Efficiency Project
 Project Name
 Region                       AFRICA
 Sector                       Energy efficiency in power sector (100%)
 Project ID                   P097974
 GEF Focal Area               C-Climate change
 Global Supplemental ID       P117225
 Borrower(s)                  GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
 Implementing Agency
                              REGIDESO
                              BP 660
                              Bujumbura
                              Burundi
                              Tel: (257-2) 222-3412 Fax: (257-2) 222-6563
 Environment Category         [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared            October 31, 2011
 Date of Appraisal            September 16, 2011
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval       February 2, 2012

1. Country and Sector Background

1.      Economic development in Burundi has been set back by several years of recurring
internal conflict. Burundi is a small, landlocked country that straddles Central and East Africa,
with a total land area of 27,834 km2, and approximately 8.5 million inhabitants, about 10.6
percent of whom live in urban areas. Burundi has emerged from a cycle of political-ethnic
conflicts that lasted more than 13 years and claimed the lives of about 300,000 people while
displacing about 16 percent of the population. These years of recurring conflict have had a
devastating effect on Burundi’s economy. Burundi’s per capita income fell by about 40 percent
between 1993 and 2007, from US$180 to US$110, making Burundi one of the poorest countries
in the world.

2.      After about 25 years of protracted decline in GDP per capita, Burundi’s economy is
beginning to experience positive growth. Consolidation of the peace process has helped start
reconstruction and created positive prospects, but the country has not experienced the typical
post-conflict bounce in GDP growth, in large part due to periodic internal instability and a
generally poor investment climate linked to heavily dilapidated infrastructure. The agriculture
sector currently dominates Burundi’s economy, representing 46 percent of GDP and providing
90 percent of the population with income and employment. Recent growth in the service sector,
which accounts for 37 percent of GDP, is largely due to a rise in public services. Burundi’s
industrial sector only contributes to 17 percent of GDP, however the construction industry has
shown considerable dynamism since 2001. The rate of growth of Burundi’s GDP is projected to
increase from an estimated 3.5 percent in 2009 to 4.8 percent in 2012.
3.      Burundi’s second democratic elections in 2010 constituted a milestone in the
country’s political transition. The second democratic elections under the new constitution since
2005 took place from May 24th to September 8th, 2010. These elections were seen as a test of
the strength of the country’s institutions and the stability of democracy. The National
Independent Electoral Commission (CENI) and the European Union (EU) observers concluded
that despite a few irregularities during the local council elections, the presidential election was
conducted consistent with international standards. However, thirteen of 42 opposition parties,
alleging fraud and vote-rigging, formed a coalition to boycott the presidential elections, leaving
President Nkurunziza to stand virtually unopposed. As a result, President Nkurunziza, who
claimed about 92 percent of the presidential votes cast, was re-elected and started his second, 5-
year term as Burundi’s President on August 26, 2010. The ruling party is holding a majority in
the parliament and the senate. Efforts of the ruling party to reach out to other opposition parties
include appointments of opposition party members in government and convening meetings for
political dialogue.

4.      The current security situation remains calm but uncertain. The controversies over the
election results sparked violence that sometimes led to loss of life. Although most of the country
is at peace with sufficient security for economic and social activities, the self exile of the FNL
president and former rebel leader along with other opposition leaders in the consortium of
opposition parties, also known as the Democratic Alliance for Change (ADC), has created an
atmosphere of uncertainty.

5.      Power sector infrastructure: Burundi’s recurring conflict has largely destroyed the
country’s infrastructure assets, including its energy generation, transmission and distribution
systems. The country’s installed generation capacity is therefore very limited at about 50 MW.
Most of the country’s electricity supply is generated by REGIDESO through seven hydroelectric
plants, which have a combined installed power capacity of 30.6 MW.1 Two of these hydro power
plants deliver 85 percent of the domestic power supply: Rwegura (18 MW) and Mugere (8 MW).
Burundi’s energy supply therefore depends to about 95 percent on hydro power. This makes the
country highly vulnerable to droughts which frequently decrease the electricity production by
depleting the limited water storage capacity in the associated hydro power reservoirs.
REGIDESO also owns a 5.5 MW thermal power plant in Bujumbura, which has been mostly idle
since its acquisition in 1995. Low electricity tariff levels and high diesel prices did not allow
REGIDESO to finance fuel payments, and the plant has long been kept as an emergency back-up
in case of hydro power production failure. The Bujumbura thermal power plant started regular
operations in September 2009.

6.      Utility structure: REGIDESO is the main organization involved in the supply and
distribution of electricity and water in Burundi2. REGIDESO is a state-owned, vertically
integrated power and water utility under the supervision of the Ministry of Water, Energy and
Mines (MWEM) and is the implementing agency of two IDA-financed energy and water
1
   In addition DGHER operates eight small and micro hydro plants in rural areas while non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and some non-profit organizations operate another twelve micro hydro plants.
2
  In rural areas of Burundi, the General Directorate of Water Supply and Energy (DGHER - Direction Générale de
l’Hydraulique et des Energies Rurales), also an autonomous entity operating under MWEM’s supervision, is
responsible for the provision of electricity and water.
infrastructure projects under implementation in Burundi. REGIDESO is serving electricity to
about 53000 clients. About 300 large electricity customers, mainly industrial, commercial and
public service clients, account for about 40 % of the electricity consumption in Bujumbura city.
The household sector equally accounts for about 40 % of the electricity consumption in
Bujumbura city. Household demand is primarily driven by lighting equipment.3 A World Bank
supported financial restructuring and recapitalization of REGIDESO was completed in 2008,
followed by the signing of a five year performance contract between REGIDESO management
and the Government of Burundi. This performance management contract includes detailed
obligations of both parties to ensure the financial sustainability of REGIDESO. Independent
audits of the performance contract are carried out annually to analyze the technical and financial
status of REGIDESO. The April 2010 audit showed first progress of REGIDESO towards
achieving the annual performance contract targets4. Recommendations of this audit are currently
being implemented, such as the establishment of an accounting system separated by activity and
service; the establishment of 5-year investment plans; and measures to strengthen data collection
and data quality.

7.      Growing power supply-demand gap: During the 2004-2006 regional droughts,
REGIDESO’s hydro power production decreased to 137 GWh per year, representing a 35
percent decline compared to the 2009 supply level. The total annual supply of electricity
increased slightly from 188.8 GWh in 2007 to 208 GWh in 2009 due to the rehabilitation of
some smaller hydro plants and increased generation from the Bujumbura thermal power plant.
Supply reliability is further hampered by a severely dilapidated electricity grid in urgent need of
repair. The absence of key system protection and control functions make outages more frequent
and difficult to monitor and address in time. The steadily growing power supply-demand gap is
due to a combination of several factors including: (i) lack of investments in the country's hydro
power generation capacity during the last 13 years of civil war; (ii) rapidly increasing power
demand in the Bujumbura capital area (further increased by the REGIDESO’s electricity access
program for new connections); (iii) over-reliance of hydro power, immediately affecting power
supply during droughts; (iv) degradation of the catchment area upstream of main hydro power
plants due to deforestation and increased land usage during the years of conflict; (v) high
technical and commercial losses in the electricity distribution network and (vi) failure to operate
the existing (yet limited) thermal capacity due to lack of funds for fuel purchase, poor
maintenance and lack of available spare parts. A major energy supply crisis affected Burundi
during the 2009 dry-season. From June-September 2009 the country’s electricity supply was
reduced by 40%, resulting in severe electricity shortages for all basic services (e.g. water supply,
hospitals) and households in Bujumbura. A similar energy supply crises occurred in the 2010 and
2011 dry-season, resulting in large scale and systematic load-shedding (reaching approximately
40-50% of existing demand during peak hours) with severe effects on the country's macro
economic recovery.

8.     Energy Efficiency. No consistent and coordinated government energy efficiency
programs had been launched since the end of Burundi’s long term conflict. As a result, energy

3
  A survey of 489 households in Bujumbura city showed that 51 % of electricity used in households accounts for
lighting.
4
  Audit technique du contrat-plan intervenu entre la REGIDESO et le Gouvernment Burundais le 22 Septembre
2008: April 2010
efficiency is facing barriers at all levels in Burundi. Surveys conducted in Burundi have
identified the following main barriers5: low awareness for energy efficient products and
appliances; unregulated markets for energy efficiency products and appliances; lack of quality
technical and service standards for energy efficient equipment; low capacity and management
experience; and lack of access to investment finance. Energy efficiency measures are currently
being piloted by REGIDESO as part of Burundi’s first consistent and coordinated energy
efficiency program since the end of the country’s long term conflict. With support from the
World Bank the first energy efficiency awareness raising campaign combined with a bulk
procurement and distribution of CFLs was initiated in 2011. The proposed GEF project will scale
up the scope and effectiveness of the country’s energy efficiency program under development.

2. Objectives

9.      The project’s global environmental objective is to selectively improve the energy
efficiency of buildings in Bujumbura city and to strengthen the policy frameworks for energy
efficiency. The project will result in GHG emission reductions from the energy saved through
the use of energy efficient equipments. 6

10.     The GEF energy efficiency project will be fully aligned with the demand side
management program of the IDA financed MSWEIP under implementation. The project
development objective of the MSWEIP is to: (i) increase access to water supply services in peri-
urban areas of Bujumbura; (ii) increase reliability and quality of electricity services; (iii) increase
water supply quality and reliability in Bujumbura; and (iv) strengthen REGIDESO’s financial
sustainability.

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

11.     The proposed project is consistent with the World Bank Group’s Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board of Directors in August 2008, which presents a medium-
term vision of sustainable development by assisting Burundi’s transition from a post-conflict
economy to a developing country. Improved electricity services and energy efficiency will play a
crucial role in accelerating industrial and commercial activity and hence contribute to the
country's economic growth. The proposed project is aligned with Burundi’s Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) of September 2006, which aims to promote sustainable economic growth
and to develop human capital.

12.     The Government of Burundi requested support from the World Bank to protect core
development spending to the infrastructure sector and to strengthen the country’s economic
recovery. Burundi suffers from extreme infrastructure gaps in road access, power generation,
communications infrastructure, and access to water and sanitation. Two ongoing IDA-financed
infrastructure operations are assisting the Government of Burundi in this regard: (i) the US$50

5
  REGIDESO: Etude de la mise en œuvre d’un programme de Maitrise de la Demande d’Electricité au Burundi
(2007)
6
  The project objective has been further specified and targeted to GEF financed activities compared to the project
objective approved in the GEF Project Identification Form (PIF) on March 17, 2010: The project’s global
environmental objective is to remove barriers to Burundi’s low-carbon development by improving the efficiency of
the electricity system and promoting small hydro development.
million Multi-Sectoral Water and Electricity Infrastructure Project (MSWEIP)7, approved in
May 2008, which is providing co-financing for the proposed GEF energy efficiency project, and
(ii) the US$15.4 million Emergency Energy Project (EEP)8, approved in September 2010.
Additional US$2 million are being requested from GEF to ensure a more widespread
understanding and use of energy efficient technologies and appliances in Burundi.

4. Description

13.     GEF financed activities will scale up the scope and effectiveness of REGIDESO’s
energy efficiency program introduced in 2011 with support from IDA, that represents
Burundi’s first consistent and coordinated energy efficiency program since the end of the
country’s long term conflict. GEF resources will be targeted to scale up the distribution and
promotion of compact fluorescent lights (CFLs) and other energy efficient technologies and
appliances, conduct an audit of the electricity grid and about 200 large electricity consumers, and
introduce guidelines, policies, and regulations for energy efficient appliances. Continuous
advisory support and technical assistance will be provided to increase technical, managerial and
organizational capacities for energy efficient technologies and practices. GEF resources are also
allocated to ensure proper project management, monitoring and evaluation.

14.     The main GEF components are:

        (a)   Sub-Component 1(e)A1: Distribution compact fluorescent lights (CFL) – the
              first phase of the distribution and promotion of 200,000 CFLs under the IDA-
              financed MSWEIP will be scaled up, additional 200.000 CFLs will be procured and
              distributed
        (b)   Sub-Component 1(e)A2: Development and implementation of media
              communication and public awareness for energy efficient lights- the first phase
              participatory media and awareness raising campaign under the MSWEIP (including
              advertisement tools such as leaflets, radio and television spots, newspaper
              supplements, and banners in public places, disseminated both in French and
              translated in the local language Kirundi) supported by the MSWEIP will be scaled
              up to provide continuous capacity building and consumer advise on the use of a
              variety of energy efficient products, including environmental, economic, safety, and
              health aspects.
        (c)   Sub-Component 1(e)A3: Technical and managerial capacity building –
              including workshop series to raise awareness of government agencies (ministries,
              regulatory and inspection authorities), private sector players, and standardization
              institutes on energy efficient products and appliances
        (d)   Sub-Component 1(e)B1: Utility energy audit - The proposed GEF project will
              support the completion of an utility energy audit, targeting amongst others: (i)
              technical loss reduction in the electricity grid; (ii) efficiency of pumping systems in
7
  The MSWEIP was approved on May 13, 2008, with an original IDA grant of SDR 30.4 million (US$50 million
equivalent). The closing date of the MSWEIP is June 30, 2013. Component 1 of the MSWEIP is co-financing the
proposed GEF Energy Efficiency Project with an amount of US$21.6 million.
8
  The EEP was approved on September 30, 2010, with an original IDA grant of SDR 30.4 million (US$15.4 million
equivalent) from the IDA Crisis Response Window. The closing date of the EEP is January 31, 2014.
              use by the utility; and (iii) losses occurring from low power factor9 generated by
              larger industrial consumers. It comprehends the development of an action plan with
              short, medium, and long term objectives to prioritize energy efficiency investments,
              and the design of small investment packages for energy efficiency.
        (e)   Sub-Component 1(e)C1: Energy efficiency advice to large public institutions,
              commercial and industrial consumers The proposed project will finance technical
              assistance to promote energy efficiency technology and build local capacity to
              provide energy efficiency advice to large public institutions, commercial and
              industrial consumers. It comprehends a workshop series to raise awareness of
              government agencies (ministries, regulatory and inspection authorities), private
              sector players, and the national standardization institute.
        (f)   Sub-Component 1(e)C2: Develop national guidelines for application of energy
              efficient technologies in new housing and commercial real-estate – It aims to
              provide technical assistance to evaluate best practice international energy efficiency
              standards, labels, and technical specifications for energy efficient equipments and
              appliances for their application in Burundi. Considering that the institutional
              frameworks, monitoring mechanisms, and regulatory systems of the main
              stakeholders are weak, this component will provide analytical support and
              recommendations to facilitate a longer term market transformation by providing
              inputs for future energy efficiency policies and regulations appropriate for
              Burundi’s context.
        (g)    Sub-Component 1(e)D: Support to project management. - Support to project
               management, M&E, and implementation of an energy efficiency unit in the
               REGIDESO PIU

5. Financing
Source:                                                                                     ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                            1.30
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                                                             1.82
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - Associated IDA Fund                                                    21.60
                                                                               Total        24.72

6. Implementation

15.     The project will be implemented by REGIDESO. The project implementing unit for
IDA operations (at REGIDESO) will be responsible for delivering the outputs of the project, the
actual implementation, input management and sound administrative management. The proposed
GEF project will support the development of an energy efficiency unit within the REGIDESO
PIU to ensure continuous capacity building and advisory services for energy efficient products
and appliances.

16.    A project steering committee is proposed to be created to assess the progress achieved
and to provide advice and directives to the REGIDESO PIU in order to increase the outcomes of

9
  A number between 0 and 1 (frequently expressed as a percentage, e.g. 0.5 pf = 50% pf). Low-power-factor loads
increase losses in a power distribution system and result in increased energy costs.
the project, in particular with regards to the development of energy efficiency policies and
regulations. This committee will be formed by individuals influential within the government,
including representatives from the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM), the Ministry of
Trade/Industry, REGIDESO, and the national standardization institute (Bureau of Standards). A
representative of the MEM will take the lead of the project steering committee. Individual
experts and sector institutions will be invited to provide inputs as appropriate for specific
meetings. This will allow the committee to benefit from feedback and information about project
progress, and enhance understanding of the potential impacts for the further development of the
energy efficiency program in Burundi.

17.     Monitoring and Evaluation of the project will be part of the PIU’s project management
and will be carried out to provide feedback to the management unit of the project and to establish
project impacts during the project period and a forecast of impact after the end of the project.
The World Bank will be responsible for the financial oversight and administrative control,
following standard World Bank rules and procedures.

7. Sustainability and Replicability

18.     The World Bank is financing the Multi-Sectoral Water and Electricity Infrastructure
Energy Project (MSWEIP) and the Emergency Energy Project (EEP), which among other things
targets investments to improve the reliability of Burundi's electricity generation, transmission
and distribution systems. The Burundi GEF energy efficiency project is partially blended with
the MSWEIP and will contribute to the removal of key barriers to energy efficiency in the
country through the promotion of energy efficient equipment, awareness raising and technical
assistance, and the development of a supportive legal and institutional framework. Both projects
are setting the foundation for future energy efficiency developments in the country, in line with
the East African Community (EAC) priorities.

8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector

19.     The project design reflects best practices from the region. Lessons learned from
implementing energy efficiency projects in Senegal, Benin, and Togo under GEF's Strategic
West Africa Energy Program are reflected in the project design. Moreover, the proposed project
will build on the results of GEF's Efficient Lighting Initiative (1999-2009), which focused on the
reduction of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through the transformation of the global
market toward efficient lighting technologies and accelerated phase-out of inefficient lighting.
Synergies will be created with the GEF-UNDP Standard and Labeling Program in Kenya (2009-
2015), in particular with regards to policies, standards and labeling schemes.

9. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)

 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                          Yes              No
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                [X]               []
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                         []              [X]
 Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                             []              [X]
 Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                       []              [X]
 Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                              []              [X]
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                     []                    [X]
    Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                      []                    [X]
    Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                               []                    [X]
    Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                          []                    [X]
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)*                                                  []                    [X]

10. List of Factual Technical Documents

REGIDESO annual reports
Household surveys, 2006 and 1998
Energy efficiency survey, national statistics institute/REGIDESO, 2007
Etude de la mise en œuvre d’un programme de Maitrise de la Demande d’Electricité au Burundi;
REGIDESO, 2007
Investment Climate Assessment, 2007
Burundi Infrastructure Action Plan, 2009
Burundi Country Economic Memorandum, World Bank, 2009
Burundi tariff study, REGIDESO, 2010
Technical audits of the performance contract between REGIDESO and the GoB; 2008, 2009,
2010
Strategies for CFL promotion, REGIDESO, 2011

Contact point

Contact: Peggy Mischke
Title: Energy Specialist
Tel: (202) 458-5935
Fax: (202) 473-5123
Email: pmischke@worldbank.org

11. For more information contact:
       The InfoShop
       The World Bank
       1818 H Street, NW
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (202) 458-4500
       Fax: (202) 522-1500
       Email: pic@worldbank.org
       Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




*
 By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas
