Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23566
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37290; SCL-3729A; SCPD-3729S; TF-22920; PPFB-P1940)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 31.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
January 30, 2002
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective - December 17, 2001)
Currency Unit = Uruguayan Peso (UYP)
UYP 1 = US$ 0.072
US$ I = UYP 13.95
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANEP          National Public Education Administration (Administraci6n Nacional de
Educaci6n Publica)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEP           Primary Education Council (Consejo de Educaci6n Primaria)
CODICEN       Central Directive Council of Education (Consejo Directivo Central)
CPL           Currency Pool Loan
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LAC           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCSHD         Human Development Department, Latin America and the Caribben Region
MECAEP        Basic Education Quality Improvement (Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la
Educaci6n Basica)
MIS           Management Information System
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NBF           Non Bank Financing
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
PCD           Project Concept Paper
PIU           Project Implementing Unit
PME           School Improvement Projects (Proyectos de Mejoramiento Educativo)
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SCL           Single Currency Loan
SCPD          Single Currency Pool in USD
TF            Trust Fund
TL            Task Team Leader
UBN           Unmet Basic Needs (Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas, NBI)
UMRE          Student Cognitive Achievement Unit (Unidad de Medici6n de Resultados
Educativos)
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:  Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager (Acting):  William Experton
Task Team Leader:   Andrea Guedes, Ricardo Silveira
ICR Primary Authors:   Andrea Guedes, Maria Puech Fernandez



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
UY-BASIC ED. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     l
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               11
6. Sustainability                                                                   13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               29
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                 30
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                               32
Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution                                                   34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008171                                      Project Name: Basic Education Quality Improvement
Project
Team Leader. Andrea C. Guedes                            TL Unit: LCSHE
|CR Type. Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: January 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Basic Education Quality Improvement Project   L/C/TF Number: CPL-37290;
SCL-3729A;
SCPD-3729S;
TF-22920;
PPFB-P1940
Country/Department: URUGUAY                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/15/1992                             Effective:  12/15/1994        12/09/1994
Appraisal:  10/04/1993                               MTR: 05/27/1998            11/11/1998
Approval   05/03/1994                             Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY/ANEP
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                        Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Myma L. Alexander                         Ping Loh
Sector Manager:      William Experton (Acting)                 Julian Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:  Andrea Guedes - Ricardo Silveira         Juan Prawda
ICR Primary Author:  Andrea C. Guedes; Maria R.
Puech Fernandez
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactoty, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN-Highly
Unlikely, H1U=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at A ny Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was conceived to improve the quality, equity and efficiency of the primary education system. It
would also: (a) expand the preschool coverage in areas with unsatisfied basic needs, enhance the quality of
preschool education to increase primary school readiness, and reduce repetition in the first two grades of
primary school; and, (b) enhance sector productivity and strengthen overall sectoral management.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives remained unchanged during its implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$45 million (US$31.5 million loan). These costs were divided
among three components and several subcomponents:
1. Improving the efficiency, quality and equity of primary education (50% of total project cost)
through: (a) increasing the availability of textbooks, reading and instructional materials and teachers'
libraries; (b) financing the design and implementation of school-based quality improvement sub-projects by
primary school teachers, principals and inspectors; (c) providing in-service teacher training to strengthen
teacher capacity and to enhance instructional effectiveness through school-based quality improvement
sub-projects; (d) establishing a standardized student cognitive assessment system; and, (e) repairing and
maintaining primary school buildings on a targeted basis.
2. Expanding preschool education access and improving its quality (36.9% of total project cost) to
improve primary school preparedness and reduce primary school repetition in the first two grades.
3. Strengthening education institutions and increasing their efficiency (5.1% of total project cost) by:
(a) the creation of one unit to manage the Student Cognitive Assessment System, and another to manage
and monitor the purchase and distribution of textbooks, supplemental reading and teaching materials; (b)
the development of a Management Information System; (c) the development of operational manuals and
guidelines and the provision of training to sectors managers and analysts in microplanning, programming,
budgeting, managing and monitoring sectoral activities; (d) furnishing vehicles to the 20 Departmental
Inspectorates; and, (e) carrying out a sector management productivity study and implementing its
recommendations.
The Project Management Unit accounts for the remaining 8% of project cost.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
SATISFACTORY. The project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as discussed
by the Board on January of 1994. It benefited from a substantial preparation period and its design was
well grounded in a deep diagnosis of the sector. From 1991 to 1993, the Government and the Bank
engaged in a fruitful dialogue to identify the main sector issues and Governnent priorities. It resulted in a
jointly prepared Education Sector Policy Note that supported project preparation and solidly backed
project design. The project became effective in 1994, a short time before a new administration took office.
Giving continuation to the previous national policy, the new administration put a strong emphasis on
education within the context of its social policies. It formulated an education program whose main
objectives were to improve the quality and equity of primary education. The new administration targeted
- 2-



selected project components and strengthened the technical quality of the teams.
It should be noted, however, that project preparation did not benefit from consultation with stakeholders,
particularly with teachers and inspectors. Additionally, the Project Implementing Unit (PCU) of the Basic
Education Quality Improvement Project (MECAEP) was created as a parallel institution, and introduced
mechanisms that differed from, and interfered with those established in the Primary Education Council
(CEP), as well as with the Central Directive Council of Education (CODICEN). This resulted in lack of
understanding and/or acceptance of the new policies introduced by the project, and difficulties in the
supervision of the schools implementing project introduced changes.  As project implementation
progressed, the MECAEP technical team worked to involve teachers and inspectors, overcoming the initial
mistrust. Over the years, the project increasingly fostered the participation of those who would eventually
be the beneficiaries and users of tools designed by MECAEP.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
SATISFACTORY. The objective of the project was to improve quality, equity, and efficiency of primary
education. In order to measure the project's impact, some indicators have been selected as proxies for
quality, equity, and efficiency. The ICR (Implementation Completion Report) mission found that the
project had been satisfactory in achieving its objectives.
Quality
The first project development objective was to improve the quality of primary education in Uruguay. The
project has been successful in attaining this goal, as measured by the results of the 1996 and 1999 Student
Cognitive Assessments of 6th grade students. The 1996 student assessment was universal and included
private schools. The 1999 was sample-based and covered 8,000 students. Assessment results show
improvements in both Language and Mathematics at the national level. In Language, the percentage of
students with results deemed as satisfactory, that is, those able to correctly answer at least 60 percent of the
questions, increased from 57 percent in 1996 to 61 percent in 1999. Over the same period, in Mathematics,
the increase was from 35 percent to 41 percent.
Equity
The project's second development objective was to improve equity in the education system. Through
appropriately targeting, the project was able to selectively impact children from disadvantaged and very
disadvantaged backgrounds. As part of the targeting process, a socio-economic indicator was developed to
replace the "Unmet Basic Needs" (UBN) one used during project preparation to identify children from low
income families. This new indicator measures "critical socio-cultural contexts" by taking into consideration
the mother's years of schooling and the living conditions of the household (i.e. the facilities and appliances
available at the household). Schools deemed as in "critical socio-cultural contexts" combine the two
measures with attendance and repetition rates. Finally, a third indicator was developed during project
implementation by the Student Cognitive Achievement Unit (Unidad de Medici6n de Resultados
Educativos, UMRE), categorizing schools as "very favorable," "favorable," "average," "disadvantaged,"
and "very disadvantaged." This indicator was used to classify cognitive assessment results according to
student's socio-economic background. While the new indicators enriched the evaluations being carried out
during project implementation, they posed a problem in terms of comparing targets set at the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) with actual achievements. All of the project completion data that referred to the
UBN indicator had to be reconstructed on the basis of the newer indicators.
- 3 -



Two achievements demonstrate the project's success in meeting the goal of equity. First, as listed in Table
1, the results of the National Cognitive Assessments show a more equitable distribution of results due to
greater improvements across schools classified as very disadvantaged, as compared to schools under the
other classifications. Additionally, the percentage of students reaching satisfactory levels grew more in
schools with classified other than "very favorable" .
Table 1. Percentage of 6th Grade Students Attaining a Satisfactory Grade
Very Favorable    Favorable         Average      Disadvantaged        Very
Disadvantaged
1996    1999    1996    1999     1996    1999    1996    1999     1996    1999
Language    85.4   88.0     70.2  | 73.9    58.4    61.5    48.5     51.4    37.1  | 46.7
| Math.  66.4    71.2    46.2    51.5     34.0    39.4    24.1    27.9     16.7    27.9
Second, the expansion of preschool enrollment was unprecedented in the region, reaching 93 percent of four
to five year old children by 2000, and low income children benefited extraordinarily from this expansion.
In 1993, 22 percent of the four year olds from areas determined as those with UBN attended preschool. By
2000, that percentage had more than doubled, reaching 57 percent of the targeted population. Increased
enrollments for the five year olds from UBN also surpassed expectations. The percentage of five year olds
from UBN areas attending preschools increased from 52 percent to 85 percent between 1993 and 2000.
Efficiency
The project's third developmental objective was to increase system-wide efficiency, as measured by
indicators such as increases in enrollment, reductions in first and second grade repetition rates, constant or
marginal decreases in preschool student-teacher ratios, and constant or marginal increases in primary
student-teacher ratios, while maintaining constant student-teacher ratios. As already discussed, the project
was extremely successful in increasing preschool enrollment rates; primary school enrollments were already
high at 92 percent and increased to 99 percent. The project failed to reduce or maintain the preschool
student-teacher ratio, and those increased from 34 to 37. This resulted from the unanticipated nature of the
rate of increase in preschool enrollments. The Primary student-teacher ratio increased from 25 to 26.
However, these achievements have not been accompanied by a detectable reduction in the repetition rates in
primary education. Repetition rates in the first two grades were 17.8 percent in 1993 and 17.4 percent in
2000. At first grade, repetition rates decreased from 21.5 to 20.4 percent between 1993 and 2000; in
second grade, they remained almost stagnant at 14 percent. For the whole primary level, repetition was
reduced from 12 to 10 percent in the same period.
The lack of a significant impact of Government and project policies on repetition has been of particular
concem to those involved in project implementation and there are a few hypothesis as to why this has been
the case. First, Uruguay has a non-official policy of social promotion in first grade. The previous
administration appeared to have been actively promoting such policy, while the current one has left it to the
discretion of teachers and school administrators to decide on whether they want to have social promotion or
not in their school. The second hypothesis is that the bonus paid to teachers -equivalent to about 25
percent of their salary-- who work in schools considered of "critical socio-cultural context" might have
created a perverse incentive on repetition. As discussed earlier, a school is considered of "critical
socio-cultural context" based on a series of indicators, one of which being its own repetition rates. By
repeating students, teachers contribute to the school's classification of "critical socio-cultural context" and
ensure the payment bonus associated with that classification. Third, according to formal studies, the birth
-4 -



rate in very poor households increased from 40% to 47% in the past ten years. This has meant that a large
share of the last group of children who enrolled in preschool were predominantly from poor families. This
overrepresentation of new students from poorer contexts may be one of the reasons why repetition rates
have not declined. Finally, there is also the possibility that the quality of the new teachers recruited to work
at the preschools was not as good as in the past and that the training offered to them was not sufficient to
compensate other deficiencies. The UMRE is planning on carrying out an analysis of this problem to
determine exactly why repetition rates remained almost stagnant.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project consisted of three main components: (i) improving the efficiency, quality, and equity of
primary education; (ii) expanding preschool and improving its quality; and, (iii) strengthening institutions
and making them more efficient. The overall implementation of those components was found satisfactory.
Component 1.       Improving   the efficiency, quality, and  equity  of primary  education.
(SA TISFACTORY)
1.1 Textbooks. reading materials, and teaching aids. The first subcomponent financed increased primary
school students' access to textbooks, reading materials, and teaching aids. It also increased teachers'
access to education resources and specialized pedagogical libraries. The project was expected to finance
the purchase of about 2.5 million Spanish, Mathematics, Integrated Science, Social and Natural Sciences
textbooks for 1st through 6th grade students. By project completion, over 4.2 million textbooks had been
distributed to students free of charge, exceeding the project target by 68 percent. As planned during project
preparation, all 1st grade students received three books every year between 1995 and 2000, while other
grades received books twice during the life of the project. The Government was able to increase the
number of books distributed due to a successful procurement process which resulted in substantially lower
textbooks prices. Accompanying the textbooks, teacher guides were also distributed to all primary level
teachers. Both textbooks and teacher guides became key teaching tools to update the curriculum content
and were widely used by the intended beneficiaries.
During stakeholder consultations, teacher and inspectors highly praised the textbooks and teacher guides,
singling them out as among the most important contributions of the project to improve the quality of
teaching in the classrooms. Those same consultations suggested that textbooks should not be reviewed
every three years, since it took at least one year for a teacher to feel comfortable with the upgraded
textbook contents. A textbook evaluation made a similar recommendation.
An evaluation of the textbooks was carried out and it concluded that the procurement and distribution
systems in place have succeeded in reaching the majority of primary education students, with good quality
books, in time for the beginning of classes. The one issue that the distribution system was not able to
adequately address was the higher than average textbook deterioration and unexpected shifts in migration
flows in disadvantaged areas. A preliminary analysis of content indicate that, while it is generally
satisfactorily assessed and keeps within the established national textbook policy of non-discrimination and
promotion of classroom harmony, textbooks fail to capture wide national realities and do little to single out
the achievements of more vulnerable groups.
The project also met the target of providing libraries to schools in targeted areas. By 1995, it had already
distributed 811 sets of library books covering all targeted schools in the SAR -one set for each school with
less than 250 students and two sets in those with more than 250 students. The project also financed the
acquisition of 20 pedagogical libraries. In 1998, new sets of school/classroom libraries were bought for all
urban schools and for rural schools with more than 50 students.
- 5 -



In order to ensure the sustainability of this component, the National Public Education Administration
enacted a resolution in 1993 whereby, starting in 2000, and every year thereafter, it would allocate between
16 and 20 percent of the annual Primary Education Tax proceeds, or US$1.6 million (whatever amount is
larger) to finance textbooks, pedagogical libraries, and primary and preschool teaching materials.
1.2 Education Improvement Projects (PMEs). The second subcomponent encouraged school-based
initiatives focused on solving key problems in quality improvement through the implementation of PMEs in
public schools from targeted areas. These grants, of no more than US$3,000, were to be given on a
competitive basis to 800 locally designed subprojects in order to foster greater school autonomy and
conmmunity participation in seeking solutions to their own problems. The PMEs were the most innovative
initiative introduced under this project and the activity that received the most praise by project stakeholders
during consultations. Their implementation, however, was difficult from an accounting point of view,
particularly in terms of Bank reimbursement procedures and the national audits. Since these accounting
issues did not, in any way, hinder the successful implementation of this subcomponent, a detailed
discussion of the problem is relegated to the costing section of this document (section 5.4).
By project completion, 931 PMEs had been financed in schools, benefiting around 250,000 students and
10,200 teachers. The grants were awarded according to project design and to the school's socio-economic
classification (54 percent for high risk schools, 30 percent for average risks schools; and 16 percent for low
risks schools). Approximately 5,000 teachers, inspectors, and directors were trained on the preparation of
PMEs.
School visits during project implementation and after its conclusion confirmed the very participatory nature
by which PMEs were being prepared and implemented, and their attractiveness to the students in terms of
new learning approaches. Additionally, a 1999 PME impact evaluation concluded that they had positively
impacted schools in terms of planning and management, and in bringing them closer to the community and
the families. PMEs that emphasized the participation of the community were more successful than the ones
that focused on the student-teacher relationship. In every social context, there were PMEs that were
deemed to have achieved substantial impacts. However, in the sample evaluated, PMEs achieving lasting
impacts were all located in schools classified as of "disadvantaged context." In schools classified as of
"average context" and "unfavorable context," there was a correlation between successful implementation of
PMEs and academic performance in the 1999 National Cognitive Assessment.
The success of the PMEs has been such that their administration has been completely institutionalized and
they are now under the direct responsibility of the Primary Education Council. Additionally, the
Govemment has requested that the Bank finances the expansion of PMEs, including some specifically
targeting environmental health, in the MECAEP III project currently under preparation.
1.3 Teacher training. The third subcomponent aimed at improving the skills of the teaching force through
the provision of in-service teacher training. It should be noted that training permeated the whole project,
but this subcomponent was specifically aimed at improving classroom skills, particularly in regards to the
new textbooks and teaching materials This component exceeded its targets in terms of the number of
people trained -by year 2000 17,000 directors, teachers, and inspectors had been trained, compared to the
original target of 16,186. Classroom observations both during project preparation and after project
completion showed some progress in the way teachers used their time and teaching resources, but new
teaching skills were still not being fully utilized in the classroom. The observations also concluded that the
extent of leaming "transfer" from the training to the classroom was below expectations.
- 6 -



A more detailed evaluation of this subcomponent, along with stakeholder feedback, uncovered some
shortcomings. First the training was designed to train a large number of teachers for short periods of time
(4 hours). Participation was voluntary, since institutional time was not earmarked for this. By 1997, the
Government introduced monetary compensation for teachers, directors, and inspectors in order to
compensate for the increase in the time they dedicated to training (80 hours per year in schools deemed as
of "disadvantaged" and very disadvantaged socio-economic contexts") and targeted the training activities
being offered. Additionally, the targeting of these activities left some of the teachers ineligible to benefit
from the trainings, and inspectors were also incorporated late in the process, generating some animosity.
There were also too many trainers delivering the training, resulting in some inconsistencies in the content
being offered. Finally, it became apparent that there should be a more permanent and consistent in-service
teacher program in order for teachers to really incorporate pedagogical changes in the classroom.
1.4 Student Cognitive Assessment System. The fourth subcomponent promoted the development and
implementation of a Standardized Student Cognitive Assessment System in order to generate periodic,
valid, reliable, and usable information on progress towards national achievement goals. The project
successfully supported the creation of the UMRE under the auspices of the Primary Education Council, at
37 percent of the SAR estimated cost. Between 1995-1999, this unit successfully carried out several
evaluations: (a) a Student Cognitive Assessments in 1996 for all 6th grade students; (b) a sample-based
assessment of 3rd grade students in 1998; (c) a sample-based assessment of 6th graders in 1999; (d) an
evaluation of the 4th grade; (e) a national evaluation of leaming achievements for the level of schooling
(preschool 5 year olds, 1st and 2nd grades). The assessment results were then adjusted according to the
schools' socio-economic contexts and retumed to them. This activity, jointly with the training of 20,000
teachers, directors, and inspectors on the use and interpretation of the assessment results, resulted in a
move towards the establishment of a culture of evaluation. The training also provided the school staff with
the tools for them to positively deal with the results. It should be noted that in the PME proposals, one sees
that many of the proposed problem areas targeted by the subprojects coincide with those found weak by the
assessment tests.
1.5 Rehabilitation of classrooms. The fifth subcomponent of this project was originally meant for the
rehabilitation of classrooms in mostly deprived urban and rural public primary schools. However, the
Government decided to also build new classrooms. This decision took into consideration enrollment
adjustments that had to be made at the preschool level, and the need for additional space. By project's
completion, it had financed the construction/rehabilitation of 100 classrooms, 18 multipurpose rooms, 40
bathrooms, 20 rooms for the school adrninistration, and equipped 25 kitchens. Given that the cost of
building a new classroom is substantially higher than the cost of remodeling an existing one, this
subcomponent also cost about five times as much as the original estimate. Notwithstanding, a cost-quality
evaluation of civil works was carried out during supervision and concluded that the per meter cost of the
work was lower than comparable projects in the region while the quality was satisfactory.
Component 2. Expanding preschool education access and its quality. (HIGHLYSATISFACTORY)
The project's second component sought to expand preschool education access and its quality to improve
primary school preparedness and reduce primary school repetition in the first two years. This component
was rated highly satisfactory because its implementation was well above expectations, and resulted in the
expansion of preschool enrollment to levels unprecedented in the whole Latin America Region.
Additionally, while the expansion of preschool alone did not have an impact on national repetition rates in
1st and 2nd grades, as it was expected during preparation, a longitudinal research shows that it did
positively impact children denominated by the research team as at "risk" --risk being determined by the
mother's educational level and the living conditions of the family. According to two independent studies
- 7-



carried out between 1996 and 2001, first grade repetition rates for children at "risk" who did not previously
attend preschool is about 47 percent, compared to 27 percent for children at "risk" who attended preschool.
2.1 Construction and rehabilitation of preschools. The project built 87 schools and rehabilitated another
three; SAR targets were construction of 71 classrooms and rehabilitation of 23. As previously mentioned,
rehabilitations of existing preschools were limited because of the Government's preference for attaching
preschool classrooms to existing primary schools in order to use existing properties and infrastructure.
Additionally, the rapid increase in demand for preschools put pressure on the Government to expand the
number of classrooms to accommodate a net increase of 44,000 students.
The project's objective in terms of preschool enrollment was to increase it for the four and five year olds
from 51 percent in 1993 to 55 percent by 2000, while ensuring that children from areas with UBN
(previously defined in section 4.1) benefited from this expansion. The project's target was substantially
exceeded, and by the end of 2000 preschool enrollment for four and five year olds had reached 93 percent.
In order to meet the increase in preschool enrollment, between 1995 and 1999, a total of 24 preschool
teachers and 64 assistants were hired with Government funds. Additionally, the Government completely
financed the school feeding program.
The project was equally successful in expanding coverage among children from UBN areas, thus increasing
equity in access. In 1993, 22 percent of the four year olds from UBN areas attended preschool. By 2000,
the percentage had more than doubled, reaching 57 percent of the targeted population. The percentage of
five year olds from UBN attending preschools also surpassed expectations, increasing from 52 percent to
85 percent between 1993 and 2000.
There are two aspects to the implementation of this subcomponent worth mentioning: the dissemination
efforts and the role of the physical attractiveness of the school that stimulated enrollment. Realizing that
low preschool enrollment was not only the result of an inadequate supply of schools, the Government
actively promoted their preschools through media campaigns, and made sure that the schools were an
attractive place to parents. Preschools and classrooms had colorful walls and furnishings. The team of
architects responsible for carrying out the work also placed great emphasis on the adequacy of the
furnishings -doing several children's ergonomic studies to design appropriately sized furniture. The final
result was a classroom that attracted small children and their parents. The know-how acquired by these
architects has been shared with other education projects in Latin America, and has even influenced the
implementation of a similar component in a project in Nicaragua.
2.2 Preschool books and leaming materials. In the second subcomponent, the project also met its targets,
distributing over 11,000 books for all preschool classrooms and more than doubling the distribution of
learning materials (over 12,000 sets) and teaching guides. Preschool classrooms in primary schools,
equipped with libraries, received over 14,250 books. The books were found to be of good quality, with
age-appropriate content, and attractive to children.
2.3 Preschool quality. The third subcomponent sought to enhance the quality of preschool services by: (a)
providing in-service teacher training, procuring teaching materials; (b) improving the articulation between
preschool and the first grade of primary education; and, (c) establishing a long term study to evaluate the
effects of preschool education. While preschool teacher training was offered to all teachers, at the
beginning it was offered on a voluntary basis, during the weekends, and without monetary compensation.
Between 1995 and 1999, around 6,000 educators participated in training sessions on preschool-relevant
content. During the period 1998 to 2000, about 4,500 additional teachers from schools classified as in
"critical socio-cultural context were" targeted and their attendance to training was financially compensated.
- 8 -



An evaluation of preschool training concluded that it was successful to disseminate the new curriculum,
and to orient teachers in the use of library books and teacher guides, but it did not ensure a change of
classroom pedagogy. The evaluation also uncovered some problems with the training. The Government
initially selected "cascade training" as its method, training the inspectors and expecting them to train the
teachers.  This method had the advantage of updating inspectors on pedagogical issues related to
preschoolers, and of promoting inspectors' self-worth. However, given the time constraint and large
amount of new information, there was not an adequate transfer to teachers. Additionally, assigning the
training responsibility to inspectors resulted in a diversion of attention from their role. As project
implementation progressed, training was done directly to teachers, as well. The training was also delivered
separately for the preschool and primary levels, which let to some inconsistencies in what was being taught.
Finally, because of the lack of a monitoring system the Government was not able to quickly adjust to the
changing needs of those receiving training.
A final note on this subcomponent is that the impact evaluation of preschool was carried out as planned and
it concluded that: (a) at 4 years of age there are significant differences in children's knowledge, depending
upon their social background. These are significantly reduced after one year of preschool (from 23 percent
to 10 percent in Language and from 28 percent to 13 percent for cognitive); (b) teacher practices in the
classroom are key for successful student development, helping reduce initial gaps among them; and, (c)
there was a need to improve curriculum articulation between preschool and first grade. Cognitive and
linguistic achievements of all children were measured at several points during project implementation. In
relation to the difference between the children classified as at "risk" and "not at risk," the results clearly
show that the improvements in several of the variables were relatively greater among the children of the at
"risk" group: in language the average percentage improvement was 88 percent for the group of children at
"risk," compared to 66 percent for the children from the "not at risk" group; in terms of cognitive
performance, the average improvements for the two groups were 129 percent and 77 percent respectively.
Component 3. Institutional strengthening and efficiency. (SATISFACTORY)
The third component was composed of a four sets of actions: (a) to ensure the timely, efficient and
effective project implementation; (b) to establish a management information system; (c) to strengthen
decentralization and simplify administrative procedures; and, (d) an in-depth management productivity
study. During its implementation, this component substantially changed in scope and orientation. There
were three changes in administration during the preparation and implementation period, each with a
different vision of what they wanted to accomplish for their institutions, and different strategies to do so.
By the time the Government reduced the scope of the component, favoring the development of a
school-based management information system (Sistema de Administracion Escolar) that would feed
information into the central system, there was not sufficient time to fully implement and operationalize the
Sistema de Administracion Escolar. Thus, its completion is being supported under the follow-up
operations. While the new information system differs from what was originally envisioned during project
design, the ICR mission found it to be a more appropriate model to foster efficient education management.
3.1 Effective project implementation. The first set of actions included the establishment of two small units
to implement the standardized student cognitive assessment system and to oversee the production and
distribution of textbooks, school libraries and learning materials. The UMRE has been very successful in
the production of high-quality evaluations and studies that have served as inputs for policy-making.
Likewise, it has successfully managed the implementation of the Standardized Student Cognitive
Assessment System, discussed earlier. MECAEP's textbook unit was also very successful in meeting and
exceeding targets for textbook production and distribution, at continuously lower prices. During the life of
-9-



the project both units were institutionalized. The textbooks unit was streamlined into the Primary
Education Council (CEP) structure, while UMRE was absorbed by CODICEN.
3.2 Management Information System (MIS!. The second set of actions, the design and implementation of
a MIS, did not fully achieve what was envisioned under the SAR, mostly because the scope and orientation
of it changed substantially during implementation. Originally designed as a management tool for the
central level, the implementation of the MIS was reoriented in 1997, to automatize the administrative tasks
at school level and keep updated information on students, teachers and schools (Sistema de Administracion
Escolar). For that purpose, computers were acquired to equip the offices of the National and Departmental
Inspectorates and all schools with more than fifty students. However, school-level training was not
sufficient to enable school staff to effectively use the system. The training was developed by system
analysts and was not appropriately tailored to school staff. The follow-up operation to the project,
MECAEP II, is supporting such effort. Additionally, one may add that the first phase of developing the
MIS was also completed in a satisfactory manner and its finalization will be carried out under the
follow-up operation under preparation, MECAEP III.
3.3 Strengthening decentralization and simplifving sectoral administration. The third set of actions was
introduced to strengthen decentralization and simplify administrative procedures. School level initiatives
financed under the PMEs extensive international technical assistance, and the participation of education
staff in several international events (i.e. Continuous Learning Framework), have been able to promote
decentralization and greater school-level participation. Additionally, the Government has asked the Bank to
continue supporting school level participation through the PMEs. While Uruguay remains a highly
centralized education system, the Government has been successful in making good quality education
accessible to its population.
3.4 Sector management productivity studv. The fourth activity of this component was the undertaking of
an in-depth management productivity study, which was completed in late 1996 by Tea, Deloitte & Touche
and became known as "Audit of teaching, administrative, technical staff and services of public pre- and
primary education." The study was completed after a new council had been appointed to CODICEN. The
head of CODICEN did not find the results of the study particularly useful and decided to follow-up with
only some of the recommendations.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
SUBSTANTIAL. This institutional development impact of this project is considered substantial because it
supported capacity building in the education sector. Several units created under the project, and staffed
with highly qualified professionals, have been mainstreamed into regular ANEP operations: (a) the UMRE;
(b) a new unit on Textbooks, Learning Materials and Libraries; and (c) a Department of PMEs. The MIS
unit is scheduled to move to CEP in 2002 and the Primary Education Council is fully utilizing the
information obtained by the Sistema de Administracion Escolar.
One project contribution to the sector's institutional development worth singling out is the development of
the UMRE, which is in charge of evaluating different aspects of policies and activities proposed and/or
carried out by the Government. This unit provides education authorities with the data to make decisions
- 10-



and to adjust them as they are being implemented. The UMRE was also responsible for design and
implementation of a National Cognitive Student Assessment System, giving another instrument to steer
decision-making. In the six years of project implementation, Uruguay was able to develop a culture of
evaluation in the education sector, embraced by the majority of its stakeholders.
Finally, through PMEs, the project also supported changes at the school level. PMEs granted autonomy to
schools to develop strategies to address their own deficiencies while promoting community and stakeholder
participation. This strategy generated a new sense of responsibility among teachers and directors, and
"cracked a window" in a very centralized system. It also demonstrated to education authorities the positive
potential of involving schools in support of the administration's education goals.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Economic growth and globalization.   Globalization has placed new demands on the labor force.
Consequently, there has been increased pressure in Uruguay to re-evaluate the adequacy of its education
system in light of the emerging needs of the labor market and to prioritize quality improvements in
education.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government changes and commitment to project's objectives. Between project preparation and closing,
there were two changes of administration in Uruguay. While the main objectives of the national education
policy and of the project did not change, the administration that took office in 1995 introduced
modifications in the project that influenced its outcomes. The new administration also made a concerted
effort to upgrade the technical quality of the teams implementing the project, including setting up a first
class team of architects and engineers for the PCU, and attracting top researchers to work in the newly
created UMRE. In addition to maintaining a commitment to the project's objectives, the two entering
administrations maintained key staff of the PCU team, including the project coordinator, and the financial
and procurement specialists. This ensured that staff did not have to be frequently retrained in Bank
procedures and could dedicate their time to project execution. It also reduced the amount of time Bank
staff had to spend with them on administrative issues.
Absence of teachers, directors, and inspectors in project preparation. As stated earlier, project
preparation did not involve stakeholder consultation. This led to initial distrust, and lack of understanding
and acceptance of policies and actions sponsored by the project. As project implementation progressed, the
implementation team worked to involve teachers, directors, and inspectors, overcoming the initial distrust.
Autonomous implementation unit. The delegation of various implementation powers to the PCU led to a
great ease in project start up and served to increase the speed of implementation in the early stages of the
project. This meant that the PCU had autonomy to execute activities without day to day interference from
CODICEN or CEP. However, having an independent institution resulted in the introduction of mechanisms
that differed from and interfered with those established by CEP, and it also served to insulate the project
from the healthy interference of system institutions and made cooperation difficult in the early years.
Availability of counterpart funding. The growing national economy provided the fiscal environment that
ensured availability of the required counterpart funding. The expanding fiscal situation enabled a steady
growth of resources for social expenditures. This, in tum, ensured that the project did not face a shortage
of counterpart funding, common in Bank projects in the Region.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
- 11 -



Commitment to monitoring and evaluating project initiatives. The PCU made a conscious decision to
monitor and evaluate the progress impact of activities being carried under the project. The results of those
evaluations served to assist the technical team in adjusting project activities, disseminate the results of
project activities to stakeholders, increase transparency in objectives and policies, and expand the culture of
evaluation. It is safe to say that every major project intervention has been professionally monitored and
evaluated.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$45 million, out of which US$31.5 million would
be IBRD-financed (70 percent) and the balance (30 percent) Government financed. The project closed on
time and with a financial execution of 99.5 percent. It satisfactorily achieved or exceeded the majority of
its targets. The actual disbursement schedule followed closely the SAR estimate, only exceeding the
original disbursement time estimate by a few months. With the exception of the activities discussed below,
project costs were close to SAR estimates. Cost under-runs were reallocated to activities requiring
additional financing.
Total expenditures in the construction and rehabilitation of primary school classrooms substantially
exceeded SAR estimates (551 percent). When the project was designed, it was estimated that the bulk of
civil work would be for rehabilitations, which cost about 20 percent of new constructions. However, given
the enrollment pressures resulting from preschool expansion, the Government shifted its policy, favoring an
expansion of the existing infrastructure. Given that some of the project's activities had been completed at
lower costs than projected, the Government decided to reallocate these resources to finance the
construction. It should be noted that a cost-quality analysis of the civil work was carried out during project
implementation and it concluded that the quality of the work was good and the square-meter cost was below
average.
Total expenditure for the institutional strengthening component were also higher than SAR estimates.
This was due to the change in the nature and scope of the component. Originally, the firm Tea, Deloitte
and Touche was hired to diagnose institutional issues within the education administration and to propose
altematives on how to improve its efficiency. This represented 16 percent of the total component cost. The
proposals resulting from the study were rejected by CODICEN. Instead, the Government decided in favor
of developing an MIS linking schools to the central level (Sistema de Administracion Escolar). The new
MIS entailed the purchase and distribution of computers to all schools with more than 50 students and
training for all directors and administrative staff of those schools.  The cost of developing and
implementing the system represented 68 percent of the total component cost: 20 percent for consultants, 40
percent for equipment, and 8 percent for training.
Initial textbook expenses were higher than expected, but due to a change in textbook procurement process,
the Government was able to eventually achieve lower unit costs. By closing, the project had exceeded its
physical targets at a total cost close to SAR projections (103 percent). This is an interesting procurement
case to highlight. Initially, the textbook procurement involved a two-phase selection process: on the first
phase potential suppliers were required to submit a technical proposal with their qualifications.. The
suppliers selected in the first phase were then asked to submit a price proposal. The two-phases resulted in
higher prices because suppliers did not feel the need to compete on a price basis. Realizing that this
procedure resulted in a higher textbook unit cost, the Government changed the procurement process,
requiring potential suppliers to submit proposals that included both qualifications and costs. The end result
was a dramatic drop in the unit cost of textbooks.
Audits. Overall, project audits were found satisfactory and the recommendations from auditors were
- 12 -



promptly implemented. However, there are a few specific issues worth mentioning:
* The 1995 audit report received a "negative opinion" on the part of Uruguay's General Auditing Office
(Tribunal de Cuentas) and, consequently, a letter from the Bank informing the Government that
disbursements would be suspended if problems identified by the auditors were not addressed. The root
of the problem was a lack of an appropriate accounting system at the PCU. The problems were
addressed by the PCU and since 1996 there have not been problems with the audit reports.
Additionally, all of the recommendations resulting from the audits were satisfactorily implemented.
* There were some delays in the delivery of audit reports. This resulted from the different deadlines
between the Bank (April 30) and the General Auditing Office (June 30). On those occasions, the Bank
also communicated to the Borrower that reports were late. This problem was corrected in the last two
years of the project.
 On more than one occasion, loan funds were used to finance ineligible expenses due to financial
problems at CODICEN. The Government always informed the Bank of these "temporary transactions"
under the project's Annual Budget Report and properly returned the funds to the project at the beginning
of the following year. These expenses were never included in a reimbursement request and this
transitional arrangement was never contested by the Bank.
 The disbursement and accounting procedures elected for PMEs proved to be extremely cumbersome and
inefficient. PMEs were awarded to about 130 schools a year, for an average amount of US$3,000.
Instead of considering PMEs as grants for the purpose of the Bank's reimbursement procedures, they
were considered subprojects. This meant that each school had to submit every single expense receipt to
the PCU, so that a proper auditing could be carried out and the project could seek Bank's
reimbursement. Since the PMEs implementation period varied from one school to another, schools were
submitting their receipts at different times. Because the PCU had to review every single school receipt
for PME related activities and submit financial statements for CODICEN's approval, this became very
cumbersome for them. Furthermore, the PCU accumulated the receipts and only sought the Bank's
reimbursement for the expenses at around the time they were supposed to make the transfers to schools
(about twice a year). This resulted in problems with the General Audit Office because, in terms of
accounting, the requests for reimbursement should have been submitted at the time of the expense, not
several months later as the PCU was doing. This, however, was impractical to the PCU since each
school was submitting receipts at different times, about three to four times a year, for total amounts of
US$700 to US$900.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
HIGHLY LIKELY. The sustainability of this project is considered highly likely due to the concerted
efforts on the part of the Government to completely streamline its activities into those of the CEP. Key
programs or activities financed under MECAEP I, such as PMEs, textbook production and distribution,
student assessment, and MIS have either been fully institutionalized or are in the process of being absorbed
into the National Public Education Administration (ANEP) structure. Finally, the overall education policies
promoted by the project have remained unchanged in almost ten years, despite changes in Government.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has already streamlined several activities and technical units created under the project into
ANEP's regular operations. The Government is also absorbing, on a increasing basis, the costs of these
- 13-



operations.
MECAEP I was executed by a PCU created under the umbrella of the Central Directive Council of ANEP
and the CEP. Project's activities were consistent with the policies promoted by the Government and served
to strengthen them. After an initial period of lack of coordination between the PCU and the CEP, they
started collaborating and complementing on the activities being carried out, both supporting the common
education sector goals established by the administration.
Notwithstanding the existence of a follow-up operation (MECAEP II), and another project under
preparation, several new units developed under the project were already incorporated into ANEP's regular
structure: (a) the UMRE was fully integrated into the new Department of Research and Evaluation created
in February 2001; (b) in 2000 a new unit on Textbooks, Learning Materials and Libraries was established
within the Libraries and Museums Departments of the CEP; (c) a Department of PMEs was created within
the CEP in 2000; and (d) the CEP is fully utilizing the information obtained by the Sistema de
Administracion Escolar and the MIS unit is scheduled to move to CEP in 2001.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
SATISFACTORY. The Bank engaged in a productive dialogue with the borrower to identify the main
sector issues and priorities, resulting in an Education Sector Policy Note. The project adequately
addressed sector issues, so much so that the incoming administration made no changes to project design.
The project was built on regional and international experience, and the Bank made ample use of
international experts during preparation. The Bank's performance during lending is rated as satisfactory,
rather than highly satisfactory, due to the lack of a concerted effort on the Bank's part to consult with
stakeholders during project preparation and the ambitious design of the institutional strengthening
component, which later proved difficult to implement.
7.2 Supervision:
SATISFACTORY. The Bank carried out field supervisions at least twice a year, for a total of 15 missions
during project implementation, in addition to the ICR mission. The Bank maintained an open and honest
dialogue with the Borrower, allowing for the fine tuning of project activities during its implementation. The
project's task management team was relatively stable, particularly in early project development, and
provided a sense of continuity and strong support to the PCU. The team closely monitored the project, and
gave crucial support to the PCU to tackle implementation issues. Finally, the Bank's own technical
assistance proved to be invaluable in dealing with complex implementation issues.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
SATISFACTORY. Well defined and well targeted activities, focus on project objectives, and appropriate
support toward their completion fostered a positive relationship between Bank and Borrower and ultimately
led to successful completion of the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
SATISFACTORY. The Borrower closely collaborated with the Bank during project preparation to
identify sector issues and design project components that appropriately addressed those issues. It also
created a strong technical team to carry out project preparation and, later on, implementation. The project
adequately addressed sector issues, so much so that the incoming administration made no change to project
design. Similar to the Bank's lending performance, the Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory,
- 14 -



rather than highly satisfactory, because the project's institutional strengthening component proved to be too
ambitious in its design and for the lack of consultation with stakeholders during project preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY. The project was identified and prepared during one administration and
implemented under a different one. Despite this transition, there was a continuity in Government policy in
the education sector, and continuous support for project objectives and activities. Finally, the Government
maintained a cohesive education policy as well as financial commitment during the entire project cycle.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY. The project was judiciously implemented by a highly competent coordinator
and a well qualified team of professionals. The PCU was particularly strong in the areas of financing and
supervision. The project's coordinator was the same throughout the whole implementation period, as were
most of the key members of his team. The PCU closely coordinated its actions with the CEP and the
CODICEN, the Government body responsible for setting the legal and administrative education framework
in Uruguay, ensuring consistency in education policy. Finally, the project's technical team was highly
effective and creative in dealing with unanticipated events during implementation. The professional quality
of the project's staff was such that, on several occasions, the Bank asked them to provide technical
assistance to other Borrowers in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LAC). These factors
ensured continuity, consistency, and quality in project implementation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY. Overall Borrower's performance is rated as highly satisfactory for its
quality inputs during project preparation and highly competent project implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
Establishing paraHlel institutions may undermine stakeholders' support for the project. The creation of
MECAEP, as a parallel institution, introduced mechanisms that differed from and interfered with those
established in the CEP as well as with CODICEN. While the ability to avoid bureaucratic interference
served to expedite project implementation, it generated ill feeling on the part of stakeholders, particularly
inspectors, who were then asked to help in implementing new policies. The fact that MECAEP created
self-sufficient teams to implement each component exacerbated the distance from other institutions, to the
point that the system was not receiving even minimum information about project progress. Throughout
project implementation, MECAEP had to work with directors, teachers, and inspectors to overcome the
initial distrust. Whereas by project completion there was a clear synergy between MECAEP and the CEP,
CODICEN, and project stakeholders, initial problems could have been avoided had those groups been
consulted during project preparation.
Stakeholder consultation and participation at the early stages of project preparation promotes
ownership and, consequently, sustainability. Because of Uruguay's centralized and top-down structure,
and the Bank's lack of formal requirement for stakeholder consultation at the time of project preparation,
the project was designed with little participation from stakeholders. At the initial stages of implementation,
this resulted in lack of commitmnent for the project's goals on the part of teachers and directors. This
oversight was corrected during project implementation and in the preparation of the follow-up operation,
MECAEP II.
Education Improvement Projects (PMEs) have a substantial impact that goes beyond the classroom.
Empowering and financing schools to develop their own solutions foster greater school commitment to the
project's goals and greater chances of success. The PMEs required commitment of school staff to develop
- 15-



proposals to address the deficiencies identified though the Student Cognitive Assessments.  This
participatory process led to the mobilization of the entire school towards a common goal, eventually leading
to a change in the dynamic of the relationship between school and community, between teachers and
students, and among teachers. The high level of motivation in the implementation of a PME usually
surpasses the boundaries of the PME and influences the entire attitude of teachers and students. Also highly
positive is the introspection required of a school that bids to have a PME. Finally, there is evidence of a
correlation between PMEs and academic performance (1999 Cognitive Assessment), which confirms that
the school community often knows what is more appropriate for its students in terms of teaching and
learning strategies.
PMIE financial transfers should be considered grants, rather than subprojects, in the legal and
disbursement arrangements made during project preparation. In future loans, the Bank should make
sure that small transfers to schools are treated as grants and only subject to random audits. The reason for
this recommendation is detailed in section 5.4 of this document.
Need for having a monitoring and evaluation system in place to retro-feed decision-makers with
timely and accurate information. One of the successes of the project was the existence of reliable data on
which decision-makers could base their decisions on. The constant inflow of evaluation results enabled
them to re-adjust and/or re-target actions throughout project implementation. Additionally, the data
validated the policy choices and actions implemented by the Government and, more importantly, enabled
stakeholders to see the impacts of those actions. Finally, training directors, teachers, and inspectors on the
use of monitoring and evaluation data, including on how to address deficiencies uncovered by the
evaluations, ensured that instead of feeling threatened by the evaluations they felt like key agents of change
in the system. This strategy was very successful in generating support for education policies by key
stakeholders and, most importantly, in involving them in seeking school-level solutions to address
deficiencies diagnosed by the evaluations. Teachers, directors and inspectors highly regard the evaluations
carried out by UMRE and consider the evaluation unit one of the best outcomes of MECAEP.
Management Information Systems must carefully balance appropriate technology with adequate
training and inclusion of end-users in the design stage. A Management Information System (MIS) is
essentially a package of interventions that can yield valuable information for decision making, but only if
users take ownership and use it. The MIS, Sistema de Administracion Escolar has not yet fulfilled its
expected role in providing information for planning purposes.  There are too many schools with
malfunctioning equipment, and training has been supply driven and insufficient. Not only has the number
of school staff trained in MIS use been small, but the utilization of the system has not been generally
observed. As a result of irregular use, the MIS system has not been fully optimized.
Generating demand through public campaigns is key in making quantum progress in enrollment.
MECAEP opted to put a lot of emphasis on project dissemination and public campaigns to achieve project
objectives. This was the case with the preschool component. ANEP engaged on a multimedia campaign to
achieve universal coverage for preschool age students, carefully choosing a message and strategically
reaching out. This campaign was extremely successful in massively increasing coverage for four year olds
while reaching out to bring virtually every five year old into the system, increasing enrollment from 51
percent to 93 percent in the same period.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
ANEP contributed with a report assessing project implementation from the Borrower's perspective. The
- 16-



report is included in Annex 10.
(b) Cofinanciers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None.
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome t Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projected In last PSR                ActuaULatest Estirnate
- Increase net enrollment of 4 and 5 year olds 88.5%                       93%
from 51% to 55%
- Increase net enrollment of 3 to 5 year olds  62.9%                       62.9%
from 41 % to 44%
- Increase preschool enrollment of children  4 yr. old: 57%                4 yr. old: 57%
from UBN areas (4 yr. old: 22%; 5 yr. old:  5 yr. old: 85%                 5 yr. old: 85%
52%)"
- Constant or marginal decrease      37%                                   37%
student-teacher ratio in preschool (1993: 34)
- Constant or marginal increase in   26%                                   26%
student-teacher rabo in primary school (1993:
25)
- Constant or marginal increase net  98.6%                                 98.6%
enrollment of 6-11 year olds (1993: 91.7)
- Reduce the average repetition rate for the  17.4%                        17.4%
1stand 2nd grades from 17.8% to 11.9%
- Decrease the average number of years to  7 years                         7 years
complete primary education (1993: 6.9)
- Increase terminal efficiency (1997: 92%)  97%                            97%
- Ensure availability of educational materials  Since 1995, all students have textbooks for  Since 1995, all students have textbooks for
and textbooks (timely access to textbooks)  their level.                  their level.
- Increase per pupil cost (1993: US$305)                                   US$600
- Increase cognitive achievements in Spanish
and mathematics (percentage of students
that achieve a satisfactory level in text):
Spanish for 6th graders (1996: 57.1%)  61.3%                               61.3% (1999)
Mathematics for 6th graders (1996: 34.6%)  40.8%                           40.8% (1999)
Notes: The above indicators were selected as proxies for quality, equity and efficiency improvements in basic education.
* The measurement of Unsatisfied Basid Needs (UBN) was further elaborated and replaced by "Schools of Critical
Socio-Cultural Context" during project implementation. Thus, where applicable, the 2000 results are approximations.
-18 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. PRIMARY EDUCATION
1.1 Financing the purchase of about 2.5  3.3 million textbooks purchased and  4.2 million textbooks purchased and
million textbooks                     distributed; 12,325 packages of teaching  distibuted; 12,325 packages of teaching
materials distributed                 materials distributed
1.2 Funding for 800 PMEs              815                                   931
1.3 Training of approximately 16,186  17,000 teachers, directors, and supervisors  17,000 teachers, directors, and supervisors
teachers, directors, and supervisors in the  trained (8,200 of whom from schools in  trained (8,200 of whom from schools in
use of textbooks, reading and instructional  critical context)              critical context)
materials and pedagogical libraries.
1.4 Financing the design and provision of 30 20,000 teachers, directors, and supervisors  20,000 teachers, directors, and supervisors
in-service teacher trairling events for about  trained                      trained
3,200 teachers, directors, and supervisors
1.5 Construction/rehabilitation of 50 primary  100 classrooms               100 classrooms
classrooms
2. PRESCHOOL
2.1 Construction of 60 preschool classrooms 87 built; 3 classrooms rehabilitated  87 built; 3 rehabilitated
for 4 year old children, and 11 classrooms for
5 year olds; and rehabilitation of 23
classrooms for 5 year.
2.2 Preschool didactic materials distributed  12,300 sets                   12,300 sets
2.3 Preschool training for 3,000 teachers,  10,500 trained (4,500 of whom from schools 10,500 trained (4,500 of whom from schools
185 directors, 24 supervisors        in critical context)                  in critical context)
3. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
AND EFFICIENCY
3.1 Development and application of the  system functioning                 system functioning
Student Cognitive Achievement System
3.2 Development and implementation of an  MIS not completely implemented    MIS not completely implemented
MIS
3.3 Sector Management Productivity Study  study completed
End of project
- 1 9 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
I.  PRIMARY EDUCATION
1.1  Textbooks, learning materials and libraries      10.70           11.64            103
1.2  Education Improvement Projects (PMEs)             2.90           2.99             103
1.3 In-service teacher training                        2.80            2.63             94
1.4  Student Cognitive Assessment System               5.00            1.83             37
1.5  Classroom construction and rehabilitation         1.10           6.06             551
II. PRESCHOOL
2.1  Preschool supply increase*                        6.56            4.19             64
2.2  Classroom construction and rehabilitation         6.80            7.18            106
2.3  Enhancing quality of preschool services           3.24            1.42             44
III. INSTITUTIONAL STRENTHENING                        2.30            3.25            141
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTING UNIT (PCU)                    3.22            3.15             98
Reimbursement of project preparation expenditures      0.38            0.43            113
Total Baseline Cost                                   45.00           44.77
Total Project Costs              45.00           44.77    _
Total Financing Required               45.00          44.77     _
* This refers to the increased recurrent costs for the Govemment in terms of teachers, materials, and maintenance.
It was not a project subcomponent but counted as counterpart financing.
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) US$ million equivalent
Expenditure Categories              Procurement Categories             Total Costs
ICB         NCB       OTHER         NBF
Textbooks                 5.38                                              5.38
(4.42)                                           (4.42)
Learning Materials        4.74                                              4.74
(4.16)                                            (4.16)
Works                                  4.27        2.14                     6.41
(3.25)      (1.62)                    (4.87)
Training                                           3.60                     3.60
(3.20)                   (3.20)
Goods                                 0.45         1.64                     2.09
(except PCU)                          (0.39)      (1.51)                    (1.9)
Consultant services                                5.90                     5.90
(5.90)                   (5.90)
Education Improvement                              2.40                     2.40
Projects (PMEs)                                   (2.40)                    (2.40)
Tests printing and                                 0.51                     0.51
processing                                        (0.42)                   (0.42)
PCU Salaries                                       2.55                     2.55
(2.53)                   (2.53)
Office materials                       0.34        0.34                     0.68
(0.28)      (0.28)                   (0.56)
PPF (Project Preparation                                                    0.00
Facility) funds
Local salaries                                                 4.64         4.64
(0.00)       (0.00)
School libraries, food and
recurrent costs                                    1.16        4.94         6.10
(1.14)      (0.00)        (1.14)
Total                     10.13        5.06       20.23        9.58         45.00
(8.58)      (3.92)     (19.00)      (0.00)       (31.50)
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procure ent Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) US$ million e uivalent
Expenditure Categories               Procurement Categories               Total Costs
ICB         NCB       OTHER          NBF
Textbooks                  8.44                                              8.44
(6.75)                                            (6.75)
Learning Materials         2.84                                              2.84
(2.84)                                            (2.84)
Works                                  10.76       0.80                      11.56
(8.19)      (0.70)                    (8.89)
Training                                           2.90                      2.90
(2.68)                    (2.68)
Goods                                  1.60        0.53                      2.13
(except PCU)                          (1.10)       (0.36)                   (1.46)
Consultant services                                3.44                      3.44
(3.28)                    (3.28)
Education Improvement                              2.73                      2.73
Projects (PMEs)                                    (2.60)                   (2.60)
Tests printing and                                 0.25                      0.25
processing                                         (0.25)                    (0.25)
PCU Salaries                                       1.54                       1.54
(1.53)                    (1.53)
Office materials                                   0.69                      0.69
(0.54)                    (0.54)
PPF funds                                          0.43                      0.43
(0.43)                    (0.43)
Local salaries                                                  3.71         3.71
(0.00)        (0.00)
School libraries, food and                                      4.09         4.09
recurrent costs                                                (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     11.29        12.36       13.30        7.8          44.75
(9.59)      (9.29)      (12.37)      (0.00)       (31.25)
Other includes: 5.6 under shopping; 1.54 for PCU salaries; 3.44 under consultant selection; and 2.73 for PME
transfers.
- 22 -



Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
l                                                           [Pereentage of Appraiial
Component              Appraisal Estimaae          Actual/Latest Eslimale    P         o Appra
Bank      Go%t.     CoF.      Bank      Gobs.     CoF.     Bank   Gout.  CoF.
1. Primary Education     19.70      2.80               20.45      4.70              103.8  167.9
1 Textbooks, learning    8.86       1.84               9.70       1.94              109.5  105.4
materials, and libraries
1.2 Education            2.74      0.16                2.69       0.30              98.2   187.5
Improvement Projects
(PMEs)
1.3 In-service teacher   2.80      0.00                 1.84      0.79              65.7    0.0
training
1.4 Student Cognitive    4.40      0.60                 1.50      0.33              34.1    55.0
Assessment System
1.5 Construction and     0.90      0.20                4.72       1.34              524.4  670.0
rehabilitation of classrooms
II. Preschool            6.63       9.97                5.67      7.12              85.5    71.4
2.1 Preschool supply     0.00      6.56                0.00       4.19               0.0    63.9
increase*
2.2 Classroom construction  5.58    1.22                5.12      2.06              91.8   168.9
and rehabilitation
2.3 Improvement of the    1.05     2.19                0.55       0.87              52.4    39.7
quality of education
services
III. Institutional       1.80       0.50                2.32      0.93              128.9  186.0
strengthening
PCU                      2.99      0.23                 2.41      0.74              80.6   321.7
Project preparation      0.38      0.00                 0.43      0.00              113.2   0.0
* This refers to the increased recurrent costs for the Government in terms of teachers, materials, and maintenance.
It was not a project subcomponent but counted as counterpart financing.
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 1992
May 1993                     5    1 Educ. Specialist, I textbooks
spc., I preschool spc., I cost spc.,
I economist.
Appraisal/Negotiation
November 1993                6    Mission leader, 2 education
spec., I infrastructure spec.,
I institutional strengt. spec.,
I disbursement spec.
March 1994
Supervision
December, 1994                1   Mission Leader                      S             S
May 1995                      3   Mission leader, I education spec.,  S             S
1 management information
system.
November 1995                 4   Mission leader, 2 education         S             S
spec., I infrastructure spec.
September 1996                2   Mission leader, I procurement       S             S
Spec.
November 1996                 3   Mission leader, I education         S             S
spec., I infrastructure spec.
May 1997                      1   1 infraestructure spec.
June 1997                     7   Lead spec. (Human                   S            HS
Development), Task manager,
deputy task manager, education
spec., 2 procurement spec., I task
assistant.
October 1997                  3   Mission leader, I infrastructure
spec., I education spec.
January 1998                  1   Mission leader
March 1998                    5   1 Mission leader, 2 education       S            HS
spec., I infrastructure spec., 1
procurement analyst
September 1998                1   1 infrastructure spec.
November 1998                 7   Mission leader, sector leader, 1    S            HS
principal procurement officer, I
financial mgmnt spec., 1
economist, I infrastructure spec.,
I education spec.
November 1999                 4   Mission leader, I program          HS            HS
advisor (?), I infrastructure spec.,
1 financial spec.
Junio 2000                    8   Mission leader, leducation spec.,  HS            HS
- 25 -



I program advisor (?), 1
operations officer, I procurement
spec., I operations officer, I
disbursement analyst, I
procurement spec.
November 2000                 4   Mission leader, I disbursement      HS            HS
officer, I textbooks spec., I educ.
spec.
ICR
December 2000                3     2 education especialists, I
operations/education
specialist
September 2001                1    1 educ. specialist
October 2001                 5     1 education specialist, I           S             S
operations specialist, 2
education consultants
(preschool, student cognitive
assessment system), I operations
consultant.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                81.8                        199.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                     20.9                         51.6
Supervision                               97.4                        264.5
ICR                                         1.2                        29.1
Total                                    201.3                        544.2
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
I Macro policies                          O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
OI Sector Policies                        O H   OSUOM      ON    O NA
L Physical                                OH *SUOM ON O NA
Li Financial                              OH   OSUOM       O N   * NA
CJ Institutional Development              O H  * SU O M    O N   0 NA
El Environmental                          O H  OSUOM       O N   * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H   OSU*M       O N   O NA
Li Gender                          O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H   *SUOM       O N  O NA
Increase equity in the education sector
Li Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M    0 N   * NA
L Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
Li Other (Please specify)                 O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
D Lending                                           OHS*S OLU OHU
FII Supervision                                     OHS OS       O  U  O HU
ElI Overall                                         OHS OS       O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
El Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
D Implementation agency performance                 *HS OS       0 U   O HU
Ol Overall                                          *HS OS       OU    O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bank preparation documents
- Education Sector Review mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire, Back to Office Report. World
Bank. 1991.
- Education Sector Operational Strategy Note. World Bank. 1992.
- Identification mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire, Back to Office Report. World Bank. 1992.
- Preparation Missions terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to Office Report. World Bank.
1992-1993.
- Pre-Appraisal Missions terms of reference, Aide-Memoire, Back to Office Report. World Bank. July
1993.
- Appraisal Missions terms of reference, Aide- Memoire, Back to Office Report. World Bank.
November 1993.
- Staff Appraisal Report. World Bank. 1994.
- Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. World Bank. March 1994.
Bank project implementation documents
- Aide-Memoires of Supervision Missions. World Bank. 1994-2000.
- Project Status Report (PSR). World Bank. 1994-2001.
Main Documents prepared by the Borrower during project implementation
- "Estudio de Evaluaci6n del Sistema de Adquisici6n y Distribuci6n de Libros de Texto, dentro del
Componente de Libros, Textos y Material Didactico de MECAEP III". Centro de Informaciones y
Estudios del Uruguay (CIESU). Noviembre 2001.
- Estudio de Evaluaci6n de Impacto de la Educaci6n Inicial en el Uruguay. Proyecto MECAEP.
Noviembre 2001
- PME: Evaluaci6n de Impacto. Hallazgos Principales del Analisis Cualitativo . Informe diciembre
1998. ANEP
- Evaluaci6n Nacional de Aprendizajes en 3er. afio de Educaci6n Primaria. 1998. UMRE, ANEP,
MECAEP.
- Evaluaciones Nacionales de Aprendizajes en Educaci6n Primaria en el Uruguay 1995-1999. ANEP.
Proyecto MECAEP-ANEP-BIRF. UMRE.
- Evaluaci6n Nacional de Aprendizajes en Lengua y Matematicas 6to afno de Ensefianza Primaria 1999
- SEGUNDO INFORME. Proyecto MECAEP. Junio, 2000.
- Estudio de los Factores Institucionales y Pedag6gicos que inciden en los aprendizajes en las escuelas
primarias de contextos desfavorecidos en el Uruguay. ANEP. MECAEP.UMRE. 1999.
- Estudio del Lenguaje en los Nifios de cuatro anios del Uruguay. Proyecto MECAEP. 1999.
- Proyectos en Acci6n. II Edici6n. ANEP. 1999.
- Proyectos de Mejoramiento Educativo. Manual de Divulgaci6n. ANEP-MECAEP-PME. 1995
- Manual de Pautas de Evaluaci6n y Selecci6n de PME. ANEP-MECAEP-PME. 1997
- Pautas de Seguimiento, Asignaci6n y Gesti6n de Recursos Financieros de los PMEs.
ANEP-MECAEP-PME. 1998.
- Palabras para compartir. Talleres de actualizaci6n para el uso del libro en el nivel inicial.
ANEP-MECAEP. Enero 1997.
- Propuestas para el uso de material didActico. Educaci6n Inicial. ANEP-MECAEP. Junio 1997.
- 29 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Classrooms Observations
During the ICR mission, a team of consultants visited six primary schools to conduct classrooms
observations and to met with school directors, teachers and inspectors. Inputs from the observations have
been incorporated into the main text of the ICR, and were taken into consideration when assessing the
achievement of development objectives and outputs from the project. While it is clear that this sample of
schools is in no way representative of the universe of primary schools in Uruguay, the findings of the visits
are consistent with those of previous field visits.
The main findings of the classroom observations are listed below.
Preschool
* The modem architectural design of the classrooms had a positive impact on attracting and keeping
children in the schools. The brightfully painted classrooms are attractive to both parents and children,
particularly those from low income groups. Likewise, there was a strong presence of visual materials
(posters, magazines, books) in the classrooms.
*   School furniture of ergonomic design is present in the classrooms.
* Teachers are using the books provided under the project and they are planning their lessons based on
the new curriculum. Nevertheless, from what was observed, it cannot be guaranteed that the curricular
changes and new pedagogical practices are being used in the classrooms in a general manner.
* Teachers are not using differentiated pedagogical practices for four and five year old children. Both
age groups seem to be taught through the same activities and be asked similar questions. This lack of
differentiated approach may be the reason why four year olds are performing marginally better at
achievement evaluations than five year olds.
* It was observed that teachers use new elements and activities, while keeping traditional teaching
methods in their lessons, sending a contradictory signal.
* There is no noticeable articulation among preschool and the primary education teachers.
* Materials to work with parents have been development and are extensively used. An example of this is
the magazine "Dame la mano," which shares with parents what has been taught in the classroom. This
initiative has succeeded in involving the families, since they receive a copy of the magazine at home
and the family actually works with it. It has created an interaction between the school and the families.
Primary level
Classroom observations took place in three schools categorized as of "critical socio-cultural context" and
beneficiaries of the teacher training financed by the project. In those schools, it was observed that:
* Teachers are generally using the textbooks provided under the project as well as the teaching guides to
plan their lessons. This has been reinforced by the training received, specially in the case of language
- 30 -



and science textbooks. This has not inhibited them from using other materials in their teaching and
from going beyond the textbooks.
*   Teacher guides have been well received and, along with textbooks, they are serving as a tool to renew
and update the content of what it is being taught, in absence of a formal new curriculum for primary
level.
*   Teachers feel they should be able to use the same textbooks for periods longer than three years, since it
takes them approximately that amount of time to be fully familiar and confortable with the textbook
(the first year they get training on it, the second year they adapt it to their teaching practices and the
third year they fully use it).
*   There have been some changes in the pedagogical practices at the classroom level. Teachers and
inspectors identify this as a positive effect of the training received by teachers. Nowithstanding, the
consultants concluded that teachers need a more systematic and continuous training, to be able to
consolidate a new pedagogical model centered around learning.
*   Teaching practices are traditional: there is a frontal positioning of the teacher and scarce student
participation while teaching. This contrasts with results from teachers' interviews, where they claim to
have changed teaching practices as a result of training.
*   Learning and teaching practices in full time schools, as compared to regular schools, favor an active
teaching methodology and intense student participation.
- 31 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
A stakeholder workshop was carried out as part of preparing this ICR. The workshop was conducted by a
consultant, independent from the Bank and the Government, so that stakeholders did not feel inhibited to
provide honest feedback on the issues being discussed. There were 22 participants (teachers, school
directors and national and departmental inspectors) in the half-day discussion. The following were the
topics of discussion: (a) difficulties during implementation; (b) the project's impact on the quality of
education; (c) participation processes fostered by MECAEP; (d) relations with CODICEN; and, (e)
problems that MECAEP did not resolve. This ICR incorporated the feedback gathered at the workshop
and considered it when rating the project's achievement of objectives and developmental impact. Below is a
summary of the main points raised by stakeholders.
MECAEP activities that impacted the quality of education
*   PMEs. They were highly valued because they made the school community responsible for seeking
solutions for the learning deficiencies of their students and gave them incentives to research. Teachers
became empowered and looked for the participation of the school and the community.
* Textbooks. Teachers appreciated being involved in the selection process. They also praised the
teaching guides and the fact that students now had textbooks.
* Learning materials. The provision of learning materials and the training to use them effectively was
successful and increased teacher effectiveness in the classroom.
* UMRE. Its evaluations emphasized the development of a culture of evaluation.
* Universalization of preschool education. The increase in enrollment, along with the Government's
policy of building preschools attached to primary schools increased teachers and directors' awareness
for the need to coordinate and articulate among the two levels.
Main difficulties during implementation
* MECAEP was initially seen with mistrust by teachers, who perceived the PCU as an unit competing
with the national education authorities and pursuing the interests of intemational organizations.
* MECAEP did not involve inspectors in the planning and design of project activities. This prevented or
delayed the sense of ownership among both inspectors and teachers. Inspectors were particularly
annoyed at the parallel supervisions carried out by the MECAEP technical team.
* The training provided for the preparation of the PMEs did not set a clear role for the directors as
compared to the teachers.
* At the beginning of the project, teachers resisted the Student Cognitive Assessments for fear that it
would be used to measure teacher perfornance. The training associated with the assessment was
essential not only for stakeholders to accept it but also for them to embrace the system.
Problems not resolved by MECAEP
* Lack of articulation between MECAEP and the inspectors, since there is still not enough opportunities
- 32 -



for their participation.
*   Slow progress in the information system  "Sistema de Administracion Escolar."  Many of the
computers distributed to schools have not been put to appropriate use.
*   Insufficient articulation between the preschool and primary levels.
*   In terms of training, workshop participants reported that: (a) there were mistakes in training design; (b)
there was not monitoring and impact evaluation for the training received, particularly in terms of
pedagogical transfers to the classroom; and, (c) there was a gap between the theory being offered by
trainers and the reality in the classrooms.
- 33 -



Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
Established in Uruguay in March 1994, the Basic Education Quality Improvement Project (MECAEP) was
designed to improve the quality, equity and effectiveness of the national primary education system; to
expand preschool education in under-resourced areas; to adequately prepare young students for the
challenges presented in the first two years of elementary school; and to improve the overall management
and operation of the education sector.
The propitious political and social climates facilitated the implementation of and engendered governmental
support for the Project, which was designed during one administration and executed during the next and,
thus, became a useful instrument in the implementation of the educational reform in Uruguay. Those in
charge of educational policy were committed to improving the quality and equity of public education at all
levels, and specifically, to the universalization of preschool education for all children ages 4 and 5.
As work progressed, the Project team revisited the original budget and reallocated funds to cover shortfalls
in certain areas. During the starting years, classroom construction and textbook purchases were more
costly than anticipated. The Project revamped the procurement process and revised the budget to adjust for
these new realities. These adjustments, however, did not in any way affect the nature, goals or mission of
the Project.
2. ACHIEVEMENTS
MECAEP has played a decisive role in improving the quality and equity of primary education in Uruguay.
By expanding preschool education in economically disadvantaged areas of the country, as well as
enhancing the quality of preschool instruction, MECAEP has laid the groundwork for enhanced student
achievement at all levels.
IMPROVED QUALITY OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
The results of the 1996 and 1999 Student Achievement Tests, an assessment given to all 6th grade students
in the country, indicate marked improvements in both the Language and Mathematics tests. In Language,
the percentage of students able to answer at least 60% of the questions (i.e., satisfactory level) rose from
57.1 to 61.3. In Mathematics, the percentage of students at the satisfactory level rose from 34.6 to 40.8.
IMPROVED EOUITY OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
The same test results were used to break down student achievement by socio-cultural context. The results
indicated that students from the very disadvantaged classification made the greatest progress toward
reaching the satisfactory achievement level in both Language and Mathematics. The assessment also
showed that the percentage of students at the satisfactory level increased less for students in the most
favorable socio-cultral environment than for any other of the four contexts. In Language, student scores
increased as follows: 2.6% in the very favorable category, 3.7% in the favorable category, 3. 1% medium,
2.9% disadvantaged and 9.6% very disadvantaged. In Mathematics, the percentages ranged from 4.8 to
5.3 to 5.4 to 3.8 and 11.2 respectively.
STUDENT FAILURE RATES AND THE NEED TO REPEAT PRIMARY GRADES
Achievement in areas of educational quality and equity have not yielded marked reductions in the rate of
- 34-



primary grade repetition. 21.5% of elementary school students repeated the first grade in 1992, and the
percentage diminished only slightly, to 20.4, in the year 2000. The change in repetition rates for second
graders was negligible: 14.2% in 1992 and 14.3% in 2000. As a whole, the repetition rate for primary
education fell from 11.7 to 10.3 during the project cycle.
The Project's difficulty to reduce the rate of repetition requires further study.  By the end of 1999
educational authorities proposed a social promotion policy which didn't meet its objectives because it
wasn't universally applied. Also, the selection of teachers policy is such that those teachers with best
qualifications are usually appointed in schools qualified as the most favorable socio-economic ones and
vice-versa. Finally, it seems that coordination between pre-school and the first grades of primary school
should be deepened . The Measurement Unit of Educational Achievement (UMRE) will continue to study
these issues.
INCREASING ACCESS TO PRESCHOOL EDUCATION FOR THE POOREST POPULATION.
Between 1994 and 2000 the National Public Education Administration (ANEP) served 44,000 four and
five year olds. Counting the 19,000 preschool students enrolled in private institutions, Uruguay provided
early childhood education to 93% of the preschool population in 2000.
Between 1995 and 1999, enrollment grew from 46.8% to 68.5% in the lowest income quintile in
populations over 5,000. In the next income quintile the percentages grew from 68.9% to 82.5%. However,
at the highest quintile, the percentage of students enrolled rose only from 87.7% to 90.8%.
The PCU responded to this increase by creating, renovating and furnishing 5,400 educational spaces, in 67
facilities, in mostly low income areas. In its efforts to focus on facilities located in under-resourced areas,
ANEP relied on the following indices: the classification of school by socio-cutural context, a system
created by UMRE in 1996; and the identification of schools in "Critical Sociocultural Contexts".
Ultimately, the Project spent 34% of its resources on the very disadvantaged socio-culturals schools
context, 27% in the disadvantaged context, 9% in full day preschools, 3% in schools in "Critical
Sociocultural Contexts," 9% in medium contexts, 3% in favorable contexts and 15% in kindergartens
which were not included in the 1996 school census, and therefore, never assigned a classification.
PREPARING PRESCHOOL STUDENTS FOR ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
The Primary Education Council's (CEP) reform of pedagogical and curricular methods was facilitated by
the Project's distribution of teaching materials, textbooks and the implementation of teacher training
programs.
Research financed by the Project indicates that students are stronger academically if they are exposed to
preschool education at ages 4 and 5, and if the schools benefit from a variety of quality improvement
activities. The longitudinal study evaluated a sample of 500 four year olds and measured the impact of
public elementary education on as they moved from preschool to first grade. The study indicated that four
year olds exhibited divergent linguistic and cognitive abilities, depending on their socioeconomic status.
The exposure to preschool instruction mitigated the differences and increased the student's ability to
succeed in first grade. All the children studied improved both math and verbal skills after one year of
preschool. The study also revealed that in contexts of highest risks, two years versus one year of preschool
did not significantly alter the students' skill levels or their likelihood of repeating first grade. The research
indicates that pre-school education acts as an equalizer, raising an at risk student's linguistic and cognitive
- 35 -



abilities to that of children from no risk categories. Also, once teachers increased student skills at the
preschool level, the students were able to perform at the same level as no risk students in first grade.
The study identified specific problem areas and offered several recommendations: only 25% of teachers
specialize in preschool education; the turnover rate among teachers is relatively high; skills and abilities
varied greatly even among teachers of 5 year old children; first year teachers will require additional
training; and there is a pressing need to create a global strategy to address deficiencies in language skills
and overall student achievement.
IMPROVING ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSES IN PRIMARY EDUCATION
The Government's ability to effectively manage primary education was facilitated by the consolidation of
two critical units- the office that oversees nationwide Standard Achievement Testing, and the department
that procures and distributes teaching materials. Also, the System of School Administration (Sistema de
Administraci6n Escolar) will be an effective tool in policy and program development. Additional efforts to
decentralize and streamline the administration of the education sector met with only limited success.
3. ACHIEVEMENTS OUTLINED BY PROJECT COMPONENT/SUBCOMPONENT
A. Primary Education
Classroom Construction: 100 classrooms were built or rehabilitated in 24 elementary schools (grades 1-6)
primarily classified as "Disadvantaged Sociocultural Contexts."
The Project exceeded its original construction goals because ANEP required that preschool classrooms be
physically attached to existing primary schools. Thus, as more students registered for preschool, the
demand for additional primary classrooms increased. Population growth in certain areas of the country also
created a demand for additional space. These additional classrooms were financed through the budget
reallocation that took place early on in the Project..
Improvement in the availability of textbooks, readers and teacher reference libraries: Almost 3.4 million
textbooks were distributed between 1995 and the year 2000. In 2001, an additional 855,00 textbooks were
purchased. In total, over 4.2 million textbooks will have been distributed to Uruguayan students free of
charge by the end of the project cycle. The gradual decrease in textbook prices and the improvement in
MECAEP's procurement methods made it possible to exceed the proposed distribution goal by 65%.
In addition to providing textbooks, the Project created corresponding teacher's guides and made them
widely available. Gradually, between 1995 - 2000, the Project supplied all primary grades with the
necessary teaching materials. Teachers applauded the diminished reliance on photocopied and borrowed
texts. In fact, both teachers and inspectors used the resources as supplemental pedagogical support to
update curricula and revitalize classroom instruction and homework assignments with modem techniques.
As proposed in SAR, the Project established libraries in all public schools within the targeted area. In 1995
a set of 113 books were donated to each school with less than 250 students, and two sets were given to
those schools with more than 250 students. In 1998, MECAEP established these libraries in targeted urban
and rural schools with more than 50 students. The project also financed the development of Teaching
Libraries and Educational Technologies Units in an effort to update instruction methodologies and
techniques.
Design and Implementation of Education Improvement Projects (PMEs) in public schools:
- 36 -



Between 1995 and 2001 MECAEP financed 931 School Education Improvement Projects, 16% more
PME's than proposed in SAR. The average grant awarded to a school was $3,000. The PMEs benefited
249,000 students, and 10,200 teachers in 664 urban schools, 195 rural school and 72 special facilities.
Among the urban schools, as outlined in SAR, 54% of the PMEs took place in high risk schools, 30% in
medium risk and 16% in low risk schools. An evaluation of the PMEs indicate that they improve the
overall efficiency of the schools by creating continuity in management and progranmming. They also
contribute to increased professionalism among the teaching staff, as well as a linkage between the school,
its families and the greater community. These changes appear to bridge the distance between schools
classified as "very favorable" and those classified as "very disadvantaged," while further integrating the
school into the surrounding community.
In-service Training for Teachers: Improving Classroom Skills and Using New Teaching Materials.
Between 1996 and 2000, the Project trained approximately 17,000 directors, teachers and inspectors to
effectively utilize its books, textbooks, teaching guides and other pedagogical resource materials. Special
emphasis was placed on training 3-6th grade teachers in schools identified as "Critical Sociocultural
Contexts." Monetary incentives were often necessary to encourage participation in the training sessions.
Standardized Testing to Measure Student Achievement: It is necessary to standardize student assessment
in order to reliably measure progress toward national educational goals.  The Project fostered the
development of an Educational Achievement Testing Unit (UMRE) under the auspices of the Primary
Education Council, which for the first time in Uruguay's history, in 1996 made a national achievement test
for students in the latest grade (6th). In 1998, the test was given to a sample of 3rd grade students in both
public and private institutions. One year later, the test was given to a sample of 6th graders across the
country. Teaching personnel were trained to interpret the test results and teachers felt the test provided a
clear sense of student achievement during the primary grades. Teachers are now more accepting of
assessments and the culture of ongoing evaluation because they see how the results facilitate curriculum
revisions and content updates that can increase student achievement in specific areas.
B. Preschool Education
Classroom construction and rehabilitation: MECAEP built 87 new and remodeled 3 existing classrooms,
exceeding the proposed goals outlined in SAR. As previously mentioned, the Government's desire to
physically link preschool and primary programs, and the greater enrollment in preschool programs
(approximately 44.000 students), increased the need for new classrooms throughout the country.
Financing School Meals and Teaching Staff: From 1995 - 1999, MECAEP hired 24 teachers and 64
teaching assistants to support preschool education in Uruguay.  Since 1999, ANEP has assumed
responsibility for costs associated with teaching staff as well as the school meals program.
Teaching Materials: MECAEP distributed over 11,000 story books to provide all existing preschool
classrooms, with school library. The Project also made more than 12,000 sets of teaching materials
(including teacher's guides) available to preschool teachers. Preschool classrooms in primary schools,
equipped with libraries, received over 14.250 books. The books were found to be of good quality, with
age-appropriate contents and attractive to children.
In-service teacher training: In-service training in the use of teaching materials was provided to over
6,000 educators between 1995 and 1999. Between 1998 and 2000, an additional 4,500 teachers were given
economic incentives to attend training sessions. These targeted teachers taught preschool and grades 1-2 in
schools classified in "unfavorable contexts."
- 37 -



Developing the curricular link between preschool and first grade: In 1997, ANEP instituted a new
preschool curriculum that would more effectively coordinate the contents of preschool and primary grade
instruction. The curriculum was developed as a result of a study conducted on preschool education in
Chile, Argentina and Spain. The Project funded two subsequent studies and the fmdings of a 3rd study are
being presented this year.
C. Institutional Strength and Efficiency
Creation of new units: Two special units were developed by MECAEP to oversee the national
Achievement Tests and to oversee the procurement, distribution and monitoring of all teaching materials:
textbooks, workbooks, teachers guides and reference libraries. In 2000, the units formally became part of
ANEP and now receive only partial funding from MECAEP.
Implementation of a Management Information System: Originally designed as management tool, it was
discovered in 1997 that the MIS system would be better used to automate the schools' administrative tasks
and to organize student, teacher and school information. MECAEP purchased the equipment for urban and
rural schools with more than 50 students, as well as the offices of the Departmental and National
Inspectors (Inspecciones Departmentales y Nacionales). At present, this program is active in 900
schools.
Decentralization and Administrative Streamlining: The decentralization of educational institutions and
Departmental Inspections (Insepeciones Departmentales) and the streamlining of administrative processes
has achieved its objectives partially. In 1995, 23 vehicles were purchased to facilitate school inspections.
In 1996, the Project undertook an in-depth management productivity study to evaluate the teaching,
administrative and technical and service staff . In 1997, the legal division of CEP and the Departmental,
National and Regional Inspections (Inspecciones Departnentales, Nacionales y Regionales) made
available by computer connection the national educational statutes and norms. Finally in the year 2000,
the Project instituted a Treasury and Accounts Payable system within CEP's Accounting Office. (
Tesoreria y Control de Pagos).
4. IMPACT ON INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Project improved the Uruguayan Education Sector and its ability to train students. CODICEN and
CEP developed, implemented and managed a vast number of the activities outlined in the Project. These
innovative activities and strategies challenged existing educational models and practices. Many changed
the nature of primary education and the training of educational staff. Outdated programs were revamped
and existing practices were examined.
During 1999 the process of institutionalization of some of the Project's activities starts. In 2000, with the
support of newly appointed education officials, several Project units were brought under ANEP. In 2001
ANEP created the Department of Research and Evaluation to replace the functions previously carried out
by UMRE. In April of 2000, the Department of Education Improvement Projects was integrated in the
Education Division of CEP. Finally, CEP assumed responsibility in 2001 for the training of educators in
schools classified as "Critical Sociocultural Contexts," while continued to obtained the data from the
School Administration System. (Sistema de Administracion Escolar) MECAEP devoted considerable time
and energy to ensuring the successful transfer of personnel and information as the project's activities were
institutionalized within the Government.
- 38 -



5. FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT RESULTS
Factors beyond Government or World Bank Control: There was no indication that any negative factor
affected the Project.
Factors subject to Government Control: The Project benefited from the stability of national economic and
political environments. Specifically, the revitalization of democratic politics in 1985 created a propitious
environment for educational policy reform within Uruguay. The fact the always the new Government is
responsible for appointing ANEP officers and for approving the five year budget proposed by CODICEN
also enabled the Project to surpass many of its goals.
Factors subject to the Controlling Agency (PCU): Initially, the Project experienced moderate opposition
from educators and Teacher's unions. Educators resisted the need for ongoing evaluation aind standardized
testing. Such attitudes were understandable given the unprecedented nature of such testing and the lack of
previous evaluation in the country. Resistance diminished, however, as educators learned to use these tools
to reach their own classroom goals. The Teacher's Union was initially reluctant to accept the involvement
of a multilateral lending organization in the financing of Uruguayan primary education. Nevertheless, the
CEP, ANEP and PCU were able to address the union's concerns by bringing together educators and
technical staff to discuss Project objectives and activities.
6.     COSTS AND FINANCING
The project was completed on time with a 99% financial execution. Besides the unanticipated costs
associated with modifications made to architectural models and complications with the procurement
process, the Project stayed within budget while reaching the majority of its goals, and even surpassing
others. The line item devoted to incidental expenses was completely reallocated .
7.     SUSTAINABILITY
The majority of the Projects activities have already been brought under the auspices of ANEP. However,
ANEP has not yet assumed full financial responsibility for the activities. In November, 2001, ANEP
approved the use of budgeted funds for the re-publishing of text books for the next academic year. The
PMEs, in 2002, should receive funding from IBRD through Phase 3 of the Project, which is being
designed. The final development of the School Administrative System (Sistema de Administracion
Escolar) will be completed in Phase 3 of the Project with funding allocated specifically for training. The
subsequent maintenance of the System will require very little funding, The ex-UMRE is counting on
funding through Phase 2 and probably Phase 3 of the Project, in addition to money from the IDB to
develop links with secondary education.
ANEP and CEP will now maintain the distribution of educational materials and library resources and will
continue to provide teachers with in-service training on the use of books, guides and other pedagogical
resource materials.
8.     WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
The Bank used supervisory missions to monitor the project, the notes from which are recorded in the Aide
Memoires. The Bank provided valuable support in terms of technical assistance, international consultants,
bibliographical materials, specialized training courses and personnel exchanges. The evaluative culture
established and promoted by the Bank permeated all Project activities and contributed to the
- 39 -



professionalism of technical personnel. The Project team established positive and secure relationships
officials in ANEP and CEP, as well as technical personnel in PCU.
Finally, the Bank has recognized Project achievements and has already sought to implement components of
the Project in other regions.
9. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Like all new and complex endeavors, the Project found it necessary to self-correct and redirect as new
challenges presented themselves. The Project adjusted the frequency and target populations of its training
sessions, the types of resources used in teacher training, the level, frequency and nature of its contact with
educators.  It revised the criteria used in bidding components of the Project as well as  various
administrative aspects. Errors were identified and corrected, often with the assistance of the World Bank
and support from ANEP and PCU.
The project was implemented by a highly competent coordinator and a skilled technical director who
assisted the Project team for the majority of the grant cycle. The Project implementation team worked
closely with the Primary Education Council and the CODICEN of ANEP, the Government bodies
responsible for establishing the legal and administrative frameworks for educational policy in Uruguay.
Since many project activities were realized from within the PCU and in direct collaboration with education
policymakers, outside other public and private entities were not involved.
10. LESSONS LEARNED
General Comments:
Project-based work, where resources are allocated to meet short term goals and objectives, and which is
subject to extemal evaluation and periodic oversight, results in a more dynamic implementation of policies
and strategies proposed by the Project.
By carefully targeting Project activities, the Project modeled the strategic use of limited resources and
demonstrated how to maximize their impact.
Uruguay's centralized education system proved remarkably flexible. It successfully accommodated PMEs
and other educational and management strategies that emphasized a decentralized approach. It also
integrated programs requiring more centralization, like the process for selection, procurement, and
distribution of text books.
Uruguayan educators need training in data processing. Deficiencies in this area are due to cultural factors
and limited the Project's ability to impact the School Administration System (Sistema de Administracion
Escolar).
Despite the institutionalization of many Project subcomponents - Text Books, PMEs, Standardized
Testing, the process is not complete. ANEP is gradually taking over financial responsibility, but has not yet
assumed full funding of the activities.
Project activities in classrooms and schools created an spirit of improvement in primary education. Clearly,
ongoing teacher training and curricular up-dating are critical for the success of preschool and primary
education.
- 40 -



Methodologies:
ANEP, CEP and PCU effectively coordinated their activities, and used a variety of tools to reach out to
schools and kindergartens in high risk, low income areas. The instruments will need to be updated as new
experiences, data and educational advances are integrated.
The decision to implement in-service training and other Project activities simultaneously, i.e., the
distribution of textbooks, guides and other resource materials, enabled the Project to use resources
extremely efficiently. Educators actively participated in the reform process and learned how use the new
resources most effectively. By involving the group of inspectors in multiple aspects of the Project, the
implementation team facilitated the acceptance and ultimate institutionalization of the activities. PMEs,
standardized tests, text procurement and the distribution of teaching materials have all be institutionalized
at this time. The inclusion of school inspectors in educational training sessions ensured that educators
actually implemented the techniques, practices and methods discussed in the training sessions in the
classrooms.
The PCU adeptly addressed the feelings of mistrust that developed among educators. Various tools were
used to bridge the gap: UMRE's consulting group (Grupo de Consulta); the participation of teachers in
the development of standardized tests; representation from the Assembly of Technical Educators (
Asambleas Tecnico Docentes) on the committees charged with the selection and procurement of texts and
teaching materials; and the use of national Standard Achievement testing. The use and interpretation of test
results has made it possible for schools and teachers to access information that informs and improves their
work in the classroom. A culture of evaluation has already begun to take root in the country, laying the
groundwork for ongoing improvement in the Uruguayan educational system.
-41 -



