Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3729 UR
                              Loan Agreement
               (Basic Education Quality Improvement Project)
                                  between
                      REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated September 16, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3729 UR
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1994, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL
URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
    (B)   the Project will be carried out by Administracion Nacional de
Educacion Publica (ANEP) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ANEP the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and ANEP;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
    (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
    further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
    provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
    Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
    (a)   "ANEP's Resolutions" means ANEP's Resolution No. 3 dated November
8, 1993, as amended by ANEP's Resolution No. 2 dated November 15, 1993,
concerning the allocation of the proceeds of the Primary Education Tax
(referred to in paragraph (i) below) and ANEP's Resolution No. 7 dated
January 10, 1994 concerning the restructuring of CEP's internal structure;
    (b)   "BCU" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central del
Uruguay);
    (c)   "CEP" means the Primary Education Council (Consejo de Educacion
Primaria) within ANEP;
    (d)   "Educational Technological Center" means an educational center
within ANEP which provides audiovisual educational material to public
primary school students;
    (e)   "Eligible School" means a school which meets the criteria referred
to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and in the
Operating Manual;
    (f)   "Eligible Subproject" means a specific project (to be financed
under a Subgrant) consisting of acquisition and utilization of goods for,
and provision of technical assistance to, an Eligible School in order to
improve the quality of public primary education in the Borrower's territory;
    (g)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith
from the Borrower and ANEP to the Bank indicating the matters to be
discussed during the review referred to in Section 2.12 of the Project
Agreement, and including as an annex thereto, the performance indicators
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of such Agreement;
    (h)   "Law No. 15.739" means Ley No. 15.739 of the Borrower dated March
28, 1985, duly published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on April
25, 1985, which established, inter alia, ANEP, as amended to the date of
this Agreement;
    (i)   "Law No. 15.809" means Ley No. 15.809 of the Borrower dated April
8, 1986, duly published in the official gazette (Diario Oficial) on April
21, 1986, which established, inter alia, the Primary Education Tax (Impuesto
de Educacion Primaria), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
    (j)   "Operating Manual" means ANEP's manual referred to in Section 6.01
(d) of this Agreement which would set forth the operational, financial and
accounting procedures to be followed by ANEP in carrying out the Project,
as well as, the criteria to be met by the beneficiaries of the Project;
    (k)   "PCU" means the project coordination unit established pursuant to
ANEP's Resolution No. 57 dated February 2, 1994, referred to in Section 2.07
of the Project Agreement;
    (l)   "Peso" means the currency of the Borrower;
Page  3
    (m)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and ANEP
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
    (n)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a letter dated
October 8, 1992, duly countersigned by the Borrower on October 23, 1992, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
    (o)   "SCAU" means the student cognitive assessment unit established
pursuant to ANEP's Resolution No. 94 dated November 19, 1993, referred to
in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement;
    (p)   "Subgrant Arrangement" means the arrangement referred to in
Section 2.06 (a)(i) of the Project Agreement;
    (q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
    (r)   "Subgrant" means a grant made or to be made out of the proceeds
of the Loan by ANEP to an Eligible School for the carrying out of an
Eligible Subproject;
    (s)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ANEP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
    (t)   "UBN Areas" means the areas of unsatisfied basic needs of the
population living within the Borrower 's territory concerning education,
water and sewerage and housing;
    (u)   "UNESCO" means United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization; and
    (v)   "UNESCO Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Sections
3.05 and 2.10 of the this Agreement and Project Agreement, respectively.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
thirty-one million five hundred thousand Dollars ($31,500,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the
Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an Eligible School under a
Subgrant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for an
Eligible Subproject (under Part A.6 of the Project) in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project (except under Parts A.2,
A.3, A.6 and B.1 (a) and (b) of the Project) described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BCU on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
Page  4
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Page  5
    Section 2.08. The Director Nacional de Educacion Publica of ANEP (or
such other person or persons as such Director Nacional shall appoint in
writing) is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
    (a)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ANEP to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of ANEP therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ANEP to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
    (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to
ANEP, on a grant basis, under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ANEP, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
    (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, suspend,
terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or
any provision thereof.
    (d)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   make available each year, until the completion of the
                Project, promptly as needed in Pesos equivalent, as
                counterpart funds for the Project, the following amounts:
                                   Counterpart Funds for the
                Year                  Project (in Dollars)
                1994              $2,000,000 (of which $500,000
                                                correspond to the
                                                year 1993)
                1995   $1,500,000
                1996   $1,800,000
                1997   $1,900,000
                1998   $2,100,000
                1999   $2,300,000
                2000   $1,900,000;
          (ii)  not later than thirty days prior to the date in which the
                Borrower's budget related to the education sector is
                presented to the Borrower's Congress each year (with the
                exception of 1994), furnish to the Bank, for its review, a
                copy of such section of the budget; and
         (iii)  within thirty days after the date in which the Borrower's
                budget related to the education sector is approved each
                year, furnish to the Bank a copy of such approved budget.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
Page  6
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by ANEP pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate with ANEP and the Bank in
the review referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 2.09 of the Project
Agreement.
    Section 3.05. The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with ANEP and
UNESCO as provided in Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement.
    Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall participate with ANEP and the
Bank in the mid-term review referred to in Section 2.12 of the Project
Agreement in order to discuss the matters referred to in such Section. As
part of such review the Bank may require that the Borrower or ANEP, or both,
prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in
Project implementation. In the event that the Bank requires the Borrower to
prepare an action plan, or a joint action plan with ANEP, the Borrower shall
furnish such action plan to the Bank not later than 60 days after the
conclusion of the review in question and shall thereafter carry out, or
cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
    Section 3.07. The Borrower shall comply with the corresponding
obligations set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
    Section 3.08. In order to enable ANEP to comply with its obligations
under Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement the Borrower shall furnish to
ANEP the information required therefor.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound
                accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such
                expenditures;
         (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                expenditures are retained until at least one year after the
                Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
                and
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including those for the
                Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
                by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
                such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                to support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
Page  7
                shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   ANEP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ANEP will be able to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
    (c)   Law No. 15.739 or any provision thereof related to ANEP shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such
a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of ANEP
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ANEP or for the
suspension of its operations;
    (e)   ANEP's Resolutions or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced;
    (f)   Any provision of Law No. 15.809 related to the primary education
tax (Impuesto de Educacion Primaria) shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of ANEP to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
    (g)   The UNESCO Agreement shall have been assigned, amended, suspended,
terminated, waived or failed to be enforced by either the Borrower or ANEP,
or both, in such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of the Borrower or ANEP, or both, to comply with any of their
obligations under this Agreement and the Project Agreement, respectively.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (e) or (g) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
and
    (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (f) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
    (a)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ANEP;
    (b)   that ANEP has entered into a consulting services agreement with
a consultant, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in order
to carry out the study referred to in Part C.5 of the Project;
    (c)   that the UNESCO Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by
the respective parties thereto; and
    (d)   that the Operating Manual has been duly approved by ANEP under
terms satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  8
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included
in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
    (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by ANEP, and is legally binding upon ANEP in accordance with its terms; and
    (b)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by and is legally binding upon the respective parties to such agreement in
accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date December 15, 1994 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the
Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
          Colonia No. 1089
          Montevideo,
          Uruguay
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINECON                         269 MINECON UY
                Montevideo, Uruguay
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                By /s/ Carlos Steneri
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  9
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated          % of
                                (Expressed in         Expenditures
          Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)     Textbooks                  4,000,000            80%
(2)     Teaching Aids              3,800,000            100%
(3)     Works                      4,400,000            70% until an
                                                        aggregate amount
                                                        equivalent to
                                                        $1,000,000 has
                                                        been disbursed
                                                        from the Loan
                                                        Account; and 90%
                                                        thereafter
(4) Training                       2,800,000            100%
    Expenditures
(5) Goods other than               2,000,000            100% of foreign
    equipment and                                       expenditures, 100%
    furniture for                                       of local expendi-
    the PCU under                                       tures (ex-factory
    Category (10)                                       cost) and 80% of
                                                        local expenditures
                                                        for other items
                                                        procured locally
(6) Consultant's                   5,200,000            100%
    services
(7) Subgrants                      2,400,000            100% of
                                                        amounts dis-
                                                        bursed under
                                                        a Subgrant
(8) Tests Printing                   400,000            100%
    and Processing
    under Part A.12
    of the Project
(9) PCU's fees                     2,500,000            100%
(10) PCU's Operating                 500,000            100% of foreign
     Costs, equipment                                   expenditures, 100%
     and furniture for                                  of local expendi-
     such unit                                          tures (ex-factory
                                                        cost) and 80% of
                                                        local expenditures
                                                        for other items
                                                        procured locally
Page  10
(11) Refunding of                    380,600            Amounts due
     Project                                            pursuant to
     Preparation                                        Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                            of this Agreement
(12) Unallocated                   3,119,400
                                  __________
                TOTAL             31,500,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower;
    (c)   the term "Training Expenditures" means the cost of travel and per-
diem incurred by the participants of the training programs to be carried out
by ANEP under the Project;
    (d)   the term "PCU's fees" means the fees to be paid: (i) to UNESCO in
order to assist ANEP in carrying out part of the Project; and (ii) to the
PCU staff; and
    (e)   the term "PCU's Operating Costs" means the cost of leasing
equipment and facilities and acquisition and utilization of software and
computer equipment for the PCU, including, maintenance and insurance for
such software and equipment and facilities, water, electricity,
communications services and office supplies.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
$935,000, may be made in respect of Categories (3) through (6) and (8)
through (10) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after November 30, 1993; and
    (b)   payments made for a Subgrant under Part A.6 of the Project unless
ANEP has entered into an arrangement (the Subgrant Arrangement) with the
corresponding Eligible School under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including those set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a)
goods under the Categories (5) and (10) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of this Schedule to cost less than $50,000; (b) works under the Category
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule to cost less than
$150,000; (c) ser- vices to cost less than $100,000 and $50,000 with respect
to the employment of consulting firms and individuals, respectively; and (d)
each Subgrant, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality, equity
and efficiency of the Borrower's primary education system; (b) to expand the
coverage of preschool education in UBN Areas, and enhance the quality of
preschool education in order to increase primary school preparedness and
reduce repetition of students of the first two grades of primary school; and
(c) to enhance the productivity of the education sector and strengthen the
overall management of such sector.
Page  11
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Primary Education
1.  Acquisition and distribution of about 2,500,000 primary textbooks for
the benefit of students in first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth
grade of public primary schools.
2.  Acquisition and distribution of: (i) about 3,250 teaching books during
the first three years of Project implementation; and (ii) about 490 teaching
books during each year following 1996 until the year 2000, for about 20
pedagogical libraries located within the Borrower's territory.
3.  Acquisition and distribution of about 317,400 books to about 811 student
reading resource centers located in about 811 public primary schools (most
of which will be located in UBN Areas), of which 158,700 books will be
acquired and distributed during 1994 and the balance will be acquired and
distributed between 1997 and the year 2000.
4.  Acquisition and distribution of: (a) about 792 teaching material
packages (each package consisting of: maps, pictures, blocks, audiovisuals,
laboratory materials and a textbook maintenance kit) for public primary
schools located in urban areas; (b) about 1,348 teaching material packages
(each package consisting of: a dictionary, an atlas, maps, pictures, blocks
and laboratory minisets) for public primary schools located in rural areas;
and (c) about 120 teaching material packages (each package consisting of:
maps, pictures, blocks, audiovisuals, laboratory materials and a textbook
maintenance kit) for Educational Technological Centers.
5.  Provision of in-service teacher training to every public primary school
principal and public primary school teacher on the use and conservation, as
the case may be, of the textbooks, books, teaching materials, pedagogical
libraries and student reading resource centers, referred to in Parts A.1
through A.4 above.
6.  Financing of about 800 Eligible Subprojects through the provision of
Subgrants to Eligible Schools.
7.  Design of a training program (including the implementation of such
program) for supervisors of public primary schools to assist the teachers
of such schools in the: (a) preparation and pre- sentation of school
subprojects to ANEP for purposes of qualifying as an Eligible Subproject;
and (b) implementation of the school subprojects referred to in (a) herein.
8.  Preparation of guidelines to evaluate the subprojects referred to in
Part A.7 above, including the training of ANEP's personnel to evaluate such
subprojects.
9.  Preparation of about 12 videos for purposes of training the supervisors
referred to in Part A.7 above, including the design, preparation and
distribution of manuals, evaluation guidelines and materials to such
individuals.
10.       Organization of about 3 national fairs to: (a) inform the public
with respect to successfully implemented Eligible Subprojects; and (b)
foster the exchange of successful experiences among school supervisors,
principals, teachers, parents and students with respect to the Eligible
Subprojects mentioned in (a) herein.
11.       Carrying out of a study to evaluate the implementation of Eligible
Subprojects and their impact on the quality of education in the Borrower's
territory.
12.       Design of a criterion-referenced cognitive assessment test with
respect to the areas covered by the curriculum of the primary school system,
including, inter alia, Spanish and Mathematics, for students attending third
and sixth grade in public and private primary schools (including the
implementation of such tests).
13.       Provision of: (a) technical assistance to the personnel of ANEP
Page  12
in order to design, administer, operate and analyze the tests referred to
in Part A.12 above, including the acquisition and utilization of equipment
and technical publication required therefor; and (b) in-service teacher
training to: (i) every school principal of public primary schools; (ii)
about 186 public primary school supervisors; (iii) about 4,500 teachers of
third and sixth grades of public primary schools; and (iv) ANEP's personnel,
in order to use the results of the tests referred to in (a) herein for
purposes of providing feedback to the school principals, super- visors,
teachers, parents and students.
14.       Refurbishing about 50 classrooms of urban and rural public primary
schools located in UBN Areas (including the acquisition and utilization of
the necessary equipment and school furniture, and the maintenance of such
refurbished classrooms during Project imple- mentation).
15.       Design of a maintenance manual and a training program for school
teachers and principals of public primary schools located in UBN Areas
concerning the maintenance of the classrooms referred to in Part A.14 above
(including the distribution of such manual to such individuals and the
implementation of such program).
Part B:   Preschool Education
1.  Provision of preschool services for the benefit of about 21,000 students
(ages 4 and 5) attending public preschools located in UBN Areas, through:
    (a)   the hiring of about: (i) 119 teachers; (ii) 55 paraprofessionals;
(iii) 37 school principals; and (iv) 4 supervisors;
    (b)   the provision of about 21,000 daily food rations;
    (c)   the carrying out of an information campaign concerning such
services;
    (d)   the provision of training to the parents of students with respect
to the early stimulation of their children and delivery of preschool
services;
    (e)   the construction of about: (i) 60 classrooms (for the benefit of
4 year old students); and (ii) 11 classrooms (for the benefit of 5 year old
students), in public preschools located in UBN Areas;
    (f)   the rehabilitation of about 23 classrooms (for the benefit of 5
year old students) in public preschools located in UBN Areas;
    (g)   the acquisition and utilization of equipment and school furniture
necessary for the classrooms referred to in paragraphs (e) and (f) above
(including the maintenance of such classrooms during Project
implementation); and
    (h)   the design of a maintenance manual concerning the maintenance of
the classrooms to be constructed or refurbished, as the case may be,
referred to in paragraphs (e) and (f) above (including the distribution of
such manual to the schools referred to in such paragraphs).
2.  Design of an in-service teacher training program for the benefit of
about: (a) 3,000 public preschool teachers; (b) 185 public preschools
principals; and (c) 24 public preschool supervisors, including the
implementation of such program.
3.  Acquisition and distribution of about 5,260 sets of essential teaching
materials (consisting of classroom materials such as: puzzles, blocks,
puppets, magnifiers, story books, pictures and art materials) to public
preschools.
4.  Provision of technical assistance to ANEP in order to modify (if needed)
the curriculum objectives that will enable the preschools and the first
grade of primary schools to have an effective pedagogical link.
5.  Carrying out of a longitudinal study to measure the impact of preschool
education with respect to the academic performance of first grade students
of primary schools.
Page  13
Part C:   Institutional Strengthening
1.  Organization of seminars on management of the preschool and primary
education system for the benefit of senior and mid-level central and
regional authorities within ANEP.
2.  Carrying out of a study to improve ANEP's internal structure and
operations through the simplification and decentralization of administrative
procedures applicable to the public primary education system, including, if
necessary, the design of operational manuals and the provision of training
to ANEP's personnel in the use and application of such manuals.
3.  Provision of technical assistance to ANEP's personnel in order to
strengthen the institutional capacity of ANEP, including the acquisition and
utilization of vehicles required therefor.
4.  Design of a management information system, including: (a) the
acquisition and utilization of computer equipment and software; and (b) the
provision of technical assistance to ANEP's personnel, in order to manage
and implement such system (including the provision of training required
therefor).
5.  Carrying out of a study to: (a) identify the inefficiencies, if any, in
the use of teachers and administrative personnel of public preschools and
primary schools within the Borrower's territory regarding teaching and
administrative staffing and deployment policies and practices, leave of
absence, assignments, attendance, fines and rewards; (b) forecast the medium
and long-term needs of the teaching and administrative personnel with
respect to future student enrollment, population migration patterns,
personnel turnover and deployment, and salaries of the personnel referred
to in (a) herein; and (c) recommend measures to correct and prevent
anomalous situations identified by this study concerning the matters
referred to in (a) and (b) herein.
                                  * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
    beginning January 15, 2000
    through July 15, 2009                1,575,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
Page  14
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:
Not more than three years                      0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3),
(5), (7) and (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.1, A.4, A.6,
A.8, A.9, A.12 through A.15, B.1 (c) and B.1 (e) through (h), C.2 and C.4
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to$700,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
Page  15
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
