Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3729 UR
                             Project Agreement
               (Basic Education Quality Improvement Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
               ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE EDUCACION PUBLICA
                         Dated September 16, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3729 UR
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE
EDUCACION PUBLICA (ANEP).
    WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republica
Oriental del Uruguay (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirty-one million five hundred thousand Dollars ($31,500,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that ANEP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
    WHEREAS ANEP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
Page  2
    Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 2.01. (a) ANEP declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end,
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, educational and
environmental practices, and in accordance with the Operating Manual, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ANEP shall not amend, abrogate, suspend,
waive or fail to enforce the Operating Manual or any provision thereof.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Bank and ANEP shall otherwise agree, ANEP shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the performance indicators set
forth in the Implementation Letter.
    Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. ANEP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement.
    Section 2.04. ANEP shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ANEP shall
not amend, assign, terminate, suspend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) ANEP shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
    (b)   ANEP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the per- formance by ANEP of its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement.
    Section 2.06. (a) For purposes of Part A.6 of the Project, ANEP shall:
(i) enter into a subgrant arrangement (the Subgrant Arrangement) with the
corresponding Eligible School as set forth in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule
1 to the Loan Agreement; and (ii) exercise its rights and comply with its
obligations under each Subgrant Arrangement in such manner as to: (A)
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (B) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (C) achieve the objectives of the
Project.
    (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ANEP shall not assign,
amend, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Subgrant Arrangement
or any provision thereof.
    Section 2.07. (a) ANEP shall maintain during Project implementation the
PCU with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including,
inter alia, the responsibility to assist ANEP in the coordination and
implementation of the Project.
    (b)   ANEP shall ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by a
qualified professional and assisted by staff in adequate numbers and with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 2.08. (a) ANEP shall maintain at all times the SCAU with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter
Page  3
alia, the function of assisting ANEP in the carrying out of Part A.12 of the
Project.
    (b)   ANEP shall ensure that the SCAU is at all times headed by a
qualified professional and assisted by staff in adequate numbers and with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 2.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 of
this Agreement, ANEP shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1995 complete
the study referred to in Part C.5 of the Project; (b) not later than June
30, 1996 review jointly with the Bank and the Borrower the recommendations
of such study and furnish to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the
Bank; and (c) not later than December 31, 1996 commence the implementation
of such action plan.
    Section 2.10. ANEP shall enter into an agreement with the Borrower and
UNESCO (the UNESCO Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, which shall establish the obligation of UNESCO to assist ANEP in: (a)
the administration of the PCU's Operating Costs (as such term is defined in
paragraph 2 (e) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement); (b) the employment of
the consultants required under the Project; and (c) the carrying out of the
training programs under the Project.
    Section 2.11. ANEP shall not later than June 30 of each year, starting
in 1995 until the completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the
Bank, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request on the progress achieved by the Borrower and ANEP in carrying out
their obligations under the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, respectively,
during the calendar year prior to the date of presentation of the
corresponding report.
    Section 2.12. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.05 of
this Agreement, ANEP shall not later than 42 months after the Effective Date
review jointly with the Borrower and the Bank the progress made by ANEP in:
(a) carrying out the Project in accordance with the performance indicators
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement; and (b) achieving the
objectives of the Project. Such review shall, inter alia, focus on
discussing the role of the PCU, the matters described in the Implementation
Letter with respect to the mid-term review and the corresponding progress
reports referred to in Section 2.11 of this Agreement. As part of such
review the Bank may require ANEP or the Borrower, or both, to prepare an
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project
implementation. In the event that the Bank requires ANEP to prepare an
action plan, ANEP shall furnish such action plan to the Bank not later than
60 days after the conclusion of the referred review and shall thereafter
carry out such action plan in accordance with its terms.
                                ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations of ANEP
    Section 3.01. ANEP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, educational and
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
    Section 3.02. ANEP shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and environmental practices.
    Section 3.03. ANEP shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) ANEP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
Page  4
financial condition.
    (b)   ANEP shall:
          (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year:
                (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
                year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
                audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    Section 4.02. In order to enable the Borrower to comply with the
obligations set forth in Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement, ANEP shall
promptly furnish to the Borrower the information and documentation required
therefor.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
    Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
    Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ANEP
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify
ANEP thereof.
    Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
Page  5
                                           197688 (TRT)
    For ANEP:
          Consejo Nacional de Educacion de la
            Administracion Nacional de Educacion Publica
          Soriano No. 1045
          Montevideo, Uruguay
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                MINECON                    269 MINECON UY
                Montevideo, Uruguay
    Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of ANEP, may be taken or executed by the Director Nacional de
Educacion Publica of ANEP or such other person or persons as such Director
Nacional shall designate in writing, and ANEP shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
    Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                       ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE
                         EDUCACION PUBLICA
                       By /s/ Miguel Bujosa
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
Page  6
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of: (i) goods and works in accordance with this
Part A; and (ii) vehicles, equipment and the printing and processing of the
tests referred to in Part C.1 of this Section, ANEP shall use the relevant
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued
by the Bank, ANEP shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  The bidding under Part A.1 above with respect to textbooks and teaching
materials (under Parts A.1, A.4 and B.3 of the Project) shall be carried out
through a two-step procedure satisfactory to the Bank.
3.  To the extent practicable, contracts for textbooks and teaching
materials shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uruguay may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  (a)   Vehicles, software, computer equipment and communication and
office equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more per
contract or per bid package; and (b) printing and processing of the tests
referred to in Part A.12 of the Project, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections
I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.        Goods, other than the goods referred to in Parts A.3, C.1 and C.6
of this Section, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but
less than $200,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $800,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.        Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more per
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $4,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.        (a)   Vehicles, software, computer equipment and communication and
office equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 per
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,200,000; and (b) goods, other than the goods referred to
in Parts A.3, C.1 and C.6 of this Section, estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $50,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $800,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank or if allowed by paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines, pursuant to direct contracting.
5.        Works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $150,000 per
contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $2,100,000, may be procured: (a) under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three
contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
Page  7
acceptable to the Bank; or (b) if allowed by paragraph 3.5 of the
Guidelines, pursuant to direct contracting.
6.  Goods up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$2,400,000 to be financed out of the proceeds of a Subgrant may be procured:
(a) under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; or (b) if allowed by
paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines, pursuant to direct contracting.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Parts A and C.1 of this Section; and
(ii): (A) the first two contracts for goods and works to be awarded under
Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Section, respectively, during the first year of
Project implementation; and (B) the first contract for goods and works to
be awarded under Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Section, each year after the
first year of Project implementation, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.        The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:
    All procurement of goods and works to which local competitive bidding
applies shall be carried out using bidding documents satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist ANEP in the carrying out of the Project, ANEP shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, ANEP shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, ANEP shall use
other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
Page  8
equivalent of $800,000; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,100,000, except contracts for the
employment of: (i) high level professional staff to be employed by the PCU
and SCAU during Project implementation, as referred to in the Implementation
Letter; and (ii) individuals under Parts C.2, C.4 and C.5 of the Project.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above;
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of
procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods and works
referred to in Parts A and C.1 through C.3 of Section I of this Schedule,
except that the principles and rule of procurement referred to in paragraph
3 below shall not apply to the procurement of goods and works referred to
in Parts A and C.1 of Section I of this Schedule, respectively.
1.  Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be
required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
2.  The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.
3.  Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in competitive bidding
advertised locally.
4.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding, except that, under the
procurement procedures set forth in Parts C.2 and C.3 of Section I of this
Schedule, foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite for bidding, to
be registered with local authorities, provided, however, that the
information to be requested by the Borrower to such bidders is of such
nature that it will not discourage their participation.
5.  Contracts prices for goods and works may be adjusted even if such prices
have increased by less than 15% of the bid price.
6.  There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in
order for a contract to be subsequently awarded.
7.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bidding
documents with Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
8.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire local personnel, except
for unskilled personnel.
B.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in
this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following principles and
rules of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of consultants'
services referred to in Section II of this Schedule.
1.  Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the
selection process, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with
local consultants.
2.  Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in a short
list on the basis of evaluation criteria and terms of reference, both
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.  The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                           Procedures and Terms
                       and Conditions for Subgrants
Page  9
Subgrants (Eligible Subprojects)
1.        To qualify as an Eligible School and thus be eligible to enter
into a Subgrant Arrangement and receive a Subgrant in order to finance an
Eligible Subproject, a school must satisfy the eligibility criteria and be
selected according to the procedures specified in the Operating Manual,
which criteria must, inter alia, include that the school is an urban or
rural public primary school (with three or more teachers) or a public
special school, located in the Borrower's territory.
2.        Each Subgrant shall be made and disbursed in Pesos.
3.        Each Subgrant shall be made pursuant to a Subgrant Arrangement
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, whereby ANEP shall
obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower
and ANEP, including the right to:
    (a)   require the Eligible School to carry out and operate the Eligible
Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, educational and environmental standards and to
maintain adequate records;
    (b)   require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants's services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods,
works and consultants' services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Eligible Subproject;
    (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank and
the Borrower if the Bank shall so request, the goods, sites, works, plants
and construction included in the Eligible Subproject, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents; and
    (d)   suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible School to the use
of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such school to comply with any
of its obligations under the Subgrant Arrangement.
