Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No.5986
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(Credit 666-CE)
December 23, 1985
South Asia Regional Office
This document hs a restricted distribuio and may be used by reipients only in the perfomnnance of
their oicial adues. Its cotets may not oderise be disclsed without Wodd DBnk antherlntion.



WEIGHTS ANI MEASURES
1 lb          -       .4536 kg
1 kg          -       2.205 lbs
I lb/ac       -       .00112 tlha
1 tlha        -       892 lbs/ac
1 bu          -       45 lbs (of paddy)
I in          -       25.4 mm
1 sq mi       -       2.59 sq km
1 sq km       -       .386 sq mi
1 ac          -       .405 ha (4,047 sq m)
1 ha          -       2.47 ac
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
ARTI    -    Agrarian Research and Training Institute
Chena   -    Slash and burn
CP      -    FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
DCA     -    Development Credit Agreement
ECL     -    Engineering Consultants Ltd.
GDP     -    Gross Domestic Product
ID      -    Irrigation Department
IRR     -    Internal Rate of Return
iRRI    -    International Rice Research Institute
LB      -    Left Bank
Maha    -    Northeast monsoon season, October to January
MIRP    -    Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1537-CE)
ODA     -    Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
O&M     -    Operation and Maintenance
P       -    Present
PCR     -    Project Completion Report
PY      -    Project Year
SAR     -    Staff Appraisal Report
TIMP    -    Tank Irrigation Modernization Project (Cr. 666-CE)
i&V     -    Training and Visit (system of extension)
W       -    With project
W       -    Without project
Yala    -    Southwest monsoon season, April to June



Fo0 OMCIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION HDDERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze No.
PREFACE       ........................ ......................
BASIC DATA SHEET  .........            ...........................             ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY            ..................      .................        iv
I. INTRODUCTION    .................................                                  1
II.   IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL  ............                          2
III.   APPRAISAL ESTIHAIES  ............................... .                           5
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION    ...................................... .                        7
A.  Start-Up    ..................................                               7
B.   Subsequent Developments  ..... ............ .                               8
1.   Civil Works Construction  .....................                       8
2.  Agricultural Extension Service  ....                  ...........     11
3.   Technical Assistance  .........................                      12
4.   Cost and Financing ...........................                       13
5.   The  IDA Credit  ...............................                     14
6.   Cost Recovery  ................................                      15
7.   Procurement  ..................................                      17
8.   Reports  ......................................                      17
V.  AGRICULTURAL  IMPACT  .......              ...........................           18
A.   Appraisal Estimates  .............           ..      ...............      18
B.   Current Situation  ..............          ..      ................       22
1.   General  ......................................                      22
2.   Water Management  .............................                      23
3.   Cultivation Practices  ........................                      24
4.   Cropping Patterns and Yields  ....                 .............     25
VI.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS             ..................      ..................        28
A. Appraisal Estimates .                                                       28
B.   PCR Estimates  ........................                                   28
VII.   CHANGES  IN THE FOLLOW-UP PROJECT  .....................                        30
VIII.   CONCLUSIONS  ..........................................                          31
Ths domen has a restcted diswittonand m  aybe used by rcpets onlr in the performanc of
thew ofrci   duum Its owtents moV AS otbemt be dscosed wihut World Bank auoitioUn



E
ANNEXES                                                                                  I
Annex 1                 Description of the Project
Annex      Table 1  -  Original Cost Estimates
Table 2  -  Revised Cost Estimates
Table 3  -  PCR Cost Estimates
Table 4  -  Original and Estimated Actual Project Costs
Table 5  -  Estimated Actual Cost by Tank Scheme
Annex 3                 Original Financing Plan
Annex 4    Table 1  -  Withdraval of the Proceeds of the Credit
Table 2  -  Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 3  -  Utilization of U.K. Grant
Annex 5                 Side Letter on Cost Recovery
Annex 6    Table 1  - Appraisal Estimates of Cropping Patterns, Yields
and Production
Table 2  - Appraisal Estimates of Irrigation Demand and Supply
Table 3  -  Estimates of Tank Co_mand Areas
Table 4  -  Agricultural Data
Table 5  - Annual Rainfall
Annex 7    Table 1  -  Economic Benefits and Costs
Table 2  -  Economic Rates of Return at Different Yield Levels
Annex 8                 Performance Ratings in Supervision Reports
Annex 9                 Proposed Paragraphs for President's Reports
APPENDIX 1                Comments by Cofinancier Staff
APPENDIX 2                Comments by the Borrower
MAP IBRD 11749            Tank Locations



SRI LAUK&
TANK IRRIGATION HDIDERNIZATION PROJECT
- Credit 666-CE
PREFAE
This is a project completion report (PCR) for the Tank Irrigation
Nodernization Project in Sri Lanka for vhich a credit of.US$5.0 million
(No. 666-CE  Vwas extended to the Republic of Sri Lanka in January 1977.
The project was cofinanced by a grant from the United Kingdom. The credit
closing date was extended once, by two years, to June 30, 1983. Instead of
a further one-year extension requested by the Borrover, the books vere kept
open to allow disbursements against eligible expenditures until December 31,
1983. The final disbursement was made in March 1984 and the undisbursed
credit balance of US$775,862.07 (15.5Z of the credit amount) was cancelled on
April 23, 1984.
The PCR is based on a review of IDA records and a draft completion
report prepared by the Borrower (Irrigation Department, June 1984).
Following a reviev of the PCR by OED staff, it was decided not
to audit the project and the PCR was sent to the Borrower and the cofinancier
for comment in September 1985. Comments received have been appended to the
report. Hovever, as sustainability of benefits is a challenge faced by the
project, it vould be useful if the project could be selected for an impact
evaluation a fev years from now.



SRI LOUK
TANI IRRIGTION NODERNIZ&TIOS PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Basic Data Sheet
KWE PROJECT DATA
Appraisal        Actual or          Colum  2 as m
1stimate      Current Estimate          Column I
(1)               (2)                 (3)
Total Project Cost (US$ willion)                23.0 /           16.66 2                72
Credit Azount (US  million)                      5.0              4.22                  84
Cofinancing usS$ million)
United Kingdom (ODA)                           6.0              4.54 3/               76
Date of Physical Components Completed          12/31/80         12/31/a3
Proportion then Completed (Z)                    100                99
Economic Rate of Return (2)                       23                15                  65
Institutional Performance                        God               Fair
Agroeconomic Performance                        OGod                 4/
Number of Direct Beneficiaries                  79,000 >l        79,000 5/             100
CUMUAfTIVE DISBIURSENENTS
FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
Appraisal Estimate (USS million)                0.5     2.0      3.2     4.2      5.0      -        -       -
Actual (USS aillion)                             -       0.06    0.45    0.63    2.08    3.11    3.84    4.22
Actual as I of Appraisal                         -         3      14       15      42      62       77      84
Date of Final Disbursement: Marcb 28, 1984
PROJECT DATES
Original
Plan          Revisions         Actual
Identification Report                                                             05/17/74
Negotiations                                                                        05176
Board Approval                                                                    11/30/76
Credit Signing                                                                    01/12/77
Credit Effectiveness                           03/14/77          04/18/77 6/      04/12/77
Credit Closing                                 06/30/81          06/30/83         06/30/83
ij Excluding US$7.0 million duties and taxes.
_f Net of duties and taxes.
3J Including US$0.69 million technical assistance provided under regular cooperation
program.
i/ As yet undetermined.
/  About 10,500 families; average family size 7.5 persons.
6/ Second revision.



SRI LIIJDA
TAiK IRUIaTIO  XODN URIZATIOU PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
BUaic Data Sheet
(Page 2)
MISSION DATA
Sent      Month/   No. of   Mandays       Specializations   Performance             Types of
Mission               by       Year      Persons  in Field      Renresented 1/      Rating 21  Trend 31 Problems y
Identification       FAO/CP   02-03/74      3        75       IS, A, E
Preparation          FAO/CP   06-07/74   3 + 2      112       IZ, A, E, 20
Preparation  f       FAO/CP   11-12/74   3 + 1       74       IE, A, 2E
Preparation §J       FAO/CP     03/75    3 + 1       49       IE, A, E, 0
Appraisal 6!          IDA     04-05/75      8       186       21, A, 2E, 2Ex, S
Pout-appraisal i      IDA     01-02/76      2        28       e. St
524
Supervision 1         IDA       04/77       2        40  7/  A, En                      2        -        M, T
Supervision 2         IDA       10/77    1 + 2       48  ?   En, A,0                    2        3        M, T
Supervision 3         IDA       23/78       3        24       E, En, EX                 2         1       0, M
Supervision 4         IDA       09178    2 + 1       63   /  E. F, A                    3         2       M, T, 0
Supervision 5         IDA       11/79    2 + 6      112       3Mn  2A, E, 20            2         2       M, T
Supervision 6         IDA       09/80    3 + 4       70       2En  2AE, A, e,. 0        2         1       T
Supervision 7         IDA       03/81    1 + 2       30       En, AE, A                 2         2       F
Supervision 8         IDA       03/82    2 + 2       32       En, E, AE, A              2         1       F
Supervision 9         IDA       02/83    2 . 2       32       En, AE, 2A                2         1       T. M
Supervisiou 10        IDA       12/83    2 + 2       28       2A, AE, E                 2         2       T, 
(479)
OTHER DATA
Fiscal Year of Borrover                        January 1 to December 31
ume of Currency (Abbreviation)                 Rupee (Rs)
Exchange Rate (Rs/USS)
Appraisal Year Average (1975)                 7.0
Intervening Years Average (1976-1982)        15.0
Completion Year Average (1983)               23.5
Follov-up Project
amie                                         Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (NIRP)
Credit No.                                   1537-CE
Credit Amount (SDR million)                  17.0
Date of Board Approval                       December 20. 1984
Date of Credit Signing                       February 7, 1985
Date of Effectiveness                        August 2, 1985
AJ A - agronomist, AE - agricultural engineer, E - economist, En - engineer, Ex - extension specialist,
F - financial analyst. IE - irrigation engineer. S - soils apecialist. St - settlement specialist, 0 - other.
2/  1 - problem-free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems.
1 - improving, 2 - stationary, 3 - deteriorating.
iJ F - financial, M - managerial. T - tecbnical, 0 - other.
5  Also to identify a first phase in Stage II of the Mahaveli Gangs Project.
6/ Irrigation modernization and Nabaveli Gonga Stage II projects.
7/ Time spent on four projects.
.? Time spent on three projects.
N/ Time spent on tvo projects.



-iv-
SRI LAMA
TAKIR IRRIGAITION DDERNIZATIMN PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
EVALUATION SUM1MARY
Introduct ion
i.      Most irrigation schemes in Sri Lanka's dry zone are based on reser-
voirs (tanks) designed to supplement maha rainfall, with any remaining water
used for limited yala cultivation. Through scheme modernization, improved
water management, and introduction of appropriate cropping patterns, con-
siderable increases in production could be achieved with existing water
supplies. The Tank Irrigation Modernization Project (TEMP), financed with
the help of an IDA credit and a grant from the United Kingdom, was designed
to address these issues. Covering five tank scbemes (31,500 ac), it was
considered to be a prototype, the successful implementation of which would
open the way for modernization of all major tank schemes.
Obiectives
ii.     The project was identified in 1973, prepared with assistance from
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program during 1974-75, and appraised by IDA in
April/May 1975. A post-appraisal mission visited Sri Lanka in January/
February 1976. As Goverrment action regarding cost recovery under an exist-
ing project was made a condition of Board presentation, the IDA credit
(Cr. 666-CE, US$5.0 million) was not approved until November 30, 1976. The
credit agreement was signed on January 12, 1977, and became effective,
together with the U.K. grant agreement, on April 12, 1977.
iii.    The project, which was to benefit some 10,500 farm families cultivat-
ing about three acres of irrigated land each, included improvement of irriga-
tion and drainage facilities and farm roads, provision of farm equipment,
strengthening of agricultural extension services, and technical assistance
to improve the operation of the irrigation systems. It was expected to be
completed by December 1980. Project cost, net of taxes and duties, was
estimated to be US$23 million equivalent, of which US$11 million, or about
48Z, was to be financed by the United Kingdom and IDA.
iv.     Responsibility for project implementation rested essentially with
the Irrigation Department (construction and operation of works) and the
Department of Agriculture (reorganization and strengthening of the extension
service). To facilitate inter-agency communication, coordination committees
were established at the ministry, district, and tank levels.
v.      The project's economic rate of return vas estimated at appraisal to
be 23%. Sensitivity tests showed that even under adverse conditions the
project would remain economically viable--with a rate of return of 13% in the
least favorable case tested.



- v -
Implementation Experience
vi.     Despite some hopes that implementation delay could be limited to
about one year, actual implementation took three years longer than originally
estimated (until end-1983). The modernization work scheduled was completed
for all schemes except Vavuniktlam, where, at the end of 1983, a small
balance of earthwork and structures on field channels was left to be done
under the Irrigation Department's regular improvement program. The main
reasons for the substantial implementation delay appear to have been
deficiencies in staffing and management, deficiencies in equipment and
equipment maintenance, and shortage of local funds.
vii.    A severe shortage of engineers was experienced during the early years
of the project due to large-scale emigration to the Middle East for better
paying jobs. Competing staffing demands for the accelerated Nahaweli Ganga
Development Program aggravated this problem. In 1979, the Irrigation Depart-
ment requested additional construction equipment to be provided to enable it
to eomplete all works as then scheduled. IDA agreed but made its agreement
conditional on improvements in workshop facilities and parts availability.
As it took time to fulfill these conditions and some procurement problems
were encountered, most of the additional equipment did not become available
until the second half of 1980, and spare parts much later. Equipment
downtime was still found to be excessive in early 1982, but the situation
improved thereafter. When supervision missions considered the status of
the project excellent from the standpoint of management, staff morale and
capability of project staff to complete all works by the end of 1982, a
new problem emerged-a shortage of local funds. Deep budget cuts in 1981
resulted in nearly half of the scheduled works being left unfinished, and
in 1983 hudget constraints appear to have led to a curtailment of the work
program as well as Ehe failure to complete all programmed work at the
Vavunikulam tank.
viii.   While the formal reorganization of the extension service has been
accomplished, some doubt remains whether any substantive improvement has been
achieved under the project. During much of the implementation period, the
service was plagued by staffing problems, and staff housing and transporta-
tion were problems as well. In maha 1980/81, a water management program was
introduced in the entire Mahakandarawa area which called for early sowing and
maximum use of rainfall to conserve tank water for yala cultivation. Credit
was made available to the farmers for early preparation of their fields. In
spite of drought, the program was a success. However, the drought con-
tributed to many farmers defaulting on their loans. Extension staff played
an important role in encouraging farmers to follow project recommendations.
Unfortunately, the effort was not repeated, neither at Mahakandarawa nor at
any other tank. Several factors are responsible for this situation, but one
wonders whether a stronger extension service could not have made a
difference.



-vi-
ix.     As a result of inflation, the prolonged implementation period,
and devaluation of the Rupee, estimated actual project cost 1/ in Rupees
(Rs 288.2 million) exceeded the appraisal estimate by a substantial margin
(67%). In contrast, due to the devaluation of the Rupee, its US$ equivalent
(US$16.7 million) stayed considerably below the appraisal figure (-28%). For
the same reason, the share of the cofinanciers increased slightly compared to
the appraisal estimate, in spite of cancellation of parts of the U.K. grant
and IDA credit.  As the Government waived taxes and duties on project
procurements, its share in total cost decreased.
x.      Actual IDA disbursements lagged substantially behind appraisal
estimates. By June 30, 1981, the original closing date, about 42% of the
credit bad been disbursed, and it took until March 1984 to double this
figure. A balance of US$776,000 was cancelled on April 23, 1984. The clos-
ing date was changed once, to June 30, 1983. When this date approached, it
was decided not to agree to a further one-year extension, but to keep the
books open and continue to disburse against eligible expenditures until
December 31, 1983. It appears now that a regular extension would have been
more beneficial.
xi.     In the fall of 1977, the new Government informed the Bank that it
intended to use the existing Irrigation Ordinance for cost recovery rather
than the Land Betterment Charges Law passed by the former Government.
Collection of water charges began in 1978 as agreed at appraisal. However,
actual collections fell substantially short of assessments and decreased from
about 8% of the total due in 1978 to nil in 1982. In fact, no charges were
collected at all in three of the five schemes. The reason for the high
default rate was that payment of charges could not be enforced under existing
legislation. The necessary amendments to the Irrigation Ordinance were
passed in 1983.
xii.    At the same time, charges were set at Rs 100 per acre--compared to
Rs 20-30 per acre under the old legislation-for major gravity irrigation
schemes nationwide, applicable from April 1984, based on the estimated
operating and maintenance costs of such schemes of Rs 200 per acre. Until
charges covered the full operating and maintenance costs, the balance of
required funds was to be provided by the Government. Collections started as
planned, and through June 30, 1985, about Rs 12.5 million, or about 34% of
1984 assessments, were collected.
Results
xiii.   The recalculation of the project's rate of return is based on actual
data for PY 1-8 and projected data for PY 9-30, valued in 1983 terms. It is
assumed that the full development targets set at appraisal will be reached in
all schemes except Mahakandarawa. On this basis, the project's rate of
return is 15%, with rates for individual tank schemes ranging from 8% for
Mahakandarawa to 21% for Padaviya. The sizeable reduction compared with the
Uj Excludes direct taxes and duties and is therefore compared with the
corresponding appraisal estimate (Rs 172.5 million or US$23 million).



-vii-
appraisal estimate results mainly from cost increases during the extended
implementation period, lower price forecasts for rice, and the much less
promising outlook for the Nabakandarawa scheme. It would take a 75% reduc-
tion in projected incremental paddy yields to reduce the project's rate of
return to about 10.
xiv.    The success with which improved water management and agronomic prac-
tices have been introduced varied considerably between tank schemes. The
differences are due, in large measure, to the severe drought which prevailed
in part of the project area during 1981-1983. Water supply in the tanks
during this period varied from almost normal (Vavunikulam) to none
(Mahakandarawa), and prompted a hydrological study of the two most affected
schemes (Mahakandarawa and Pavatkulam). Unfortunately, the results of the
study were inconclusive.
xv.     By 1983, many farmers, for various reasons, did not yet follow the
recommended cropping calendar (emphasizing early cultivation to efficiently
use rainfall and tank water). Extension of dates of last sowing and last
water issue to accomodate these farmers resulted in the wasteful use of water
and limited irrigation water supplies for yala cropping. Improvement of this
situation was expected through greater coordination of the Departments con-
cerned under the newly introduced Water Management Program for major irriga-
tion schemes.
xvi.   Except for the campaign at Mahakandarawa in 1980/81, there was lack
of institutional credit to pay for tractor or animal hire charges through
project completion, as high default rates on previous credit precluded the
granting of new loans. The recent drought years have not helped in building
farmers confidence that irrigation water would be delivered for their crops.
Difficulty of insuring against failure of early-sown crops, and experience
that irrigation calendars would not be strictly enforced, further reduced
farmers willingness to accept the risk of early cultivation. In late 1983,
there were indications that facilities would be available in the project area
to reschedule old loans at a favorable rate, and that new loans would be
covered by crop insurance designed to respond quickly in the event of crop
failure. There is no record whether these plans have materialized.
xvii.   Under the project, average cropping intensity was estimated to rise
to 156% from the "present" 103%, with some tank schemes reaching nearly 170%.
Paddy was to remain the dominant crop, yielding about 3,300 lbs/ac at full
development (+66%), but significant diversification into other cereals and
pulses was expected. These crops were to be grown on paddy lands during yala
and, in some areas, during maha.
xviii. Without the project, little improvement was considered likely. Crop
yields were estimated to increase by 2% annually. Paddy acreage was expected
to remain constant, while areas under pulses and other cereals were expected
to increase somewhat as the trend continued to grow such crops on paddy land
for which there was no irrigation water. The resulting average cropping
intensity was 108%.
xix.    Available agricultural data cover only a few seasons for which
results can be attributed to the project. Moreover, these data reflect



-viii-
periods of both drought and unusually heavy rainfall. The following should
be read with these limitations in mind. Paddy yields in 1982/83 and 1983/84
were not far below the full development estimate made at appraisal, but so
were average yields for the districts within which most of the schemes are
located.  It should therefore not be too difficult to reach the appraisal
targets, but a greater effort will be needed if a noticeable increment over
the "without project" situation is to be achieved. Cropping intensities in
1982/83 were below the appraisal estimates for the "present" situation in two
schemes, but exceeded these estimates in the other three. Because of the
unusually heavy rains in early 1984, cropping intensities in two schemes
exceeded the appraisal's full development estimates by a sizeable margin, and
the project as a whole met the full development target. So far, crop diver-
sification has been limited; paddy is grown almost exclusively in the tank
areas, with other crops reaching about 1OZ at best in some schemes under
reasonably normal weather conditions.
Sustainability
xx.     The last project review mission concluded that provided (i) water
availability returned to normal, (ii) better water management and early
sowing were practiced, (iii) a solution was fountd to the cultivation credit
and crop insurance problems, and (iv) drainage needs were properly addressed,
cropping intensities and production levels projected at appraisal could
reasonably be expected to be achieved, with the possible exception of the
Mahakandarawa tank. The mission also warned that without continued efforts
of all agencies concerned and greater farmer participation, some of the
benefits of rehabilitation might never be realized. There is no basis for
this report to disagree with these judgements.
xxi.    The estimates made in this report for the remaining years of the
project's life do not appear to be over-optimistic. However, their achieve-
ment crucially depends on farmers fully adopting project recommendations and
Government agencies working together to provide the services required. IDA
must therefore continue encouraging the Government to reinforce its efforts
to improve irrigation management (including system OEM) and support services,
in order to build farmer confidence that following project recommendations
does not involve unacceptable risks. A project review some time in the
future will be necessary to clear up the present uncertainties regarding
project benefits. It is therefore too early to say whether this "prototype"
will "go into production".
Findings and Lessons
xxii.   Lessons learned from the TIMP have guided the planning of the Major
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, for which an IDA credit of SDR 17 million
(Cr. 1537-CE) was made in February 1985. The main lessons have been to:
Ci) carry out surveys and detailed designs and plan the construction of works
adequately in advande to avoid implementation delays; (ii) allow sufficient
time for construction in view of the limited time during which canals can be
closed; (iii) prevent indiscriminate land and water use in the catchment
areas which reduces inflow to the tanks and increases erosion; (iv) build
confidence among farmers that water will arrive on time and will be



-ix-
distributed equitably; and (v) assure farmers that changes in cropping prac-
tices they are expected to make will get the necessary support from the
agencies concerned. Although the warning has been sounded earlier, it is
worth repeating here that the level and quality of support ser".ces provided
to farmers may well determine the success of the project.
xxiii. The cofinanciers supervised the project regularly and maintained
excellent relations with the Government. Since 197°, they submitted their
findings and recommendations to the Government in the form of aide memoires,
now a standard requirement in the Bank. The Government was unable to stem
the exodus of experienced staff in the early project years as well as to
Provide sufficient Rupee funds at all times, and inter-agency coordination
was generally weak. However, the Irrigation Department's staff has gradually
been rebuilt, serious efforts are being made to improve cost recovery, and a
start has been made under the Water Management Program to improve coordina-
tion among the agencies concerned with the project.
xxiv.   Staff of the cofinancier have drawn the following conclusions and
lessons from the project (see Appendix 1): "(a) Projects cannot be con-
sidered in isolation from local economy. Demands on government depts are
affected by other parallel projects. (b) The incentive to the farmer to
adopt improved' practices, or grow alternative crops needs better assess-
ment. Problems of credit and insurance need very early attention. (c)
Auditing must be improved. (d) Information provided at project identifica-
tion must be better verified and assessed. (e) Insistence on a particular
form of extension, or cost recovery may be counter-productive. The
appropriate practices must be matched to the local need."



SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION M)DERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1     Agriculture plays a major role in Sri Lanka's economy.  About 75% of
the population lives in rural areas, and agriculture accounts directly for
about 25Z of GDP, 50Z of employment, and 60% of export earnings. The perfor-
mance of the sector improved substantially during 1978-83 with annual growth
averaging over 4%, twice that achieved during 1971-77. The major factor
contributing to this improvement was the increase in rice production (over 6%
p.a.), which reduced import requirements by nearly two-thirds. In contrast,
the performance of other field crops was mixed, and that of the crucial
export crops disappointing. These differences in subsector performance can
be attributed largely to producers' response to the Government's incentives
policy.
1.2     The island is divided into two agro-climatic zones.  The wet zone
covers 302 of the land area but about 65% of the area under permanent cul-
tivation. Annual rainfall ranges from 2,200 to 3,900 am and is fairly well
distributed. Irrigation is normally confined to run-of-the-river diversions
to supplement rainfall. The dry zone, where the TIHP is located, receives
most of its rainfall, ranging from 900 to 1,900 am, during the mama season.
Irrigation is essential for yala cultivation, and supplemental irrigation is
often necessery in maha. Nearly 80% of the total irrigated area, or about
285,000 ha, is in the dry zone. Most irrigatiou schemes are based on reser-
voirs (tanks) designed to supplement maha rainfall, with any remaining water
used for limited yala cropping. There are about 180 major and a large number
of smaller tank schemes. Of the river basin developments, the ongoing
Mahaveli Ganga program is by far the most important, aiming at irrigation of
365,000 ha of new or poorly utilized land within the basin and in neighboring
diy zune areas.
1.3     Benefits from the tank schemes remain below their potential.
Original designs provided only minimal water control; actual water use is
inefficient; and most of the schemes have deteriorated seriously due to lack
of maintenance. With modernization, improved water manageML-nt, and introduc-
tion of appropriate cropping patterns (to optimize rainfall ise and diversify
into non-paddy crops on more permeable soils), considerable increases in
cropping intensities and production could be achieved with existing water
supplies. The TINP, financed with the help of an IDA credit and a grant from
the United Kingdom, was designed to address these issues. Covering five tank



-2-
schemes with a total cultivated area of 31,500 ac (12,750 ha), it was con-
sidered to be a prototype, the successful implementation of which "would open
the way for eventual modernization of all the tank schemes." 1/
1.4     This report is based on a review of IDA records, a draft completion
report prepared by the Irrigation Department, and discussions between the
Government and the last two regular project supervision missions.
II. IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.1     The project proposal arose ou. of an IBRD agricultural sector survey
in 1973 and was prepared with the help of several FAD/IBRD Cooperative
Program (CP) missions. The first mission visited Sri Lanka in February/March
1974 to assist the Government in the preparation of a project covering 50,000
ac under seven major irrigation schemes 2/ included in a draft report by the
Irrigation Department. In view of the urgent need to increase food produc-
tion and the lack of surveys and designs required for full rehabilitation of
the schemes, the mission advocated the following approach: 3/ (a) minimal
repairs on two major schemes as well as village schemes in the Rurrounding
areas, involving a total area of about 100,000 ac; (b) a program of extension
and improved input supply covering all of the above schemes plus farmers'
rainfed land, thus further increasing the project area and potential produc-
tion gains; (c) after completion of the necessary preparatory work, full
rehabilitation of two major schemes. Implementation was estimated to take
five years, and a specially created unit, probably in the Department of
Agriculture, was to have overall project responsibility.
2.2     The second CP mission went to Sri Lanka in June 1974.  Bank staff
joined the mission to review engineering alternatives and present project
concepts to the Government. The Government had considered the previous
mission's report (now called identification report in the Bank) and had
decided to carry out the program of minimal repairs independently and to
maintaiL the priority attached to the rehabilitation of major schemes. The
project was now to comprise five major schemes serving about 30,000 ac, !±1 a
number that was based mainly on the number of staff available for the task.
The CP mission left detailed guidelines for 17 annexes required to support
1/ Sri Lanka: Appraisal of the Tank Irrigation Modernization Project
(Report No. 951a-CE), November 15, 1976, page i.
O.I Nahakandarawa, Padaviya, Mahavilachchiya, Walawe, L'dagiriya, Gal Oya
Left Bank, Vavunikulam.
2J Draft Report of the Sri Lanka Irrigation Rehabilitation Mission
(Report No. 14/74 CEY.6), Nay 17, 1974.
g/ Mahawilachcbiya 2,600 ac; Mabakandarawa 6,000 ac; Padav'.ya 12,500 ac;
Vavunikulam 6,000 ac; Pavatkulam 4,000 ac.



-3-
the preparation report and listed policy issues the Government would have to
consider.
2.3     In October 1974, IBRD explored the possibility of combining the
irrigation modernization project with a first phase in Stage II of the
Mahaveli Ganga program, which was expected to be ready for appraisal by the
spring of 1975, and of handling the preparation of both projects together.
Since the Government agreed, the third CP mission (November/Decemberl974)
covered both projects. Regarding the irrigation modernization project,
the mission found there were sufficient data for a draft report. Water
availability in the tanks did not appear, with rotational irrigation, to be
as serious a constraint as previously thought. Discussions with farmers
suggested that cropping patterns adapted to water availability would be
acceptable. There was general agreement that effective agricultural exten-
sion would be the key to project success, and Government clearance for the
visit of a Bank extension expert was obtained.
2.4     In March 1975, the fourth CP mission submitted a working paper on the
combined irrigation modernization and NIahaveli II project to the Government
and updated information in preparation for appraisal. The appraisal mission,
comprising five Bank staff and three consultants, visited Sri Lanka betveen
April 21 and May 17. The combined project had raised considerable interest
among other donors, and representatives of Canada, the Netherlands, the
United Kingdom, and the United States participated in the appraisal.
2.5     As described in the Issues Paper (June 27, 1975), the irrigation
modernization project was to rehabilitate and modernize irrigation and
drainage facilities in five tank schemes (Padaviya, Mahakandarawa,
Nahawilachchiya, Pavatkulam, Vavunikulam), totalling 31,500 ac. The command
areas and water supplies of the schemes were expected to remain unchanged.
The proposed modernization works were to increase efficiency in delivery and
use of the limited water supplies, thereby increasing cropping intensity and
production. The project's rate of return was estimated to be around 12X.
Issues raised were: (i) the extent of canal lining to be provided; (ii) the
need to employ a water management specialist, which the Irrigation Department
was reluctant to accept; (iii) arrangements for procurement and operation
and maintenance of construction equipment; and (iv) water charges. As it
appeared possible to process the irrigation modernization project in a
shorter time than the Mahaweli II project, it was proposed to separate the
two projects.
2.6     The Issues Paper was discussed on July 9, 1975. The proposal to
process the irrigation modernization project separately was accepted. The
estimated rate of return was considered to be low. The appraisal team uas
asked to carefully review this matter during report preparation. Regarding
the issues raised, it wus decided to: (i) line the canal networks only where
required by operation and maintenance considerations or where gross leakage
occurred; (ii) employ a water management specialist for four years, with
funding to be provided under the IDA credit; (iii) make the Department of
Machinery and Equipment, Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways, respon-
sible for procurement of construction equipiaent, in line with Government
policy at the time, and provide the equipment to the Irrigation Department on
a rental basis; and (iv) ask the Government to furnish, as a condition of



-4-
negotiations, a detailed plan for imposing water charges as stipulated under
the first Mahaveli project (Ln. 653-CE/Cr. 174-CE), and make implementation
of this plan a condition of credit effectiveness. During negotiations,
points (i) and (ii) were to be discussed further, and assurance was to be
obtained that vater charges similar to those under the first Nahaweli project
would be imposed in the project area.
2.7     In a letter dated August 11, 1975, the Bank informed the Government
about its position, invited it to "exchange views during the next 2-3
months", and expressed hope that negotiations could be held in December 1975.
However, as report processing proved more time consuming than expected, the
yellow cover draft was ready only in mid-November 1975. A meeting of poten-
tial cofinanciers was scheduled for mid-December 1975, and the start of
negotiations for mid-February 1976. During the cofinanciers' meeting, the
draft appraisal report was discussed, and it vas decided that a
post-appraisal mission (January/February 1976) would be required. On water
charges, the cofinanciers' representatives supported the Bank's position, but
agreed that in view of the sensitivity of the issue and its potential effect
on the 1977 elections some flexibility might be in order.  Regarding
implementation arrangements, the Bank now proposed that construction equip-
ment should be owned, operated and maintained by the Irrigation Department.
It was agreed that the post-appraisal mission would discuss this point with
the Government, and also examine the Irrigation Department's capability to
operate and maintain the equipment.
2.8     The draft credit documents were distributed to the Loan Committee in
April 1976. The South Asia Region pointed out that the Government was fully
committed to the passage of a Land Betterment Charges Bill which would enable
it to impose water charges in sufficient amounts to recover a reasonable
portion of capital and operation and maintenance costs of irrigation systems.
The Bill was expected to be passed by Parliament by the end of June 1976, and
regulations before the end of the year. Necessary land registers were to be
prepared in 1977, and actual collection of charges was to start in 1978. The
Government was also in the process of selling land to settlers under the Sale
of State Lands (Special Provisions) Law of 1973, recovering a part of
development costs. The Region was satisfied that with these measures the
covenant under the first Kahaweli project (para 2.6 (iv) above) was met and
proposed to invite the Government for negotiations. It also recommended to
drop the condition of effectiveness set at the decision meeting.
2.9     Negotiations for a proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million were held in
Washington, D.C. from May 7 to 12, 1976. Representatives of the prospective
cofinanciers--the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, as Canada and the
United States had opted to cofinance the Nahaweli II project only-attended
the meetings. Besides the standard documents, a side letter on the Govern-
ment's cost recovery plan was discussed and agreed. The draft appraisal
report and a report on the extension service in Anuradhapura district were
also discussed. Passage of the Land Betterment Charges Bill was now expected
"by end-July at the latest", and collection of charges was to start in June
1978. Since this Bill was "the cornerstone of the Government's cost recovery



-5-
plan", its passage was made a condition of Board presentation. 1/ The
Government agreed to unify the extension service in Anuradhapura district
by end-July 1976, and to appoint subject matter specialists as recou-ended in
the above extension report. The Government also agreed to employ a water
management specialist for two years and take immediate steps in this regard.
The Netherlands decided to allocate its proposed contribution entirely to the
Mahaweli II project.
2.10    By early November 1976, the required Government committees had been
formed, some staff--including the chief project engineer-appointed, procure-
ment actions initiated, and the amount of the U.K. contribution determined.
A copy of the Land Betterment Charges Bill, as passed by Parliament on
October 21, 1976, was received by the Bank on November 9, and the credit
documents were distributed to the Executive Directors in mid-November for
consideration at the end of the month. As the IDA credit was small and no
significant issues were involved, the project was to be considered under
"Special Procedure". The credit was approved on November 30, 1976, and
signing of the Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 666-CE) and supplemental
letters on external debt and cost recovery took place on January 12, 1977.
III. APPRAISAL ESTIMATES
3.1     The project approved by the Executive Directors covered the five tank
schemes mentioned in para 2.5 above and included: (a) construction works to
improve irrigation and drainage facilities; (b) improvement of embankments
used as farm roads; (c) provision of farm equipment for land preparation
and plant protection; (d) strengthening of agricultural support services,
particularly extension; and (e) technical assistance to improve the operation
and maintenance of the irrigation systems and to evaluate project impact.
Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement describing the project is
reproduced in Annex 1.
3.2     The project was expected to be completed by December 1980 at a total
cost of US$30 million (Rs 225 million), including US$7 million (Rs 52.5
million) taxes and duties. Main cost elements were civil works (US$14.7
million, including contingencies), equipment and vehicles (US$13.2 million),
and engineering and administration (US$1.8 million). A cost summary is given
in Table 1, details are in Annex 2, Table 1. External financing provided by
the IDA credit of US$5 million and the United Kingdom grant of i 3.8 million
(US$6 million equivalent) covered 48X of total project costs, net of taxes
and dutieis. The remaining costs were to be borne by Sri Lanka (US$19
million). The original financing plan is shown in Annex 3.
1J Agreed minutes of negotiations, May 13, 1976.



-6-
Table 1: ORIGINAL COST ESTIMATES
Local    Foreitn    Total         Total
(----Rs millionu---- )  (US$ million)
Civil Works
Base Costs                           53.6       11.3      64.9         8.7
Total Costs                          91.0       19.3     110.3        14.7
Construction Equipment and Vehicles
Base Costs                           22.5       19.5      42.0         5.6
Total Costs                          24.9       21.6      46.5         6.2
.%gricultural Equipment and Vehicles
E-se Costs                           19.5       22.5      42.0         5.6
Total Costs                          24.5       28.3      52.8         7.0
Technical Assistance                    1.3        0.7        2.0        0.3
Engineering and Administration
Base Costs                            9.7         -        9.7         1.3
Total Costs                          13.4         -       13.4         1.8
Total Project
Base Costs                          106.6       54.0     160.6        21.5
Total Costs                         155.1       69.9     225.0        30.0
3.3     Responsibility for project implementation was given to the Irrigation
Department, Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways (construction and
operation and maintenance of civil works); the Department of Agriculture,
Ministry of Agriculture and Lands (reorganization and strengthening of the
extension service); and the Paddy Development Board (improvement of market-
ing, processing and storage). To facilitate inter-agency communication,
Project Coordination Committees were established at the ministry, district,
and tank level. Credit for the purchase of farm equipment was to be provided
by local banks.
3.4     Water supply/demand conditions were described as varying from highly
favorable in the Padaviya scheme to rather poor in the Pavatkulam scheme.
Analysis of past inflows to the tanks showed that water was available to
increase cropping intensity if irrigation practices and tank operations were
improved. Study of the tank catchment areas indicated no "significant water
use upstream". 1/ An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the Govern-
ment would not undertake any future development upstream of the five tanks
which might significantly reduce water supply to the project area. 2/ Thus,
Appraisal report, para 4.05.
2/ Development Credit Agreement, Sec. 4.05.



-7-
by better utilization of rainfall as well as tank water, average cropping
intensity was expected to increase from 103% to 156Z. To achieve this goal,
a firm irrigation calendar was to be established, and strict rotational
irrigation enforced, 1/ based on the water requirements of the crops. Paddy
was to remain the dominant crop, but "significant diversification into crops
such as maize, sorghum and pulses" 2/ was expected. With the strengthened
extension service, project yields were assumed to improve considerably, while
little increase was considered likely without the project.
3.5     Incremental production at full development (year 11-1986--and later)
was estimated to be about 25,500 tons of paddy (16,600 tons of rice) and
about 5,700 tons of other cereals and pulses, resulting in net annual foreign
exchange savings of US$4 million. Some 10,500 farm families were to benefit
directly from the project. Net farm incomes, before deduction of water
charges and payments under the Sale of State Lands Act, were expected to
double with the project in all three farm models analyzed, raising them to
the national average.
3.6     The project's economic rate of return was estimated to be 23Z. Even
with costs increased 25%, benefits reduced 25%, and a two-year delay in
reaching full development, the worst of ten ca .es tested, the project was
found to be still viable, with a rate of return of 13Z. Calculations to
determine the viability of each tank scheme showed rates of return ranging
from 29% for Mahawilachchiya to 20% for Padaviya and Pavatkulam, proving all
five schemes to be viable on their own.
IV. IMPLELENETATION
A. Start-up
4.1     Although the Bank had informed the Government of the steps required
to make the IDA credit effective, the effectiveness date had to be changed
twice beCause the legal opinion could not be furnished in time. Also, the
date by which the water management expert V/ was to be employed was changed
from March 1 to July 1, 1977, because the Irrigation Department had been
unable to find such an expert. The U.K. grant agreement and IDA credit
agreement became effective on April 12, 1977.
4.2     When the first supervision mission visited the project (April 1977),
work had been initiated on two tank schemes--Mahawilachchiya and
1/ Appraisal report, para 4.06.
2/ Appraisal report, para 6.02.
2/ Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02.



-8-
ahbakandarawa. Implementation delays were expected as the Irrigation Depart-
ment would have to make do with a few pieces of borrowed equipment until
project equipment arrived in 1978. The reorganization of the extension
service bad not yet been completed as agreed. Potential problems were seen
to be: (a) establishment and maintenance of firm irrigation delivery
scbedules to allow for adequate construction periods; (b) weakening of the
Irrigation Department by the departure of experienced personnel; and (c)
housing and transport for extension field staff. These concerns were men-
tioned to the Government, but in general the Bank felt that project implemen-
tation was well under way.
4.3     By October 1977, when the second supervision mission 1J visited the
project, construction of offices, quarters, workshops and stores at the
Mahakandarawa and Mabawilachchiya tanks had been completed, but very little
work on the irrigation systems had been accomplished. The main reasons were:
(a) a three-month break in all work because of the general elections and
ensuing civil disturbances, during which most staff left the project area;
(b) extreme shortage of vehicles and equipment; and (c) delays in preparation
of final designs, work estimates and implementation schedules resulting from
numerous resignations of experienced engineers taking up better paying jobs
abroad. The acceleration of the Mahaveli Program proposed by the nev Govern-
ment was feared to aggravate this problem. Completion of work on the first
two tank schemes, as well as the project as a whole, was expected to slip by
one year. The U.K. farm management adviser, funded outside the project, had
planned to introduce mechanized land preparation and early cultivation on
about 1,000 ac. However, due to the late arrival of an insufficient number
of tractors and the early arrival of the maha rains, this plan came to
nothing and a year was lost. A suitable -aater management expert had not yet
been found.
B. Subseguent Developments
4.4     Although expectation in early 1978 was that implementation delay
could be limited to one year, actual implementation took three years longer
than originally estimated, and total cost in Rupees (net of taxes and duties)
exceeded the appraisal estimate by 67%. Selected issues are discussed below.
1. Civil Works Construction
4.5     According to the appraisal schedule, the modernization of the
Mahawilachchiya scheme was to be completed in 1977 (one construction season,
April to October 1977), of the Mahakar,darawa and Vavunikulam schemes in 1978
(two seasons and one season, respectively), of the Pavatkulam scheme in 1979
(one season), and of the Padaviya scheme in 1980 (two seasons, April to
October 1979 and 1980). 21 In fact, completion of works at Mahakandarawa and
1_ Undertaken jointly with U.K. representatives, as nearly all of the
following missions.
2/ Appraisal report, Anrex 6, Tables 1, 2.



-9-
Nahavilachchiya took about 5 1/2 seasons-mid-1977 to end-1982, at Padaviya
and Vavunikulam about five seasons-April 1979 to end-1983, and at Pavatkulam
about three seasons-April 1980 to end-1982. At the end of 1983, a small
balance of earthwork and structures on field channels at Vavunikulam remained
to be completed under the Irrigation Department's regular improvement
program.
4.6     Although during implementation a few items were added (bund and link
roads at Nahakandarava; development of additional areas at Nabakandarawa
(L.B. tract 6, about 250 ac), Pavatkulam (L.B. tract 7, about 360 ac), and
Padaviya (tract 13, about 470 ac); protection of reservoir embankment at
Mahawilachchiya with rip-rap) and some planned items curtailed (road gravel-
ing; canal lining; drainage at Vavunikulam) or deleted (drainage at Padaviya
and Pavatkulam), the scope of the project remained essentially as appraised.
The main reasons for the substantial implementation delay appear to have
been: (a) deficiencies in staffing and management; (b) deficiencies in
equipment and equipment maintenance; (c) shortage of local funds; (d) poor
quality of construction; and (e) shorter construction periods than planned.
4.7     A severe shortage of technical staff for surveys, designs, planning,
supervision, and construction due to large-scale emigration was experienced
in the early years of project implementation. Competing demands from the
accelerated Nahaweli Program aggravated this problem. In November 1979, the
project was still found to suffer from lack of managerial continuity and
competence and lack of coordination among Government agencies at all levels.
In order to improve the situation, the Secretary, Ministry of Lands and Land
Development, jj agreed to appoint a new management team-consisting of a
senior project manager, a project engineer, and a project agri altural exten-
sion officer located at Anuradhapura-to replace the resident project manager
appointed in October 1978, who was seldom in residence. The sixth supervi-
sion mission (September 1980) reported significant improvement, as the new
management team bad quickly initiated needed action. Planning, scheduling of
work, and quality control were significantly better in the three tank schemes
where modernization had started in 1979 and early 1980. On the other band,
equipment maintenance was far from satisfactory and considerable downtime was
experienced, hampering implementation progress.
4.8     By August/September 1978, most of the construction equipment had
arrived and was used at Mahakandarawa and Nahawilachchiya. When work was to
be started on further schemes in 1979, the Irrigation Department requested
both cofinanciers to provide additional equipment. In its request to IDA,
the Department proposed to use the funds earmarked for two-wheel farm trac-
tors for this procurement, as these tractors could be freely imported under
the new Government's trade policy and were therefore not to be purchased
under the project. The U.K. replied that no additional funds could be made
available for this purpose. Based on the equipment utilization experience at
1j Successor of the Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways as super-
visory ministry for the Irrigation Department.



-10-
the first tvo schemes, IDA agreed that additional equipment would be required
to complete work on all five tanks within the revised time frame. Given the
unsatisfactory maintenance situation, which had developed because spare parts
were not ordered until after arrival of the equipment, IDA made its agreement
to provide financing conditional on improvement in workshop facilities and
spare parts storage, and inclusion of a sufficient spares supply in the
orders for the new equipment. 11 The cost of the equipment and spares was
estimated to be US$1.5 million. As it took time to fulfill IDA's conditions
and some procurement problems (para 4.26) were encountered, most of the
equipment did not become available until the second half of 1980, and one
important item and the spares much later than that. Thus, equipment downtime
was still found to be excessive in March 1982. 2/  The situation improved
thereafter, although facilities at the tank workshops, especially
Vavunikulam, remained barely adequate to service the fleet of construction
equipment.
4.9     By mid-1978, another problem emerged which would affect implementa-
tion progress: quality control had been neglected (either through Lack of
training and experience or through negligence), and the quality of some of
the completed works was extremely poor. The Government agreed to monitor
future work more closely and to reconstruct facilities which did not function
as intended. In an effort to improve quality of construction, IDA arranged a
one-month training course in construction quality control for three Irriga-
tion Department engineers (November/December 1978). Subsequently, IDA also
offered to finance a team of expatr5ate consultants to assist the Irrigation
Department in all aspects of project implementation. However, only a plant
and workshop adviser was eventually hired (late 1981 to end-1982) who helped
to improve workshop performance. Although quality control was much better in
the last three schemes taken up, the ninth supervision mission (February
1983) still found "occasionally poorly located or constructed structures" 3/
that did not serve the intended purpose. Available information does not
allow to calculate precisely how much the reconstruction of such facilities
contributed to implementation delay, but in some schemes it may have been as
much as one year.
4.10    When supervision considered the status of the project "excellent from
the standpoint of management, staff morale and capability of project staff to
complete the project works by the end of 1982", 41 a new problem emerg,d that
would stay with the project until its eventual completion: a shortage of
local funds. Whereas a local budget of Rs 66 million was required for 1981,
due to severe budgetary constraints the Government allocated only Rs 15
1/ Letter of February 12, 1980.
2 Aide memoire of eighth supervision mission, March 24. 1982, para 22.
3/ Aide memoire, para 4.
I/  Supervision Summary, April 24, 1981, Section 6.



-11-
million and reduced this later to Rs 13.5 million. This amount was fully
committed by the end of the first quarter, tbreatening a loss of momentum,
deterioration of unfinished works, and idling of the equipment fleet, unless
additional funds were provided. Additional Rs 23 million were subsequently
provided, allowing about half of the works scheduled for 1981 to be com-
pleted. In order to ease budget constraints and maintain implementation
progress, IDA agreed to the Government's request to increase the disbursement
percentage for civil works from 12% to 25% (August 7, 1981). In 1982, IDA
was pleased to note that adequate funds had been provided by the
Government, 1/ but in 1983 local fund shortages appear to have led to the
curtailment of the works program 2/ as well as the failure to complete all
programmed works at Vavunikulam.
4.11    At Mahawilachchiya, one of the schemes with sufficient water for
extensive yala cultivation during implementation, scheduling of the construc-
tion program proved more difficult than expected. Pressures were strong not
to have construction interfere with farming, and stretched out irrigation
schedules further reduced the time available for construction. A coordinated
effort of all agencies concerned might have eliminated this problem. The
problem does not appear to have arisen at Vavunikulam, another scheme with
good water supply for yala cultivation.
2. Agricultural Extension Service
4.12    While the formal reorganization of the extension service, including
the merging of the two special project areas Mahawilachchiya and Padaviya
with the Anuradhapura district (end-1977) and the introduction of the T&V
system (reported to operate effectively early 1981), has been accomplished,
some doubt remains whether any substantive improvement has been achieved
under the project.
4.13    Throughout the implementation period, the service was plagued by
staffing problems, including shortage of experienced subject matter
specialists to back up the work of the field agents, high vacancy rates among
village extension workers (9 out of 24 at the worst time, March 1982), high
turnover of staff, and considerable variation in the degree of commitment to
and understanding of the T&V approach. 3/ As late as February 1983, water
management was not included in the staff training program, a major omission
in a situation where improved water use is of greatest importance. 4/ The
1/ Letter of May 5, 1982.
Y Progress report for the quarter ending September 30, 1983, point 6.
3/  Staff of the cofinancier did not consider the T&V approach to be entirely
appropriate for the TIMP (Appendix 1, page 2).
4/ Aide memoire of the February 1983 review mission, para 31.



-12-
subjects of land preparation and weed control also did not get the required
attention. jj
4.14    Staff housing and transportation were problems as well.  Although 50
small motorcycles and scooters had been procured aJ to give staff the needed
mobility, only 27 vere actually sold to project extension workers, 13 vent to
other staff working in the project area, and the last ten vere released for
sale to extension staff under the Agricultural Extension and Adaptive
Research Project (Cr. 931-CE). ]/ Adequate housing was in short supply
during much of the implementation period. Although IDA had requested the
Government (in 1980) to finance construction of housing for TIMP extension
staff under Cr. 931-CE, progress remained slow. No funds vere made available
in 1981, but the Government agreed to complete the outstanding construction
program on a phased basis before the end of 1983. There is no record whether
this target has been achieved.
4.15    Based on experience gained in a small technical assessment area, a
water management program for the entire Mahakandarawa command area was intro-
dured in maha 1980/81, which called for early sowing and maximum use of
rainfall to conserve tank vater for yala cultivation. Arrangements vere made
for tractor plowing of all land under loans provided by local banks. Despite
the fact that maha 1980/81 turned out to be one of the driest on record, the
program was a success. The crop was modest, but farmers acknowledged that
vithout the program none would have been harvested. Extension staff played
an important role in committing farmers to early soving. Unfortunately, the
effort, vhich was also a beautiful example of successful cooperation of all
agencies concerned, vas not repeated, neither at Mahakandarawa nor at any of
the other tanks. A number of factors are responsible for this situation, l
but one wonders whether a stronger, more fully equipped extension service
vwould not have made a difference.
3. Technical Assistance
4.16    Despite a number of initiatives by the U.K. and IDA to help the
Irrigation Department find a full-time water management expert, there was no
success until the second half of 1980. This expert vas retained under the
TIMP until March 1984 and then taken over to the Major Irrigation Rehabilita-
tion Project (MMRP, Cr. 1537-CE). While the search for a full-time expert
was going on, IDA succeeded (vith Government approval) in securing the
services of a water management engineer on a part-time basis (3 month periods
gJ Aide memoire of the December 1983 review mission, para 29.
Z/ Disbursement was made in April and June 1979 (Applications 6, 7).
l/ Telex of August 10, 1982, and letter of August 25, 1982.
fgf See Chapter V.



-13-
every 6 months) who agreed to work on both the TIMP and Mahaweli II Project
starting December 1978. Contrary to appraisal expectations, this engineer
concentrated on developing a low pressure underground pipe irrigation pilot
scheme (at Nahakandarawa, 100 ac). j/ The Irrigation Department decided not
to renev his contract in 1982, partly because of financial constraints and
partly because scheme monitoring data had not been collected, but the
.ahaveli Development Board agreed to extend his contract about 18 months
ao that the benefits and disadvantages of such schemes could be fully
determined. Z/
4.17    Other IDA financed technical assistance included Irrigation Depart-
ment staff training in the USA (at Logan, Utah, in 1982); the plant and
workshop adviser mentioned in para 4.9; investigations and surveys to prepare
the Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; and a study on project impact in
the Mahavilachchiya and Padaviya schemes, representing the preliminary find-
ings of a larger study to evaluate the "consequences of a major government
investment in irrigation rehabilitation in Sri Lanka." 3/
4.18    Under a separate technical cooperation grant, the U.K. provided
advisers in farm mechanization (3.5 years, 1977-1980), farm management (two
years, 1978-1980), and water management and irrigation agronomy (1.7 years,
1978-1980; and four years, 1979-1983). These advisers made valuable con-
tributions to the project, and their cost has been included in the PCR
estimates.
4. Cost and Financing
4.19    As a result of inflation, the prolonged implementation period, some
increases in work quantities, and devaluation of the Rupee, the estimated
actual project cost 4/ in Rupees exceeded the appraisal estimate, as well as
the revised estimate prepared in 1978, by a substantial margin-67Z and 34Z,
respectively. In contrast, due to the devaluation of the Rupee, the US$
equivalent of estimated actual cost stayed considerably below the appraisal
figure (-28%). For the same reason, the share of the cofinanciers in total
cost (net of taxes and duties) increased slightly compared to the appraisal
estimate, in spite of cancellation of parts of the U.K. grant (i 1.48 million
of the equipment allocation) and IDA credit (US$0.78 million). As the
1/ Aide memoire of the November 1979 review mission, para 10; aide memoire
of the September 1980 review mission, para 26.
2/ Letter of January 22, 1982.
]J  Agrarian Research and Training Institute, An Assessment of the Perfor-
mance of a Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Programme: The Case of Tank
Irrigation Modernization Project, Colombo, September 1983, page 1 (Draft
for comments only).
O/ Based on IDA and U.K. disbursement records; may be somewhat understated.



-14-
Government vaived taxes and duties on project procurements, its share of
total cost decreased. A suary of costs is given in Table 2 belov.
Detailed costs by year (original, revised, and PCR estimates) and tank scheme
(PCR estimates) are shovn in Annex 2. Details of the utilization of the U.K.
and IDA funds are in Annex 4.
Table 2:  ORIGINAL AND ESTIMATED ACrTUAL COST AND FINANCING
(Million)
Appraisal Estimates       PCR Estimates
Rs       US$           Rs       US$
Civil works la                        123.7     16.5         198.14    10.87
Of which taxes and duties lb       C 10.5)   ( 1.4)       (  -   )  ( -   )
Equipment                              99.3     13.2          68.10     4.61
Of which taxes and duties lb       C 42.0)   ( 5.6)       C -   )  ( -   }
Technical assistance                    2.0      0.3          21.95 /c  1.18 Lc
Total cost and financing              225.0     30.0         288.19    16.66
Of which taxes and duties          ( 52.5)   C 7.0)       (  -   )  ( -   )
-  U.K. financing                      45.0      6.0          69.62     4.54
-  IDA financing                       37.5      5.0          82.33     4.22
-  Domestic financing                 142.5     19.0         136.24     7.90
Of which taxes and duties      ( 52.5)   ( 7.0)        (  -   )  ( -   )
Exchange rate (Rs per US$)                  7.5                    17.3
/a Includes engineering and administration.
/b Distribution estimated.
Jc Includes U.K. technical assistance provided under regular cooperation
program.
5. The IDA Credit
4.20    Actual disbursements lagged substantially behind appraisal estimates.
By June 30, 1981, the original closing date, about 42% of the credit had been
disbursed, and it took until larch 1984 to double this figure. In September
1982, the Development Credit Agreement was amended and the technical assis-
tance allocation increased to US$600,000 to accomodate expenditures for the
preparation of the Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. However, time
ran out before this amount was reached. The closing date was changed once,
to June 30, 1983. When this date approached, and a decision had to be taken
whether IDA should agree to the prematurely submitted Government request for



-15-
a further one-year extension, jj it appeared preferable not to extend the
closing date but to "keep the books open and continue to disburse against
eligible expenditures until December 31, 1983", since most project vorks were
completed or nearing completion. g/ With hindsight, it appears clear that a
regular one-year extension as requested by the Government vould have been
more beneficial, because construction could have been completed and some
repairs done in the additional time.
6. Cost Recovery
4.21    In discussio,; during the fall of 1977 the Bank was informed by the
new Government that it intended to use the existing Irrigation Ordinance
rather than the Land Betterment Charges Law l/ for cost recovery and vas
finalizing some slight modifications. Following up on these discussions, the
Bank enquired in December 1977 about the status of the Government's intended
action and the timetable for implementation. A similar enquiry was made in
May 1978.
4.22    When the Government requested a further extension of the closing date
of Ln. 653-CE - Mahaweli I Project, the Bank _eplied (in June 1978) that it
would be extremely awkward to take formal action in extending the closing
date while the Government was in default on agreements relating to cost
recovery under this and two other projec%.s9Mahaweli II and TIMP. A/ Since
all assurances received so far had been informal and had omitted any mention
of a timetable, the Bank concluded that "it would be very helpful to have the
situation remedied through a formal communication from Government reaffirming
the existing agreements, including the levels of recovery agreed, and setting
a timetable for the appropriate levies to become effective." 5/ Such formal
communication was sent to the Bank on July 31, 1978, indicating, inter alia,
that collection notices in respect of major irrigation schemes §) would be
issued starting September 1978, and the closing date of Ln. 653-CE was sub-
sequently postponed to July 31, 1979.
1/ Telex of May 31, 1982.
2/ Telex of June 23, 1983.
31 See paras 2.8, 2.9.
i/ See Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08, and side letter
(Annex 5).
5J Telex of June 22, 1978.
§/ Defined by the new Government as schemes irrigating 200 acres or more.
See office memorandum of September 11, 19'8.



-16-
4.23    Information provided to project review missions iu 1982 and 1983
shows that actual collections of irrigation charges not only fell substan-
tially short of assessments but also decreased from about 8S of the total
amount due in 1978 to nil in 1982 (see Table 3). In fact, no charges were
collected at all in three of the five schemes. The reason for the high
default rate was that payment of charges could not be enforced under the
existing legislation as violators could not be prosecuted. The necessary
amendments to the Irrigation Ordinance were passed by the Cabinet in July
1983.
Table 3: ODLLECrIDN OF ERRIGATION CHARGES
(Rs '000)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Mahakandarawa
Estimated charges                   129.6   129.6   129.6   129.6   129.6
Collection                             -       -        -       -        -
Mahawilachchiya
Estimated charges                    71.8    71.8    71.8    71.8    71.8
Collection                             -       -        -       -        -
Padaviya
Estimated charges                   292.1   292.1   292.1   292.1   292.1
Collection                            -        -       -        -        -
Pavatkulam
Estimated charges                    66.4    66.4    66.4    66.4    66.4
Collection                            -        -       0.8      - /a    -
Vavunikulam
Estimated charges                   107.7   107.7   107.7   107.7   107.7
Collection                           55.2      8.7     0.7      0.1     -
Total
Estimated charges                   6671.6   667.6   667.6   667.6   667.6
Collection                           55.2      8.7     1.5      0.1     -
(% of charges)                      v 8.3)  ( 1.3)  ( 0.2)  C   0)  (   0)
La. Through May 1981.
Source: Ministry of Lands and Land Development.
4.24    At the same time, charges were set at Rs 100 per acre 1/ for major
gravity irrigation schemes nationwide, applicable from April 1984, based on
the estimated operating and maintenance (O&M) costs of such schemes of Rs 200
1/ Compared to Rs 20-30 per acre under the old legislation.



-17-
per acre. Charges were to be raised to cover full O&M costs over five years.
In the interim, the balance of required OWN funds was to be provided by the
Government. Collections started as planned, and through June 30, 1985, about
Rs 12.5 million, or about 34Z of 1984 assessments, were collected, with
significant differences in collection performance between the Mahaweli system
and other major schemes as well as among districts.
4.25    In slight variation from the original plan, assurance has been
obtained under the Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1537-CE) that
the Government would gradually incresae water charges to recover the full O&M
costs of the country's irrigation systems by September 1991. To this end, it
would: (a) by July 1986, review the water charge collection system to deter-
mine what adjustments may be necessary; (b) by the same date, determine the
current O&M costs of the irrigation systems and propose a program for annual
increases in charges; and (c) provide funds for adequate O&M each year until
full cost recovery from beneficiaries is achieved. Jj Charges collected from
any scheme would be used exclusively for O&M of that scheme, which is
expected to provide the necessary incentive for farmers to pay promptly. In
the event of crop failure, charges not covered by crop insurance would be
waived.
7. Procurement
4.26    Procurement of civil works was to be carried out by force account or
through negotiated contracts. Procurement of "small off-the-shelf items"
costing less than US$10,000 each with an aggregate value not exceeding
US$100,000 was to be carried out following local procedures. All other goods
vere to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" (August 1975). Z/ Although the Irrigatiou Department had
requested and received copies of the Guidelines and IDA had sent several
special (one-man) missions to help in procurement matters, problems were
encountered in procuring equipment (due to non-compliance with DCA require-
ments), resulting in loss of time and increased cost. Cases in point are the
procurement of "jeeps" for the Irrigation Department and the Extension Serv-
ice (December 1976-July 1978, US$226,000), the procurement of motorcycles for
the Extension Service (January 1977-April 1979, US$28,500), and the procure-
ment of additional construction equipment for the Irrigation Department
(February 1979-October 1980, US$1,301,000).
8. Reports
4.27    Although the Irrigation Department bad informed the Bank that
progress reporting would begin with the quarter ending June 1977, the first
report that was actually prepared covered the quarter ending March 1978.
jj MIRP Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03.
2/ Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 3, Section A.



-1 8-
With a few exceptions, all reports due were sent. However, in spite of the
fact that the simplified format was used which the third supervision mission
bad designed "to enable monitoring of the essential information on project
progress witbout placing excessive burden on the reporting agencies", 11
reports were frequently late and deficient. Coverage of agricultura; aspects
was particularly inadequate, probably due to lack of coordination between the
agencies concerned but, perhaps, in part also to the way in which the new
reporting format had been introduced. 2/ As a result, IDA had to request
supplementary agricultural data after project compl'tion to enable it to
"prepare a PCR of acceptable standard". V   The information was provided and
is incorporated in this report.
4.28    Separate project accounts as required in the Development Credit
Agreement were not established until nearly the end of the implementation
period, and audit reports could not be furnished as agreed mainly because of
delays within the Irrigation Department. The ninth supervision mission
received assurance from the Irrigation Department and the Auditoi Seneral
that a combined 1980/81 audit report would be sent by April 1983, and the
1982 report, based on the newly agreed format of project accounts, by
September 1983. By July 1984, the audit reports for 1980181, 1982, and 1983
were outstanding. The report for 1980181 was received in August 1984; the
auditor's opinion was unfavorable (as in earlier reports). The 1982 accounts
were submitted to the Auditor General, with copy to IDA, in December 1984,
the long delay being due to the Irrigation Department's difficulties in
producing accounts in the agreed format. By mid-1985, neither the 1982 nor
the 1983 audit report had been received by IDA.
V. AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
A. AnRraisal Estimates
5.1     Surveys conducted during project preparation showed that farm size
had remained essentially unchanged since the time of settlement in the late
fifties and early sixties. Over 75Z of the irrigated holdings were between
YJ Supervision report, June 20, 1978, Annex 5, para 1.
21 Ibid, para 2, said: "It should be noted that the proposed reporting
format is not intended to be comprehensive. For example, it does not
include information on cropping patterns, input usage rates and crop
yields. It does not imply, however, that such data is unimportant,
rather it is merely recognizing the fact that obtaining reliable figures
on such items on a quarterly basis is difficult and expensive." This
may have left too much ground for relaxing standards.
l] Telex of July 19, 1984.



-19-
two and four acres. 1/ Most farms also had about two acres of bighland. In
addition, about two-thirds of the farm families practiced chena cultivation.
Although chena cultivation and home gardening (on highland plots) provided a
"significant supplement to the income from irrigated agriculture", 21 the
appraisal dealt only with the latter, since the project was expected to have
very little impact on the former activities.
5.2     "With project" cropping patterns and intensities for each of the five
schemes were estimated on the basis of water availability (para 5.5) and
requirements "giving due weight to system uses, soil permeability and
farmers' familiarity with water use". 2/ The projeured intensities were
(in Z):
Mahawilachchiva Mahakandarava Padaviva Vavunikulam Pavatkulam
Naha            100             100           100         100          100
Yala             69              68            65          47           18
Total           169             168           165          147         118
Based on research station results, farmers' practices and survey data, crop
yields were expected to reach full development levels five years after the
completion of project works. The principal agronomic changes were:
(a)  Paddy was to be grown with intermittent irrigation rather than
continuous flooding (as under the traditional system). Irrigation
water was to be applied according to the consumptive use of the
crop. The practicability of this innovation had been demonstrated
at the Naha Illupalama research station, at IRRI, and under the Gal
Oya and one other project in Sri Lanka, but the practice bad not
been tried at farm level in the northern dry zone. The appraisal
report therefore insisted that "extensive demonstration must be the
first task of the reorganized extension service". 4/
(b)  Intermittent irrigation was expected to create an increased weed
control problem, necessitating the use of weedicides or hand weeding
(instead of the use of standing water in the traditional system).
(c)  Land preparation in the entire service area of a tank was to be done
by tractors, preferably a significant portion while dry or following
the first monsoon rains, in order to reduce the considerable volume
of tank water used in the traditional system for this purpose.
1/ Originally, each settler family had received 3 ac of irrigated land.
2/ Appraisal report, para 6.10.
VJ Appraisal report, Annex 3, para 13.
4/ Annex 3, para 12.



-20-
(d) Firm irrigation seasons were to be established to make efficient
use of available supplies, requiring much greater discipline of farm
operations than currently observed.
(e)  To achieve project targets, farmers were to grow other crops-such
an maize, sorghum, pulses, millet, and sesamum-on paddy lands
during yala and, in some areas, during maha.
As these changes involved many techniques that were new to the project area,
it vas stressed that the Naha Illupalama research station must focus as soon
as possible on providing su-table information to the extension service.
5.3     Without the project, it was assumed that the tank systems would
continue to provide the current volumes of irrigation water, allowing paddy
acreages to be maintained. Paddy yields were estimated to increase by 2X
annually, based on likely improvements in cultivation practices and adoption
of ne varieties. Areas under pulses and other cereals were expected to
ine-ease somewhat as the trend continued to grow "dry" crops on paddy lands
for which there was no irrigation water. Yields of these crops were also
estimated to increase by 2% annually. Overall cropping intensity was
projected to rise to 108Z. Cropping patterns, yields and production with (W)
and without (I) the project are shown in Table 4; details by tank scheme are
in Annex 6, Table 1.
5.4     The catchment areas of the five tanks vary between 206 square miles
for Padaviya and 88 square miles for Vavunikulam. The appraisal report
pointed out that (i) the catchment area of each of the tanks contained many
small tanks which intercepted and held vater for paddy cultivation, and (ii)
depending on quantity and occurrence of rainfall, this upstream interception
could be substantial, but no "effective correlation" could be established. 1J
5.5     Based on historic inflow data for six to eleven years, depending on
tank scheme, and the assumption that the existing upstream regime vould
continue, Z/ the Irrigation Department calculated annual inflows and water
availability at each tank for different levels of exceedance expectancy.
Table 5 shows estimated water availability, at 75Z exceedance expectancy, and
vater demand for the envisaged cropping patterns; details are provided in
Annex 6, Table 2.  In view of the large percentage of years on record during
which the estimated irrigation demand would have been met, the appraisal
report concluded that the "tank water supply would be able to meet the
projected crop pattern and cropping intensity within acceptable risks to the
small farmer". 2
A Annex 5, para 3; see also comments on upstream development in Appendix
1, page 2.
VJ See para 3.4.
2/ Annex 5, para 9.



Table 4: APPRAISAL ESTIMATES OF CROPPING PATTERNS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
(Total project, 31,500 ac)
Area                       Yield                       Production
(ac)                     (tons/ac)                       (tons)
P       W       W           P       W        W           P       W        W
Maha  : Paddy                24,200  24,200  29,900         0.9    1.1      1.5        21,780  26,620  44,850
Other Cereals          -       600   1,600          -     0.8     0.9           -        480   1,440
Pulses                 -       350      -           -     0.45      -           -        158     -
Yala  : Paddy                 7,700   7,700  10,700        0.85    1.0      1.4         6,545   7,700  14,980
Other Cereals          150     500   2,650       0.65    0.8       1.1           98      400   2,915
Pulses                 500      800   4,250      0.35    0.45    0.65           175      360   2,763
Total : Paddy                31,900  31,900  40,600        0.89    1.08    1.47        28,325  34,320  59,830
Other Cereals          150   1,100   4,250        0.65    0.8      1.02          98      880   4,355
Pulses                 500   1.150   4,250        0.35    0.45    0.65          175      518   2,763
32,550  34,150  49,100
Cropping Intensity (X)           103     108      156



-22-
Table-5: APPAISAL ESTIMATES OF IRIIGAR ION DEMAND AD SUPPLY
(Full development)
Irrigated    Cropping    Irrigation       Water
Area       Intensity     Demand      Availability La
(8c)L         (z)        (ac ft)        (ac ft)
Mahakandarawa          10,100         168        26,900         26,300 Lk
Padaviya               20,600         165        57,300         69,400 lb
Mahavilachchiya         4,400         169        11,800         14,100
Vavunikulam             8,800         147        22,100         24,000
Pavatkulau              5.200         118        11.900         13.100
Total Project          49,100         156       130,000        146,900
/a  Annual inflow less evaporation loss.
lb Availability limited by insufficient tank storage capacity to regulate
entire annual inflow.
B. Current Situation
1. General
5.6    Major construction down to distribution channel level has been
completed in all five schemes, providing an effective vater supply and dis-
tribution system to the field channel turnouts. Although it was not possible
to completely finish field channel construction and land development in one
scheme (Vavunikulam), the basis for the planned improvements in water manage-
ment and agricultural production is nov essentially in place. Same repairs
are needed, however, to correct damge to structures done by farmers 1/ and
flood damage caused by unusually heavy rains during the first quarter of
1984. i/ Deliberate damage to structures and measuring devices installed
under the project occurred particularly at Pavatkulam. Greater farmer
involvement in system design and more intensive farmer education vould have
been needed to avoid this problem.
5.7    The success vith which improved vater management and agronomic prac-
tices-particularly early cultivation, leading to more efficient vater
use-have been introduced varied considerably between tank schemes. The
jJ Staff of the cofinancier coment that: "... in some cases the structures
were incorrect due to inadequate engineering staff, and did not deliver
vater as specified. In other cases damage was selfish, by farmers who
did not agree with rotational vater issue." (Appendix 1, page 3)
2/ See Annex 6, Table 5.



-23-
differences are thought to be due, in large nessure, to the severe drought
which prevai'ted in part of the project area during 1981-1983.  'Water supply
in the tan's during this period varied from aluost normal (Vavunikulam) to
none (Mahakandarawa), and prompted a hydrological study of the two most
affected schemes (Pavatkulam and Nahakandarawa). jj
5.8     The ninth project review mission (February 1983) recommended that
a detailed hydrological study be made of the Iahakandarmva and Pavatkulam
schemes because they appeared to have been overdeveloped. The mission also
recommended a survey of all five schemes to ascertain command area for the
determination of irrigation requirements. While this survey could not yet
be done, 2/ the Irrigation Department engaged consultants to make the hydro-
logical study of the tNo tank schemes. The consultants developed models for
computing inflow to Pavatkulam. For the best of these models, the differen-
ces between actual and predicted inflovs are substantial. Data for
xahakandarawa vere considered inadequate for development of a model. An
important omission was the failure of the study to examine possible changes
in inflow characteristics which may have resulted from rehabilitation of many
of the minor tanks in the catchment areas. 2)  Thus, the key question of the
future production potential of the two schemes remained unanswered.
2. Water Manafement Al
5.9     Starting vith Nahakandarawa in 1980/81, detailed rotational water
delivery schedules have been established by the water management expert (para
4.16).  In 1983, 63Z of the total cultivated area was reported to be under
rotational irrigation, and additional areas were being included as field
channel construction was completed. The lining of long field channels and
their division into upper and lover reaches was found to have significantly
jj The numerous village tanks in the project catchment areas were con-
tinuously being rehabilitated. Lover than normal rainfall and runoff
interception due to their presence appeared to reduce inflow to the major
tanks, and filling was often late resulting in late maha cultivation.
The third project reviev mission (March 1978) therefore requested the
Irrigation Department to update the water availability estimates made
at appraisal using data through 1975/76. The results showed reduced
availability for Nahavilachchiya, Padaviya and Vavunikulau, and some
increase for Nahakandarava and Pavatkulam. The mission felt the reasons
for the increase were unclear and needed further investigation, but this
was apparently not done.
1/ Available estimates of tank command areas are in Annex 6, Table 3.
.]/ The Irrigation Department's project completion report (June 1984) counted
207 minor tanks in the catchment area of Mahakandarawa, and 120 minor
plus two major tanks (1,000 ac) in the catcbment area of Pavatkulam.
A/ See also comments by staff of the cofinancier in Appendix 1.



-24-
alleviated the problem of reduced water supplies to tail-enders, and reduced
the number of farmers in turnout groups to more manageable size, facilitating
communication. Although rotational water issues from field channels were not
entirely uniform or according to plan, there was evidence that most farmers
vithin a turnout shared vater on a reasonably equitable basis.
5.10    On-farm water management and improved cropping practices to effi-
ciently use rainfall and stored water were not yet integrated vith water
distribution management in 1983. Many farmers, for various reasons, includ-
ing shortage of farm power (through lack of credit) and seed of appropriate
varieties, did not follow the recommended cropping calendar. Extension of
dates of last sowing and last water issue, and provision of water to small,
scattered, late-sown plots to accomodate these farmers resulted in wasteful
use of water and limited supplies for yala cropping. Improvement of this
situation was expected through greater coordination among the Departments of
Irrigation, Agriculture, and Agrarian Services. The recent launching of a
Water Management Program for major irrigation schemes, including the appoint-
ment of Project Managers to coordinate all activities at tank level, was
considered a step in this direction.
3. Cultivation Practices
5.11    To be able to achieve the key project objective of early land
preparation and sowing of the main paddy crop, farmers need draft power.
seed of shorter age varieties than traditionally grown, and assurance that
adequate vater will be available in time to irrigate the early-sown crop.
They also need adequate weed control to ensure reasonable yields.
5.12    Available draft power, both in the form of tractors and draft
animals, was reported to be adequate by the last two project review missions
(1983). The missions also indicated that actual use--and thus timeliness of
cultivation-was less than would have been possible, essentially because of
lack of credit and unvillingness of farmers to accept the risk of early
cultivation.
5.13    Except for the campaign at Mahakandarawa in 1980181, there was lack
of institutional credit to pay for tractor or animal hire charges through
the time of project completion. 11 In 1983, only 250 farmers at
Mahawilachchiya (about 2%) received bank loans. For most others, the high
default rates on previous credit precluded the granting of new loans.
Farmers not qualifying for bank credit could resort to private money lenders,
but these lenders protect themselves by lending only when they consider tank
levels to be high enough to guarantee a crop, which works against project
objectives.
SJ The question of availability of cultivation credit was not addressed in
the appraisal report.



-25-
5.14    The recent drought years have not helped in building up farmer
confidence that irrigation water would be available for-their early-sown
crops or, in some areas, for any crops. Difficulty of insuring against
failure of early-sown crops and expectation (based on experience) that addi-
tional water issues could be obtained for late-sown crops, further reduced
farmers' willingness to assume the risk of early cultivation.
5.15    The last (December 1983) project review mission was encouraged by
indications that facilities would be available in the project area to
reschedule outstanding loans at a favorable rate, and that new loans would be
covered by crop insurance designed to respond quickly in the event of crop
failure. There is no record whether these plans have materialized, and, in
view of the disappointing past performance of the Crop Insurance Board and
prevailing Government budget constraints, it seems prudent not to expect too
much too soon.
5.16    As feared at appraisal, weed control has become a problem under the
new irrigation regime. Although it has been demonstrated at many sites that
good weed control and high paddy yields can be achieved with rotational
irrigation, actual field conditions shov that few farmers have learned the
lesson so far. Successful control of weeds through a combination of cul-
tural, chemical and natural weapons is well within the ability of farmers.
The recommended methods are not expensive, but require good husbandry.
Thorough and timely land preparation is very important in itself and as a
condition for successful use of weedicides.  Implements are available for
mechanical weeding wbere row sowing is practiced. The extension service is
promoting these themes. jj
5.17    Seed of the appropriate variety was reported to have been in short
supply or unavailable at times, making it impossible for farmers to follow
project reccmmendations. This appears to have been mainly an organizational
problem, which should be more easily overcome than some of the others men-
tioned above.
4. Croniini Patterns and Yields
5.18    There is no adequate basis for assessing project achievements so far,
since (i) three of the schemes (Mahakandarawa - 6,100 ac; Mahawilachchiya -
2,660 ac; Pavatkulam - 4,130 ac) did not become fully operational until the
end of 1982, and the last two (Padaviya - 13,800 ac; Vavunikulam - 5,750 ac)
until the end of 1983 and later, and (ii) agricultural data are not available
beyond yala 1984. */ Moreover, the seasons for which results can be attri-
buted to the project cover both extremes of weather conditions, drought
and unusually heavy rains. Nevertbeless, some conclusions can be drawn.
jJ M.T. Long, Irrigation Agronomy Adviser, End-of-Assignment Report on TIMP,
June 1983.
ZJ Annex 6, Table 4.



-26-
5.19    Paddy yields ranged between 60 and 70 bu/ac in 1982183 and 1983184,
averaging 68 bu/ac (3,060 lbs/ac) for the project as a whole (Table 6). They
were thus not far below the full development estimate made at appraisal (1.47
tons/ac or 3,285 lbs/ac), but so were average yields for the districts within
which most of the schemes are located. Naha 1982183 paddy yields for
Anuradhapura and Vavuniya districts were 68 and 70 bu/ac (3,060 and 3,150
lbs/ac), respectively. It should therefore not be too difficult to reach the
appraisal targets, but a greater effort will be needed to produce noticeable
increments over the "without project" situation.
5.20    Cropping intensities in 1982/83 were below the appraisal estimates
for the "present" situation (almost nil) in two schemes (Mahakandarawa,
Pavatkulam) and, due to their weight, for the project as a whole, vhile they
exceeded these estimates in the other three schemes. Because of the "freak"
rainfall in early 1984, cropping intensities in two schemes (Padaviya,
Pavatkulam) exceeded the appraisal's full development estimates by a sizeable
margin, and the entire project achieved the full development target.
Table 6:  ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PADDY YIELDS AND CROPPIRG INTENSITIES
Appraisal Estimates         Actuals
P         v       1982/83   1983/84
Average Paddy Yield (bu/ac)
Mahakandarawa                        42         73           -         65
Mahavilachchiya                      37         73           66        65
Padaviya                             46         73           68        70
Pavatkulam                           40         74          67         59
Vavunikulam                          41         74           70        69
Total Project                        44         73           68        68
Overall Cropping Intensity t2)
Mahakandarawa                        87        168            1        99
Mahawilachchiya                       83       169           99       100
Padav iya                           121        165         125        200
Pavatkulam                           86        118          13        175
Vavunikulam                         105        147         123        131
Total Project                       103        156           86       157
5.21    So far, paddy is grown almost exclusively in the tank command areas,
with other crops reaching about lOZ at best in some schemes under reasonably
normal weather conditions (Table 7). These statistics conflict with the
final report of the TIMP irrigation agronomy adviser (U.K. funded) which
calls "particularly hopeful" the "one new practice introduced by the project
of groving non paddy crops on the irrigated lands, on better drained soils",



-27-
and states that "acreage is increasing at all tanks year by year as farmers
come to see the advantages". jJ
Table 7: CULTIVATED AREA
(ac)
Naha       Yala       Naha       Yala
1982183     1983      1983/84     1984
Nahakandarawa
Paddy                              - -         30      6,000
Other crops             -           85        -
Mahawilachchiya
Paddy                2,629         -        2,664
Other crops             -          -          -          -
Padaviya
Paddy                13,170      3,500    13,800      13,800
Other crops             -          -          -          -
Pavatkulam
Paddy                   238        110     3,776       3,357
Other crops             -          141        -          122
Vavunikulam
Paddv                 5,271      1,560     4,806       2,700
Other crops             -          220        -          -
Total Project
Paddy               21,308       5,170    25,076      25,857
Other crops             -          446        -          122
5.22    The last project review mission concluded that provided {i) water
availability returned to normal, (ii) better water management and early
sowing were practiced, (iii) a solution was found to the cultivation credic
and crop insurauce problems, and (iv) drainage needs (para 4.6) were properly
addressed, cropping intensities and production levels projected at appraisal
could "quite reasonably be expected to be achieved, with the possible excep-
tion of Nahakandarawa tank". IJ The mission also varned that without con-
tinued efforts of all agencies concerned and greater farmer participation,
some of the benefits of rehabilitation might never be realized. There is r*'
basis for this report to disagree with these judgements. Time will tell, and
one can only hope that farmers will be able to reap the benefits of project
investments.
j/ M.T. Long, op. cit., para 6.1.
7J Aide memoire, December 1983, paras 26, 28.



-28-
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.  Al-raisal Estimates
6.1     At appraisal, the following main assumptions were made in estimating
the project's economic rate of return:
- Project life of 30 years, including an implementation period of five
years.
- Full development reached five years after completion of works.
- Prices of crops, fuel, fertilizer and pesticides based on projected
1985 world market prices in 1976 terms.
-  Use of a shadow exchange rate of Rs 12 per US$ (instead of the finan-
cial rate of Rs 7.5 per US$), to account for shortage of foreign
exchange.
- Use of a farm labor rate discounted 30% from the average market wage
of Rs 8 per man-day, to reflect the demand/supply situation.
-  Consideration only of incremental crop production in the five ta:k
areas as project benefit, although the improved extension service was
to cover the entire Anuradhapura district and thus benefit other
areas as well, and road improvements were expected to result in
transportation cost savings.
6.2     Based on these assumptions, the project's rate of return was 23Z
(base case). The results of sensitivity tests have already been summarized
in para 3.6. One important case showed that the project would still be
viable with a substantially reduced average cropping intensity (125% iustead
of 156%) resulting from less than full acceptance by farmers (IRR of 14U).
The appraisal report concluded that "even if the project were not viable on
its own, in view of its implications for irrigation development in the rest
of the dry zone, it would still be a worthwhile prototype". 1/
B.  PCR Estimates
6.3     The recalculation of the project's rate of return essentially follows
the appraisal report. It is assumed that tbc full development targets will
be achieved in all schemes except Mahakandarawa. The mair differences are:
-   Actual and estimated actual costs and farn  data are used for PY 1-8
(1977-1984).
jJ Appraisal report, para 7.06.



-29-
- Little difference in agricultural performance "with" (W) and "without
project' (W) is assumed for the implementation period.
- All values are expressed in terms of 1983, the project's final
implementation year.
-   Prices of internationally traded goods are based on (January 1985)
World Bank commodity price forecasts through 1995, while those of
-non-traded goods and services, itzluding farm labor, are based on
domestic prices. Domestic prices and price components have been
translated into border Rupees by applying a standard conversion
factor of 0.85.
-   Soybean is used as a proxy for other field crops.
-   Based on experience during the implemencation years 1/ as well as
appraisal data for the MIRP, it has been assumed that (i) future
"with" and "without project" paddy yields would reach 80 and 60 bu/ac
(3,600 and 2,700 lbs/ac), respectively, (ii) future "with" and
"vithout project" cropping intensities at Mahakandarawa, due to
limited water supply, 2J would be 110% and 90%, respectively, and
(iii) future "without project" cropping intensities at Mahavilach-
chiya and Padaviya would be 125% and 130X. A comparison of appraisal
and PCR assumptions is in Table 8.
6.4     On this basis, the project's rate of return is 15%, with rates of
individual tank schemes ranging from 8% for Mahakandarawa to 21% for Padaviya
(Annex 7, Table 1). The sizeable reduction compared with the appraisal
estimate results mainly from cost increases during the extended implementa-
tion period, lower price forecasts for rice, and the much less promising
outlook for the Mahakandarava scheme.
6.5     To test the impact of differeut yield as.amptions on the project's
economic viability, rates of return have been calculated for two additional
paddy yield combinations. In the first case it is assumed that "without
project" yields would reach 60 bu/ac as in the base case, but "with project"
yields would only rise to 73-74 buiac (about 3,300 lbs >c), the full develop-
ment level expected at appraisal. The resulting rate of return is 12.6%. In
the second case, it is again assumed that full development yields expected at
appraisal would be achieved, but that "without project" yields would increase
to 68 bu/ac (3,060 lb3/ac), the average reported for Anuradhapura district in
1982/83. The resulting rate of return is about 10%. If full development is
reached seven--instead of five--years after completion of works, all of the
above rates would be reduced by one percentage point. Details are in
Annex 7, Table 2.
1/ See Annex 6, Table 4.
2/ Paras 5.7, 5.8.



-30-
Table 8: APPRAISAL AND PCR ESTIMATES OF CROPPING INTENSITIES AND PADDY YIELDS
Appraisal Estimates    PCR Estimates
_       w            W        w
Average Cropping Intensity (Z)
Nabakandarawa                            94      168           90     110
Nahavilachchiya                          90      169          125     169
Padaviya                                124      165          130     165
Pavatkulam                               92      118           92     118
Vavunikulam                             109      147          110     147
Total Project                           108      156          114      146
Paddy Yield (bu/ac)
Mahakandarnwa                            52       73           60      80
Nahawilachchiya                          47       73           60       80
Padaviya                                 57       73           60      80
Pavatkulam                               50       74           60      80
Vavunikulam                              51       74           60      80
Total Project                            54       73           60      80
VII. CHANGES IN THE FOLLOW-UP PROJECT
7.1     Lessons learned from the TIMP have guided the planning of the Major
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, for which an IDA credit of SDR 17 million
(Cr. 1537-CE) was made in February 1985. The main lessons have been to:
Ci) carry out surveys and detailed designs and plan construction of works
adequately in advance to avoid implementation delays; (ii) allow sufficiently
long construction periods in view of the limited time during which canals can
be closed; (iii) prevent indiscriminate land and water use in the catchment
areas which reduces inflow to the tanks and increases erosion; and (iv)
organize an efficient system of water management.
7.2     For the MIRP, proper management means convincing farmers to play
their role in the distribution of water, including properly maintaining and
operating the part of the system assigned to their care instead of damaging
structures in the false belief that they obstruct water flow. Confidence
must also be built among farmers that water will arrive on time and distribu-
tion will be equitable--the extent to vhich demands are met depending on
water availability, of which they would have advance information. Moreover,
farmers must be assured that the changes in cropping practices they are
expected to make will get the necessary support from the agencies
concerned. 1/
11  Report No. 5231-CE, November 6, 1984, para 2.08.



-31-
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.1     The cofinanciers supervised the project regularly and maintained
excellent relations with the Government. Since 1979, they submitted their
findings and recommendations to the Government in the fonm of aide memoires,
which is nov a standard requirement in the Bank. The Government was unable
to stem the ezodus of experienced staff in the early project years as vell as
to provide sufficient Rupee funds at all times, and inter-agency coordination
was generally weak. Hovever, the Irrigation Department's staff has gradually
been rebuilt, serious efforts are being made to improve cost recovery, and a
start has been made under the Water Management Program (para 5.10) to improve
coordination among the agencies concerned with the project.
8.2     In view of experience during the implementation years as well as
appraisal data for the MIRP, the estimates made in this report for the
remaining years of the project's life do not appear to be over-optimistic.
However, as stressed in paras 5.22 and 7.2 above, their achievement crucially
depends on farmers fully adopting project recommendations and Government
agencies working together to provide the services required. It is therefore
of great importance for IDA to continue encouraging the Goverment to rein-
force its efforts to improve irrigation management (including system O&N) and
support services, in order to build farmer confidence that following project
recommendations does not involve unacceptable risks. A project review some
time in the future will be necessary to clear up the present uncertainties
regarding project benefits and viability. It is therefore too early to say
whether this "prototype" Will "go into production".
8.3     Staff of the cofinancier have drawn the following conclusions and
lessons from the project (see Appendix 1): "(a) Projects cannot be con-
sidered in isolation from local economy. Demands on government depts are
affected by other parallel projects. (b) The incentive to the farmer to
adopt 'improved' practices, or grow alternative crops needs better assess-
ment. Problems of credit and insurance need very early attention. tc)
Auditing must be improved. (d) Information provided at project identifica-
tion must be better verified and assessed. (e) Insistence on a particular
form of extension, or cost recovery may be counter-productive. The
appropriate practices must be matched to the local need."



-32-                               Annex 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Description of the Proiect
The Project is designed to increase agricultural production in the Project
Area and consists of the following Parts:
Part A: Civil Works
(1) Improving irrigation and drainage facilities of the
Tank Schemes as follows:
(a) desilting and enlarging the entire water conveyance
system to provide capacity for a seven day rotation
with only daylight irrigation;
Cb) repairing and modifying the existing structures in
the irrigation system to allow daylight irrigation
for each farm on a Eeven day rotation schedule;
Cc) repairing, enlarging and surfacing with gravel the
embankments used as farm roads;
(d) excavating some 300 miles of drains to improve
drainage;
Ce) brick lining, where needed, of the conveyance system
to reduce excessive seepage or erosion and to provide
the necessary degree of water control;
(f) lining, with different kinds of lining, of all irri-
gation and field canals under the Mahavilachchiya
tank as an experimental program to determine the
effect of each of the different kinds of lining on
seepage lasses and capital and maintenance costs;
(g) installing about 170 new regulating structures in the
main and branch canals to increase water control in
the conveyance system;
(h) installing similar regulating structures in distriDution
and field channels; and
Ci) installing devices to measure releases from the tanks
and water flows at various points in the Tank Schemes.



Annex 1
Page 2
(2)  Provision of offices, workshops, stores and housing for
Supervisory and construction crews which shall include for
each 6,000 acres unit of land: (i) 4,000 square feet each for
storage and workshops; (ii) six units of 500 square feet
each for supervisory personnel; (iii) two units of 4,000
square feet each for bachelor officers quarters; (iv) 2,000
square feet of dormitory space for laborers; (v) 2,400
square feet for temporary offices; and tvi) temporary
quarters for three senior officers.
(3) Provision of buildings for the extension service staff in the
Project Area.
Part B: Construction EquiDment and Vehicles
Procurement of equipment and vehicles for use in the implementation of
Part A of the Project.
Part C: Agricultural EquiPment and Vehicles
(1)  Procurement aud allocation to dealers for resale to APCs
and farmers in the Project Area of (i) about 150 four-wheel
and 450 two-wheei farm tractors, including all necessary
attachments and equipment for use in land preparation, and
(ii) about .150 sprayers for applying pesticides and herbi-
cides.
(2) Procurement of vehicles and equipment for strengthening
the extension service in the Project Area.
Part D: Technical Assistance
(1) Provision of a minimum of a two man-years program of
expert services to assist the Borrower in the design
and the development of operating criteria of the Tank
Schemes, the development of operating schedules for
the tanks and the rotation schedules for the irrigation
system and the training of local personnel in Project
related activities.
(2) Provision of consultant services to conduct appropriate
benchmark and follow up surveys and to analyze and evaluate
Project impact and to undertake surveys and related activities
to prepare a second tank irrigatiou modernization project. 1/
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.
1/ As amended September 15, 1982.



SRI LAuKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-C3
Original Cost Estimates
(Rs sillion)
Total
1976   jflj   1978   1979   1980    Local   loreisn   Total   (U8 uillian)
Civil Works
Dase Costs                                    -    11.5   18.6   21.4   13.4        53.6    11.3       64.9         8.7
Physical Contingencies (20Z)                  -     2.3    3.7    4.3    2.7        10.7     2.3       13.0         1.7
Expected Price Increases                     -      _.5    7.    12.3   10.4        26.7      5.7      32,4         4.3
-    16.3   29.5   38.0   26.5       91.0    19.3       110.3        14.7
Construction Nauiuent and Vehicles
saie Costs                                  12.6   29.4      -       -      -       22.5    19.5       42.0         5.6
Expected Price Increases                     1.0    3.5      -       _              _j2      2.1        4.5         0.6
13.6   32.9      -      -       -      24.9    21.6        46.5         6.2
Agricultural Bcuinment and Vehicle. 
Bage Coats                                  2.1   10.6   11.0   11.0    7.3        19.5    22.5       42.0         5.6
Expected Price Increases                    0.2    1.    2,.5    3.5   3.1          5.0     S.8       10.8         1,
2.3   12.1   13.5   14.5   10.4       24.5    28.3        52.8         7.0
Technical Assistance                           0.2    0.5    0.5    0.4    0.4         1.3      0.7       2.0         0.3
Enaineerinx and Administration
Base Costs                                   1.3    2.0    2.2    2.2    2.0         9.7       -        9.7         1.3
Expected Price Increases                     0.1    0.4    0.7    1.1    1.4        _.7        -        3.7         0.
1.4    2.4    2.9    3.3    3.4       13.4       -        13.4         1.8
TOTAL PROJECT
Base Costa                                  16.2   54.0   32.3   35.0   23.1    106.6    54.0         160.6        21.5
Physical Contingencies                        -      2.3    3.7    4.3    2.7       10.7      2.3      13.0         1.7
Expected Price Increases                     1.3    7.9   10,4   16.9   14.9        37.8    13.6       51.4         6.8
17.5   64.2   46.4   56.2   40.7    155.1    69.9         225.0        30.0
Duties and Taxes                                                                   (52.5)   ( - )    (52.5)        (7.0)
Us$ Equivalent (at Rs 7.5/us$)               2.3    8.6    6.2    7.5    5.4        20.7      9.3      30.0
Source:  SAR Annex 7, Table 1; Annex 9, Table 1. IsM



TANK IRIIG(ITOU  KIOmINIZLTIO  PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Reviced Cost Katluate
(it million)
Total
1977   tlQ   1979   18    1981    Local    oreina   SotA  l(S$ uillion)
CiLLMWorkc 1/
lame Costs                                 2.1    6.3   19.6   19.6    8.6       51.9     6.3      58.2         3.6
Physical Contingencies (2OZ)               0.4    1.7    3.9    3.9    1.7       10.3     1.3      11.6         0.7
Ezpected Price Increaces                    -      0.8    3.8    S.7   _.4       12.2     LI       13.7        L0;
2.5   10.8   27.3   29.2  13.7       74.4      9.1     83.5         5.2
Coust:uctiou Eauiment and Vehicle. J/
Base Cost.                                35.1    9.1    4.5    1.8    1.5        2.4    49.6      52.0         3.2
Physical Contingencie. (10x)               3.5    0.9    0.5    0.2    0.1        0.2     5.0       5.2         0.3
Expected Price Increasees                   _      M. 0.8     0.8     O S         0.1     2.5       2.6          Q
38.6   10.8    5.8    2.5    2.1       2.7    57.1      59.8         3.7
A&ricultural Eauimuent and Vehicles
Bass Costs                                9.3    9.1   13.6    9.1    6.2       11.7    35.6      47.3         3.0
Physical Contingencies (IOZ)              0.9    0.9    1.4    0.9    0.6        1.2     3.5       4.7         0.3
Expected Price Increasee                   -      .8A   2.4   2.4    2    ,1 _.9         5.        7.7         0.
10.2   10.8   17.4   12.4    8.9      14.8    ".9       59.7         3.7
Technical Ameistauc.e I
Base  Costs                                0.1    0.5    2.0    2.0    1.4        1.2     4.8       6.0         0.4
Expected Price Increasee                    -       -     la    LI    LI          LI      LQ.       La          l.a
0.1    0.5    2.3    2.5    1.9       1.5      5.8      7.3         0.5
Euaiueerian egd Administration
Blae Costs                                 1.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    1.8        8.8      -        8.8         0.6
Expected Price lucreases                    .-    0.2    LI    0.5    Li6         1.6      -        1.6         0.1
1.0    2.2    2.3    2.5    2.4      10.4      -       10.4         0.7
TOTAL PROEWCT
Blae Coats                                47.6   29.0   41.7   34.5   19.5       76.0    96.3    172.3         10.8
Physical Contingencies                     4.8    3.5    5.8    5.0    2.4       11.7     9.8      21.5         1.3
Expeeted Price lncresses                      .   I_ 2.6    I    9.6    7.1 .    16.1    10.8      26.9         1.7
52.4   35.1   5.1   49.1   29.0    103.8   116.9   220.7            13.8
Dutiee and Taxes                                                                 (5.0)   C - )    (5.0)        (0.3)
U89 Equivalent (at as 16/US$)              3.3    2.2    3.4    3.1    1.8        6.5     7.3      13.8
quantity estimatee based oa comnd area of 37.800 *c vs. 31,500 cc estimated at appraisal.  Difference due to
illegal encroebhent.                                                                                                          N
]/  For it..  procured through March 1978 costs are actuale.
V   Includes additional aid to Department of Agriculture for training of extenaioo staff.
Source: Third supervision report, June 20, 1978. Annexes 4. 5.



SRI LAXCA
TAIK IUIGATION NODERUIZATIONR FxOJICt
Cradit 666-Ca
FCR Cost EetlJtsa
1977      1978        1979        1980         1981         1982        I83_            Total
CLvLl Works
It '000 I/                           3,737.8   6,910.6   22,440.0   47,435.3   48,031.3    46,721.3   22,665.5 2J    196,141.8
Zxchange Rate 3)                       9.153    15.608       15.569      16.534      19.246       20.812      23.529
US$ '000                               408.4      442.6    1,441.3    2,669.0    2,495.6         2,244.9       971.8         10,873.8
EiDLnt
IDA Financed
Us$ '000                                12.5      263.5        50.8       510.6       664.8         76.1        49.8           1,848.1
Exchange late ta                      13.347    15.601       15.596      17.770      19.007       20.804      23.018
Rc  000                                166.5   4,422.3        792.6    9,074.0   16,437.2        1,532.1    1,146.6          33,621.3
UK Financed
I '000                                 909.0      373.9        94.4        67.4        38.5         -           -              1,483.2
Exchange Rate O                       17.852    29.743       33.175      37.047      39.126
Re '000                             16,227.4  11.121.1    3,130.6    2,499.4    1,505.3             -           -            34,483.8
Exchbage Rate O                       10.100    15.416       15.579      16.101      20.771
us$ '000                             1,606.7      721.4       201.0       155.2        72.5         -           -             2,756.6
Tachaikal Aimistance.
IDA Financed                                                                                                                       2
Us$ '000                                -           -          23.9        38.3        66.2        113.2        37.8             279.4
as '000                                 -           -            -           -        206.6      j3fl0251l                     5.056.0
Total Us$ '000 Al                       -           -          23.9        38.3        76.0        190.8       158.8             487.8
Total Re '000 V/                                    -         373.0       633.0    1.480.6       4,179.9    3,914.5           10,581.0
UK Financed 1/
L '000                                  20.0       52.5       107.5        83.5        30.0         30.0         12.5            336.0
Exchange Rate RI                      15.977    29.960       33.031      38.463      39.029       36.431      35.693
Re  000                                319.5   1,572.9    3,550.8    3,211.7    1,170.9          1,092.9       446.2          11,364.9
Exchange Rate 3)                       9.153    15.606       15.569      16.534      19.246       20.812      23.529
Us$ '000                                34.9      100.8       226.1       194.2        60.8         52.5         19.0            690.3
Total Re '000              20,451.2  24,026.9   30,287.0   62,853.4   68,625.3    53,576.2   28,372.8               288,192.8
Total US$ '000              2,062.5   1,548.5    1,945.1    3,767.3    3,569.7          2,564.3    1,199.4           16,656.8
/  Adjusted for over-claiu in Application 16.
V   Tbrougb December 23, 1983.
Annual average, from IMF, International Financial Statistics.                                                                                             . 
gJ Weighted avercges of applicable qusrterly or ucothly rates, from IHF, International Finaacial Statistics.
V   Including Re 1,844,000 (U1673,550) for HIRP preparation.
J/  From IDA disbursement records.
1J/ US$ cotverted at average annual rates, from IXF, International Financial Statistics.
N/ Rot included in appraisal estiaates.



SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIG&TION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
OriLinla and Eatima Sd Actual Proiect Coats
(Re Million)
Civil Works  E/ Equipment                   Technical  Assistance               Total
A.ppraisal    PCR       Appraisal    PCR        Appraisal    PCR             Appraisal    PCR
Estimate   Estimate   Estimate   Estimate   Eatimate   Estimate              Estimate   Estistte
1976                      1.4          -         15.9           -          0.2           -            17.5          -
1977                     18.7         3.74       45.0        16.39         0.5         0.32           64.2       20.45
1978                     32.4         6.91       13.5         15.55        0.5         1.57           46.4       24.03
1979                     41.3        22.44       14.5          3.93        0.4         3.92           56.2       30.29                               |
1980                     29.9        47.43       10.4         11.57        0.4         3.85           40.7       62.85
1981                      -          48.03        -          17.94          -          2.65             -        68.62
1982                      -          46.72        -            1.58         -          5.28              -       53.58
1983                      -          22.87        -            1.14         -          4.36              -       28.37
123.7       198.14       99.3        68.10        2.0        21.95           225.0      288.19
US$ Equivalant           16.5        10.87        13.2         4.61        0.3         1.18            30.0 21   16.66
(mil lion)
Including engineering and administration.
21 Including US$7.0 million (Ru 52.5 million) taxes and duties.
c- I



Annex 2
-38-                             Table 5
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Estimated Actual Cost by Tank Scheme
(Rs Million)
Civil                    Technical
Works     Equipment      Assistance 11    Total
Mahakandarawa               54.75        12.97           4.19           71.91
(6,000 ac)
Mahawilachchiya             22.25         5.61           1.82           29.68
(2,600 ac)
Pavatkulam                  24.21         9.51           2.91           36.63
(4,400 ac)
Padaviya                    65.76       27.03            6.75           99.54
(12,500 ac)
Vavunikulam                 31.17        12.98           3.24           47.39
(6,000 ac)
198.14       68.10           18.91         285.15
i/ Excluding MIRP preparation studies (Rs 1.84 million) and ARTI (draft)
impact evaluation study (Rs 1.2 million).



-39-                                   Annex 3
SRI LANKA
TAiXK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Orizinal Financing Plan 1/
(US$ million)
External
Total     Domestic      IDA       UK
Civil Works                                      14.7         11.6        1.8 2/   1.3
Engineering and Administration                    1.8          1.4        0.2 2    0.2
16.5        13.0        2.0       1.5
Construct:ion Equipment                           6.2          3.3        0.5 3/   2.4 3/
Agricultu:al Equipment                            7.0          3.3        1.6 4/   2.1 5/
13.2         6.6        2.1       4.5
Technical Assistance                              0.3          0.2        0.1       -
Subtotal                                      30.0         19.8       4.2       6.0
Unallocated                                       -          - 0.8        0.8       -
Total                                         30.0         19.0 6/    5.0       6.0 71
jj  The appraisal report (SAR) shows only the expected use of the aid package
(Annex 9).
r/ 12% of expenditures.
31  SAR Annex 8, Table 1.
41 SAR Annex 8, Table 2, 3.
51 SAR Annex 8, Table 2.
6/  Includes US$7.0 million duties and taxes, largely on equipment.
7/ Equivalent of B 3.8 million.



SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Category                        Original Allocation 1/    Revised Allocation 2/          Final Allocation
US  '000    Percent         US$ '000   Percent          US$ '000    Percent
(1)  Civil Works                 1,500        30.0           1,500        30.0           1,888        44.7
(2) Equipment, Vehicles
and Spares                1,900       38.0            1,900        38.0           1,848        43.8
(3)  Technical Assistance          100         2.0             600        12.0             488        11.5
(4)  Unallocated                 1,500        30.0           1,000        20.0             -           -                 I
.~~~~~~~~
Total           5,000       100.0           5,000       100.0           4,224 3    100.0
1/  DCA dated January 12, 1977, Schedule 1.
O] Agreed September 15, 1982, to allow financing of preparation work for a proposed second
tank irrigation modernization project (MIRP).
3/ The balauce of US$776,000 was cancelled effective April 23, 1984.
I-10
I) &



-41-                                          Annex 4
Table 2
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGT3TION HODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Disbursements
(Cumulative, US$ '000)
IDA Fiscal Year                Catesory                          Appraisal    Actuals as Z of
and Semester           1           2         3          Total    Estimates   Appraisal Estimates
1977
Pirst                 -         -          -             -          100
Second jj             -         -          -             -          500             _
1978
First                 -          12        -             12       1,300            0.9
Second                -         55         -             55      2,000             2.8
1979
First                58         296        -            354      2.700             13.1
Second              110        329         12           451      3,200            14.1
1980
First               186        347         18           551      3,700            14.9
Second              252        350         26           628      4,200            15.0
First               328        857         46         1,231      4,600            26.8
Second 2/           569      1,318        197         2,084      5,000            41.7
1982
First 31            728      1,722        219         2,669     (5,000)           53.4
Second            1,109      1,766        230         3,105     (5,000)           62.1
1983
First             1,318      1,798        262         3,378     (5,000)           67.6
Second 4/         1,706      1,839        293         3,838     (5,000)           76.8
1984
First             1,838      1,848        366         4,052     (5,000)           81.0
Second 5/         1,888      1,848        488         4,224     (5,000)           84.5
1/ The credit became effective on April 12, 1977.
ZJ The origiual -losing date, June 30, 1981, vas postponed to June 30, 1983 (telex
dated May 20, 1981).
J  In August 1981, the disbursement percentage for civil works (category 1) was raised
from 12Z to 25Z. The new percentage was applied from application 82 (W/A 85,
December 1981).
#M Instead of postponing the closing date a second time, IDA agreed to continue
disbursing until December 31, 1983 (telex dated June 24, 1983).
5/  Processing of the last few withdrawal applications extended beyond December 31, 1983;
the final disbursement vas made on March 28, 1984, and the undisbursed credit balance
was cancelled on April 23, 1984.



-42-                                   Annex 4
SRI LANKA                               Table 3
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Utilization of U.K. Grant
(l '000)
Original Amount                            3,800
Less: Cancellation                         1,480
Current Amount                            2,320
Allocated for
a) Civil Works                            830
b) Equipment                             1,490
2,320
Used for (March 1984)
a) Civil Works                            620
b) Equipment                            1,483
2,103
Balance
a) Civil Works                            210
b) Equipment                                 7
S17
Source: U.K., Overseas Development Administration.



Annex 5
-43-                               PPage 1
U. - a. 6c - - 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
January 12, 1977
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Credit No. 666-CE
(Tank Irrigation Modernization Project)
Cost Recovery
Dear Sirs:
With reference to Section 3.08(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement (Tank Irrigation Modernization Project) of even date
herewith between the Republic of Sri Lanka (the Government) and the
International Development Association (the Association), we hereby
confirm that the basic elements of the Government's cost recovery
plan under the above Project, shall be as follows:
1.   Under the Sale of State Lands (Special Provisions) law of 1973,
the Government will sell the State lands included in the
Project to the settlers, thereby recovering part of the develop-
ment costs. The land sales will be completed by December 31,
1977. On the average, the sales price will amount to about
Rs.8,500 per family, paid in cash or in 20 equal annual
installments at 4Z rate of interest, or about Rs.600 per family
per year.
2.   The Government has also recently enacted the Land Betterment
Charges Act which, inter alia, enables it to impose water charges
in sufficient amounts to recover capital and operation and main-
tenance (O & M4) costs of irrigation systems. Detailed regulations
for the actual implementation of land betterment charges are under
preparation and expected to be enacted in 1977. Also, work is
under way to revise, update and prepare the land registers necessary
for the administration of land betterment charges. The Government
has set the beginning of 197B as the date by which the land better-
ment charges will be imposed, and actual collection will begin after
the Yala harvest (June 1978).
3.   In general, the level of charges will be as follows:
(i) Rs. 30 per acre in major schemes*, with over 150% cropping
intensity;
* Diversion schemes wich 500 acres command areas or tank storage schemes
with 2,000 ac-ft storage capacity.



-44-                                Annex 5
Page 2
(ii) Rs. 20 per acre in major schemes with less than 150%
cropping intensity and minor schemes with over 150%
cropping intensity; and
(iii) Rs. 10 per acre in other minor schames. These costs will
be gradually increased to cover full 0 & H costs of the
irrigation works in the fifth year.
4.   In additior  e- the above charges for 0 & M, the Government will charge
the beneficiaries of public irrigation and drainage schemes an amount
equivalent to 20% of the net average incremental farm incomes subject
to a mEximum of Rs. 300 per acre annually (in 1976 prices) as recoveries
on construction costs. It is estimated that this would mean an initial
capital recovery charge of about Rs. 200 to 250 per acre in the Tank
command areas, to be applied not later than eightetLa months after
completion of each of the Tank Schemes.
5.   The Government will also, beginning with the year 1986, adopt in
agreement with the Association, a satisfactory procedure to review
and revise, if required, on a regular basis every three years, the
level of charges collected under the Project.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the form of
confirmation below.
Very truly yours,
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By_-
Authoriz.d- Representative
CONFIRMED:
INTE.RNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By_



-45-                                                  Annex 6
Table I
Page 1
SRI LMNMA
TAMK IRRIGATTON NODEURIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-C
Appraisal RatiuAtes of CroQuin- Patterns. Yields and Production
Area                              Yield                          Production
(ac)                            (tonsac)                           (tong)
p          W          W           P                     v           P           w         V
The five Tanks (31,500 ac)
Naha     Paddy                   24.200     24,200    29,900         0.9         1.1        1.5      21,780      26.620    44.850
Cereals                   -           600      1,600         -         0.8        0.9         -           480      1.440
Pulses                    -           350        -           -         0.45        -          -           15B        -
Yals     Paddy                    7,700       7,700    10,700        0.35        1.0        1.4       6.545       7.700    14,980
Cereals                   150         500      2.650       0.65        0.8        I.i          98         400      2,915
Pulses                    500         800      4,250        0.35       0.45       0.65        175         360      2,763
Total    Paddy                   31,900      31.900    40,600                                        28.325      34.320    59,830
Cereals                   150       1.100      4,250                                            98        880      4,355
Puldea                    500       1.150      4.250                                           175        518      2,763
32,550     34,150    49,100
Cropping Intensity (1)              103         108        156
Mahakandaravw  Tank (6.000 ac)
b-a   : Paddy                     4,600      4,600      5,700        0.85        1.05       1.5       3,910       4,830     8,550
Cereals                   -           200        300         -         0.8        0.9         -           160        270
Pulses                    -           100        -           -         0.45        -          -            45        -
Yala     Paddy                      550         550     2,100        0.75        0.95       1.4         413         523     2,940
Cereals                   -           100        750         -         0.8        1.1         -            80        825
Pulses                     50         100      1,250       0.35        0.45       0.65         18          45        813
Total    Paddy                    5,150       5,150     7,80C                                         4,323       5,353    11.490
Cereals                   -           300      1,050                                          -           240      1,095
Puises                     50         200      ij250                                            18         90        813
5.200      5.650    10,100
Cropping Lntensity (2)               87          94        168
Padawiya Tank (12.500 ac)
linha    Paddy                    9,600       9,600    11,900        0.95        1.2        1.5       9,120      11,520    17,850
Cereals                    -           150        600        -          G.8        0.9         -           120        540
Pulses                     -           100        -          -          0.45        -          -            45        -
Yala   Paddy                      5,30C       5,300     6.0Nh        0.85        1.05       1.4       4,505       5.565     8,400
Cereals                    -           JOG        800        -          0.8        1.1         -            80        880
Pulses                     200         300      1,300       0.35        0.45       0.65          70        135        845
Total   Paddy                    14.900      14,900    17,900                                        13,625      17,085    26,250
Cereals                    -           250      1.400                                          -           200      i,420
Pulses                     200         400      i.J00                                            7C        180        845
15,100     15,550    20,60
Cropping intensity (2)              121         124        165



Annex 6
-46-                                                    Table I
Page 2
SRI LAMu
TANK IRRICATION wODmmIuATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Apraival _Entit  tes of Cropping Pattern.. Yield. and Production
Area                               Yield                          Production
(ac)                            (tons/ac)                            (tons)
p           v         w            P                      v           P                      w
Nahavilachchiya Tank (2,600 ac)
Nabs  : Paddy                      1.900       1,900      2.450        0.75        0.95       1.5        1.425       1,805      3,675
Cereals                    -            50        150         -          0.8        0.9          -            40        135
Pulses                     -            50        -           -          0.45        -           -            23        -
Yale  : Paddy                        200         200        900        0.7         1.85       1.4          140         170      1,260
Cereals                    -            50        300         -          0.8        1.1          -            40        330
Pulses                      50         100        600        0.35        0.45       0.65          18          45        390
Total : Paddy                      2,100       2,100      3,350                                          1.565       1,975      4,935
Cereals                    -           100        450                                            -            80        465
Pulses                      50         150        600                                             18          68        390
2,150       2.350     4,400
Cropping Intensity (2)                83          90        169
Vavunikulas Tank (6,000 ac)
Mahn  :  Paddy                     4.600       4,600      5,700        0.85        1.05       1.5        3,910       4,830      8,5S0
Cereals                    -           100        300         -          0.8        0.9          -            80        270
Pulses                     -            50        -           -          0.45        -           -            23        -
Yala  :  Paddy                     1.500       1.500      1,300        0.75        0.95       1.4        1.125       1,425      1,820
Cereals                    100         150        600        0.65        0.8        1.1           65         120        660
Pulse.                     100         150        900        0.35        0.45       0.65          35          68        585
Total : Paddy                      6,100       6,100      7,000                                          5.035       6,255    10,370
Cereals                    100         250        900                                             65         200        930
Pulses                     100         200        900                                             35          90        585
6,300       6.550      8,800
Cropping Intensity (2)               105         109        147
Pavatkulau Tank (4.400 ac)
Maba     Paddy                     3,5C0       3,500     4,150         0.8         1.0        1.5        2,800       3,500      6,225
Cereals                    -           100        250         -          0.8        0.9          -            80        225
Pulses                     -            50        -           -          0.45        -           -            23        -
Yala     Paddy                       150         150        400        0.7         0.85       1.4          105         128        560
Cereals                     50         100        200        0.65        0.8        1.1           33          80        220
Pulses                     100         150        200        0.35        0.45       0.65          35          68        130
Total    Paddy                     3,650       3.650      4,550                                          2.905       3.628      6,785
Cereals                     50         200        450                                             33         160        445
Pulses                     100         200        200                                             35          90        130
3,800      4.050       5,200
Cropping Intensity (1)                86          92        118
Source: Appraisal report. Annex 3, Table 1.



SRI LANKA
TANK IRRI(ATtOt NODERNtZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Appraisal Estimates of Irrixation Demand and 8UDDlV
(Full development)
Number of
Years
Total        Crop-               Demand ii Met
Haha                                 Yala                   Irri-  Irriga-  ping                      During
Service        Paddy          Other Cron.           Paddy           Othei Crops      gated  tion       Inten-   Water /        Period
Area     Area      Water   Area    Water    Area         Water   Area    Water    Area   Demand   aity    Available    of Record
(ac)      (oC)    (ac ft)  (ac)   (ac ft)   (ac)    (ac ft)  (ac)   (ac ft)   (ac)   (ac ft)   (1)              (ac ft)
Mahakandarawa      6,000    5,700   12,000    300         300      2,100    9,000   2,000   5,500   10.100  26,900    168           26,300  J   5 out of 6
Padaviya          12,500   11,900   25,300    600         600      6,000   25,600   2,100   5,800   20,600  57,300    165          69,400 Ij  10 out of 11        I
Mahavilachchiya   2,600    2,450    5,200    150          200        900    3,900       900   2,500    4,400  11,800    169        14,100        5 out of 7
Vavunikulam        6,000    5,700   12,100    300         300      1,300    5,600   1,500   4,100    8,800  22,100    147          24,000       6 out of 7
Pavatkulam         4,400    4,150    8,800    250         300        400    1,700       400   1,100    5,200  11,900    118         13,100       a out of 10
31,500   29,900   63,500  1,600   1,700    10,700   45,800   6,900  19,000   49,100 130,000    156    146,900
Ll  Annual inflow leac tank evaporation.
V   Including evaporation losses. ,
_/  Availability limited by insufficient tank storage capacity to regulate entire annual inflow.



SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Estimates of Tank Command Areas
(acres)
SAR                               ID Draft PCR 1/_
Page 41 2/      PaRe 12 3/      PaRe 16 4/      Pate 25      PaRe 335/
Mabakandarawa          6,000           6,100           5,850            5,850       5,880
Mahawilachchiya        2,600           2,664           2,664            2,664       2,600
Padaviya              12,500          13,800           13,433          13,333       7,680
Pavatkulam             4,400           4,134            3,777           3,777       3,825
Vavtiiikulam           6,000           5,745            5,745           5,745       3,300
Total            31,500          32,443          31,469          31,369       23,285
jj  Revised (blue cover) version, June 1984.
21  Net cultivable area.
.SJ Acreage after TIMP.
A*I Acreage before TIMPI
5/  Area designed for rotational irrigation (maha 82/83).
'sAiEsE r1~



SRI LAMKA
TANK IRRUIATION MODERMIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
AA ricu ItuVp.1_D_aU
Haha      Yala       Naha      Yalu      MNah         Yale        Haba       Yala        Naha       Yala       Naba      Yale
1278/79  ?19         1979/80    i2O    1_980181         1981      1981/82      1982    1982/83             1983    1983/84    1984
MAIL KADARAWA (6,000 ac 11)
Command areA                 me    5,850                 5,850                 5,850                   5,850                 5,850                 6,100
Cultivated area              Qc
1. Paddy                            3,649 3/  1,424      5,335 !/    -         5,326           1         990         -         -           -           30     6.000
2. Otber crops 2/                                 132       396        49      1,5S2         118       1,151        587        506          85        447        -
laroVsted urea               ac
1. Paddy                            2,973      1,359    5,335          -       5,200           1          36         -         -           -           30     6,000
2. Other crops                                    132                  49                   118                                            85                    -
Average paddy yield       bu/ac        55          61        53        -          25                      20 J       -         -            -          65         65
HUARAWLTACHCHIIA (2,600 ac j)
Coumand area                 ac    2,664                 2,664                 2,664                  2,664                  2,664                 2,664
Cultivated area              ac
1. Paddy                            2,514      1,053    2,664    1,070         2,664      1,306       2,646         989      2,629         -       2,664         -
2. Other crops 3                      -           11        -          19      1,628        -            -           91        -           -          -          -
Harvested area               ar n
1. Paddy                            2,514      1,053    2,065 6/ 1,070         2,664      1,306       2,646         989      2,629         -       2,664         -
2. Otber crops                        -            11       -          19                   -            -           91        _     -                - _
Average paddy yieldl   bu/lc           33          53        60        50         60 I1      48           55         65         66          -          65        _
PADAVIYA tl2,500 ac L/)
C,,eand area                a*   13,333                 13,333                13,333                 13,333                 13,333                13,800
Cultivated area              ac
1. Paddy                           12,600      4,000   12,Q49          -      11,332         18      12,051          13    13,170       3,500    13,800    13,800
2. Other crops ]                      -          -          -          -         799        122       1,957         553        -            -         -          -
Harvested area               ac
1. Paddy                           12,600      4,000   10,415 8j       -      11,332         18      12,051          13    13,170       3,500    13,800    13,800
2. Other crops                        -          -          -          -                    122                     553        -           -          -          -
Average paddy yield    bu/ac           67         61         63        -          35         62           60         52         67          71         65         75
Annual Cropping Intensity (1)
Mahakandarava                                89                   92                    93                     27                      1                    99
Habawilachchiya                             134                  141                   149                    140                     99                   100
Padaviya                                    125                    97                   86                     95                    125                   200
1/  Net cultivable acreage, BAR, page 41.
/  Ipland crops in Nab.
1/  4,132 aC in ECL study (7/83).
A1  3,914 ac  in ECL study, 3,000 at in ninth IDA supervision report.                                                                                                     .
3/  Per harveated ac.                                                                                                                                                  "
6)  Based an yields per net (77.8) and gross (60.3) acreage reported by DAO.
7   45 bu/ac In ID letter of August 21, 1984.
V   Based on 7ields per net (78.7) and gross (63.3) acreage reported by DAO.



SRI LAK
TANX IRRICATION KODLINIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CZ
Acricultural Datae
Naha     Yala       Kha       Yala       (abs       Yale        Naha       Yala      Naha       Tela       Kaha      Yala
1978/79    1979    1979/80    1980    1980L81            J      19"1/82      1982    19821-83     1983    1983/14    194
*
PAVATKULAN (4,400 ac /)
Coand area                  4c    3,776                3,776                3,776                  3,776                3,776                 4,134
.ultivated area             AC
1. Paddy                          2,637         -      3,443  /    -        3,270        -           967         -        238        110      3,776      3,357
2. Other crope 3                     -          -        208        -       1,390        -         2,908        330        950        141       -          122
Harvested area              dc
1. Paddy                          2,637        -       3,443        -       3,270        -           902         -        238        110      3,776      3,357
2. Other crops                                  -                                        -                      330                   141       -          122
Average paddy yield    bu/ec          47        -         65  J    -           32        -            45         -          70         60         50        70
VAVUNIKULAM (6,000 *c jJ)
Comand ares                 ac    5,745                5,745                5,745                  5,745                 5,745                5,745
Cultivated area            Sc
1. Paddy                          4,196 2/  1,625    4,607         963      4,608        -         4,806      1,514     5,271      1,560      4,606      2,700        1
2. Other crops ;/                    768        564      386       732      1,106        -           234        240        348        220       -          -
Harvested arQ.              ac
1. Paddy                          4,196      1,625    4,607        963      4,608        -         4,806      1,514     5,271      1,560      4,806      2,700
2. Other crops                                                                           -                      240                   220
Average paddy yield    bu/ac          61         60       67        82 6/      33        -            60         77 7/      70         70        65         75
TOTAL PROJECT (31,500 se J/)
Coswand area                ac   31,368               31,368               31,368                 31,368               31,368                32,443
Cultivated area             ac
1. Paddy                         25,596      8,102   28,998    2,033    27,200         1,325      21,460      2,516    21,308      5,170    25,076    25,857
2. Other crops 2/                               707                800                   240                  1,801                   446                  122
Harvested area              SC
1. Paddy                         24,920      8,037   25,865    2,033    27,074         1,325      20,441      2,516    21,308      5,170    25,076    25,857
2. Other crops                                                                           240                  1,801                  446                   122
Average paddy yield    bu/ae          59         60        62       65         35         48          56         72         68         70         63         72
Annual Cropping Intensity (Z)
Pavatkulam                                 70                   91                   87                    34                    13                   175
Vavunikulam                               111                  110                   80                    114                  123                   131
Total project                             110                  101                   92                     82                   86                   157
I/ Net cultivable acreage, SAR, page 41.
/   Upland crops in (ahs.
3/  3,269 ac in ECL study.
Al 54 in ninth IDA supervision report.
5/  4,608 ac in DAO's report.
|   55 in ninth IDA supervision report.
7/  60 in ninth IDA *upervision report.                                                                                                                                x
M c 
Sources: Quarterly project progresa reports; Irrigation Department's draft PCR (June 1984) and letter of August 21, 1984; except A.
* P.D. Ruseell, Farm Mechanization Adviser, November 1979.



Annex 6
-51-                              Table 5
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Annual Rainfall
Mean
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984  (30 years)
Mahakandarawa                            713    849    499    691
Mahawilachchiya                                                585
Padaviya                                 776   1426   1313   1594
Pavatkulam                               852   1373    955   1143
Vavunikulam                              900   1255    995   1200
Average          1556   1605   1332   1181    947   1019   1561   2096         1445
Source: Irrigation Department, Completion Report, June 1984, and letter of
January 10, 1985.



-52-
Annex 7
Table I
El LAW
CroCt 66-CE
Ecwmc RenUlt aid Costs
1M      193    199    190         19      I2    190         1964    1M5    1f        19t7    199 II          1990-1m      1m 99     Y93         1 "4 1W5-2M00
lc      tal    kL s                   -        -       -        -   14507       67        6    5713    4353    aloE   I00I   1287    13900         14377   14726   14696   14545    11=
Ime nm    l Prt      n Cs             -        -       -        -    9305    151          3    25       1375    2290    3331    409       4052       4092    40S2    40S2    4092         4092
Isan i. Costa                      3110    B3re   1I710   15970   20350    5430         320       -        -        -       -        -       -          -        -       -        -          -
lncn          ML tllCosts            -                                          -       43      43       43      43       43       43      43         43       43      43       43         43
it Inrgrst   iuwtits              -3110   -870  -13710  -1570   -4148   -6915    -360    3119    3435    4378    6640    7U44               774     10743   1059    10562   10410         6717
IRR * BZ
Icrsmhtl  lat  it,                    -        -       -        -        -       -    1060      8b    3401    4214    5963    0844    9451           99    9906    "79    "7a             7540
Inroeuntal Prodrtim  Costs            -        -       -        -        -       -     211      213    1091    1339    1877    3060    3N0           3060    3060    300    30C          306
lnwstmwnt Cos                      149      2510    7050    7590    5160    1330        140        -       -        -       -        -
Iirnmtatl Mt Costs                                                                    -           -        -        -       -        -        _                  _        _ -                _
net Incrsmtal hetis               -1490   -2510   -7M5)  -7590   -516D   -ISW           709     613    2311    2375    4086    57E4    639           693Y    6K84    681       6727       440
I.11 * 11I
Padaiva
Iners_dal  naits                      -        -       -        -        -       -   1200   47246   14770   1912    33292   47224   5137            55227   54632   5451   S             39520
Inwr     .le    Produtin Cats         -        -       -        -        -       -    450    19351    551        M50   113S    14669   14669        14669   1469   1466    14669        24669
InestanLt Cots                        -        -   10920   17640   21110   20290   16470          -        -        -       -        -       -          -       -        -        -          -
1nrr,ental DICuts                     -        -       -        -        -       -        -      79       79               79       79      79         79      79       79       79        7n
let Lrr     al  kwrita                -        -  -10920  -17640  -21110  -2020    460   27316    9173   12291   21344   32476   3655               40473   3113  39002   39207          24772
11" - 21Z
Pavatkula,
Inersutal    UiS                      -        -       -        -        -       -      15    13330    3B       48       7314   11364   12420       13450   13290   13205   13133         945
!nrmetal Praduction Costs                      -       -                 -       -       31    620    1047    1633    2432    360         3603       3U03    A3    30          3U03      3603
liwstwnt Costs                        -    100    34;0    5290   12410    9260         240        -        -        -       -        -       -          -       -        -        - 
ncrnmtald QUI Costs                   -        -       -        -        -       -       61       l       61      61       61       61      61         62      61       a,       Li         el
hLt  hrmmntal ane?Lts                  -  -1040   -3410   -5290  -12410   -9260    -177    7000    2773    326    4771            70    356           97    9634    9421    9469          57I
IN    14?
U"Avitulm
I1 :neAA  Duttits                     -                -        -        -       -    4547    6720    6196    6067   1191   16931   1803            19246   19059   19012   10325        14262
I       tal Prodution Costs           -        -       -        -        -       -    1443    27        2       2901    3901    562       562        5421    52       5W       52        5621
Inanstam   Costs                      -        -    474C    an2    1000    11240    550
nernt   OI C                                       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -         -             -          -          -
let Inrasmntal    kfits               -        -   -4740   -0720  -1I600  -11240   -2411    3992    4074    51U7    7Y15   11210   1246             13625   13'39   13391   13205         9641
in   162
Total nI
Iirrsmntal k .its                     -        -       -        -   1457        67   173Z3   73B4    33501   429        6071   97142  105172    13Z."?  111623  111421  110245          01613
Ireental Prowti   Costs                        -       -        -    135    11    6530   3212!   2153   14909   23035   32044   31044               31044   31044   3104    3IC44       31044
Ineslamet casts                    4660   12420   44930   55210   59930   40050   22700           -
m r      tl DUC                       -        -       -        -        -       -      103     183      IS3     133      193      183     183        233      293       3      103        IB3
put lnrmtal  Bmwits               -460  -12420  -443       -0   -5362   -49535  -11519   4253    21766   2797   452   65915   73945                 31572   eO36   80194   79Y 3         5039:
133 * 152
la ll vales in thmsas of thUwes.
JMIw 31. I95 0B:41



SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CE
Economic Rates of Kgturn at Different Yield Levels
 ---  5 Years to Full Development          -     -       7 Years to Full Development
---------Expected Paddy Yield j                             E---------  ---------Epected Paddy Yield   --------
w             w                  w                w                               W H
60 2         80  60   73-74 3/  68 41  73-74      60       80      60   73-74      68   73-74
Rate of Return (Z)
Hahakandarava                7.8              5.7              3.3              7.4              5.3             2.9
Hahawilachchiya             11.3              9.0             6.5              10.8              8.5             6.0
Padaviya                    21.2             18.2            15.4              19.7             16.6            14.3
Pavatkulam                  14.4             12.6            10.1              13.7             11.9             9.1
Vavunikulam                 15.8             13.4             9.6              14.9             12.2             8.7
Total TIMP                  15.0             12.6              9.9             14.1             11.6             9.0
/   In bu/ac.
V PCR estimateo.
i)  Appraisal estimates.
4/  Anuradlhapura district average 1982/S3.



-54-                            Annex 8
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJFCT
Credit 666-CE
Performance Ratings in S pervision Reports
First Supervision Report, June 6, 1977 (FS)
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: --
Types of Problems: Managerial, technical
Agricultural extension reorganization has not yet been completed. Vehicles and
construction equipment have not yet arrived and work is proceeding, at a slower
rate than anticipated, with equipment borrowed from other projects.
Second Supervision Report, January 19, 1978 (0)
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: Deteriorating
Types of Problems: Managerial, technical
Work started on two tanks was delayed for nearly three months because of the
general elections and staff leaving the project area during the ensuing dis-
turb,ances. Many engineers have resigned to take jobs abroad, resulting in
delays in the preparation of designs and work estimates. Implementation is
also hampered by the lack of vehicles and equipment.
Thir(d Supervision Report, June 20, 1978 (FS)
Status: Moderate probTems
Trend:  Irproving
Types of Problems: Other, managerial
The most critical problen is the severe short.age of experienced technical staff
for surveys, designs, planning, supervision and construction due to large scale
emigration.  Competing demands from the proposed acceleration of the Mahaweli
Program may further accentuate this problem.
Fourth Supervision Report, January h, 1979 (O)
Status:  Major problems
Trend: Stationary
Types of Problens: Managerial, technical, other
A serious constraint to project irmlementation has been the lack of a full time
resident project manager (until mie October 1978) and a full complement of ex-
perienced technical staff. There is a distinct lack of coordination between
Governnen't departments or agencies involved in the project at the district level
and inadequate liaison with farmer organi7ations. The construction program is



-55-                                Annex 8
Page 2
now about two years behind the appraisal report implementation schedule but
only about one year behind a more realistic schedule anticipated at the time
of credit effectiveness. A much more serious problem is the extremely low
quality of work completed. Some reconstruction will probably be required
after a few months of operation. A severe shortage of experienced technical
staff for surveys, designs, planning, supervision and construction still exists
due to large scale emigration. Competing demand from the acceleration of the
Mahaweli Program has further accentuated this problem.
Update, March lh,, 1979
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: Improving
Types of Problems: Managerial, technical, other
A full time resident project manager has been appointed and coordination and
construction progress are expected to improve. A quality control training
program was provided by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in the USA for three
Irrigation Department engineers during November-December 1978 and it is hoped
that construction quality will improve to the levels required. A well-qualified
water management specialist has arrived (part-time) and much improvement is
expected in this area. Introduction of the T&-V system of agricultural extension
has been slower than anticipated due to delays in procurement of vehicles and
equipment, shortage of experienced subject matter specialists and lack of
dynamic leadership. GOSL is trying to rectify these problems.
Fifth Supervision Report, January 22, 1980 (FS)
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: Stationary
Types of Problems: Managerial, technical
The project sluffers principally from (1) a lack of managerial continuity and
competence (and of coordination among Government agencies) from the head office
in Colombo down to the project and field levels and (2) various design and
construction deficiencies.  The T and V system is not yet organized or oper-
ating and staffing problems continue. Little progress has been made in getting
the farmers to undertake land preparation (and early cultivation) utilizing
rainfall, although this was one of the key areas of imDrovement identified at
appraisal.
Sixth Supervision Report, October 22, 1980 (FS)
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: Improving
Types of Problems: Technical
GOSL appointed a new management team in response to recommendations of the
November 1979 supervision mission and the team has rapidly taken hold of the
project and instituted the actions needed, such as better planning, scheduling
of work and quality control. The maintenance workshop and equipment maintenance
are far fron satisfactory and considerable equipment downtime has been experi-



-56-                                 Annex 8
Page3
enced. However, measures are being taken to improve this situation.  An
early planting program has been planned for the wiole of the Mahakandarawa
tank area this coming maha and arrangements have been made so that all farmers
will have their lands ploughed by tractors under loans provided by the banks.
Seventh Supervision Report, April 2L, 1981 (FS)
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: Stationary
Types of Problems: Financial
The status of the project is excellent from the standpoint of management, staff
morale and capatility of project staff to complete the project works by the end
of 1982. However, during the mission's visit the critical shortage of local
funds stopped all further work and the date of completion is now uncertain. The
water management program initiated for Mahakandarawa was well executed and
farmers' reaction to it was good. A severe drought occurred in the area during
the last Maha season and the program averted a complete crop failure.
Eighth Supervision Report, May 12, 1982 (FS)
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: improving
Types of Problems: Financial
The status sf the project is good from the standpoint of management, staff morale
and capability to complete the project works by the end of  Q383. Given the local
budget constraints, satisfactory implementation progress was made in 1981. A
supplementary allocation increased the construction budget to Rs h8 M, reinstat-
ing a substantial portion of the funds which had previously been cut.
Ninth Supervision Report, April 12, 1983 (FS)
Status:  Moderate problems
Trend: Improving
Types of Problems: Technical, managerial
Whereas thrpe cf the tanks receive adequate water supplies in most years for a
full maha and a partial yala crop, the Mahakandarawa and Pavatkulam tanks ex-
perienced water shortages and crop failures over the last two years, and appar-
ently these schemes may have been overdeveloped. A detailed study of their
catchment areas will be undertaken to determine water management options. The
project is still lacking a strong organization to deal with water management,
and the introduction of improved agronomic practices is still hampered by the
lack of coordination between the Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture.
Tenth Supervision Report, January 17, 1984 (Fs)
Status: Moderate problems
Trend: Stationary
Types of Problems:  Technical, managerial



-57-                                 Annex 8
Page 4
The success with which improved water managenent and agronomic practices (par-
ticularly early cultivation) have been introduced varied considerably between
tanks. The difference can be partly attributed to unusual ana severe drought,
but socio-economic, organizational and technical factors also played a part.
The accurate regulation and neasurement of water flow is still difficult to
obtain in some of the tanks, and farmers, for various reasons, apparently are
still not entirely convinced that the benefits of sowing earl.y outweigh the
risks involved.



-58-                            Annex 9
Page l
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Credit 666-CF
Proposed ParagraPhs for President's Reports
First Supervision Report, June 6, 1977 (PS)
The US$5 M credit from IDA, together with a grant of US$6 M equivalent
from the U.K.. would improve and modernize the irrigation system in the comand
area of five reservoirs (tanks) extending to 31,500 ac. The project provides
for canal lining in sections where leakage is excessive, provides surface drain-
age where needed, provides additional water control structures to enable better
water delivery regulation and improves the internal road system of the service
areas. Agricultural and construction machinery and vehicles would be provided.
Important long-term provisions include an agricultural extension service on
the lines that proved successful in India and Thailand and technical assistance
with water management that could lead to considerable water savings. The pro-
ject has only recently (April 12) become effective; however, an encouraging
start has already been made with the reorganization of the agricultural exten-
sion services and the start of construction in two of the tank areas.
Second Supervision Report, January 19, 1978 (0)
The US$5 M credit from IDA, together with a grant of US$6 M equivalent
from the U.K., would improve and modernize the irrigation system in the command
area of five reservoirs (tanks) extending to 31,500 ac. The project provides
for canal lining in sections where leakage is excessive, provides surface drain-
age where needed, provides additional water control structures to enable better
water delivery regulation and improves the internal road system of the service
areas. Agricultural and construction machinery and vehicles would be provided.
Important long-term provisions include an agricultural extension service on
the lines that proved successful in india and Thailand and technical assistance
with water management that could lead to considerable water savings. The pro-
ject became effective on April 12, 1977 and the offices, workshops, stores, and
housing at the Mahakandarawa and Mahavilachchiya Tanks have been completed. Un-
forttnately, the Government elections in July and later disruptions within the
cotntry halted most work on these projects and most of the project staff left
the project area.  New staff was sent to the Mahakandarawa Tank in October but
only the Resident Engineer and four technicians were at the Mehavilachchiya
Tank. Procurement of vehicles and equipment is proceeding on schedule and
contracts have been awarded for more than half of this equipment. However, due
to the present unavailability of vehicles or equipment (only one jeep and one
lorry is available for use at each site), very little construction work on the
irrigation system improvements has been accomplished.



-59-                                 Annex 9
Page 2
Third Supervision Report, June 20, 1978 (FS)
The construction program is behind schedule by about one year due to
delays in procurement of construction equipment, civil disturbances in 1977,
and shortages of experienced staff for surveys, designs and supervision. Prac-
tically all construction equipment has now been procured and should be avail-
able at work sites by mid 1978.  The Government also has introduced special
incentives to stem the exodus of experienced technical staff for better paid
jobs abroad. Imnlementation is expected to pick up significantly from this
year. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by about onP year.
Procurement and distribution of farm equipment is proceeding on schedule. In-
troduction of the Training and Visits system of agricultural extension is also
proceeding satisfactorily. Due to changes in the exchange rate, as well as
refinement of quantities for various works, revised project costs (net of taxes
and duties) are expected to be about 35% lower than those estimated at appraisal.
Fourth Supervision Report, January I4, 1979 (0)
Implementation of the first two tanks is now about one year behind sched-
ule but construction equipment has arrived and construction progress has begun
t.o pick up significantly. Unfortunately, quality control has been neglected
(either through lack of training and experience or through negligence) and some
of the completed works are extremely poorly constructed. Some of these works
will have to be reconstructed or water losses and OCM costs will be unacceptably
high. The Governnent has agreed to take action to improve quality control and
closely monitor future work and will reconstruict those facilities whi'h do not
function properly after operation commences. In this regard, a quality control
training program was provided by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in the USA for
three Irrigation Department engineers during November-December 1978 and it is
hoped that construction quality will improve to the levels required. A well-
qualified Water Management Specialist has arrived (part-time) to set up a water
management training program for Irrigation Department staff and farmers and much
improvement is expected in this area. A full-time resident Project Manager has
been appointed and coordination and construction progress are expected to im-
prove. Project completion is expected to be delayed about one year.
Fifth Supervision Report, January 22, 1980 (FS)
The construction nrogram continujes to lag behind the revised schedule by
about one year. In August 1979 IDA approved the procurement of about US$1.5 M
of additional construction equipment under the Credit as a means of improving
construction progress and the quality of the work. The construction program for
two of the tanks, Mahakandarawa and Mahawilachchiya, is fairly well advanced;
completion of the major part of this work is expected by the end of 1980. Work
is in the initial stages on the other three tanks. The quality of project
management has been a serious constraint to effective implementation. A new
management team is to be provided. Also, it has been agreed with the Government
that a three-member consulting team, funded under the IDA credit or the U.K.
grant, would be provided for up to two years to assist the Irrigation Department
in the design and supervision of the project. Further, IDA will provide a design
engineer for about six weeks during February/March 1980 to review and assist in
the design of irrigation works to lie undertaken early in 1980 lntil the consult-



-60-                                  Annex 9
Page 3
ing team is appointed. With these meas-res, project implementation (measured
both in terms of tinme and quality) is expected to improve significantly. A
study has been undertaken on 120 ac in the project area to train farmers in
making use of rainfall for land preparation and early cultivation, thus con-
serving tank water for yala cultivation. This Technical Assessment program
would improve water management and water use efficiencies in the project area
and appears to be successful. The T 4 V system of agricultural extension is
not yet operating effectively. However, the Secretary Agriculture is taking
a special interest in the program and is confident that he can make it success-
ful throughout the area.
Sixth Supervision Report, October 22, 1980 tFS)
S,ignificant improvement in Project implementation progress cnd construc-
tion quality has been made since the last mission review in Novembber 197?. A
new maragement team has b,een posted, -which is planning, scheduling and coordi-
nating work actions much more capably than the previous pro,ject manager. The
project has the full interest and support of the Ministry of Land,. and Land
Develnpment; the Director of Wdater Resource Development makes peiiodic field
reviews of the project to keep abreast of project development and problems and
the Additional Secretary chairs the monthly Coordinatiin Committee meetings.
Equipment maintenance and downtime is still  a problem, but a new maintennnce
workshop is scheduled for completion by March 1981 and new constriiction equip-
ment is expected to arrive during the latter part of 1980. The agricultural
Technical Assessment Area (70 ac) realized an average paddy yield of 60 bu/ac
during maha 1979/30 usin!; only 2.8 ft of delivered tank water, principally as
a result of early land preparation anrd planting.  A water management program
has been planned for the whole o0' the Mahakanclarawa sub-project area during
naha 1080/31, utili7ing rainfall to the maximuim extent possible so that tank
vrater can be conserved for the yala croo.  Farmers are Jeing organized within
each turnout for rotational water issues and all fieldo will be ploughed early
(by the onset of the rairs) to enable e-ar>  planinE..  `'ontiderable enthousiasm
has been gererated for this tria:l program.  Project completion is now antici-
pated by December 19?.8
.Seventh Slipervision Rernort, April 2L, 19-&i (iFS)
Fxccli,rit pro-;ress hns been mace on the nroject since the September l9Q3
review and TILe st,aff ane equipment' provieed are capable and ardeodaate to complete
the project by end 198? if 'required rupee funds are riade availa!ble by GOSL as
needed. - However, the k.overnment currently is experiencing a seve:-e short^all of
local funds and most Departmental hud-ets have 1-een charply reduiced (average of
25-35%'.  Agains* a local cost budget requirement for the project in 1981 of
Rs 66.0 M, t:le Irrigatior Delartnent was allocat'ed only 2s 15.0 M, and tnris was
recently reduced a further 10% to Rs 13.5 M (just 20% of requirements).  Because
of the excellent rate of implementation progress, this amount had been fully
utilired by end March and the projecs is faced with a complete shutdown during
the remaining nine m.onths of 1981. The mission recozmnended that Rs 23.0 M addi-
tional local funds oe provided to conduct a minimal work prograri during the
remainder of the year so that equipment (miwch of it just recently procured with
IDA funds) would not be idled and work essential for agricultural production in
the vzarious tank areas could be completed. This would prevent deterioration of
the currently high staff morale and of the partiaally completed works and wc.uld



-61-                                 Annex 9
Page 4
help to retain key staff who otherwise wyould be lost to private industry or
to overseas employment. The water management program initiated during the
last maha season went very well (in fact, the program averted a complete crop
failure which would have occurred due to drought conditions) and farmers'
reaction to it was good. A similar program will be introduced in the other
four tanks during the next maha season.
Eighth Supervision Report, May 12, 1982 (FS)
Given the local budget constraints, good progress was made in project
implementation during 1981. Staff positions and equipment provided are suf-
ficient to complete the project by the end of 1983, excluding some drainage
works and farm roads which have been deleted by the Government for budgetary
reasons. The water management program introduced at the Mahakandarawa Tank
during Maha 1980/81 went very well, but its planned extension to all five
tanks has not yet taken place. Severe drought in Anuradhapura district during
Maha 1981/82 caused a total failure of the paddy crop at Mahakandarawa, and a
partial failure was experienced at Pavatkulam. Fortunately, the situation was
mucn better in the other three tank areas, and crop yields for Maha 1981/82
are expected to be above average there. Project costs are now estimated to
be about Rs 286 million (11T5$l.5  million equivalent).  Expenditures through
the end of 1981 amounted to Rs 197 million, leaving a balance of Ris 89 million
(31% of total) to be spent in 1982 and 1983.
Ninth Supervision Report, April 12, 1983 (ES) 1/
Despite earlier local budget constraints, implementation progress has
generally been satisfactory. Construction on three of the five tanks has been
completed and the rehabilitated works are, with some exceptions, of good quality
and capable of providing good regulation and delivery of irrigation water. On
the two remaining tanks, considerable work remains to be done and careful sched-
uling will be required to complete the project in 1983.  Whereas three of the
tanks receive adequate water in most years for a full maha and a partial yala
crop, the Mahakandarawa and Favatkulam tanks experienced water shortages and
crop failures over the last trwo years, and apparently these schemes may have
been overdeveloped.  A study of their catchment areas will be undertaken to de-
termine water management options.  The possibility of augmenting inflow to the
Mahakandarawa tank with Mahaweli waters will also be explored. Of the total
TIMP area, 63% is under rotational irrigation this year, and additional areas
are oeing included as field channels are developed. While in most instances
the systems are operating satisfa-:torily, there is still evidence of water
wastage due to faulty structures and improper operation of gates. The project
is still lacking a strong organization to deal with water management, and the
intrcduction of improved agronomic practices to efficiently utilize rain and
stored water is still hampered by the lack of coordination between the Depart-
ments of Irrigation and Agriculture. This aspect will need considerable emphasis
in 1983 in order to maximi%e project impact. An evaluation study is being in-
itiated by ARTI and steps are taken to start compiling date for the project
completion report.  It is estimated that savings will arount to about Rs 9.0 M
1/ Since no draft paragraph was provided, parts of Form 590. Section 6, have
been given instead.



-62-                                  Annex 9
Page 5
at project completion, and there may be a need t.o extend the disbursement period
beyond end 1983, to accomodate remaining expenditures. GOSL is generally in
compliance with the Credit Agreement's covenants, although action remains to be
taken on reporting, audits, and cost recovery.
Tenth Supervision Report, Jaruary 17, 1984 (FS) 1/
The project ended on December 31, 1983. Due to financial and physical
limitations, it was not possible to completely finish field channel construction
and land development in two of the tanks; while most of the structures have been
installed, a fair amount of earth work rem-ins to be done under the frrigation
Department's on-going work program during the next two years. The success with
which improved water management and agronomic practices (particularly early cul-
tivation) have been introduced varied considerably between tanks and also lagged
considerably behind schedule. While the differences (and the resulting shortfall
of crop yields and production compared to appraisal estimates) can be partly at-
tributed to unusual and severe drought, socio-economic, organizational and tech-
nical factors also played a part. At this stage, the project can be regarded as
only partially successful in reaching its objectives. The accurate regulation
and measurement of water flow is still difficult to obtain in some of the tanks.
Farmers apparently are still not entirely convinced that the benefits of sowing
early outweigh the risks involved. Without continued efforts, greater farmer
participation and esnecially a strong and effective maintenance program, some of
the benefits of rehabilitation may never be realized. The Irrigation Department
has prepared a draft project completion report, and a final, expanded report will
he completed after receint of IDAts detailed comments.  However, for the reasons
given above it is difficult to come to firm conclusions at this stage. Actual
expenditures through project completion amounted to $14.7 M, as against the
$23 M estimated at apDraisal.
1/ See footnote 1/ on preceding page.



-63-                           Appendix 1
Page 1
COMMENTS BY COFINANCIER STAFF
SRI LANKA - TANK IRRIGATION MODERNISATION PROJECT
IBRD COMPLETION REPORT AUGUST 26th 1985 CREDIT 666CE
1. This project itas been a good example of a co-operative effort
by co-financiers. Monitoring has been regular, constructive and
every effort has been made by all partners to adapt and adjust to
changing circumstances and problems encountered during
implementation.
2. The project has gone far to meeting appraisal targets. The
report concludes that forecasts for next five years are not
unduly optimistic. The project must therefore be judged to be
successful. As a member of the multidonor team participating in
most of the supervision mission, I have found it a very
encouraging exercise. I believe that the spin-off from the
project has encouraged better practices in non-project areas
also.
3. It is clear that production from the scheme areas is very
dependent on annual variations in rainfall. The scale of
variation is more than anticipated and future yields may be
expected to vary widely.
4. Para. 2.3. of the Introduction states that the project was
considered to be a prototype for future schemes.  In view of this
it is surprising that the completion report does not provide a
specific section on problems encountered and guidelines for new
projects.
4.1. Conclusions I suggest that "lessons for future projects"
should include:-
(a) Projects cannot be considered in isolation from local
economy. Demands on government depts are affected by other
parallel projects.
(b) The incentive to the farmer to adopt 'improved'
practices, or grow alternative crops needs better
assessment. Problems of credit and insurance need very
early attention.
(c) Auditing must be improved.
(d) Information provided at project identification must be
better verified and assessed.
(e) Insistence on a partkcular form of extension, or cost
recovery may be counter-productive. The appropriate
practices must be matched to the local need.
These topics are discussed further in 5 and 6.



-64-                            Appendix 1
Page 2
5. Identification and Appraisal
With hindsight it is clear that the hydrologic data was
inadequate. In Mahakandarawa tank catchment there were many
small tanks. Many of them were in poor condition in 1960s but
were being repaired by village groups (sometimes with axternal
aid).
(See 4.4., 6.4., page 23 3) There was an assurance that "no
future development would take place upstream of the tanks" but it
was not possible to stop villagers repairing their tanks. In
1984, there were 207 minor tanks in the catchment area of
Mahakandarawa. The effect of this has been to limit all flow to
Mahakandarawa tank to less than that required to commence water
issue, except in years of higher than average rainfall. Only
when the minor tanks are full does any significant quantiLy of
water flow to the main tank.
The situation at Pavatkulam is similar but less acute.
(My personal view is that water caught in the village tanks was
probably used more efficiently than if it had been passed to the
main tank).
6. The project does demonstrate the error of identifying and
assessing the scheme in isolation from other current proposals.
6.1. At project Inception there was much publicity about the
Mahaweli scheme. Mhere were rumours that a diversion canal
could/would be built to feed Mahakandarawa which would relieve
the area of any need for economy in the "se of water. (At that
time many farmers believed that Mahaweli would provide almost
unlimited water).
6.2. The Irrigation Dept. and the Extension Dept had to compete
for staff with the Mahaweli Authority. Engineers were especially
scarce because many sought better paid jobs overseas (Fol. 5.7.).
6.3. All depts were constrained by normal government budgeting
procedure. The TIMP scheme was one component of the budget for
these depts. Inflation upset the local budget estimates and
govt. procedure was insufficiently flexible to respond quickly
even when extra local funds were granted by donors.
Extension Dept was concerned not to create a 'most favoured'
group to the detriment of the rest of its service. Thus
provision and issue cf motorcycles, housing etc (5.14) was
constrained by departmental rules. It may anyway be argued that
extension co encourage water economy upstream of the tanks was
equally important as economy downstream, yet the scheme extension
support related only to the command area. I do not consider that
the T and V approach is entirely appropriate to the TIMP scheme.
Certainly there was local opposition and it was agreed with
the IBRD extension consultant that a modified T & V system be
adopted (6.13).



-65-                            Appendix 1
Page 3
6.4. Auditing This was inadequate (5.28).
6.5. Damage to Structures (6.6.) Some damage was done to
structures by farmers. I suspect that in some cases the
structures were incorrect due to inadequate engineering staff,
and did not deliver water as specified. In other cases damage
was selfish, by farmers who did not agree .aith rotational water
issue.
6.6.  Cost Recovery   This was a condition of the project.
However if no water was supplied (several years at Mahakandarawa)
then no fees could be collected. Fees were anyway on an acre
basis. Farmers who paid, expected to get the quantity of water
they considered they needed. Collection has been low. Some
farmers at Vavinikulam had been served by a pumped scheme but
when higher charges were imposed to meet increasing fuel costs
demand for this service fell. However unofficially some farmers
used their own pumps - so demonstrating that they were prepared
to meet costs directly related to their own crop production.
Overall cost recovery on the scheme improved when uniform charges
were imoosed nationally.
6.7. Water Management Much of the expected benefit of the
project depended on improved water management. Particularly:-
(a) Early (preferably dry) cultivation and strict adherence to
agreed dates of iirst and last water issue.
(b) Rotational irrigation.
'c) Growing crops other than paddy in Yala season.
6.7.1.  Early planting was damned by the credit and insurance
policies. Credit was normally available only when it was
known that the tank contained adequate water to permit a
irrigatior. programme. Thus few farmers could afford to
cultivate and plant in the early rains - practices which
could have led to 30% -50% saving of total water use.
Similarly i-nsurance was available only for crops planted
when tank was full. Where crops did fail payment of
insurance was so late as to preclude replanting in that
season (see 6.2., 6.14).
6.7.2.  Rotational irrigation brought weed problems (6.16).
Effective weed control bas been demonstrated and "is
not expensive". However the chemicals require a cash
input. Use of extra water to control weeds (by
continuous irrigation) involves less expenditure by the
farmer although it wastes water. Only if charges are
related to quantity of water used will farmers have an
incentive to use rotational irrigation.



-66-                            Appendix 1
Page 4
Water discipline was eroded by political pressure to
extend issues of water for cultivation, and for late
ripening crops. This latter practice in fact penalized
farmers who planted early since their lands were
sometimes inadequately drained at harvest.
6.7.3. Growing of non-paddy crops in Yala was encouraged by
M Long, UK TCO Agronomist, with great success. Clearly
the impetus stopped abruptly when M Long left. The
report does not discuss the reasons for this, but I
believe it to be related to problems of marketing.
Prices for non-paddy crops were not guaranteed at an
attractive level. Chillies did well when there was a
strong export market but increasing production on
Mahaweli 'H' scheme may have eroded prices.
R D BELL
25.11.85.



- 67 -
THE WORLD BANK INTFFUNATIONAL F INANr,L CORPORATION
Appendix 1
OFFICE MEMORANDUM                                                      Page 5
PATl-      11 December 1985
ro       Mr Yukinori Watanabe, OEDOD
F HOM      R G Toulmin, EDS    e
EXTENS'ON      54558
SUBJELT      SRI LANKA:  TANK IRRIGATION MODERNISATION PROJECT ( CR 666-CE)
Further to my memorandum of 2 December, I am now able
to sund you on the following comments.Michael Long (ex cor:sultant
on the project) has commented:
Ouote
A good report. Strongly approve follow up conclusion
(page 31). Farmer Group Training, by co-ordinated goveranent staff
approach, vital to achieve early cultivation throughout command area
and consequent benefits. Annex 1 (page 1) subparagraphs A and B:
daylight irrigation wrong - 24 hrs irrigation is used. No other
system practicable.*
Unquote
2.          ODA Economists comment:
Quote
Although crop diversification was envisaged the develop-
ments and benefits so far are based on increased acreage and cropping
intensity of paddy. There has been a large increase in the Yala
Paddy acreage and a relatively small increase in the acreage of
alternative crops. Bearing in mind that Sri Lanka is now approaching
self-sufficiency in rice production and that the export market for
Sri Lankan rice is likely to be weak, this increased dependence on
paddy may limit farm incomes in the long run. Obviously the export
market prospects for any recommended crop must be examined thoroughly.
Agree with Bell's comment that benefits occurring outside
the immediate project area should have been given more consideration.
Unquote.
*Bank Staff Comments:
Annex 1 describes the project as defined in the original legal
documents. .t the time of appraisal, seven-day daylight irrigation
was envisaged. While the original documents are tnerefore not wrong,
during implementation and also in the follow-on project 24 hour irriga-
tion is used, although there are some questions as to how well farmers
have adapted to this system.



Appendix 2
-68-                          Page 1
Telephone   Teleraph                                My No.
. lilw                      ~~~~~~~~ass oa
q 1184984             "w"                                    Your
Director            ' tRRlG"    03s393o1 Swift£E    M   ..) 
<e^Ge  I 3 3301                         -                     . QX   1 1 3J
a3302                   &Vui3Tar$   liZ&arb    P.O. Box
Ofiko     3 3303                IRRIGATION    DEPARTMENT    5,7
Colombo 7
Mr, E.K. Hawkins                                    WORLD BANK
Resident Representative                    RcESIDENT MISSION IN SPI LANKA
SLe World Bank                             natc tRcc-tive. .385  4   1)..6. _
People's. Bank Head: Office Building       Lestes .' .. ... ..
10th Floor                                 fi:  .k.'..LL i
.Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner  gswathn      ACUO_  - - . 
Colambo 2.
Dear Mr. Hawkias,
Sub: Project Completion Report - Sri Lanka Tank
Irrigat..on Modernization Project (Cr.666-CE)
Reference your letters dated 27th September and November 15th
1985, the draft report submitted has been examined and I sm
pleased to inform you that the Irrigation Department agrees with
the contents. A telex message is also being sent to Director
Operations, Evaluation Department, Washington to this efiact.
Yours sincerely.
Er.g   . ..PERERA
Director of Irrigation.
KDPP/st.



- 69 -                          Appendix 2
Page 2
248l423 WORLJ. lhANK
WUlOWX IDIRRX'3 CE
ID TDR(ECT((R,
OPE Rhl IoNS E: VAL 1i1 IXN ll PARI ME Nl,
WllRl.D DANK,
WASH I  Ht;l ON
" 'RE UR I.F 1 FR SE P1 IF R 271t Hs XRRX    IO(710N B UPAR]ME Ni ACRE ES
WXTN COM)N'f:rS OF DRAFT r ,.,I.P.RIEPOR1.
REGA RDcs
END. K.I)P.PERERA
DXRCCTOIt orF XIRRIATXI'N
2418423, WORL DBANK
2192011 DIXRIGt; CE
= 120}9(I521s
=2090639
ALT Rit'D FROM:'0EDM
NHNN



IWO 1174.
[   #                                              ;¢                                           >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"rn_oiia son
SRI LANKA
Kankhaanturu                                         TANK  IRRIGATION  MODERNIZATION  PROJECT
TANK LOCATIONS
Jafim   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~VMTDGVGloPed areos
-N    NOIDnanl roads
_N                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -Roiluwop
Oriricl boundarleo
Rivers and tonks
Agro-Ilimatic zone
I A   I i J A                                       Elevolion (mn eetl
0-100
100 - 5O0
._ _ ~~~~~~~1    { ~~~~500 -3000
Tebna                   i       trMimhubn                                       AM -00  500D
t Monnrz.0t l                                                 0       60      o0
0     10   tDJo     o     40    so
mUlEs
P AVA lrAX           'A DA VI rA rA lV-
Bcy of Bengol
. V s ^ e - e ^ CHr/rA IVX
Arturodho     - AAlAfD AR4l &A
O c e o n
?b~ ~    ~ b,.6f   \'                            ' ,h,. ? S.                                     NVmo
CK/HSIMATE(S,,~~~~~~~~~ T
uzLaev / ' J <>5> >3X(^eI/ fsu
U - - /   I J |  |  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V- N.
PAKISTAN,f           CHINA
*1~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~V
I N DI A
/~~~~~~~~~ndio'f n   O                      c e on
SRI LANKA
i.d,.o.    Oc                U0* ar                         _






