Report No. 951a-CE
Sri Lanka: Appraisal of the
Tank Irrigation Modernization Project
November 15, 1976
Irrigation and Area Development Division                                           RETURN   TO
South Asia Projects Department
WITHIN
F IL E___P EPPS E.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                                              OE___
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Until recently, the Sri Lanka Rupee was pegged to the
Pound Sterling at a parity rate of L 1.00 = Rs 15.60. On May
24, 1976, the Sri Lanka Rupee was officially linked to a
basket of currencies with the initial parity rate based on the
prevailing Rupee/Pound rate. The current Rupee/US Dollar
rate is about US$1.00 = Rs 8.70. The rate below, in effect
during the preparation of the report, has been used throughout
the report, except where stated to the contrary. 1/
US$1             =    Rs 7.5
RS 1             =    US$o.133
Rs 1 million     =    US$133,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 long ton  = 2,240 lb   =    1.016 metric tons
1 hundredweight (cwt)
= 50.8 kg              =    112 lb
I bushel (bu) of paddy   =    45 lb
1 pint                    =    0.57 liters
1 acre (ac)               =    0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)               =    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)    =    640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)               =    30.5 centimeters (cm)
1/   Through the sale and purchase of Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificates (FEECs), Sri Lanka effec-
tively practices a dual exchange rate. Most non-
foodgrain imports have to pay a surcharge of 65%
through the purchase of FEECs. Most non-traditional
exports receive a 65% premium over the official rate
through the sale of FEECs.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB           -    Asian Development Bank
APC           -    Agricultural Productivity Committee
ARTI          -    Agrarian Research and Training Institute
BG            -    Batalagoda (a new improved HYV)
CAD           -    Command Area Development
CC            -    Cultivation Committee
CFC           -    Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation
CP            -    Cooperative Program
DA            -    Department of Agriculture
DME           -    Department of Machinery and Equipment
DRI           -    Director Rural Institutions
FAO           _    Food and Agriculture Organization
FEEC          -    Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
GDP           -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP           -    Gross National Product
GOSL          -    Government of Sri Lanka
ICB           -    International Competitive Bidding
ID            -    Irrigation Department
IRRI          -    International Rice Research Institute
KVS           -    Village Level Government Extension Worker
(Krushikarma Viyaptha Sevaka)
LHG           -    Low Humic Gley Soils
M             -    Million
MAL           -    Ministry of Agriculture and Lands
MDB           -    Mahaweli Development Board
MIPH          -    Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways
MPC           -    Multi-Purpose Cooperatives
MPCS          -    Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies
0 & M         -    Operation and Maintenance
PMB           -    Paddy Marketing Board
RBE           -    Reddish Brown Earth
RVDB          -    River Valley Development: Board
SDCC          -    State Development and Construction Corporation
SLTC          -    Sri Lanka Trading (Tractor) Corporation
TCC           -    Tank Coordination Committee
TCEO          -    Territorial Civil Engineering Organization
USBR          -    United States Bureau of Reclamation
Thb documont has a rtricted distributien and may be wod by recipint only in the performance
of theif olfcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dbcbzd without World Bnk authoriztin.



FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS FOR OFFICERS
ADAEO                 -    Assistant District Agricultural Extension
Of ficer
AI                    -    Agricultural Instructor
AO                    -    Agricultural Officer
APAEO                 -    Assistant Project Agricultural Extension
Officer
DAEO                  -    District Agricultural Extension Officer
DDA                   -    Deputy Director of Agriculture
GA                    -    Government Agent
KVS                   -    Village Level Government Extension Worker
(Krushikarma Viyaptha Sevaka)
PAEO                  -    Project Agricultural Extension Officer
SAI                   -    Senior Agricultural Instructor
SMS                   -    Subject Matter Specialist
GLOSSARY
chena                 -    slash and burn or "shifting" agriculture
dhal                  -    pulse crop (pigeon peas)
District              -    The principal administrative sub-division.
There are 22 Districts in Sri Lanka.
ganga                 -    major river
jaggery               -    unrefined sugar
maha                  -    northeast monsoon season (October to January)
mammotie              -    hoe
manioc                -    cassava - the plant from which tapioca is
made
oya                   -    minor river
paddy                 -    the unhusked grain, obtained after the
threshing of the rice crop or the
actual rice (oryza sativa) crop itself.
rice                  -    the husked rice, ready for cooking (also
referred to as "milled rice").
rotational irrigation-    intermittent irrigation
wewa                  -    tank
yala                  -    southwest monsoon season (April to July)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



SRI LANKA
APPRAISAL OF THE TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .......................  i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................  I
II.   BACKGROUND ...........................          .,....... 2
General ................ ...  ...............    2
The Economy .............................    2
The Agricultural Sector ..............    ....    3
Irrigation    ..............................................  4
III.   THE PROJECT AREAS              ..........   .......      4
General ............. 0............................  4
Climate ... ...........................................    5
Topography and Soils         ....................    5
Farm Size and Land Tenure        ................    6
Agricultural Production        ..................    6
Agricultural Supporting Services .........        7
Present Problems .       .................    9
IV.   THE PROJECT ..................................... ...... ....    9
General ... ...............  ..............    9
Project Works .       ........... ................    9
Water Supply, Demand and Quality ........ .   12
Implementation Schedule ..       ................   13
Cost Estimates .....  ......................   13
Financing . ..............................   15
Procurement ... .. ....... a ...... ...   ........... .   15
Disbursements ............................   16
Accounts and Audit .............. ........   16
Environmental Effects .............. ....    .   16
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission including:
Messrs. R. Morton; M. Fireman; P. Garg; J. Karl Lee, and A. Seager (IBRD),
and R. Shukle, Z. Matmor, and D. Benor (Consultants) who visited the project
area in April and May, 1975. During part of the time, the following repre-
sentatives of prospective co-financing countries accompanied the Mission:
Messrs. R. Bailey (Canada); W. Franklin (UK); R. Glazner (Netherlands), and
J. Coles, R. Perry and J. Watson (USA). A follow-up Appraisal Mission com-
prised of Messrs. P. Garg and C.J.R. Bridge (IBRD), E. Yendall (Canada),
and W. Franklin (UK), visited Sri Lanka in January/February 1976.



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEM:ENT .....   ..............  17
Project Implementation .. .   ................  17
Project Coordinatiort .....   ................  18
Technical Assistance. .....   ................  19
Operation and Maintenance ....    ............  19
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES.   20
Production ................................   20
Market Prospects ......... ................  21
Prices ....                                  22
Farm  Incomes   .............................  22
Cost  Recovery   ............................  23
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....    ...............  25
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....7....   7
ANNEXES
1.  Climatic Data
2.  Topography and Soils
3.  Cultivation Practices, Cropping Patterns and Yields
4.  Agricultural Supporting Services
5.  Water Supply, Demand and Quality
6.   Implementation Schedule
7.  Cost Estimates
8.   Equipment List
9.   Schedule of Expenditures, Proposed Aid Package Allocation
and Schedule of Disbursements
10.  Operation and Maintenance
11.  Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
12.  Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
13.  Economic Analysis
MAPS
11749    -    Tank Locations
11750    -   Mahawilachchiya Tank



SRI LANKA
APPRAISAL OF THE TANK IRRIGATION MOD)ERNIZATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.     '  Agriculture dominates the economy of Sri Lanka.  It accounts for
about one-third of the GNP, more than one-'half of all employment, about four-
fifths of export earnings and much of the Government revenues. However,
Sri Lanka imports about 40% of its foodgrain requirements. Historically,
the country has depended upon the export earnings from tree crops -- tea,
rubber and coconuts -- to provide for the import of foodgrains and other
goods. The worsening terms of trade have prompted a reexamination of the
past strategy. Increased food self-sufficiency is now a major objective of
the Government's current agricultural policies. Better utilization of exist-
ing irrigation facilities and the development of new irrigation potential are
two important elements in achieving increased food self-sufficiency.
ii.       The dry zone of Sri Lanka has some 180 major tank irrigation
schemes, serving a total cultivated area of about 400,000 ac. Deterioration
of irrigation systems, poor water management and inadequate agricultural
supporting services, are the prime constraints limiting agricultural pro-
duction in the schemes. The proposed project would be a prototype for
bringing these schemes up to their full potential. A successful implemen-
tation of this project would open the way for eventual modernization of all
the tank schemes. Potentially, that could add one-quarter of a million tons
to the foodgrain production of the countryr (about one-third of current
imports).
iii.      The project would cover five tank schemes, serving a total culti-
vated area of 31,500 ac. The project would include:(a) construction works
for improving irrigation and drainage facilities; (b) improvement of farm
roads; (c) provision of farm equipment for land preparation and plant pro-
tection; (d) strengthening of agricultural supporting services, particularly
extension; and (e) technical assistance for improving the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation systems.
iv.       Total project costs are estimated at US$30.0 million equivalent,
including about US$7.0 million in import taxes and duties. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$9.3 million or about 40% of the total
net of taxes and duties. The major elements in the cost estimates are:
civil works (US$8.7 M); construction equipment and vehicles (US$5.6 M);
agricultural equipment and vehicles (US$5.6 M); technical assistance (US$0.3
M); and engineering and administration (US$1.3 M) -- making the base project
cost US$21.5 M. Physical contingencies (UJS$1.7 M) and price contingencies
(US$6.8 M) would bring the total project cost to US$30.0 M.



- ii -
v.        With assistance from the Bank Group, GOSL has secured a grant
of US$6.0 M equivalent from The UK for financing part of the project costs.
Together with the UK grant, the proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 M would finance
all foreign exchange costs and some local costs, or about 48o of the total
project cost net of taxes and duties.
vi.        Project implementation would take five years.  The Irrigation De-
partment (ID), under the Ministry ol' Irrigation, Power and Highways (MIPH)
would be responsible for implemental:ion, and operation and maintenance of
the civil works proposed under the project. Construction equipment for the
ID would be procured by the Sri Lanka Tractor Corporation which would also
procure and distribute the farm equipment to project area farmers. The
Department of Agriculture in the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands would be
responsible for the re-organization and strengthening of the extension serv-
ice.  Responsibility for improving marketing, processing and storage facili-
ties would be with the Paddy Marketilng Board. Credit facilities for financ-
ing farm equipment would be providedi by the Bank of Ceylon and the Peoples'
Bank. To facilitate inter-agency coordination, Project Coordination Com-
mittees have been established at the Central, District and Tank levels. The
committees are respectively chaired by the Secretary, MIPH, Chief Project
Engineer, and Project Engineers and include respresentatives from the con-
cerned agencies.
vii.      Machinery and equipment to be supplied under the UK grant would be
procured in accordance with UK procurement guidelines. Other equipment, vehi-
cles and office supplies would be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Civil works, proposed under the
project, would be simple, labor-intensive, individually small, scattered over
large areas and restricted to seasonal construction. Thus, they would be
unsuitable for international competitive bidding, and, instead would be
carried out by the ID on force account or through small unit-cost contracts.
viii.     At full development by 1985, annual foodgrain production in the
five tank areas as a result of the project is expected to reach 46,000 tons
compared to the current 18,700 tons and a projected 23,700 tons without the
project conditions. The project-related increase of 22,300 tons would re-
present an annual net foreign exchange savings of about US$4.0 million.
ix.       The project would directly benefit some 10,000 small farm families,
operating mostly about 3 ac each.   Present income levels in the Project area
are substantially below the national average. At full development, the pro-
ject would raise them to the nationaL level. The civil works proposed under
the project would provide a total of 3 M man-days of employment during imple-
mentation.  The more intensive cultivation envisaged under the project would
generate an annual employment of 0.6 M man-days in on-farm works. Also, there
would be a substantial increase in secondary employment in activities such as
marketing, processing, and supply of farm inputs. The increased employment
would help to relieve the large unemployment and underemployment prevailing
in project areas.



- iii -
x.         At projected 1985 world market prices, the project's economic
rate of return would be 23%. Sensitivity t;ests indicate that, even under a
variety of adverse assumptions, the project. remains economically viable.
Economic analysis also indicates that each of the five tank schemes is
viable on its own.
xi         Subject to the appropriate agreemnents obtained from the Govern-
ment, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.0 M. The
Borrower would be the Republic of Sri Lanka.






SRI LANKA
APPRAISAL OF THE TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has requested IDA assistance
in financing a Tank Irrigation Modernization Project. Since the beginning
of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank Group has made eight loans
and extended nine credits totalling US$152.5 M. This would be the Bank
Group's fourth project in support of the country's water resources develop-
ment. Credits 121-CE (US$2.0 M) and 168-CE (US$2.5 M) involved lift irriga-
tion and drainage and reclamation projects, respectively. A combination of
Credit 174-CE (US$14.5 M) and a Loan 653-CE (US$14.5 M) financed the con-
struction of the first stage of the Mahaweli Ganga Project. Stage II of
the Mahaweli Ganga Project, appraised concurrently with this project, is
being processed. Recently, the Association approved a US$25.0 credit for
financing an Agricultural Development Project (Cr 595-CE). The project
is to support high priority on-going programs for agricultural rehabilitation
and development through the provision of critically-needed vehicles, machinery
and equipment, spares, supplies and technical assistance. The Agricultural
Development Project would complement the proposed project in many respects.
1.02      There are some 180 major tank irrigation schemes 1/ in Sri Lanka,
serving a total cultivated area of about 400,000 ac.  The tanks were origin-
ally constructed to provide supplemental irrigation during the maha season.
The emphasis placed on food self-sufficiency in recent years has prompted a
re-examination of the irrigation potential of these tanks. Several studies
have indicated that substantial increases in cropping intensities, yields
and production are possible with rehabilitation and modernization of the
water distribution system, improved water management and cultivation
practices, and a strengthening of the agricultural supporting services.
The proposed project, covering five tank schemes, would be a prototype for
testing the validity of this approach at the field level.
1.03      The project was identified and prepared by several Missions from
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP). Their findings and recommendations
are presented in Report No. 17/75 CEY. 7 dlated April 25, 1975. The project
was appraised in April/May, 1975 by a Bankc Group Mission comprising Messrs.
R. Morton, M. Fireman, P. Garg, J.K. Lee, and A. Seager (IBRD) and R. Shukle,
Z. Matmor, and D. Benor (Consultants). The Mission was accompanied by rep-
rentatives of four prospective co-financing countries 2/:  Messrs. R. Bailey
1/   Those with a storage capacity of 2,000 ac-ft or more.
2/   Originally, it was proposed that the processing and co-financing of this
project and the Mahaweli Ganga II Project would be dealt with as a
package. Following discussions between GOSL, IDA and the co-financing
countries, it was agreed that, since the Tank Irrigation Project would be
ready for Board presentation ahead of the Mahaweli Ganga II Project and
since it would simplify procurement and disbursements, only UK would
participate in co-financing this project. Contributions from the other
co-financiers would be used for the proposed Mahaweli Ganga II project.



- 2 -
(Canada); R. Glazner (The Netherlands); W. Franklin (UK), and J. Coles,
R. Perry and J. Watson (USA). A follow-up Appraisal Mission, comprised
of Messrs. P. Garg and C. J. R. Bridge (IBRD), E. Yendall (Canada), and
W. Franklin (UK), visited Sri Lanka in January/February 1976. This report,
based on the findings and recommendations of the two Missions, was prepared
by Messrs. J.K. Lee and P. Garg.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Republic of Sri Lanka is a tropical island in the Indian
Ocean with an estimated current population of about 13.5 million, 80% of
which is rural. Of the total lancd area of 16.2 million ac (about 25,300
sq mi), about 5 million ac are used for agriculture, 9.3 million ac are
under forests, and the remaining 1.9 million ac are water bodies, urban
areas or under other uses. About half of the forest land is potentially
suitable for agricultural development.
2.02      The island's climate is characterized by nearly constant temper-
atures but with large variations in rainfall. Based on precipitation, the
island can be divided into two distinct zones: the wet zone (average an-
nual rainfall over 75 inches), situated in the southwest quadrant and
covering about 30% of the land area, and the dry zone (average annual
rainfall 35 to 75 inches) covering the remainder of the island. The wet
zone supports more than three-quarters of the total population and ac-
counts for about 70% of the cultivated land.
The Economy
2.03      Per capita income levels (US$145 in 1975) are low.  Since 1970,
growth in national income has averaged 2.5% a year, only slightly higher
than the population growth rate of 2%. A large part of the labor force,
perhaps about one quarter, is unemployed or underemployed, and indications
are that the employment situation has been worsening for some years. During
the last few years, Sri Lanka has been severely affected by rapid deteriora-
tion in its terms of trade -- prices of its major imports, foodgrains, fer-
tilizers and petroleum products have shot up, while price increases for its
main exports tea, coconuts and rubber have been relatively moderate.
2.04      Past Government programs have emphasized social welfare and equit-
able income distribution. On the positive side, this has meant an increas-
ingly egalitarian income distribution, a rather well-developed system of
health care and other public services and a high literacy rate. These develop-
ments, however, have not been accompanied by a satisfactory growth in output,
mainly because of inadequate investrment in productive sectors.  Much of the
capital stock of the economy is obsolete and requires replacement and moderni-
zation. The country faces a severe foreign exchange gap, and the budgetary



resources of the Government are barely adeq[uate to cover its current ex-
penditure, leaving most capital formation to the vagaries of external assist-
ance. The Government is aware of the problems confronting the economy and has
been gradually shifting the emphasis towards production oriented investments,
particularly those for increasing food production.
The Agricultural Sector
2.05      Agriculture contributes about one-third of the gross national
product (GNP), more than one-half of all employment, over four-fifths of
export earnings and much of the Government revenues. Dominance of the
sector gives it a pivotal role in influencing the economic activity and
the course of development in the country.
2.06      Sri Lanka's climate is suitable for year-round crop production.
The major constraint is water; in the wet zone there is sometimes too much
while in the dry zone there is often too little. The variations in preci-
pitation and elevation make it possible to grow a wide range of crops in-
cluding tea, rubber, coconuts, paddy, manioc, chillies, maize, potatoes
and millets. About half of the total cultivated area of 5.0 million ac is
under tree crops -- primarily tea, rubber and coconuts. The other half is
under field crops, the major ones being paddy (1.3 M ac), manioc (0.2 M ac)
and chillies, maize and pulses (about 0.1 M ac each). Where sufficient water
is available, it is the common practice to produce two or more crops a year.
The cropping intensity on paddy lands ranges from about 185% in the wet zone
to about 110% in the dry zone, the average for the whole country being about
150%.
2.07      In the decade ending in 1973 (the last "normal" year), agricul-
tural output increased by about 25%, i.e. at an annual rate of only 2.3%;
on a per capita basis the rate of increase was insignificant. While food-
grain production increased by about 36% over this period (3.1% annually),
output in the tree crop sector increased by only 13%. Paddy production,
under favorable weather conditions, reached 77 M bu in 1970 and that
level is still to be surpassed. In 1974, the dry zone experienced a
severe drought; both the maha and yala crops harvested in 1975 were much
below normal. Total paddy production in 1975 was about 55 M bu -- only about
two-thirds of the 1970 production.
2.08      The slow growth of agricultural production despite considerable
potential may be attributed to a number of factors. The sluggish performance
of the tree crop sector is largely a result of inadequate investment due to
poor financial returns and an uncertain lnvestment climate. Production of
field crops has suffered from poor water management, lack of adequate farm
power for timely tillage, inadequate attention to extension, marketing and
credit facilities and the system of controls and subsidies which works to
reduce incentives to the farmer. 1/
1/   An analysis of the various constraints to agricultural development in
Sri Lanka is given in the Bank Group Report No. 579a-CE, Republic of
Sri Lanka, Agricultural Policy and Program Review, dated February 19,
1975



-4-
2.09      The Government is concerned about the stagnation in agricultural
production. Among the measures recently taken to increase field crops out-
put are: increases in guaranteed support prices and elimination of com-
pulsory paddy procurement to provide production incentive; reduction in
free and subsidized rations; import restriction on subsidiary crops such
as chillies, onions, potatoes and pulses to promote domestic production;
establishment of Agricultural Productivity Committees (APCs) to improve
the supply of farm inputs and supporting services; and most importantly an
increased emphasis on efficient water utilization and management.
Irrigation
2.10      Agriculture in the dry zone depends entirely upon irrigation
during the yala season and because of erratic monsoons, supplementary
irrigation is necessary even during the maha season.
2.11      Irrigation in Sri Lanka dates back to about 600 B.C. when an
extensive network of irrigation tanks (reservoirs) was developed in the
nothern part. Over the last century, many of these facilities have been
reconditioned and incorporated into new irrigation systems. Currently,
they irrigate about 900,000 ac and efforts are continuing to expand this
acreage.
2.12      In addition to reconditioning the ancient tank network, the
Government has undertaken a number of multi-purpose water development
projects; among them are Gal Oya, IJda Walowe and Mahaweli Ganga projects.
The last one is being constructed with the Bank Group assistance.  With
the completion of the ongoing workS by 1985, the total irrigated acreage
would increase by about 200,000 ac.
2.13      Farmers in Sri Lanka follow the traditional methods of irrigat-
ing paddy; they let water run continuously, ponding it on the fields. In
addition to meeting the consumptive use requirements of the crop, this
method has the advantage of assisting in weed control. However, it is
highly wasteful in the use of water, particularly on soils with high per-
meability. Also, in the tank schemes, paddy is normally sown only after
the tanks are deemed to be sufficiently full to assure an adequate water
supply to mature a maha crop. If the tanks do not fill until late in the
monsoon, sowing is correspondingly delayed. The net effect is that in
some years much of the monsoon rain is not utilized for crop production.
With proper operation and management of the irrigation systems and improved
methods of irrigation, it would be possible to substantially increase the
irrigated area with the existing water supply.
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
General
3.01      The five areas proposed for modernization under the project are
located in the north central dry zone of Sri Lanka. Three of the tanks



(Padaviya, Mahakanadarawa, Mahawilachchiya) are located in Anuradhapura
District; Pavatkulam is in Vavuniya, and the fifth, Vavunikulam, is in
Mannar District. Part of the command areas of the Padaviya and the
Vavunikulam tanks are also located in Trincomalee and Jaffna Districts,
respectively. All five tanks are fed by the runoff from local catch-
ments ranging from 88 sq mi to 208 sq mi. The net irrigable area served
by the individual tanks varies from 2,600 ac to 12,500 ac; the total for
the five is 31,500 ac. The water supply/dernand conditions in the five
tanks cover a wide spectrum, varying from highly favorable in the
Padaviya tank to rather poor in the Pavatku:Lam tank. Taken as a group,
they are representative of nearly all the major tank schemes in Sri Lanka.
3.02      Before construction of the five tanks, about 20 years ago, the
present service areas of the tanks were forest lands and only a limited
amount of chena cultivation was practiced. After reconstruction, some
10,500 families were settled, each with a 3 ac allotment of irrigation
land. 1/ The current population in the five tank areas is estimated at
about 75,000, almost all of it engaged in agriculture.
Climate
3.03      The climate in the project areas is tropical with mean monthly
temperatures ranging from 76°F to 860F, making it suitable for year round
cropping. The mean annual rainfall is about 55 inches and about two-thirds
of that occurs during the maha season (October-January). Mean relative
humidity varies from 69% to 80% and average daily sunshine, from about four
hours in December to nine hours during February through April (Annex 1).
3.04      The rainfall pattern is highly erratic.  The onset of the mon-
soon may vary as much as six weeks from year to year. The amount of rain-
fall also varies considerably from year to year. Precipitation amounting
to 6 to 8 inches per week as well as dry periods extending for 2 to 3 weeks
are not uncommon during the maha season (Annex 1, Figures 1 to 3). Due to the
unpredictability of the rainfall irrigation is necessary even during the maha
season.
Topography and Soils
3.05      The north central region in which the five tank areas are
located is a large plain sloping gently downward from south to north.
The soils of the areas irrigated by these tanks are lateritic and derived
from coarse grained granites. They are unusually low in silt and there-
fore are very hard when dry. They have high permeability and low water-
holding capacities. The warm winds that regularly blow over the northern
part of the island during the yala season dry the soils out quickly and,
therefore, they require frequent irrigation.
I/   In addition, each family was given about 2 ac of unirrigated high land
for homesteading and for growing rainfed crops.



-6-
3.06       In addition to the general slope, there is local undulation in
surface relief which is related to the stream pattern. Generally, three
soil types are found within the command area of each tank. These include
(i) reddish-brown, moderately coarse, highly permeable soils, located on
uplands with elevated rolling topography; (ii) slightly darker, slightly
finer, moderately permeable soils with fair drainage, located mostly on the
gentle slopes below the uplands, and (iii) brown to grey-brown, slightly
finer, less permeable, poorly drained bottom land soils. All the soils are
slightly acidic.
3.07       Because of the coarser structure and higher permeability of the
reddish brown soils they are best suited for the production of upland crops,
while the bottom soils are ideal for paddy production. Even though the
soils on the uplands and intermediate slopes are better suited to crops
other than paddy, GOSL officially describes them as "paddy soils".
Paddy is uniformly grown on them during the maha season (Annex 2).
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.08       Socio-economic surveys conducted during project preparation indi-
cate that the farm size pattern established at the time of settlement has
remained essentially unchanged.  Over three-quarters of the sample holdings
were between 2 and 4 ac, and none of the holdings was smaller than 1 ac or
larger than 5 ac. Most farms also had about 2 ac of highland, part of
which was used as household garden plots. In addition, about two-thirds
of the farm families practiced chena cultivation on forest lands outside
the project area.
3.09       With minor exceptions, the lands in the five tank schemes are
State lands on nominal lease to the settlers 1/. The leaseholders can pass
the leasing rights on to their children, but are forbidden to mortgage, sub-
let or fragment the lands. Under the 1973 Sale of State Lands Act, the Gov-
ernment is conferring full titles to the cultivators in such schemes while
collecting part of the development costs incurred during settlement. The Land
Commissioner, within MAL, expects to complete the new tenure arrangements by
the end of 1977.
3.10       The surveys indicate an average family size of about 7.5, of which
4 are available for farm work -- 2.5 on a full time basis and 1.5 on a part
time basis. About 60% of the adult farm population is literate.
Agricultural Production
3.11       Paddy is the most widely cultivated crop in the project areas.
Sowing of the maha paddy starts in October/November, after the tanks have
been filled to a level deemed adequate to ensure the water supply for the
1/   Exceptions are the privately-owned land around a few small village
tanks in Purana villages which were incorporated into the schemes
in the past at the time of rehabilitation.



crop. Because of inadequate farm power for land preparation and the prior-
ity given to chena cultivation, the sowing is extended into late January.
The crop is harvested between February and April. Subject to the water
availability in the tanks, a second paddy crop, yala paddy, is broadcast
during March/April for harvest in June/July.
3.12      Maha paddy is grown on some 24,000 ac and yala on 8,000 ac.
The yields are low -- about 0.9 and 0.8 toms/ac, respectively. The lower
yala yield is primarily due to the water shortages experienced during the
latter part of the cropping season. Farmers prefer broadcasting to trans-
planting despite the latter's potential for higher yields. Recently row
seeding which allows easier weed control, has become popular. Cultivation is
done by manual labor, except for land preparation which is mostly done by
tractors.
3.13      In addition to paddy, crops such as maize, sorghum and pulses
are grown on about 700 ac during the yala season. Some coconuts, bananas
and vegetables are grown, primarily for home consumption, on household
garden plots. On chena lands, outside the project area, farmers grow mil-
lets, pulses, seasmum, and other drought-resistant crops.
3.14      On the 31,500 ac of irrigable cultivated area, the estimated
present cropped area is about 33,000 ac giving an overall cropping inten-
sity of 103%. The cropping intensity varies from a low of 85% in Mahawila-
chchiya tank to about 120% in Padaviya tank. The total production is about
28,000 tons of paddy and about 300 tons of pulses and cereals. Present
farming practices, cropping patterns and yields are detailed in Annex 3.
Agricultural Supporting Services (Annex 4)
3.15      Agricultural Productivity Committees and Cultivation Committees.
Agricultural Productivity Committees (APCs), established under the Agricul-
tural Productivity Law of 1972, are to be the principal regulatory bodies
for all agricultural activities at the field level. There are to be a
total of 530 APCs, 1/ each APC serving about 5,000 farm families. The
members of the APCs are appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Lands.
At the village level, APCs are assisted by Cultivation Committees (CCs)
whose members are also appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Lands.
Both APCs and CCs are assisted by the administrative, engineering and
agricultural officers in technical matters. The committees are responsible
for ensuring that the agricultural lands are used to the maximum benefit
of the country. Towards this end, they have far reaching powers in pre-
scribing the cropping patterns to be followed in their areas as well as in
the allocation of inputs such as credit, fertilizer, tractors and irriga-
tion water.
3.16      Agricultural Research:  The problems of dry zone agriculture are
studied at Maha Illupalama Research Station which is funded by the Mahaweli
Development Board (MDB) and is centrally situated for all five tanks (Map
11749). Rice breeding is done at the nearby Badalagoda station. On the
whole, agricultural research is well organized and the rice breeding program
has consistently produced good results.
1/   Some 430 of these were already in exiLstence in May 1975.



-8-
3.17      Agricultural Extension.  There are a multiplicitv of extension
programs in Sri Lanka.  In addition to the Department of Agriculture's
country-wide program, there are several special programs, some oriented to
particular areas and others to particular crops. This multiplicity results
in both diffusion and confusion. In addition, extension suffers from a lack
of exposure to up-to-date research, a shortage of vehicles, equipment and
accommodation for the field staff, and the absence of a well-defined work
program for field staff.
3.18      Agricultural Inputs.  All seeds are distributed by the extension
service and varieties adaptable to all climatic zones and seasons are gene-
rally available. Most farmers use fertilizer which has generally been
available in sufficient quantity to meet the demand, but sometimes not on
a timely basis. Pesticides and herbicides are generally available as needed
However, an adequate supply of equipment for application of these has not
been available. This either discourages the use of agro-chemicals or re-
sults in their untimely application. About 85% of the short- and medium-
term credit is provided by private sources. The GOSL provides institutional
credit through the Bank of Ceylon arnd the People's Bank. Due to inadequately
trained field staff, lack of supervLsion in the use of credit and leniency
in imposing credit discipline, the recovery rates on institutional credit
have, generally, been low. Using APCs to assist in controlling and
supervising the use of credit, the Government is trying to improve recovery
rates.
3.19      Farm Tractors.  About 65% of the farmers in the tank areas use
four-wheel tractors for land preparation.  Due to lack of foreign exchange
to buy spare parts or replacement tractors, the present tractor fleet is
inadequate to prepare the land in time. Two-wheel tractors and water
buffalo are sometimes used as substitute sources of draft power; however, that
requires using scarce irrigation water for pre-softening of the soils.
3.20      Marketing, Transportation and Milling.  Until recently, the Paddy
Marketing Board (PMB) had a monopoly in the purchase of paddy. Even with
the removal of restrictions on private traders, it is expected that the
Board will continue to play an important role in paddy marketing and mill-
ing. Generally, the paddy is transported by buffalo carts to the purchasing
points (about 250 in the Anuradhapura District). From there, it is trans-
ported by trucks to the storage centers. At present, Anuradhapura District
has about 50,000 tons of storage capacity. The PMB is constructing a silo
to augment this by an additional 6,000 tons.  Rice milling is done in private
mills as well as in those owned by the PMB. The main problems with PMB's
marketing and milling operations have been: (i) lack of grading facilities
at purchase points, (ii) lack of adequate transportation and storage facil-
ities, particularly during the peak periods, and (iii) poor quality of the
milled rice. With assistance from International Rice Research Institute
(IRRI), Ford Foundation, and USAID, PMB is undertaking a phased program for
improving its operations. The recent decision to allow private sector par-
ticipation in these activities will also help alleviate some of the problems.
Maize and sorghum are relatively minor crops. They are mostly marketed
through private channels. However, during the last two years PMB has also
entered the market as the residual buyer.



-9-
3.21      The entire country, including the north central region in which
the five tanks are located, is served by good all-weather roads, most of
which are asphalted. The secondary roads are usually graded and many are
gravelled. However, the village and farm roads are often nothing more
than tracks and are usually impassable during the wet season.
Present Problems
3.22      The main problems which limit agricultural production in the
project area are:
(a) inefficient use of rainfall and a wasteful use of stored
water;
(b)  inequitable water distribution within the irrigation system;
(c)  lack of adequate farm power for timely land preparation;
(d) poor access roads, and
(e) ineffectiveness of the current extension service.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The project would increase croppirLg intensities in the command
areas of the tank schemes by making better use of rainfall and water stored
in the tanks. It would also ensure an equitable water distribution through
strictly enforced rotational delivery schedules. The proposed improvement
in water use would require: rehabilitation and modification of the existing
conveyance system; measurement of water flows at various points along the
canals; reduction in delivery losses, and improved water use on the field.
4.02      To derive full benefits from the project, the extension service
would be strengthened and supplies of farm inputs would be improved. Also,
to enable farmers to cope with the tightened crop calendars and to intensify
cropping patterns, the project would provide for a substantial increase in the
number of farm tractors for land preparation. Finally, for proper handling of
the increased farm production, farm roads would be improved.
Project Works
4.03      The main components of the projec:t are as follows:



- 10 -
Civil Works
(a)  desilting and enlarging the entire water conveyance system
(main and branch canals, 120 mi; distributaries, 180 mi;
and field channels about 500 mi) to provide sufficient
capacity for a seven day rotation with only daylight irri-
gation (estimated earthwork: 0.6 M cu yd);
(b)  repairing, enlarging and surfacing with gravel the embank-
ments used as farm roads (estimated earth work: 1.3 M cu
yd and gravel work: 0.4 14 cu yd);
(c)  excavating some 300 mi of drains to improve the drainage
(estimated earth work: 1.6 M cu yd);
(d)  where necessary, brick lining of the conveyance system to
reduce excessive seepage (:r erosion, and to provide the
necessary degree of water control. In addition, all irri-
gation canals and field channels under the Mahawilachchiya
tank would be lined, with different kinds of lining, as a
pilot program for determining the effect on seepage losses,
and capital and maintenance costs (estimated lining re-
quirements -- main and branch canals: about 6 mi; distribu-
taries: about 7 mi, and field channels: about 50 mi);
(e)  repairing and modifying the existing structures in the
irrigation system to enable daylight irrigation for each
farm on a seven day rotation schedule;
(f)  installation of some 170 new regulators in the main and
branch canals to increase water control in the conveyance
system. Similar regulating structures would also be
installed in distributarieE and field channels;
(g)  installation of devices to measure releases from the tanks
and water flows at various points in the system, and
(h)  provision of offices, workshops, stores and housing for
supervisory and construction crews. For each 6,000 ac
units such buildings will include: 2,400 sq ft for temporary
offices; 4,000 sq ft each for storage and workshops; tem-
porary quarters for three senior officers; six units of
500 sq ft each for supervisory personnel; two units of
4,000 sq ft each for bachelo)r officers quarters, and 2,000
sq ft of dormitory space for- laborers. After construction
is completed, all buildings, except the temporary offices
and quarters, would continuCe to be used in connection with
the expanded operation and maintenance (O & M) program for
the project.



- 11 -
Construction Equipment and Vehicles
(a)  provision of equipment and vehicles (base cif cost about
US$3.2 M) for use in the modernization program. After
completion of the modernization program, leftover usable
equipment, if any, would be used either for the 0 & M of
the completed system or would be made part of the equipment
pool of the Department of Machinery and Equipment (DME),
Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways (MIPH) for use
in similar projects.
Farm Equipment and Agricultural Supporting Services
(a) provision of 150 four-wheel and 450 two-wheel farm tractors,
all with necessary attachments and equipment for use in land
preparation. In addition, the project would provide 150
sprayers for applying pesticides and herbicides, and
(b) reorganization of the agricultural extension service in
Anuradhapura District along the lines successfully adopted
in a number of Bank Group financed projects in India and Nepal
(Annex 4). The project would provide buildings, vehicles,
equipment and staff for strengthening the extension service.
Under a separate technical assistance grant to GOSL, UK is
providing three Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), each for
a period of about two years, to help in the initial imple-
mentation of the work program and to provide on-the-job
training to counterpart personnel in the proposed extension
service.
Technical Assistance
(a)  a water management specialist would be engaged for a period
of at least two years to assist in layout and design (parti-
cularly the field channels and farm drains), in the develop-
ment of the operating schedules for the tanks and the rotation
schedules for the water supply system and to train local
engineers, technicians and Cultivation Committee (CC) members
on intermittent irrigation. These local staff would then train
farmers to help them adapt to the new irrigation practices.
(b)  engaging of the Agrarian Research and Training Institute (ARTI)
to conduct appropriate benchmark and follow-up surveys in order
to evaluate the impact of the project on the efficiency of water
utilization, equitable water distribution, 0 & M costs, cropping
patterns, yields and production 'Levels and farm income levels.
Emphasis would also be placed on evaluating the merits of various
types of canal linings proposed Eor the Mahawilachchiya tank.



- 12 -
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.04      Water Supply:  the project water supply is furnished by five
existing tanks with an aggregate storage of 213,500 ac-ft as follows:
Maha-       Maha-
kanadarawa wilachchiya Pavatkulam Vavunikulam Padaviya Total
Tank Storage
Capacity
(ac-ft)          34,000     32,500        27,000    35,000        85,000  213,500
Area Irrigated
(ac)              6,000       2,600         4,400     6,000       12,500   31,500
The tanks regulate inflows occurring mostly from September through January
to provide supplemental irrigation water in the rainy season and a full
irrigation supply in the dry season. Analysis of the historical inflows
to the tanks indicates that water is available to increase the cropping
intensity by modifying and improving the existing irrigation practices and
the tank operations. Details of the water supply and irrigation operations
are discussed in Annexes 5 and 10.  The Padaviya tank appears to have in-
flows in surplus and also additional potentially irrigable lands. The need
for additional storage and conveyance and distribution systems to expand
irrigated areas below the tank would be evaluated as part of the tank
operation training program. The water management specialist to be provided
by the project, would guide the study and preparation of plans for future
exoansion of the Padaviya tank service area.
4.05      An investigation of the catchment areas of the five tank schemes
indicates the absence of any significant water use upstream. Also, the
Government does not have any plans for development upstream. However, to
ensure proper water supplies in the project areas, agreement has been
obtained that the Government would not undertake any future development
upstream of the five tank schemes which might significantly reduce the
water suspplies.
4.06      Water Demand.  The present irrigation demand is mostly for
supplemental irrigation of the maha paddy. Under project conditions,
the cropping intensity will be increased from 103% to 156%. The in-
creased demand would be met by better utilization of the rainfall as
well as the water stored in the tanks. Firm irrigation seasons would
be established and a strict rotationaL irrigation regime would be en-
forced. Moreover, irrigational intervals would be determined by the
consumptive use requirements of the cr-ops and by the degree of soil
depletion, and not by whether there is water actually standing in the
paddy fields (Annex 3). A simulation of the proposed regulation of the
tank inflows occuring over the period of records available indicates
reasonable success in meeting the pro;ected demands under increased
cropping intensity (Annex 5, Table 3).



- 13 -
4.07      Water Quality.  The water available from the tank is of very
good quality for irrigation use.
Implementation Schedule
4.08      Project implementation would take f-ive years (Annex 6, Table 1)
Tender documents for construction equipment have been prepared and issued
and awards would be made for deliveries by March 1977. Staff mobilization
would begin in January 1977 and construction in April 1977. However, due to
the need to establish logistical support in the field and put together the
necessary construction organization, the progress in the first construction
year (1977) would only amount to about 15% of the total. The construction
tempo would pick up substantially during the next two years (1978-79) and the
work would be completed by 1980. The field channel lining program on the
Mahawilachchiya tank would be completed in the first year (1977) so that the
results in terms of both costs and water savings would be available for
guidance in the modernization of other tanks. Detailed activity network
diagrams and construction schedules are shown in Annex 6, Tables 2.
4.09      To minimize interference with crop production and also to take
advantage of the favorable construction weather, most of the field work
would be performed during the seven-month periods from April to October.
No water would flow through the canals during that time and many of the
farmers could be employed on project works.
Cost Estimates
4.10      Total project costs are estimated at US$30.0 million equivalent,
including about US$7.0 million in import taxes and duties. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$9.3 million or about 40% of the
total, net of taxes and duties. Estimates are based on preliminary design,
with unit prices at January 1976 levels. The major elements included in
the cost estimate are civil works (US$8.7 M1), construction equipment and
vehicles (US$5.6 M), agricultural equipment and vehicles (US$5.6 M), tech-
nical assistance (US$0.3 M), and engineerin,g and administration (US$1.3
M), totalling to a base project cost of US$21.5 M. Physical contingencies of
US$1.7 M (20% of civil works costs) and price contingencies 1/ of US$6.8 M
(29% of the base cost plus physical contingencies) bring the total project
cost to US$30.0 M. Estimated project costs, presented in greater detail in
Annex 7 are summarized below:
1/   Price contingencies have been calculated assuming the following in-
flation rates:
Year
Rate of Inflation (%)           1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Civil Works                       14      12    12       12     12
Equipment and Vehicles            10       8    8         8      8



- 14 -
la % of
Item               Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Total
-----(Rs Plillion)----    ----(US$ Million)----
I.   Civil Works
Main and
branch canals      9.5    1.5    11.0        1.3    0.2       1.5        5
Distributaries      8.7    2.3    11.0         1.2    0.3      1.5        5
Field channels    26.2    6.8    33.0          3.5    0.9      4.4       15
Drains              8.1    0.7       8.8       1.1    0.1      1.2        4
Buildings           1.1      -       1.1       0.1     -       0.1        -
Sub-Total       53.6   11.3    64.9        7.2    1.5       8.7      29
II.   Construction
Equipment and
Vehicles           22.5   19 5    42.0         3.0    2.6      5.6       19
III.  Agricultural
Equipment and
Supplies for
Extension
Farming equip-
ment             16.5   20.2    36.7        2.2    2.7       4.9       16
Extension
vehicles
and supplies      3.0    2.3      5.3       0.4    0.3       0.7        2
Sub-Total    19.5   22.5    42.0         2.6    3.0      5.6       19
IV.   Technical
Assistance /b      1.3    0.7       2.0      0.2    0.1       0.3        1
V.    Engineering and
Administration
15% of I)           9.7      -       9.7      1.3      -       1.3       4
Basic Project
Cost            106.6   54.0   160.6       14.3    7.2    21.5         71
VI.   Physical Con-
tingencies         10.7    2.3    13.0        1.4    0.3       1.7       6
Sub-Total      117.3   56.3   173.6       15.7    7.5    23.2        77
VII.  Price Contin-
gencies            37.8   13.6    51.4        5.0    1.8       6.8      23
Total Project
Cost            155.1   69.9   225.0       20.7    9.3    30.0       100
/a   Figures may not agree exactly due to rounding.
/b   Includes Rs 0.8 M for the project evaluation and for the proposed
study on maize and sorghum (para 6.04).



- 15 -
Financing
4.11      With assistance from the Bank Group, GOSL has secured a grant of
US$6.0 M equivalent from the UK for financing part of the project costs. The
proposed IDA contribution of US$5.0 M, together with the UK grant, would
finance the full foreign exchange costs and some local costs, or about 48%
of the total project cost net of taxes and duties. Commercial banks and the
buyers of the farm equipment (tractors and sprayers) would provide about
US$6.0 M for financing the farm equipment. The Government would contribute
the remaining US$13.0 M. Net of receipts from taxes and duties on imported
project items, the Government's contribution would be about US$6.0 M, or
about 26% of the net project cost. A condiltion of credit effectiveness would
be the prior or simultaneous effectiveness of the UK grant agreement.
4.12      Agreement has been obtained from the Government that it would pro-
vide adequate funds to the agencies concerned, to cover all project costs and
that it would furnish to IDA not later than November 1 each year a detailed
plan for the implementation of the project with related financial requirements
for the following fiscal year. Agreement was also obtained from GOSL that
the goods and services imported out of proceeds of the project would be used
exclusively for this project until the construction phase is completed, and
that thereafter such part of the equipment as needed and agreed with IDA would
be retained by the Irrigation Department (ID), MIPH, for the 0 & M of the
project (Annex 8, Table 1).
Procurement
4.13      Equipment supplied under the UK grant (Annex 8, Tables 1-2) would be
procured in accordance with UK procurement guidelines, 1/ while equipment
financed by IDA would be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Small off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$10,000 each, which cannot be bulked into packages
suitable for international tendering, would be purchased through normal Govern-
ment procurement procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Such purchases
would, however, be limited to an aggregate total of US$100,000.
4.14      Because most of the civil works (base cost US$8.7 M) would be simple,
individually very small, labor-intensive, scattered over a wide area, res-
tricted to seasonal construction, and cou[Ld not be grouped into large con-
tracts, they are unsuitable for international competitive bidding. Work such
as excavation of field and collector drains, enlargement of distributaries
and field channels, and brick lining would be done through unit-cost contracts
with local laborers. The repair of tank sluices and the repair or replacement
of structures in the main or branch canals and distributaries would be done by
the ID on force account (paras 5.01-5.03).
1/   Procurement restricted to UK.



- 16 -
Disbursements
4.15      Disbursements for 100% cf the foreign expenditures for equipment,
vehicles and spares earmarked for UK (Annex 8, Tables 1-2) would be made
from the UK grant. Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would be
made for (i) 100% of the foreign expenditure for directly imported equipment,
vehicles and spares (other than those financed by UK); (ii) 50% of expendi-
ture for locally procured equipment, vehicles and spares; and (iii) 100%
of foreign expenditure for technical assistance.  In addition, disbursements
would be made for 24% of the expenditures--12% by IDA and 12% by UK--on civil
works performed under force account or small unit cost contracts.  Disburse-
ments against (i), (ii) and (iii) would be fully documented. Disbursements
against civil works would be made against statements of expenditure, the
documentation for which would not be submitted but would be retained for
review during the course of projecl: supervision. During implementation, the
disbursement percentages would be adjusted, if necessary, to disburse fully
the aid package by the completion of the project. Also, the UK equipment
list would be revised if necessary to keep the total UK disbursements against
equipment at US$4.5 M equivalent.
4.16      Disbursement from the UK grant would be administered directly by
UK. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1981,
approximately six months after project completion. An estimated schedule of
expenditures of the project, the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the
aid package, and a semi-annual disbursement schedule are shown in Annex 9.
Accounts and Audit
4.17      Agreement was reached that the ID and other organizations res-
ponsible for carrying out any part of the project would prepare and maintain
separate project accounts and financial statements on project expenditures
and recoveries thereon, in accordance with sound accounting practices. Such
accounts and financial statements would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of the audited accounts and
the auditor's reports would be sent to IDA within six months of the close
of each fiscal year.
Environmental Effects
4.18      The only known water-relaited disease in the area is malaria.
Schistosomiasis and other similar diseases common in some tropical parts
of the world do not occur in Sri Lanka. At one time malaria was practically
eliminated, but in recent years the incidence of the disease has been in-
creasing. This has been due to a variety of factors including development
of resistance by the vectors to DDT and a general slackening of control
measures due to inadequate staffing and budgeting. To combat the problem,
the Government's Anti-Malaria Organization is seeking aid from various
bilateral agencies to help finance the purchase of Malathion (a DDT sub-
stitute), vehicles and equipment, and spare parts. A mission comprised of
representatives of WHO and potential bilateral-agenices visited Sri Lanka
in February/March to further assess the situation.



- 17 -
4.19      The implementation of the tank program would extend the time
du.Jing which storage water would be held in the tanks and run in the canals
and thus would increase the breeding potential for the mosquitoes. On the
other hand, the opening of the natural drains would remove the tailwater
from the fields which stagnates in borrow areas and low spots. The Govern-
ment has agreed, as a precautionary measure, to institute a malaria monitor-
ing system, and if, necessary, to take appropriate preventive and remedial
measures in the project area.
4.20      The extension of the irrigation season into the dry season would
improve the recharge of village wells and thus improve the domestic water
supply. On balance, the net effect of the project on public health and
environment would be positive.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANIAGEMENT
Project Implementation
5.01      Civil Works.  The ID would be responsible for implementing the
civil works proposed under the project. It would prepare final plans and
designs, procure the necessary construction materials, and undertake all
irrigation and drainage improvements, including the construction of necessary
farm roads along the embankments of canals, distributaries and field channels.
Procurement of construction machinery and equipment for the ID would be
through the SLTC which is the sole authorized agency for such work in Sri
Lanka. Responsibility for the maintenance of the construction machinery and
equipment would be with the DME which operates a regional workshop at
Anuradhapura.
5.02      The ID has been the pioneer agency in the field of water resources
development in Sri Lanka. In the past, its responsibilities included plan-
ning, construction, and the 0 & M of both single and multipurpose works.
With the emergence of several other organizations 1/ with similar functions,
its responsibilities have been gradually reduced and are now limited to
planning and to the construction of works costing more than Rs 2.5 M, not
specifically assigned to other organizations. Also, ID operates and main-
tains the works it constructs during the construction stage.
5.03      The ID's current program includes several irrigation and drainage
and reclamation projects. Its permanent sltaff of about 1,200 is well quali-
fied to carry out the program. However, together with its sister organiza-
tion, its operations suffer from a severe shortage of adequate equipment
and vehicles. With the necessary equipment and vehicles to be provided
under the project, the ID staff should have no problem in implementing the
project civil works.
1/   The important ones are the Territorial Civil Engineering Organization
(TCEO), Mahaweli Development Board (MDB), River Valley Development
Board (RVDB) and Department of Machinery and Equipment (DME).



- 18 -
5.04      Preparation of final plans and designs and overall supervision of
the works would be done from the Department's headquarters in Colombo. The
field organization would be headed by a Chief Project Engineer with the over-
all responsibility for the manage!ment and supervision of the construction
program. Construction would be done by two field units each capable of
modernizing about 6,000 ac per construction season. Each unit would be
headed by a Project Engineer. A Chief Project Engineer with the necessary
experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA has already been appointed.
5.05      Agricultural Extension and Supporting Services.  The Department
of Agriculture (DA) under the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands (MAL), would
be responsible for the reorganization and strengthening of the extension
service and for the procurement of vehicles, equipment and supplies for the
extension service (Annex 4). The motorcycles and bicycles to be used by the
extension staff would be sold to the staff by the DA on terms and conditions
which are satisfactory to IDA. Agreement was obtained that in Anuradhapura
District, the Government would eslablish, by March 1, 1977, an extension
organization to implement a work program which is acceptable to IDA.
5.06       The Sri Lanka Trading Corporation (SLTC) would be responsible for
the procurement of the farm tractors and equipment and for their distribution
to its dealers for resale within the project area. In line with the Government
policy, the APCs area would be encouraged to buy and operate the farm equip-
ment on a co-operative basis. However, as the APCs are relatively new orga-
nizations, inexperienced in running efficient commnercial operations, it is
expected that private custom operators would continue to play a major role in
providing farm equipment on a rental basis. To ensure availability of farm
equipment in the project area on E} priority basis and to ensure reasonable
rental rates, the private operators would be approved and supervised by the
APCs and CCs. Also, a condition cf sale to the private operators would be
that they agree to do custom work within the project areas, during the peak
cultivation periods as specified by the concerned APCs. Credit facilities
for the purchase of farm equipment would be provided by the Bank of Ceylon
and the People's Bank. Terms of lending would be up to 100% financing for
APCs and up to 80% financing for private operators at prevailing interest
rates (currently 8.5% annually) with repayment over five years. Refinancing
for upto 75% of the total loans for farm equipment would be made available by
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to the Bank of Ceylon and the People's Bank.
These terms and conditions are considered satisfactory to IDA.
Project Coordination
5.07      Committees have been established at the Central, District and Tank
levels to facilitate inter-agency co-ordination. The committee at the Central
level is chaired by the Secretary, MIPH, and includes senior representatives
from the concerned departments and agencies. The Director of Irrigation is
the member secretary of the committee. The committee is responsible for over-
rall project execution and co-ordirzation. It would meet quarterly, or more
often if necessary, and would make policy decisions, review work program



- 19 -
and progress and approve budgets for the various agencies. The committee is
also responsible for submitting quarterly anLd annual progress reports to IDA
and for corresponding with IDA on project maLtters.
5.08      The committees at the District and the Tank levels are res-
pectively chaired by the Chief Project Engineer and the Project Engineers
and include appropriate staff from the various concerned agencies. The com-
mittees would provide day-to-day field coordination for scheduling the work
program of the various agencies. The DistrLct level committees are also
responsible for reporting project progress, future work programs and any
unresolved inter-agency problems to the Central Committee.
5.09      Assurances were obtained that the Central, District and Tank
Coordination Committees would continue to function in a manner satisfactory
to IDA and that quarterly and annual progress reports would be promptly sent
to IDA.
Technical Assistance
5.10      The ID would employ a well-qualified water management consultant
to advise on the design and the operating criteria for each of the five tank
projects. The specialist would also work in the field with the extension
service and the project operating personnel to effect a viable water manage-
ment plan compatible with the proposed rotaLtional irrigation. Draft terms
of reference for the specialist are given in Annex 10. Agreement was ob-
tained that the Government would employ, by March 1, 1977, a specialist
with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA.
5.11      In view of the prototype nature of the project and its importance
to irrigation development in the rest of the dry zone, heavy emphasis would
be placed on an in depth evaluation of the project impact. The Government
has retained the services of ARTI for this purpose and ARTI has submitted a
detailed proposal for evaluation which is lbeing reviewed by IDA.
Operation and Maintenance
5.12      Principal Irrigation Works.  The ID would be responsible for the
0 & M of the project works down to one cusec distributaries (each serving
about 50 ac), both during construction and thereafter. The ID would organize
0 & M units for each of the five tanks. Estimated staffing, equipment and
budgetary requirements, for a typical 6,000 ac area, are shown in Annex 10,
Table 1. The estimated annual 0 & M cost would be about Rs 75 per ac.
Agreement was obtained that the Government would provide sufficient funds
for the proper 0 & M of the project facilities.
5.13      Field Channels.  As stipulated under the Agricultural Productivity
Law (Annex 4), the CCs acting under the general supervision of the APCs, and
advised by Irrigation Engineers and Agricultural Extension Officers, would be
responsible for the maintenance of the field channels and for the distribution



- 20 -
of water among the various users on each field distributary. The CCs would
make recommendations to the ID with respect to cropping patterns and calendars
and the water issue periods for the distributaries. The CCs would also re-
commend minimum flows for domestic purposes and livestock. With this inform-
ation, the ID would then establish the operating calendars for the various
tanks which would be strictly followed. The success of this program would
require full cooperation of the CCs and the APCs in the adopted water manage-
ment plans. The ID would oversee the maintenance and water distribution opera-
tions of the CCs, and would report any deficiencies to the APCs or higher
~authority.  In case remedial action is not taken, authority would be given to
the ID to take these functions and to assess the appropriate costs against the
water users with such charges to be collected by the Government Agent (GA).
Agreement that such arrangements would be established has been obtained from
the Government.
5.14      Agricultural Equipment arid Services.  Adequate repair facilities
and workshops exist in the private sector to provide maintenance services
for the farm equipment to be provicied under the project. Motorcycles and
bicycles sold to the extension staf'f, would also be maintained by private
workshops. The DA would provide a mileage allowance to the extension staff
for the operation and maintenance cf these vehicles. The maintenance of
the other extension equipment and vehicles would be the responsibility of
the DA. Funds for such maintenance as well as for fuel, personnel and
operating supplies would be provided through the annual budget of the DA.
Agreement was obtained that the GOSL would make available adequate funds
and personnel for the agricultural extension services in the project areas.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKErING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01      Improved water management and a strengthened extension service
envisaged under the project would lead to more intensive cultivation and to
higher crop yields. It is estimated that at full development in Year 11,
the average cropping intensity in the five tank area would increase from
about 103% at present to about 156%. Similarly, the average paddy yield
is expected to increase from the present 0.9 tons/ac to about 1.5 tons/ac.
Only minor increases in cropping intensity and yields are considered likely
under the "without" project situation.
6.02      Paddy would continue to be the dominant crop.  However, there
would be a significant diversification into crops such as maize, sorghum
and pulses. The estimated present .nd projected future cropping patterns
and production levels for the five tank areas are summarized below:



- 21 -
Area Cultivated                  Production
(thousand ac)                 (thousand tons)
Future   Future               Future      Future
Without   With                Without      With
Crop             Present  Project  Project   Present  Project    Project
Maha Season
Paddy              24.2    24.2        29.9    21.8       26.6         44.9
Cereals             -        0.6         1.6      -        0.5          1.4
Pulses              -        0.4          -       -        0.2           -
Yala Season
Paddy               7.7      7.7        10.7     6.5       7.7         15.0
Cereals             0.2      0.5         2.6     0.1       0.4          2.9
Pulses              0.5      0.8        4.3      0.2       0.4          2.8
Total         32.6    34.2        49.1
Cropping Inten-
sity (%)           103      108        156
The projected "with" project cropping intensity constrained by the water
availability would vary from a low of about 120% for the Pavatkulam tank
to about 170% of Mahakanadarawa and Mahawilachchiya tanks. Further details
are given in Annex 3.
Market Prospects
6.03      Sri Lanka currently imports about 45% of its estimated annual
foodgrain requirements of about 1.6 million tons. Despite the Government's
emphasis on food self-sufficiency, it is likely that Sri Lanka will continue
to be an importer for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the project-re-
lated increase of about 25,600 tons of paddy (equivalent to 16,600 tons of
rice) would be readily absorbed into the domestic market. Similarly no
problem is foreseen in marketing the increased production of pulses. Prior
to the import ban by the Government in 1970, the per capita consumption of
pulses was over three times the current level of 1.5 kgs. The projected annual
increase of 2,200 tons would amount to a mere 10% increase over the present
production in the country.
6.04      Maize and sorghum, somewhat inferior substitutes to rice and wheat
flour, would be consumed either directly or mixed with wheat flour. The
Oils and Fats Corporation would also be a likely buyer of these cereals
for use as animal feed. The existing marketing channels would be able to
handle the project-related incremental production of 3,400 tons of maize and
sorghum. However, in view of the potential for greatly increasing the produc-
tion of these cereals in the dry zone, 1/ there is a need for a study of their
1/   Some 40-50% of the irrigated areas in the dry zone are unsuitable for
paddy cultivation in the dry season (Annex 2). For optimal use of
limited water supplies, they should be cultivated with upland crops
such as maize and sorghum.



- 22 -
demand prospects, their economic and financial competitiveness vis-a-vis
paddy, the requirements for their marketing, handling, and processing and
the implications for Government's policy on procurement prices. It was
agreed that the study would be conducted by ARTI in collaboration with PMB.
It was also agreed that by January 1, 1977, a proposal giving the detailed
terms of reference, staffing requirements and timing of the study would
be submitted to IDA for review.
6.05      The relatively good transportation network and well developed
marketing channels would reduce the problems of any localized surpluses.
The existing processing and storage facilities, in and around the project
areas, augmented by the PMB's planned expansion would be adequate to handle
the additional production. The recent decision to allow private trading in
paddy would also be helpful in handling the increased production.
6.06      To ensure farmer incentive and confidence, it is important that
before each crop season, the Government should set the guaranteed support
prices for the various crops at reasonable levels and then procure all the
supplies offered at those prices. The Government should take particular care
not to lower the guaranteed support price in the middle of a procurement
period.
Prices
6.07      For rice and cereals, the estimated future farm gate prices are
derived from the Bank's projected 1985 World market prices expressed in 1976
constant prices. Prices for pulses, for which no projections are available,
are based on the historical ratios between their prices and the rice prices.
On this basis, the estimated future farm gate prices, appropriately adjusted
for freight, handling and processing are: US$180 per ton for paddy, US$140
for cereals, and US$270 for pulses.
6.08      For economic analysis, the official exchange rate of U$1 = Rs 7.50
has been adjusted to a shadow exchange rate of US$1 = Rs 12.00 (roughly equal
to the FEEC exchange rate). In line with the prevailing Government policy,
the foodgrain prices for farm budget analysis are based on an exchange rate
between the official and the FEEC exchange rates. 1/ To isolate the project
effects from the effects of unusually high foodgrain prices prevailing at this
time, the projected 1985 farm gate prices are used even for the present situa-
tion. The various price assumptions are discussed in more detail in Annex
11.
Farm Incomes
6.09      Since the farm sizes and cultivation methods are the same under
the five tanks, the only variable to be reflected in the analysis is the
water availability. Three models have been chosen for this purpose: the
1/   Roughly at an exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rs 9.00.



- 23 -
first model represents the three tanks with the best water supply (Mahakanad-
arawa, Padaviya and Mahawilachchiya), the second model, the Vavunikulam tank
which has a somewhat poorer water supply and the third model, the Pavatkulam
tank which has the poorest water supply. In each model, 3 ac of irrigated
land was assumed and both cropping patterns and yields were adjusted to
reflect variations in present and prospective water availability and farm
management (Annex 12).
6.10      Although the earnings from the chena cultivation and the produce
from home garden plots provide significant supplement to the income from
irrigated agriculture, only the latter has been included in the following
analysis since the data on the former is fragmentary and the project would
have very little impact on that part of the income.
6.11      The annual net farm incomes, 1/ including the imputed value of the
produce consumed by the farm family (in 1976 prices), for the three repre-
sentative models are:
Future           Future
Without Project   With Project
Present       (Year 11)           (Year 11)
---------------------Rs-----------------
Model I              2,850         3,950                  7,650
Model II             3,100         4,050                  7,100
Model III            2,250         2,800                  5,900
Thus, the present farm incomes would be more than doubled for all three farm
models.
Cost Recovery
6.12      At a discount rate of 10% per annum, the present value of the
project investments (in economic terms) is estimated to be about Rs 97
million or about Rs 3,100 per ac. In addition, the 0 & M of the irrigation
system would require an annual expenditure of about Rs 75 per ac. Assuming
that the water charges were introduced in phase with the construction schedule
but with a one year grace period, it would require an average annual charge
of Rs 625 per ac -- Rs 550 for recovery of capital costs and Rs 75 for
0 & M costs -- to recover fully all the expenditures on this project. These
charges would represent about 50-60% of the net incremental farm income
(before accounting for family labor).
6.13      Analysis of the farmer's ability to repay the project costs indi-
cates that on the basis of the estimated "project rents", it should be possible
to recover full project costs (Annex 12). However, following considerations
argue for significantly lower recovery rates:
1/   Before deducting water charges and payments under the Sale of State
Lands Act.



- 24 -
(a) Income distribution -- farmers in the project areas have
small holdings and their income levels are substantially
below the national average. The recoveries under the soon-
to-be enforced Sale of State Lands Act (para 3.09), estimated
at about Rs 600 per family per year for 20 years, would fur-
ther depress the income levels in the project areas;
(b) Innovative character of project -- farmers need to be
persuaded to adopt the proposed intermittent irrigation
methods;
(c) Government's policy on foodgrain prices -- through
differentials between the crop procurement prices and
their "economic" prices, the Government would indirectly
recover a large part (40-50%) of the project cost; and
(d) Tradition -- Sri Lanka has not charged for irrigation
water in the past and hence there would be considerable
political opposition to setting the charges "too high".
Thus, an average charge of about Rs 300 1/ per ac, introduced gradually, would
be more appropriate. Such a charge would represent a cost recovery index of
about 50%, a benefit recovery index of 25%, and a rent recovery index of about
40%. Alternatively, the proposed level would mean recovering 0 & M costs and
full capital costs at an annual interest rate of 4%.
6.14      The mechanism for cost recovery would be under the recently enacted
Land Betterment Charges Act which inter alia enables the Government to impose
charges in irrigation and drainage schemes taking into account factors such as
amount and dependability of water supplies, increases in agricultural produc-
tion, cropping intensity, capital cost and 0 & M costs. Detailed regulations
for the actual implementation of land betterment charges are under preparation
and expected to be enacted by early 1977. Also, work is under way to revise,
update and prepare the land registers necessary for the administration of land
betterment charges. Assurances were obtained that, by January 1, 1978, the
Government would complete all administrative and other measures necessary for
imposition and collection of appropriate charges in all publicly financed
water development projects.
6.15      For the project areas, the Government intends to have the following
charges:
(a) from January 1, 1978 an annual 0 & M charge of Rs 30 per ac.
This would be increased gradually to cover full 0 & M costs
of the irrigation works within five years; and
1/   In constant 1976 prices.



- 25 -
(b)  within eighteen months of completion of each tank scheme
an amount equivalent to 20% of the net average incremental
farm incomes subject to a maximum of Rs 300 per ac
annually (in 1976 prices) as recoveries on construction
costs. It is estimated that this would mean an initial
capital recovery charge of about Rs 200 to 250 per ac in
the project areas.
Also, the Government intends to review and revise, if necessary, on a
regular basis every three years, the level of charges collected under the
project. Assurances were obtained that the Government would collect from
project beneficiaries charges adequate to cover 0 & M costs and a portion
of the construction costs in accordance with a cost recovery plan accepta-
ble to IDA.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The dry zone of Sri Lanka has some 180 major tank irrigation schemes,
serving a total cultivated area of about 400,000 ac. Deterioration of the
water conveyance systems, poor water management and inadequate agricultural
supporting services, are the prime constraints limiting agricultural produc-
tion in the schemes. The proposed project would be a prototype for bringing
these schemes up to their full potential. Successful implementation of this
project would open the way for eventual modernization of all the tank schemes
which could potentially add a quarter of a million tons to the foodgrain
production of the country (about one-third of current imports).
7.02      On a more direct level, at full development, the project-related
increase of about 22,300 tons in foodgrain production (rice, 16,600 tons;
cereals 3,400 tons and pulses 2,300 tons) would represent an annual gross
foreign exchange savings of US$5.4 million. Allowing for the added imports
of fuel, fertilizers, agro-chemicals and farm equipment this would represent
an annual net foreign exchange savings of US$4.0 million.
7.03      The labor-intensive civil works proposed under the project would
provide a total of 3 million man-days of employment during project implemen-
tation. The more intensive cultivation envisaged under the project would
generate annual employment of 0.6 M man-days in on-farm works. Also,
there would be a substantial increase in secondary employment in activities
such as marketing, processing, and supply of farm inputs. All this would
help to relieve the large unemployment and underemployment prevailing in the
area.
7.04      Almost all the project beneficiaries would be small farmers;
their present income levels are substantially below the national average.
At full development, the project would bring their incomes to the national
level.



- 26 -
7.05      Based on the following assumptions, the project's economic rate
of return is estimated to be about 23% (Annex 13):
(a)  a five year project implementation and a 30 year project
life;
(b)  full agricultural development five years after project
completion;
(c)  projected 1985 world market prices in terms of 1976 dollars
for crops, fuel, fertilizers and pesticides;
(d)  allowance for the shortage of foreign exchange by using a
shadow rate of US$1 = Rs 12;
(e)  all farm labor valued at about 70% of the average market wage
rate of Rs 8 per man-day (see Annex 13) and construction labor
at the market wage; and
(f)  only the project related increase in crop production in the
five tank areas is included in the benefits. Benefits from im-
proved farm roads, and strengthened extension service in the rest
of Anuradhapura District are not included in the analysis.
7.06      To minimize wasteful water use, the project is pioneering a system
of strictly enforced rotational irrigation -- a technique which would be a
major departure from the free flowing irrigation practiced at present. To
this end, in addition to modernizing the physical works, the project would
reorganize and greatly strengthen the existing agricultural extension services.
There is some risk, however, that despite all this, the proposed system would
not be fully accepted by the farmers, resulting in reduced production at full
development (Annex 3). Sensitivity tests indicate that even with a reduction
of the full development cropping intensity from the projected 160% to about
125%, the economic rate of return would be about 14% and the project would
still be viable. However, even if the project were not viable on its own,
in view of its implications for irrigation development in the rest of the
dry zone, it would still be a worthwhile prototype project.
7.07      Further sensitivity tests indicate that the project remains viable
under a variety of adverse assumptions about costs and benefits. Results
from some of the important tests are given below:
Alternative                          Rate of Return
(a)  Basic case                                       23%
(b) Foreign exchange valued at
US$1.00 = Rs 9.00                              20%
(c) Foreign exchange valued at
US$1.00 = Rs 15.00                             25%



- 27 -
(d) Farm labor valued at the market wage rate
of Rs 8.00 per man-day                         22%
(e)  A decrease of 25% in net incremental
benefits                                       18%
(f) An increase of 25% in project investment
costs                                          19%
(g) A two year delay in realizing the full
project benefits                               20%
(h)  Combination of (e) and (f)                       15%
(i)  Combination of (f) and (g)                       17%
(j)  Combination of (e), (f) and (g)                  13%
Thus, even in the unlikely event that project costs are 25% higher, net
benefits are 25% lower and the build-up of project benefits is considerably
slower, the project would still be viable.
7.08      Tests were also made to determine the viability of each tank on
its own. They indicate that the rate of return for the individual tanks
varied from a high of 29% for the Mahawilachchiya tank to a low of 20% for
the Padaviya and the Pavatkulam tanks. Thus, all five tank schemes are
viable on their own.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreements on the following points have been reached with GOSL:
(a) the Government would not undertake any future develop-
ment upstream of the five tank schemes which might
significantly reduce the water supplies to the project
areas (para 4.05);
(b) the Government would provide adequate funds to the agencies
concerned to cover all project costs and that it would
furnish to IDA not later than November 1 each year a de-
tailed plan for the implementation of the project with
related financial requirements for the following fiscal
year (para 4.12);
(c) the goods and services imported out of proceeds of the
project would be used exclusively for this project, until
the construction phase is completed, and that thereafter
such part of the equipment as needed and agreed with IDA
would be retained by the Irrigation Department (ID) MIPH
for the 0 & M of the project (para 4.12);



- 28 -
(d) the ID and other organizations responsible for carrying out
any part of the project would prepare and maintain separate
project accounts and financial statements on project expendi-
tures and recoveries thereon, in accordance with sound account-
ing practices. Such accounts and financial statements would
be audited annually, by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. Certified copies of the audited accounts and the
auditor's reports would be sent to IDA within six months of
the close of each fiscal year (para 4.17);
(e) the Government would institute a system to monitor the
incidence of malaria in the project area and, if necessary,
it would take appropriate preventive and remedial measures
(para 4.19);
(f) in Anuradhapura District, the Government would establish by
March 1 1977, an extension organization to implement a
work program which is acceptable to IDA (para 5.05);
(g) the Central, District and Tank Coordination Committee would
continue to function in a manner satisfactory to IDA and the
Government would promptly send to IDA the quarterly and
annual reports on the progress of the project (para. 5.09);
(h)  the Government would employ, by March 1, 1977, a water
management specialist with experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA (para 5.10);
(i) the Government would provide adequate funds for 0 & M of the
project facilities (para 5.12);
(j) the Government would make such arrangements for the mainte-
nance of field channels as would be acceptable to IDA
(para 5.13);
(k) the Government would make available adequate funds and per-
sonnel for the agricultural extension services in the proj-
ect areas (para 5.14);
(1) the Government would complete by January 1, 1978 all admin-
istrative and other measures necessary for imposition and
collection of appropriat:e charges in all publicly financed
water development projects (para 6.14); and
(m)  the Government would collect from the project beneficiaries
charges adequate to recover 0 & M costs and a portion of the
capital costs in accordance with a cost recovery plan
acceptable to IDA (para 6.15);



- 29 -
8.02      A condition of Credit Effectiveness would be that the UK grant
agreement has been, or is being simultaneously, declared effective (para
4. 11).
8.03      With the above agreements and together with the UK grant of
US$6.0 M equivalent, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit
of US$5.0 M under standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Republic
of Sri Lanka.
November 15, 1976



SRI LANKA                                                                             ANNEX I
Table 1
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNI2ATION PROJECT
Climatic Data 1/
Jan       Feb        Mar        Apr        may        Jun        Jul       _         Sept        Oct        Nov        Dec        Annual
Temperature
Mean monthly (°F)                       76        78         82         86         84         83         83         83        84          78        78         77          -
Humidity
Mean relative (%)                       80        76         72         74         77         72         69         69         70         77        82         84           _
Wind Velocity
Mean daily (mph)                       3.8       4.1        3.7        3.1        6.9        8.7        8.5       8.1        7.4        4.3        2.7        3.5          -
Sunshine
Mean daily (hrs/day)                   7.5       9.0        9.3        8.8        7.4        7.7        8.0        7.8       7.7        6.6        6.2        4.4          -
2/
Pan Evaporation   (inches)
Mean of project tanks                 4.5        4.7        6.2        5.5        6.0        6.8        6.9       6.8        6.8        5.4        4.2        4.2        67.9
Kala Wewa  tank                       4.7        4.7        6.1        6.0        7.1        7.1        7.4       8.1        8.2        6.2        4.7        4.6        74.9
FAO/Peoman method                     5.2        6.1        7.4        7.4        8.8        9.7        9.7       8.6        7.4        6.1        4.5        4.5        85.4
Precipitation (inches)
3/
Padaviya        75% probable             3.8       0.7        0.3        1.9        1.4        0.3        0.6        2.1        2.9        7.4        7.5       8.5
507 probable            5.5        2.7        0.7        3.5        3.2        0.6        1.4        3.2       4.5        9.8       11.2        12.0
Vavuniya        75% probable             1.2       0.6        0.5        4.0        1.2        0.1        0.2       0.7        0.2        6.4        6.4        5.5
50% probable            3.0        2.1        1.5        5.0        2.2        0.3       0.5         1.8       2.4        9.0        9.0       11.0
Anuradhapura   75% probable              0.8       0.4        1.4        3.7        1.25         -        0.2        0.4        0.5        7.1        5.8        5.5
50% probable            2.75       1.5        3.3        5.5        2.5          -       0.5        1.2        1.7        9.0        8.0        7.5
Mean (98 yeara)         4.8        2.1        3.9        7.4        3.9        0.5        1.2        1.8       2.7        9.2        9.8        9-5        56. 8
Meteorological station records, Anuradhapura and Vivuniya.
2- Tank data from Irrigation Department and Mahaweli Development Board.
3/ Based on 1943-1973 record.



SRI LANKA                                                            Fieuro 1
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
WEEKLY PRECIPITATIONV1
ANURADHAPURA
1967                                                             1966
-1DDY Y ELD                                                       PADDY YIELD
6           ~~~~33.6 b~   -                                        -      - 372b1,
7   =           ____ti  ___     _               r -               7 -+ -                        _      _     _      _     =
0 IL  Lk_    Li  I]    L 0
0     6     12   18   24   30    36   42    48    54              0     6     12   16    24    30   36    42    48
1969                                                              1970
6       ;    PADDY YIELD                                          6             PADDY YIELD
______  -                l  E    E    ~   ~   ~  ~ ~    -     41.3 I,u
z                                                                  3
EI~~~INE   I I 
0     6     12   la   24    30    36   42    48    54             0     6    12    18    24    30    36    42   4a    54
8                    ~~~~~~~~~~1971     _____               8                           1972
1062
6         ~~~~PADDY YIELD  ___-        -6PADDY YI EL D
5       j360~            -                                   0,                351 bul-                             __
4                    I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2                                                                 2EII                              u
1                                                              r o   OF'lEE   II
0     II   1!    lIE U4 !3    36  42               48    54               6    12    18    24  30        36    42    48     5
WEEKS                                                              WEEKS
Crop valds based on plabled acreage fof ebtire coun.rV                       Wor,d68.n-9107 (RI
31



AIJNEX I
Figure ?
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATiON PROJECT
WEEKLY PRECIPITATION
MAHA ILLUPALAMA
1967                                                      1966
7                                                         7 -    - -                     l -  -
2                                          ~~~~~~2    -
--                                        - Ii  iiH -i                         L i
0    6     12   16    24   30    36   42    48    54       0    6     12   18    24   30    36   42    48    54
19T                                                        1970
0    6612             4    30    36   42    4B    54       0    6     12   19    24   30    36   42    46    54
I                                           1 -L      ~       ~    ~~~ I    -           ____
0                                                          1                 A        I
6   12   19   24   20   36   42   48   54               0    6  12    19   24   30   36   42   40   54
WEEKS                                                      WVEEKS
32



ANNIIX 1
Figure '
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
WEEKLY PRECIPITATION
KALA WEWA
1967                                                     1968
6   -          _               _     -       11.75                 -
_    _            _                                    6_a
' 2   L X u X 'w' U ; 11'1 qr2 
0         1     13              3     28120    6    12 is   243                     3 36  42  48   54  30    6  r 4
1969                                                     1970
0    6    1 2   18   24   30    36   42    48   54       0    6     1 2  18    24   30    36   42   48    54
1971                                                     1972
611                                                  a X     i l      Il    irBlu lll      ll  
0    6    12   18  24   30   36  42   48   54            0    6    12   18   24   30  36  42   48   54
WEEKS                                                    VYEEKS
6Wrd Bnk--9109(R)
33



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Topography and Soils
1.        The project areas are located in the "dry zone" in north Sri
Lanka which is characterized by rolling topography with rough, eroded water
catchment areas above the more or less flat lands commanded by the tanks.
2.        The soils are residual (i.e. were developed in place), derived
from and underlain at relatively shallow depths by granites: and are un-
usually low in silt content. As a result, infiltration and permeability
rates are high, water holding capacities are low and the soils are quite
hard when dry. Erosion in the uplands has resulted in the lowlands soils
being somewhat finer in texture and lower, but not low, in permeability.
3.        Land classifications of the commanded areas, done somewhat along
the lines of the United States Bureau of Reclamation method, indicated that
there are no Class I soils; that most of the high lands comprising about
half those considered irrigable are Class II and III; and the bottom lands,
because they are suitable only for paddy, are in Class IVR which is con-
sidered excellent for paddy.
4.        The soils of the areas are similar in most respects and are com-
posed almost entirely of three types: (1) well-drained, dark brown to
reddish brown soils (Reddish Brown Earths or Alfisols) on the crests and
upper slopes of the undulating landscapes; (2) imperfectly drained, slightly
darker and usually slightly finer brown to reddish brown soils (Haplustalf
sub-group of Alfisols), and (3) poorly drained, finer, dark brown to dark
grey soils with pseudo-gley and gley horizons (Low Humic Gley, Aqualf sub-
order of Alfisols).
5.        The most important characteristics of the soils of the project
areas, with regard to development and use, are: (1) high infiltration and
permeability rates (from a low of 0.17 to more than 3 inches per hour);
(2) low available moisture holding capacities (1.2 to 1.6 inshes per foot
of soil); (3) high bulk densities (mostly 1.6 to 1.7 gram/cm ),and (4) very
low silt contents. The soil clays are mostly of the non-expanding type
(illitic and kaolinitic), the pH ranges from 6 to 7, the exchange complex
is 80 to 90% base saturated, the silica: sequioxide ratio is about 3, the
exchange capacity is 0.5 to 0.6 meq per gram of clay and the exchange
capacities range from 4 to 20 meq/100 grams. There are some salt and
alkali accumulations in low spots where the drainage is completely
34



ANNEX 2
Page 2
blocked. The organic matter content of the surface layer ranges from
1 to 5% and averages about 2%. Nitrogen and available phosphorous are
low and potash is moderate.
6.        The infiltration rates of the upland soils are above one inch an
hour and of the Low Humic Gley soils, 0.1 to 1 inch per hour. Thus, water-
logged conditions can exist in these soils only where the drainage outlets
are blocked. Since the soils retain a relatively small amount of water
that is available for plant growth (13 to 16% by volume) and the rooting
depth of most crops apparently is restricted, a few irrigations will be
required in the wet season, and more often in the dry season. Because of
their unusually low silt content, these soils are very soft when wet and
very hard when dry and the period when they can be effectively worked for
seed-bed preparation is very short. Hence, it will be necessary to provide
mechanical equipment for timely land preparation.
7.        As implied above, the Reddish Brown Earths (i.e. uplands) are best
suited for the production of upland crops such as cereals, pulses, chillies,
maize, etc, whereas the Low Humic Gley (bottomlands) are suitable only (in
the absence of drainage) for paddy. Even though the upland soils, because
of their high permeabilities, are not well suited for flooded paddy culture,
they are almost entirely used for paddy simply because it is by far the most
profitable crop that can be grown. Since only a few supplemental irrigations
would be required to ensure a good paddy crop in the maha (wet) season, the
fact that a high proportion of this supplemental water would be lost is not
inconsistent with the objective of making effective use of available irriga-
tion supplies in the wet season. No paddy would be grown in the uplands in
the dry season.
lovember 1976
35



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Cultivation Practices, Cropping Patterns and Yields
1.        Paddy is the main irrigated crop grown in the project area,
accounting for about 100% of the 103% cropped area. There are two paddy
growing seasons -- maha and yala. Maha paddy is broadcast, row-drilled or
transplanted during October-January, for harvest during January-April.
Yala paddy is planted between February and April and harvested during May-
July. Cultivation is by hand labor with draft power for plowing, tilling
and leveling supplied by buffaloes and 2-wheel and 4-wheel tractors. Har-
vesting and threshing are not mechanized. Despite higher yield potential
and easier weed control, transplanted paddy is not popular with farmers.
Broadcasting is most favored but row seeding, which allows weed control by
hand operated rotary weeders, is becoming more popular.
2.        Considerable amounts of water are used in paddy cultivation, first
in field preparation (saturation and leveling) and thereafter to maintain at
least a 2 inch depth of water to help control weeds, reduce labor and animal
draft demand. The water is allowed to flow continuously through the fields
and therefore no attention to water control is required at night time. Be-
cause land preparation usually does not begin until the tanks are sufficiently
full to ensure a crop, the maha planting is delayed and insufficient use is
made of rainfall. Also, as a result, little if any water is available for
the yala crop.
3.        A contributory reason for the extended maha and yala sowing periods
is the practice of slash-and-burn (chena) agriculture in nearby jungle areas.
The slashing begins when the yala rains cease in April-May; the cuttings are
burned in August. To make maximum use of the maha rainfall and to enable
the crop to keep ahead of the regenerating weeds, planting of the chena lands
takes place as soon as it begins to rain. Most farmers look upon their
chena land as their major source of food other than rice. Under present
conditions, they consider chena cultivation as more dependable than their
irrigated agriculture and they are reluctant to do anything that would inter-
fere with its success. Only when the chena lands are secured is attention
transferred to paddy lands where, in the meantime, much of the rainfall and
often a significant amount of the irrigation water released from the storage
for those who sowed earlier has been wasted. Yala plantings are delayed
partly by the delays in starting the maha crop and partly by the need to
harvest and replant the chena lands, before starting the yala crop on the
irrigated lands.
36



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        The cereal crops consist of finger millet, maize and sorghum.  The
former is mainly a chena crop because of its great sensitivity to weed
competition and is not grown under irrigated conditions. Sorghum has re-
cently been expanding because some good varieties have become available from
India and these ratoon well in Sri Lanka. Maize has always been grown,
although not to a large extent, in the northern dry area. Neither sorghum
nor maize are grown on irrigated lands at present, but investigations in Maha
Illupalama show that they can both be grown successfully under irrigation,
especially on the more permeable soils.
5.        The pulse crops.  Cowpeas, green and black gram, and pigeon peas
would appear to present good prospects for the future. In the project areas,
very little is grown under irrigation at present, but a start has been made
to grow them after rice, with little or no irrigation. Elsewhere in the
country pulses are being grown some under irrigation. Maha Illupalama has
bred good varieties and their performance under field conditions is encourag-
ing.
6.        Fruits and vegetables.  Tree crops including jack fruit, mango,
coconuts and guavas, together with some vegetables are grown on the settlers'
upland 2 ac plots.
7.        Present yields.  Information on present paddy rice yields in the
project area is not consistent. The figures used to represent the present
situation were derived from composite estimates for Anuradhapura District
made by the APCs for irrigation projects. These were related to the actual
achievement of 1972-73, which was more or less an average year. For cereals
and pulses, the estimated present yields are based on observations of field
crops and discussions with farmers and extension and research workers.
The Future "Without" the Project
8.        Without the project, it is expected that maintenance work on the
irrigation systems would be adequate to maintain the present water supplies
and, therefore, it would be possible to maintain the present acreage of
paddy. However, the trend to grow "dry" crops in irrigated lands for which
no irrigation water is available either through lack of stored supplies or
because the time set by the APC for planting paddy is past, could be expected
to have some impact. It could also be expected that improvements in crop
husbandry would continue at about the same rate as in the past. The present
extension service and methods would increase rice yields by a compounded 2%
per annum, taking into account both the dissemination of information on
better crop husbandry practices and the appearance and gradual adoption of
new varieties. It is expected that the area of pulses and cereals would
increase somewhat as the extension service persuades farmers to utilize
their paddy lands when not actually planted to paddy. Yields would increase,
as with rice, at a 2% per annum compound rate. The overall cropping inten-
sity would rise to about 108%.
37



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Projected Cropping Patterns and Yields
9.        The main factors contributing to both increased yields and cropping
intensities under the project would be improved irrigation supply and drain-
age, better cultivation practices with the help of a reorganized extension
service and enhanced inputs particularly agricultural machinery.
10.       Research station yields at Maha Illupalama between 1970 and 1974, have
indicated that if sufficient water is available, the paddy yields in the maha
and yala seasons are about equal. However, in the case of maize, sorghum and
pulses (given sufficient water), the yields during the yala season will exceed
those secured during the maha. The difference is due, in part, to more sunshine.
11.       Considering the above information as well as farmer practices and
the findings of surveys by the Agricultural Research and Training Institute,
it is estimated that approximately five years after the completion of
project works (assuming a strengthened extension service), average yields
would be of the following order:
Maha       Yala
---tons/ac-----
Paddy (broadcast)         1.5         1.5
Pulses
Pigeon peas           .66        .66
Green gram            .66        .66
Black gram            .55        .60
Cowpea                .70        .75
Groundnuts            .80        .85
Average pulses             .59         .65
Maize                1.00       1.02
Sorghum /a          0.90        1.20
Average cereals           0.90        1.10
/a   Including ratoon.
12.       Revision of the irrigation delivery schedules would permit earlier
pre-season preparation of maha paddy in September and the introduction of
intermittent irrigation would conserve water for the yala crops. The maha
38



ANNEX 3
Page 4
planting would be from late September through October, for harvesting in
January through early February. Yala planting would be from February and
early March, for harvesting in late May and June. The principal agronomic
changes would be:
(a) Paddy would be grown in a manner similar to upland
crops, i.e., with intermittent irrigation rather
than continuous flooding. Irrigation would be applied
according to the consumptive use requirements of the
crop.   The practicability of this has been demonstrated
at Maha Illupalama, at IRRI and on two operating projects
in Sri Lanka. However, it has not been tried on a farm
basis in the northern dry zone, and therefore extensive
demonstration must be the first task of the reorganized
extension service.
(b) The use of intermittent irrigation would also create an
increased weed control problem and would require the use
of weedicides or hand hoeing or pulling; the alternative
drying and wetting would likely result in some loss of
nitrogen through the process of denitrification.
(c) The seedbed for the entire service area of a given tank would
be prepared with mechanical power within a short time --
preferably a significant portion of it while dry or fol-
lowing the first monsoon rains. This would decrease the
demands on tank storage for pre-irrigation to soften the
soil.
(d) Firm irrigation seasons would be established. This would
require a much greater discipline of farm operations than
at present. The objective would be to compress the crop
cycles over the whole area in a shorter span of time than
the present 5 to 6 months.
(e) To attain the anticipated results it would also be necessary
for farmers to begin to produce other crops such as maize,
sorghum, pulses, millet and sesamum on the "paddy" lands
during the yala season and perhaps even during the maha
season.
As the practices listed above include many techniques that are new to the
project areas, if indeed not to Sri Lanka, the Maha Illupalama Research
Station (Annex 4) must, at the earliest possible time, focus its attention
on these problems in order to provide suitable information to the extension
service.
39



ANNEX 3
Page 5
13.       Projected cropping pattern and cropping intensities were evaluated
for each of the five tank command areas on the basis of water availability
and judgment on water requirements giving due weight to system uses, soil
permeability and farmers' familiarity with water use. The projected percent-
age cropping intensities adopted are:
Mahakanadarawa  Vavunikulam  Pavatkulam  Mahawilachchiya   Padaviya
Maha         100         100           100             100            100
Yala          68          47            18              69             65
Total        168         147           118             169            165
14.       Table 1 shows the present and expected future cropping pattern,
yield and production in each of the five tanks, and also the composite
summary figures. As alternatives, and to test the economic viability of the
project even if the expected irrigation regime (para 12) and its implied
irrigation efficiencies (Annex 5, Table 2) cannot be realized, Table 2 has
been developed. It compares area, production and water requirements at field
level for the expected composite cropping pattern shown in Table 1, and two
alternatives. The calculations assume that water available in the tanks is
130,000 ac-ft, which is in fact less than what can reasonably be expected from
the tanks, but is the requirement on a 55% irrigation efficiency (Annex 5,
Table 3).  The alternatives were developed by fitting the cropping pattern to
meet the overall irrigation efficiency assumed with less experienced farmers
in the nearby Mahaweli Ganga (II) project.
-:ovTenber 1?76
40



SRI LNKYA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATiON PROJECT
Present & Estimated Future Froduction
TOE FIVE TANKS (31.500 *c)                                                    MAOAKANADARA5A (6.000                                                             PA PAVIYA (12.500 *c3
Area                     Yild                   Production                     Are                    Yield                  FoOduction                     Are-                      Yield                  Production
2/    ("')   2/        (tees/ac)                  (tona)                      (ac)                  (tens/ac)                  (to.s)                      (nc)                     (tetu/sc)                  (ten)
P        W        W        p      W      W         P        W        W         P        W        w      P      W      W         P        W        W         P        W        W         P      W      W         P        W        W
Maha rcle                     24,200   24,200   29,900      0.90   1.10   1.50   21,780   26,620   44,850    4,600    4,600    5,700   0.85   1.05   1.50    3,910    4,830    8,550    9,600    9,600   11,900          0.95   1.20   1.50    9,120   11,520   17,850
cereals                      -      600    1,600         -   0.80   0.90        -      480    1,440         -      200       300      -  0.80   0.90                 160      270        -       150      600        -   0.80   0.90          -      120      540
puisee                       -       350        -        - 0.45        -         -      157                 -       100        -      -0.45         -                 45        -         -      100        -         -   0.45      -         -       45         -
Sub-tutal                   24,200   25,150   31,500                        -                 - _           4.600    4,900    6,000       -      -      -         -        -        -    9,600    9,850   12,500          -      -      -         -        -         -
Mual  icten.ity                77%       800% LOV                   -       -        -                 -      77%       82%     100%      -      -      -         -        -        -       77%      79      1002%            -
Yale  rice                     7,700    7,700   10,700      0.85   1.00   1.40    6,545    7,700   14,980       550       550    2,100   0.75   0.95   1.40       413      523    2,940    5,300    5,300    6,000       0.85   1.05   1.40    4,505    5,565    8,400
cocoals                    150      500    2,650      0.65   0.80   1.10       98       400    2,915        -      100       750      -   0.60   1.10                 80      825         -      100      800         -   0.80   1.10         -       80      880
prison                     500      800    4.250      0.35   0.45   0.65       175      360    2,763       50       100     1,250  0.35   0.45   0.65        18       45      813       200      300    1,300      0.35   0.45   0.65        70      135       845
Sub-t.t.1                    8,350    9,000   17,600         -      -       -        -        -        -      600       750    4,100      -      -       -        -        -        -    5,500    5,700    8,100          -      -       -        -        -         -
Yala ictensity                 26%      28%       56%        -      -       -        -        -        -      10%       12%      68%      -      -       -        -        -         -      44%      45%      65%         -      -,
TOTALS                        32,550   34,130   49,100         -      _                         _        _    5,200    5,650   10,100       -      -       -        -        -             15,100   15,550   20,600             -          -        -         -        -
TOTAL INTENSITY                 103%      108%     156%        _      _      _         _                 _      87%       94%     168%      -      -       -        -        -         -     121%     124%     165%         -      -                _
NAi3AWILACHCHIYA (2.600 c5                                                     VAVUNIKULAM (6.000 ee)                                                          PAVATKOLAIM (4.400  co
Ane                     Yield                  Production                     Area                   Yield                  Production                     Aeon                      Yieled                 Frodutien
(ee)                  (rons/sd                   (tosl                        (eel                 (tousled                   (tone1                       (eel                    (tons---l e(ruon
p        V        W        P      V                F                 W         P        V        W       P      W      W        P        W         W        p        0         1        P       W      W        P         W       I
MbaI  rice                     1,900    1,900    2,450      0.75   0.95   1.50    1,425    1,805    3,675    4,600    4,600    5,700   0.85   1.05   1.50    3,910    4,830    8,550    3,500    3,500    4,150          0.80   1.00   1.50    2,800    3,500    6,225
cereals                      -       50       150        -   0.80   0.90         -       40      135         -      100      300      -   0.80   0.90         -       80      270         -      100      250         -   0.80   0.90         -        80      225
pule.S                       -        50        -        -   0.45       -        -       23        -         -       50        -      -   0.45       -        -       23         -        -       50         -        -   0.45       -        -        22        -
sob-total                    1,900    2,000    2,600         -      -       -        -        -        -    4,600    4,750    6,000       -      -       -        -        -         -    3.500    3,650    4,400         -      -       -        -         -        -
Maha intensity                 73%       77%     100%        -      -       -        -        -        -       77%      79%     100       -       -      -        -        -         -      807.     83%      100                 -
Yale  tico                       200       200      900     0.70   0.85   1.40       140      170    1,260    1,500    1,500    1,300   0.75   0.95   1.40    1,125    1,425    1,820         150       150      400     0.70   0.85   1.40      1.05       128      360
cocealo                      -       50       300        -   0.80   1.10         -       40      330      100       150      600   0.65   0.80   1.10        65      120       660       50      100       200     0.65   0.00   1.00        33        80      220
pulses                      s0       100      600     0.35   0.45   0.65        18       45      390       100      150      900   0.35   0.45   0.65        35        68      585      100       150      200     0.35   0.45   0.65        35        60      130
Sub-tot.l                      250       350    1,800        -      -       -        -        -        -    1,700    1,800    2,800       -       -      -        -         -        -      300      400       800        -       -      -         -        -        -
Y-la intensity                 10%       13%      69%        -       -      -        -        -         -      208      30.      47%       -      -      -        -         -        -       67.       9%      18%
TOTALS                         2,150    2,350    4,400         -       -      -        -        -         -    6,300    6,550    8,800       -      -      -        -         -        -    3,800    4,050    5,200          -      -      -         -        -         -
TOTAL INTENSITY                  83%       90%     1697,       -              _        _        _        _      105%     1097.    147%       -      -      -                  _        _      88%       92%    112          -      -      -                            _
1/ Figureo iu parn.thecio give the net cultivable eurosge.
2/ P =  Pre-ent. W  =  Future Without Prjojct, W =  Future With Preject.                                                                                                                                                                                    41



ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA                                              Table 2
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Alternative Future Cropping Patterns Compared
Basic (From Table 1)                   Alternative I                       Alternative II
Area   Production   Water in       Area   Production   Water in       Area   Production   Water in
(ac)     (tons)      field         (ac)     (tons)       field         (ac)     (tons)      field
(ac-ft)                            (ac-ft)                             (ac-ft)
M4aha
Rice                29,900    44,850       34,883       29,900    44,850       34,883      29,900    44,850       34,883
Cereals              1,600      1,440         920        1,600     1,440          920       1,600      1,440         920
Pulses                    -         -            -           -         -            -            -         -
Yala
Rice                10,700    14,980       25,125        7,000     9,800       16,434       5,000      7,000      11,739
Cereals              2,650      2,915       3,997                      -            -       1,500      1,650       2,262
Pulses               4,250      2,763       6,410                      _            -       2,100      1,365        3,167
TOTAL                 49,100                 71,335       38,500                 52,237      40,100                  52,971
Cropping intensity      156%                                123%                               127%
Water use efficiency
(based on 130,000
ac-ft at tank.)                                 55%                                 40%                                 40%  F W



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
A. Organization of Agricultural Production
1.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Lands (MAL) is responsible for the
supervision of agricultural production and mobilization of inputs. The
Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways (MIPH) is responsible for irri-
gation and land drainage. Recently, Sri Lanka reorganized field supervision
of agricultural production by setting up Agricultural Productivity Committees
(APCs) to oversee the Cultivation Committees (CCs), as well as Agricultural
Tribunals. The Government also proposes to set up District Agriculture and
Irrigation Advisory Committees. Four new laws governing agriculture pro-
ductivity, agriculture insurance, tenancy rights and rent, and sale of State
lands, respectively, have been enacted during 1972-1975. Legislation to re-
cover land betterment costs, enacted in September 1976, is significant in
that it would enable recovery of irrigation capital and 0 & M costs. Draft
legislation for control of irrigation activities is to be presented to the
Legislature in the near future.
2.        Agricultural Productivity Committees (APCs) are set up under the
Agricultural Productivity Law (APL) which makes it mandatory for all owners
and occupiers of agricultural land to use it to the maximum benefit of the
country, in a manner prescribed from time to time by the APC. The law deals
with all agricultural and livestock production. The duties of the owner and
occupier are defined and the processes of enforcement and supervision are
also described in the APL. If compliance is not forthcoming, defaulters can
be dispossessed. The APCs are to become the principal regulatory bodies for
all agricultural activities. About 530 APCs are planned of which about 430
had been set up at time of appraisal. Its members are nominees of the
Minister, MAL. At village level, the Cultivation Committees (CCs) are the
agents of the APCs and are subject to their direction and control. The
Minister may empower APC to act on all sections of the APL. The proposed
Irrigation Bill would give further powers to the APCs.
3.        The APC functions are to:
(a) direct and control the CC;
(b) promote and coordinate agricultural development;
43



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(c) assist formulation of crop and livestock production programs;
(d) supplement the Minister, MAL's regulations for:
-- the cultivation of irrigated crops;
-- the enforcement of "established customs" in this
respect;
-- distribution of water at farm level;
-- the appointment and remuneration of executive agents
for the foregoing, and
-- farmers' contributions, in cash or labor, to the
irrigation structures for which they are responsible.
(e) regulate repossession by a landlord when a tenant dies intestate;
(f) appoint tenants for land not cultivated for two seasons;
(g) decide seasonal cropping pattern subject to the Government
Agent's (GA) approval; Minister, MIPH has the final decision
in respect of water releases implied by any specific
cropping pattern;
(h) permit the cultivation of crops other than paddy (the 1958
Paddy Lands Act has been repealed);
(i) act as an Agricultural Leasehold Society to take over or lease
its members' land subject to appeal to the Minister, MAL only
as to the rent payable;
(j) determine the rent payable by tenant to landlord, within
the provisions of the law, subject to adjudication of dispute
by the Agricultural Tribunal;
(k) determine, for rent purposes, the degree of crop failure;
(1) control water distribution below the 50 ac level (or on
canals under 0.5 mi length) subject to the direction of
the Engineer nominated by the MIPH;
(m)  organize, through the CC, the cultivators to maintain the
works associated with (1).
4.        The Agricultural Tribunal (AT) acting under the Agricultural Land
Law (ALL) is the guardian of tenants' rights, has final ruling powers on
inheritance disputes and adjudicates rent payable. Rent is fixed by the
44



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Min1ster, MAL, but may not exceed 15 bu per ac or one quarter of the crop, or
thL customary rent, whichever is the lowest. The APC's levy of Rs 6 per ac
is payable by the landlord. The AT members are appointed by the cabinet on
the advice of the Judicial Services Advisory Board. The AT is the highest
authority to whom orders of dispossession are referred and its rulings may
only be referred to the Supreme Court on points of law. The ALL recognizes
continued occupancy by the tenant and his legal or nominated successor;
recognizes rotational occupancy; ensures continuing tenants' rights or change
of ownership, and regulates transfer of tenancy to the landlord. Land may
be mortgaged, or a charge raised against it, either by the owner or the
occupier. Non-payment of principal or interest becomes a first charge on
crops or livestock, if their raising was the purpose of the loans. The
rights of the prescribed banks to recover confirmed debts are unalienable and
not negotiable under the previous law.
5.        The Agricultural Insurance Law No. 27 has been enacted to operate
a comprehensive agricultural insurance scheme in respect of the paddy crop
and of such other crops as may be specified by the Minister to indemnify the
farmers against loss. The Board consists of a Chairman appointed by the
Minister, MAL, with representatives from the People's Bank and the Bank of
Ceylon, the Ceylon Insurance Corporation and the Paddy Marketing Board (PMB).
Insurance is compulsory for every person having an interest in the paddy
crop, be he the owner, tenant or sharecropper. The premium, which is deter-
mined by the Board, is shared according to the interest an "insured person"
has in the crop. Crops other than paddy may be insured, as determined by
executive order. The law does not state for what causes of loss a claim may
be preferred, only that it must be filed within seven days of its occurence.
The premium is also not stated but is, at present, around Rs 30 per ac,
depending on the location within the country.
6.        The Sale of State Lands (Special Provisions) Law empowers the Land
Commissioner (LC) acting on a report by the District Government Agent (GA)
to determine state land sales conditions. Potential purchasers are selected
according to regulations made under the Law and the price is set by the LC.
The successful purchasers may elect to pay cash and receive a land grant or
pay in installments with interest and receive a use-permit (cancellable on
non-payment of installments) to be converted to a land grant when fully
paid. The Law prohibits unapproved disposal of land, subdivision and co-
ownership. With the wide powers of the Law, the Minister, MAL may make
regulations to control land operation and use. The law specifically
declares it to be an offense to encroach on land that has been alienated
and makes ejection of the encroacher mandatory.
7.        The draft Irrigation Bill has received Cabinet approval in princi-
ple and is due for presentation to the Parliament in the near future. Its
May 1975 draft provides for establishing a District Irrigation Committee
with the GA and an Advisory Committee for each major irrigation work or
group of works. The law controls both interference with canals and water
wasteage; it determines the area to be irrigated in each command in that
season and fixes the water charges.
45



ANNEX 4
Page 4
8.        The Land Betterment Charges Bill enacted in September, 1976 de-
fines "benefited areas" where the productivity of agricultural lands has im-
proved or is likely to improve as a result of the construction of an irriga-
tion, drainage and flood protection project. Annual charges will be levied,
(after making due allowance for whole or partial crop failure) either as a
fixed sum per acre, or as a fixed sum for a fixed amount of water and an
additional charge for supplies in excess of the minimum, or as a charge based
on the water supplied. The charges will be determined on the basis of the
following criteria:
(a) capital expenditure and expected life of the works;
(b) operation and maintenance costs;
(c) water availability;
(d) its regularity;
(e) the extent to which the land has benefited;
(f) the likely increase of production due to the project; and
(g) other matters, to be prescribed.
B. Agricultural Research
9.        Organization.  Agricultural Research is headed by the Deputy
Director of Agriculture (DDA), Research, who is based at the Central Agricul-
tural Research Station at Peradiniya, near Kandy. He has a staff of 67
Research Officers of whom 20 are Ph Ds. Some 15 of the Research Officers
were abroad for training at the time of appraisal. There are 16 outstations,
two of which are significant to the project--Batalagoda, where almost all
the paddy breeding is being done and Maha Illupalama where irrigated agri-
culture is being studied.
10.       Rice Research.  Sri Lanka has always had a good rice breeding
program. During the 1950s and 1960s, the H series of locally bred varieties
replaced most of the traditional varieties. Since the advent of high yielding
varieties (HYV), Sri Lanka has successfully incorporated the IRRI strains to
produce HYVs suitable to its conditions. The most notable feature of the
new varieties is a shorter growing season. Of the varieties released BG
(Batalagoda) 11/11, 34/4 and 34/2 are outstanding. All are resistant to
blast, intermediate in stature (80-90 cm high) and have leaves that become
erect as they develop. Most take about 3-1/2 months from seed to seed, a
desirable feature for the maximum utilization of rainfall on the yala crop.
46



ANNEX 4
Page 5
11.       Research on Other Crops.  Research on other crops for the dry
zone is concentrated at Maha Illupalama, where irrigation studies are also
carried out. Considerable progress has been made in introducing and developing
new varieties of chillies, green gram, black gram, pigeon peas (dhal) and
cowpeas. Summary of the yields obtained at Maha Illupalama between 1970 and
1974 is as follows:
Yala as percent
Maha     Yala        of Maha
---------    lb/ac--------------
Paddy rice (irrigated)                     5,097    5,013           98
Pulses
Dhal                                 1,897    2,259           119
Green gram                           1,531    1,931           126
Black gram                           1,407    3,134           222
Cowpeas                              2,203    2,395           109
Groundnuts                           1,999    2,848           142
Maize                                      3,215    2,364           74
Sorghum                                    2,976    2,877           97
It would appear that, if water supplies are adequate, yala rice yields would
be about the same as those obtaintable in the maha. In the cases of maize,
sorghum and the pulses, given proper crop husbandry practices and adequate
irrigation water, future yala yields will at least equal, and possibly exceed,
those obtainable in the maha. The yield figures used for compiling Table 1
in Annex 3 have been derived from the foregoing data.
C. Agricultural Extension
The Present Situation
12.       Agricultural Extension, one of the functions of the Department of
Agriculture, is under the control of the DDA, Extension. His immediate pro-
fessional staff consists of five graduate Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs)
for cereals, pulses, tobacco, plant protection and seed certification and
production. Field operations are controlled by a District Agricultural
Extension Officer (DAEO) in each of the 22 Districts. In some cases, he
has an additional (i.e. deputy) DAEO to assist him. His headquarters staff
includes District SMSs, who are usually agricultural diploma holders, and
who, by training or inclination have specialized in certain subjects. The
field staff consists of Agricultural Instructors (AIs), who are also agricul-
tural diploma holders and Village Level Workers (Sinhalese acronym is KVS --
which stands for Krushikarma Viyaptha Sevaka) who have taken in-service train-
ing courses. Their formal schooling is a General Certificate of Education,
Ordinary Level (O - level).
47



ANNEX 4
Page 6
13.       The District extension organization assists the farmers who are
arable in areas that have not received any special benefits from irrigation
projects or any other form of land improvement. Irrigation projects, special
land development projects and schemes to promote the production of specific
crops, are supported by their own extension service which usually has only
informal links with the regular District extension service. Coordination
at the DDA and project management level is, however, ensured.
14.       The proposed project areas are  principally in Anuradhapura District
but also contain small parts of Mannar, Vavuniya, Matale, Trincomalee and
Jaffna Districts. In these Districts, two of the special extension services
are active. One group takes care of the so-called "special projects" which
were established some 15 or 20 years ago. The five tanks in the modernization
program are in this category. They receive more attention than areas served
under the regular extension program. There is also a pilot settlement pro-
ject operating within the boundaries of the Maha Illupalama Research Station
and supervised by its staff.
15.       The Anuradhapura District include the following extension staff
at present:
DAEO                                 1
Additional DAEO                      1
Subject Matter Specialists           3
AIs:  for the District          18 )
for special projects    23 ) 42
at District office        1 )
KVS:  for the District         98 )
for special projects    47 ) 147
at District office        2 )
The staff is responsible for the agricultural extension activities of some
65,000 farm families cultivating an average of about 3 ac of paddy land and
about 1.5 ac of upland.
16.       Extension activities are technically backstopped by the Maha
Illupalama Research Station. However, contacts are not formalized and
depend entirely upon the personal relationships of the officers. Maha
Illupalama is also the site of a training institute which is designed to
service the entire north central region. The institute runs in-service and
orientation training courses for all levels of staff, in which the DAEO
and his Subject Matter Specialists participate.
48



ANNEX 4
Page 7
17.       The Agricultural Productivity Committees, (APCs) and their subor-
dinate Cultivation Committees (CCs) are on the point of being increasingly
involved not only in supervision and control of agricultural activities,
but also in their medium-and short-term planning, forecasting and managing.
They will require more staff and support if they are to be effective. The
Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies (MPCSs) are the sole source of fertilizer
and pesticides obtainable with institutional credit, as only they can honor
the credit vouchers issued to the farmers. The MPCSs also handle all the
improved seeds that originate from Government sources. Coordination between
them and-the extension service is a means of securing timely availability of
inputs at the right place.
18.       Factors impeding efficiency of the extension service are:
(a) lack of formal and regular exposure to up-to-date research
findings;
(b) lack of clearly defined areas of responsibility and conse-
quent gaps in support;
(c) a serious lack of transport for all levels of staff, militating
against regular field visits, and
(d) lack of accommodation which prevents the positioning of key
staff at essential locations.
19.       The Proposed Extension Service.  The proposed extension organization
would embrace the whole of Anuradhapura District. It would effect minimal
changes in staff numbers but in view of the emergence of the APCs and CCs
there would be some need for staff reassignment. The "special projects"
group would be reabsorbed in the District Extension Organization. Areas
developed under the MDB would become part of a new Extension District as
development progresses. Extension Officers servicing the Pavatkulam and
Vavunikulam tank areas would also be integrated into their respective District
organization but would receive the same special, intensive training that would
be given to the Anuradhapura staff.
20.       Table 1 shows the organizational chart for the proposed extension
service. The functions and brief job descriptions of the various cadres of the
proposed service would be as follows:
(a) DAEO and Additional DAEO. The DAEO would be in overall
charge and responsible for the work performance and train-
ing of all the staff involved in their respective projects.
He would be assisted at District headquaters by an additional
DAEO who would have charge of the day-to-day operational
activities of all extension workers. He would serve princi-
pally as a staff officer. Both these officers must be agri-
cultural graduates with several years operational and
technical experience.
49



ANNEX 4
Page 8
(b) SMSs. To enable maximixing output and to utilize fully
expensive and scarce inputs - water, mechanical equipment --
there would be SMSs for:
(i) farm machinery maintenance and operations;
(ii)  water management and irrigation practices;
(iii) extension methods;
(iv)  farm management;
(v)  paddy;
(vi)  maize and sorghum;
(vii) other upland crops, and
(viii) plant protection.
The SMS would be a university graduate with at least two
years specialization in his subject and at least three
years general field experience. His functions would be:
(i)  field work, in support of staff in contact
with farmers;                                        60%
(ii)  training courses (lectures and demonstrations);   20%
(iii) contact with relevant research work and workers,
and,                                                 10%
(iv)  preparing material for publication and training
courses administration, work planning, short-
and long-term                                        10%
To assist with the training of SMSs in disciplines at
present not fully developed in Sri Lanka, the UK has
agreed to provide three advisors -- one each in farm
machinery maintenance and operations, water management
and irrigation practices and farm management -- for a
period of about two years. The advisors are expected to
be posted by January 1, 1978. Tentative terms of
references for the advisors are shown in Appendix 1.
(c)  KVS. The cadre having the most frequent contact with the
farmers would be the KVS. They must have a rural, farming
background and preferably also formal training in a special
training institute. They would reside in their work area,
50



ANNEX 4
Page 9
have suitable transport to travel within this area and
would be subjected to frequent practically-oriented
training courses devised and run by first and second-line
supervisors. They would have, within their areas, no
more than 700 active farmers but considerably fewer in the
early stages of the project or in areas with continuing
serious problems.
Methods of operation would be centered around a prearranged
and rigidly followed schedule of visits, known to all the
farmers in the area, that would bring them back to the same
outlet command every fortnight. The KVS would visit, and
work with the same contact farmers for at least one season,
who would all have been carefully selected as respected
leading farmers of the area. Two groups of four contact
farmers would be a suitable number for the one day's visit.
Other farmers having land in the same outlet commands would
be encouraged to participate. Success would be measured
by the number who follow the KVSs' recommendations and by
the results they achieve. The regular visiting schedule
will enable the KVS to assist farmers in matters pertain-
ing to input distribution and administrative procedures.
During every farm visit, only the specified extension
tasks of the period will be discussed. Other problems
will be dealt with on a special day set aside for the
purpose or passed on to their supervisor.
(d) The AI. One Agricultural Instructor (AI) would supervise
four or five KVSs. He should have at least two years train-
ing at an agricultural school and three years field experi-
ence.  He would be sufficiently well versed in the production
of all field crops, plant protection and water management
to be competent in back-stopping his KVSs. He would, in turn,
visit each of his KVS's farm groups.  He would participate
in the fortnightly KVS training sessions (para 9) and take
personal charge of demonstration plots and the field days
conducted on them.  He would help organize and take part in
the periodic farmers' extension meetings.  One Al would be
posted to each APC; his office would be located in the APC
complex. He would keep the chairman and the members of the
committee informed of his activities and would be available
to advise and assist them in their function of ensuring pro-
per and efficient farming practices.
(e) Senior Agricultural Instructors (SAI)/Agricultural Officers
(AO). Each extension circle would include 8 to 11 APCs.
One senior AI or AO would be responsible for an extension
circle, reporting directly to the DAEO and supervising the AIs.
He should preferably be a university graduate with at least
51



ANNEX 4
Page 10
five years' experience, capable of planning, organizing and
supervising the extension activities of his staff. He should
be well acquainted with problems facing the farmer in the
field of crop production and farm management. The planning
of the KVS, Al and farmer training programs would be his
specific task. In this he must have access to, and the
assistance of, the SMSs.  He would spend three days a week
in the field, visiting his AIs and ensuring that he sees, in
rotation, all his KVSs and all their work areas. The task
and the problems in hand would determine whether, and which,
SMS accompanies him during the visits.
Promotional possibilities should be open to all grades, subject to satis-
factory job performance and the successful conclusion of specially designed
training courses.
Training
21.       Training would be continuous for all levels of extension staff as
well as farmers. The former will consist of one-day sessions and longer
courses, run as workshops. The training would be according to the two
levels of staff, one for KVSs and another for the graduate staff. The KVSs
would receive regular fortnightly training. Between sessions, they would
communicate to the farmers no more than the two or three key points of crop
husbandry that they, themselves, were taught during the fortnightly courses,
during which the preceding period's efforts will also be evaluated. The
session may well take place on the fields of a contact farmer or some
other suitable location, to ensure that all participants are actually capable
of doing the task that they would be called upon to teach and demonstrate.
22.       There would be a one-day training session each month for all the
AIs during which the previous and the following months' activities would be
discussed. There would also be presentations on special problems and some
practical training. A seasonal six day seminar of AIs would be organized
before each maha and yala season.
23.       The program for the graduate staff would cover not only technical
matters, but also the practice of supervision, organization, management
and extension methods. Thus, involvement by agricultural research groups
and operational groups of other projects will be as important as presentations
from staff of the Institute of Management and the Institute of Public Adminis-
tration. Monthly meetings of the group, headed by the DAEO, would determine
the training need and the most suitable timing for the seminars. The super-
visory staff would be the trainers of the KVSs. It is essential that the
AIs not actually making presentations to them also be present, to take part
in any follow-up discussion.
24.       Before each session, there would be a one week intensive training
course, held at the Maha Illupalama Training Institute which would provide for
52



ANNEX 4
Page 11
al1 KVSs as well as the staff of the two tanks outside Anuradhapura District.
The KVSs would be divided into groups so that the course would be completed
in one month. Considering the preparations required, this operation would
commit the teaching and administrative staff of the Institute for at least
six weeks on each occasion. The Institute should be enlarged to accommodate
all participants and to enable it to serve also as a farmer training center.
The syllabus would consist of lectures on the major crops, discussions on
problems encountered, any new production techniques and the most effective
extension methods to use. The participants would have the opportunity of
utilizing their past experience and newly acquired knowledge and skills to
draw up work plans to their areas for the following six months. In developing
these plans, emphasis would be placed on the priorities determined, practic-
ability and focusing of efforts. A number of these programs would be pre-
sented by their planners for analysis and general discussion. This, in
itself, would be an important exercise.
25.       Training of Contact Farmers.  The expected impact of, and on, the
contact farmers cannot be achieved by farm visits alone. Further training
would develop their abilities and make the work of the KVS more effective.
The training would take the form of practical demonstrations of the crops
they are growing, to improve crop husbandry practices by emphasizing key fac-
tors such as timely weeding, fertilization, pest control, water management,
and most importantly, irrigation methods. Farmers would be taught the most
suitable cropping pattern for their conditions, as it was developed or has
evolved in their own area. This training would be in the form of short
courses taking place either at the In-service Training Institute in Maha
Illupalama or at one of the APC centers. The courses would last two to three
days and be held before each session, after the KVS courses. Monthly meetings
of these same farmer groups would complete this activity. They would be or-
ganized by the KVS and AI with the particpation of the Cultivation Committee.
The meetings would serve as a forum for discussions concerning crops and farm
problems in general. Guidance by the AI and the KVS would highlight the
specific tasks to be undertaken during the following weeks.
26.       The Working Environment.  Suitable transport is essential at all
levels. The KVSs should own a bicycle and a suitable operating allowance
would be paid. The AI needs a motorcycle which would be his own property.
Allowances would only be paid if the vehicle is operational, thereby en-
suring good maintenance. Funds must be available to grant loans for pur-
chasing the bicycles and the motorcycles. The SMSs, SAIs or AOs, the ADAEO
and DAEO need four-wheel drive vehicles. These would be the property of the
Government, unless the officers concerned wish to purchase one. As with
the motorcycles, however, compensation for their use should be so structured
as to provide the strongest possible inducement to maintain the vehicles
in working order.
27.       The transport and staff needs for the Pavatkulam and Vavunikulam
tank areas would have to be considered separately. The need here is to move
all staff once a fortnight to a suitable place in Anuradhapura District,
53



ANNEX 4
Page 12
to enable them to attend the various training courses and for the supervisors
to keep in touch with their own as well as with the Anuradhapura District
head office for the respective assistance and control required. Therefore,
apart from the requisite number of bicycles and motorcycles, there must be a
minibus on each location.
28.       The AIs and KVSs would be provided with housing, or a housing
allowance instead. The budget (Table 2) contains provisions for this ex-
penditure.
Implementation of the Proposed Plan
29.       Implementation of the new extension plan is already under way.
Four sub-districts -- north, south, east and west -- have been created and
three of the extra SMSs required have been appointed and posted. The Special
Project areas await reintegration into the District agricultural administration
The total staff increases required are shown below:
Present     Future    Additional
DAEO                                                1          1
ADAEO                                               1          1           -
SAIs/AOs                                           0           3           3
SMSs                                               3           8           5
AIs                                               41          39          -2
Total Supervisory Staff                      46          52           6
KVSs                                             145         145           -
KVS Assistants to AI; Administration               24         39          15
Drivers                                             3         10           7
Clerk                                             10          10          _
Total Executive Staff                       182         204          22
The estimated annual operating budget is shown in Table 2.  Equipment require-
ments and capital investments are detailed in Annex 8, Table 3.
54



ANNEX 4
Page 13
D. Agricultural Inputs
30.       Farm Power and Equipment.  Land preparation at present is done by
a combination of four-wheel and two-wheel tractors and buffaloes. The four-
wheel tractors, most in the 35-40 hp class, use mainly a tined cultivator
(tiller) and only occasionally under dry conditions a disk plough. The
two-wheel tractors use a reversible mouldboard plough and rotary cultivator;
the buffaloes pull a barpoint plough with a long sole which helps to seal
the surface on which it travels, thereby impeding percolation and assisting
with water conservation. The farmers' first work choice is buffaloes,
followed by the rotary cultivator. Both are consistent with paddy land
preparation experienced from other countries. Survey findings show that,
at present, 66% of land preparation is done by tractors in Anuradhapura
District where three of the five tanks are situated, whereas the figures are
100% in Vavuniya and 97% in Mannar where the other two tanks are located.
Since the Anuradhapura tanks have been a special project area, the concentra-
tion of tractors is probably higher than in the rest of the District. There
is reason to assume that, given access to tractors and spare parts, the trend
toward preparation of the seedbed with mechanical equipment will continue.
It would, therefore, be desirable to examine the use of tractor implements
with a view of emulating more closely the performance of the local plow,
or at least to investigate again the possibility of using the rotary culti-
vator and the disk-harrow behind the four-wheel tractors to achieve some
puddling of the soil.
31.       Sample socio-economic surveys show some 90 four-wheel tractors
in the project area (about 50 are in working order), and about 60 two-wheel
units (about 25 are in working order). A blend of four-wheel and two-wheel
tractors, working with implements similar to these now popular, should be
used for land preparation and the covering of the broadcast seed. Since
most of the work would not be under flooded conditions, the following outputs
can be expected:
Primary tillage, four-wheel tractor       2 hrs/ac
Secondary tillage, two-wheel tractor    7 hrs/ac
Most of the primary tillage would be done by four-wheel tractors and one-half,
reducing to one-third, of the secondary tillage by buffaloes. About one-
sixth of the secondary tillage would be done by four-wheel tractors after
they have completed primary tillage operations. Tractors would move between
areas. It is estimated that about 30% of the need for four-wheel tractors
would be supplied from outside the area. A 10% surplus should be available
to cover breakdowns and to ensure a measure of competition.
32.       The task requiring the most power would be the preparation of the
seedbed for the maha season, where the objective would be to prepare the land
using the minimum amount of water--irrigation or rainwater--for softening
55



ANNEX 4
Page 14
the soil. Assuming a six-week (40-day) working season, it would be necessary
to till about 800 ac per day to cover the entire 31,500 ac within the time
allowed. This will require about 200 tractors, of which 150 would be based
within the project area.   Assuming that the secondary tillage is performed
with two-wheel tractors and buffaloes, the number of such tractors required
is calculated in the following way:
Total area for secondary tillage          31,500 ac
of which by buffaloes               10,500 ac
balance by two-wheel tractors       21,000 ac
Working time                              40 days
Daily work requirement                    515 ac
Daily output for each tractor              1.14 ac/day
Number of tractors required               450 units
Some of the two-wheel tractors would undoubtedly be used for primary tillage.
However, some of the four-wheel units would also be used for secondary opera-
tions. No allowance has been made for the interchange in computing require-
ments. The cif cost of farm tractors, implements and repair facilities would
be about US$2. 7 million (Annex 8, Table 2).
33.       Seeds. Farmers at presert obtain their seeds via the extension
service and the Multi-Purpose Cooperative Societies (MPCSs), which get them
from Government farms and from seed growers. There is a great deal of
farmer-to-farmer exchange and also growers saving their own seed, especially
paddy seed. There is no seed legislation. The seed testing laboratory
at Peradiniya works only in an advisory capacity. The system works well
enough for paddy as witnessed by the rapid spread of any good variety released.
It would be necessary to introduce statutory controls and standards on pulse
seed quality. Pulses usually present serious storage and quality control
problems, with rapidly decreasing germination rate and vigor over time.
The GOSL is being advised by a team from FAO on legislative and quality
control measures. Pending the legislation, an unofficial certification scheme
for paddy seed is operating, which is similar to that of the International
Seed Testing Association in relation to standards, and recognizes foundation,
registered and certified seed. The first two are always grown on Government
farms; certified seed is partly produced by certified growers. Inspection in
the field and supervision of threshing floor is done by the AIs. In 1974,
400,000 bu, enough to plant about 200,000 ac, were certified. These are
sold on consignment by the MPCSs whlich, in turn, distribute them to farmers.
34.       Fertilizers.  All fertilizers are imported.  The sole importer is
the Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation (CFC) which also acts as wholesaler to
the dealers selling to the growers. The CFC operates a blending plant that
produces NPK blends recommended as basal dressings prior to planting. For
top dressings, urea is normally used.
56



ANNEX 4
Page 15
35.       Fertilizers are subsidized for paddy and other field crops (onions
and chillies do not receive subsidized fertilizers). Prices are reviewed
every six months on the basis of the landed costs by handling charges. At
the time of appraisal, the unsubsidized price for the basal paddy mixture
containing 3-30-13 NPK was Rs 86 per cwt. Certificates of entitlement are
issued by the APCs. Other products, besides the basal blends, are sulphate
of ammonia, triple super phosphate (TSP), rock phosphate, diamonium phosphate
(DAP) and mono ammonium phosphate (MAP). Sulphate of potash is used for
tobacco only. Current consumption for field crops is estimated as follows
for Sri .Lanka (1974/75 was a year of low rainfall):
Fertilizer                Total   Paddy   Other Field Crops
 ---------('000 t)------___
N                            57    30.5           5.6
P20 5                        23    12.3           3.1
K2O                         31    10.3            5.7
Total Nutrient Used         111    53.1          14.4
36.       The CFC sells the subsidized fertilizers wholesale to the Director
of Rural Institutions (RIs)and charges Rs 45 per ton for transport to any
point in the country. Before new orders are filled, RI must pay CFC for the
previous consignment. The RIs sell to APCs, CCs and MPCSs, charging Rs 20 per
ton markup. Transport costs of Rs 5 plus a 5% margin may also be added. The
final sellers are allowed a margin of 5% on what they actually pay but some
are charging their customers less, to attract business. Farmers may buy
directly from RI stores. If the purchase was from RI stores, they get the
same terms as the retail buyers, but must pay cash. Thus, the attraction to
go to a retail outlet is that they may buy against credit vouchers. Never-
theless, RI stores sell about 25% of their throughput directly to farmers.
37.       The lines of the distribution chain are well arranged and CFC and
RI management good. Upcountry stores that work on little more than a single
turnover per year are underutilized--a situation that will continue until
import scheduling can be better controlled.
38.       Present fertilizer use on paddy is about 30% of the recommended
dosage, due to the recent increase in fertilizer prices and water supply
uncertainties. The recommended application, 60-40-30 NPK, is modest by
comparison to the standards of other countries growing dwarf paddy varieties.
It can be expected, therefore, that under project conditions, by 1986 the
recommended amount equivalent to 1.5 cwt urea and 1 cwt of the basic paddy
mixture per acre, may be applied.
39.       Plant Protection Chemicals.  Active ingredients and emulsifiers
for all pesticides are imported; most of the formulation takes place in
Sri Lanka. Locally established representatives of two major companies have
access to proprietary products; most of the non-proprietaries are handled
by the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation which is also the only importer for
57



ANNEX 4
Page 16
solvents. The range of pesticides available is comprehensive and adequate,
and packaging is good. The flow of product is from the formulator to the
distributors who receive a 20% commission which is shared with the final
seller. Within this margin, the farmer has a fair range to buy the most
suitable product at relatively competitive prices. The retail price which
includes the 20% margin, and a transport allowance, is determined by the
GOSL. The kind of products that may be marketed are controlled by the GOSL
and permission to market them is only given after the product has been field
tested. However, there is no statutory control over storage conditions, or
shelf life, nor is there an administrative means of sampling the products
actually offered to the farmer.
40.       All formulations are liquid, therefore, they must be applied through
sprayers. The weed killers are systemic, and are effective if put on the
leaves of the weeds growing in water or on any part of the weed if there is
not standing water. Insecticides, especially for plant hoppers must be
applied in small droplets and very uniformly. Many of the sprayers seen
would not appear to be of a design that would ensure this. Also, there is
some shortage of units. The MPC rent sprayers to their members at Rs 0.50
per hour. However, for full project benefits to be realized it would be
necessary to have more and better designed sprayers available, possibly even
some tractor mounted models.
41.       Under project conditions, the cost of pesticides and hired sprayers
used by farmers will amount to about Rs 35 per ac for paddy and Rs 20 for
the other crops.
42.       Sprayers for hire would have to be made readily available.  Under
project conditions, motorized knapsacks would provide a useful supplement to
the hand sprayers that are available. Their output is about 10 ac per day
and the maximum interval between spraying may be a fortnight.  Therefore,
225 sprayers would be needed. However, since hand sprayers are available
in the area and simultaneous use is unlikely the number of sprayers to be
purchased under the project would be 150 units. If locally procured, these
could be phased over the Years Two, Three and Four as the project develops.
However, if they are purchased abroad, for purposes of convenience, they
should all be included in a single tender.
43.       Agricultural Credit.  Evaluation Study No. 2 by GOSL, entitled
"A Short History on Credit for Peasant Agriculture in Sri Lanka", May 1974,
briefly outlines the history of credit to peasant cultivators from its in-
ception in 1911 until 1974 and gives full details on credit since that time.
Historically, the following points are outstanding:
(a) institutional sources never met more than 30% of the rural
credit needs; the present figure is just under 16%;
(b) repayment was always dependent on a good harvest but there
were always at least 15% defaulters;
58



ANNEX 4
Page 17
(c) about 1960 when, concurrent with a drive to increase lending,
and the write-off of defaults began, the repayment record
worsened considerably and the default rate exceeded 30%;
(d) there has never been close supervision on credit use and
such control, as was exercised initially, has declined since
the mid-1960s. An increase in the rate of defaulters can be
traced to this relaxation, and
(e) interest, while charged, was not shown separately in the
statements. If included,0ithe default rate would be considerably
higher than shown.
44.       Recent legislation would improve past problems.  Loans would be
given by the Bank of Ceylon only to farmers and for purposes approved by
the APCs. Coordination is ensured by the bank which has its offices in the
APC Building. While there is still no provision for the bank to supervise
the use of the loan, their association with and the designated functions of
the APCs introduces a substantial element of control. The Agricultural
Insurance Law would compensate for crop failures and as it makes the claims
of a recognized credit organization the first charge on the payment, this
cause for defaults will disappear. A further factor is that under the proj-
ect, production will be enhanced and generate a cash surplus in excess of
living costs.
45.       The procedure for applying for credit is set out in the relevant
legislation. Applications must be made to the APC who assess its justifica-
tion either directly or through the extension staff attached to it. Whenever
feasible, credit is supplied in kind, in the form of purchasing voichers.
The APC, through the CCs and the extension staff, ensure its prop6r use
within the framework of their general supervisory duties.
E. Storage, Marketing and Processing
46.       Paddy.  Until recently, the Paddy Marketing Board (PMB) had a
monopoly over paddy purchase. Even with the removal of restrictions on
private traders, it is expected that the PMB would continue to play an
important role in paddy marketing, and milling. The Board buys from farmers
at a fixed price (presently Rs 35/bu) through a vast network of purchasing
points run by the cooperative societies. Since the price is fixed and does
not vary throughout the year, it is to the farmer's advantage to sell as
soon as possible and thus avoid the risks associated with farm storage.
Because of this, most farmers keep only paddy needed for home consumption
and seed. They normally have a small storage room built as part of their
house. The PMB is legally required to purchase all paddy offered at the
set price.
59



ANNEX 4
Page 18
47.       The Village Level Cooperatives get a commission of 75i per bushel
from PMB for grading, weighing, and sacking. Grading is normally done accord-
ing to the following standards:
Grade I    Grade II
Chaff (by volume)                       6%         12%
Foreign matter (by weight)              1%          2%
Other varieties (by weight)            10%         10%
Moisture content:                      16%         16%
The difference in price is 24 per lb in favor of Grade I. Because the
purchase centers are not equipped to test for quality variations, they
base prices on judgement and experience.
48.       The periods of purchase are between March and July inclusive, and
again between August and October. The peak period is between March and May,
when transport is sometimes a bottleneck which results in accumulation of
produce at the purchasing centers and temporary suspension of purchases.
49.       In Anuradhapura District, there are 252 purchasing points.  Each
handles about 350-400 tons and has a storage capacity of about 100 tons.
From the point of purchase, the paddy is taken to the PMB stores. Most of
the PIB's 47,000 ton storage capacity is owned by the Board. At present, all
is flat storage; the first silos are now under construction. There is no
drying facility, no forced ventilation, although the stores are well designed
for natural ventilation. Average storage time is about four months and annual
turnover is only about one time a year. Capacity requirements are affected
by the March-May peak purchasing season.
50.       Maize and Sorghum.  The quantities produced are small and the
bulk of the harvest takes place in a relatively dry period. Marketing of
surpluses has been mostly through private channels. The GOSL, through the
Oils and Fats Corporation, and PMB, which acts for the Flour Milling Corpora-
tion, has entered the market. Prices during the last season varied between
Rs 2,000 and Rs 1,200/ton, due mainly to the limited market for feedgrains;
the Oils and Fats Corporation prefers the much cheaper coconut cake and rice
bran. The cooperatives are buyers only up to the extent of recovering out-
standing debts. The Flour Milling Corporation uses maize and sorghum for
blending with imported wheat flour, or an ad hoc basis. However, as the
farmers have been encouraged in 1974/75 to grow maize and sorghum, GOSL has
compelled PMB to act as residual buyers without limit. Despite the fact
that stocks were damaged, in storage, an export market was found for the
surplus. Encouraged by these results, PMB continues to be a residual buyer
and has a target of 15,000 tons for 1975-76, of which it expects to export
10,000 tons; Singapore and Japan are the potential markets.
60



ANNEX 4
Page 19
51.       In the dry zone, about two-thirds of the country's agricultural
area, the agronomic possibilities of maize and suitable varieties ot sorghum are
potentially great. So are the market possibilities, principally in Japan,
where intensive animal husbandry, and the consequent demand of feedgrains,
is on the point of rapid expansion. Therefore GOSL should seriously study
the production, storage and export marketing problems of these crops that
could well occupy considerable portions of upland areas that, either through
topography or temporary water shortage, may not be irrigated.
52.       Pulses.  Consumption has fallen to about one third of the amount
used before imports were banned in 1971. Since 1973, prices have increased
considerably and this has encouraged production. Although there are a few
local marketing difficulties, total consumption is still much below pre-1971
levels. The crop is potentially profitable even at prices below present
levels, and no major long-term problem in organizing a profitable and
effective marketing system is anticipated.
53.       Paddy Storage and Marketing Requirements Under the Project.  As
planting and, therefore, harvesting would be concentrated into a shorter
season, deliveries to the PMB would also have higher peaks and would take
place over a shorter time span. It would be necessary to provide additional
facilities for both storage and rebagging of paddy. Collection points should
be set up along all-weather roads with sufficient capacity to handle the
peak (maha) procurement in about four weeks, at the rate of 40 tons (eight
truck loads) per day. This would require 28 additional collection.points in
Mahakanadarawa (8), Padaviya (16), Mahawilachchiya (3), Vavunikulam (5), and
Pavatkulam (6). Each collection point would require about 150 tons of
storage and working space for a simple auger-fed bagging shute i.e. about
1,500 sq ft of floor space. The building should have large doors at both
ends and a loading dock at the end opposite the bagging unit. A moisture
tester capable of giving instantaneous reading should be available. Samples
above 16% moisture would be accepted at a discounted price and then only
if they could be delivered to a drier the same day.
54.       Processing.  Paddy milling is the only major processing industry
of importance in the project area; any sorghum and maize processing that may
be necessary would take place either in flour mills or Oils and Fats
Corporation feed mills, outside the project area. Rice milling is a two-tier
operation. The small village husking mills work on a custom basis to meet
domestic requirements. Large commercial privately-owned mills work for the
PMB on commission and do 80% of all milling. The PMB mills handle the
other 20% but their share will increase in time because the private sector
is not allowed to replace its mills. The village mills seen were of poor
quality and in a poor state of repair, practically all the grain is broken
and much is wasted with the husks. The larger mills, although old, are
better maintained, waste little grain, but they do not polish too finely and
also have high breakage. Because of the superficial polishing, milling out-
turns are about 70%. About 10% of the milled rice is parboiled.
61



ANNEX 4
Page 20
55.       Requirements Under the Project.  Capacity for rice husking and the
milling of cereals and pulses is adequate, even if the quality of some of
the installations is poor. Normal investment by PMB and by the village rice
millers is likely to keep up with increasing demand.
November 1976
62



ANNEX 4
SRI LANKA                                                              Table I
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart for Agricultural Extension Services
Director
Dept. of Agriculture
Deputy Director
Extension
District Agr.
Ext. Officer
Addl. Dist. Agr.
Ext. Officer
-P-add-y
-rPlant Protection -I              Existing SMS
SAl                W                 W                   E                        _  Sorghum and Ma ze
-Other cro7ps
Fa1  1  1  1  1  1  1  +Prm Machineryroposed
4A4 C                                                                                              Water Management               additional
{Farm Management|
E   v                                                                  4  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Extension Methods|_
No. of Personnel
9    SUBJECT MATTER SPECIALIST (SMS)
3    SENIOR AGRICULTURAL INSTRUCTORS (SAI)
39    AGRICULTURAL INSTRUCTORS (Al)
C           t   C     t   C      t    Cntat   C            Contact       o   c      Contact         145    VILLAGE LEVEL WORKER (KVS)
|Farmer IFarmer  IIaFarmer   amr|Frear mer              rmr |rFarmier|  are !



ANNEX 4
Table 2
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
Estimated Annual Operating Budget of the Agricultural Extension Services
Anuradhapura District
Item                                             Cost (Rs)
(a) Salaries and Allowances
1/
DAEO (1)
ADAEO (1)                                                   230,000
SAI (3)
SKS (8)
AI (39)                                                     400,000
KVS (184)                                                 1,000,000
Drivers and clerical staff                                  120,000
Sub-total                                      1,750,000
(b) Other Costs
Operating costs for extens:ion vehicles                     250,000
Extensitn Activities                                        100,000
Training  abroad                                            10,OO
Sub-total                                        450,000
(c) Contingencies                                               200,000
Total annual costs for Anuradhapura District                  2,400,000
Estimated annual costs for Vavunikulam and Pavatkulam
tanks                                                  200,000
Grand Total                                                   2,600,000
1/ Figures in parenthesis refer to the total number of positions.
64



ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Job Descriptions for Extension Service Subject Matter Specialist Advisors
All three Advisors would be:
(i) posted in Anuradhapura;
(ii) required on or before January 1977;
(iii) duration needed -- two years.
I.   Post Title:  Advisor on Farm Machinery Field Maintenance and Operations.
1.   Principal Function.  To advise and train local Subject Matter Spe-
cialists (SMSs) in the operation and routine field maintenance of four-wheel
and two-wheel tractors, the selection and operation of tillage implements and
the operation and field maintenance of other farm machinery and equipment
available to Sri Lanka farmers.
2.   Duties.  The Advisor will advise and train SMSs of the Department
of Agriculture in the field maintenance, operation and field repair of farm
machinery now used or to be introduced in the near future. The aim is to
generate full understanding of the reasons why systematic maintenance is ne-
cessary and the consequence of negligence. The training will include but not
be confined to the following:
(a) daily and other routine maintenance of all prime movers
in accordance with the appropriate operators' handbooks;
(b) the functions and purpose of all tillage implements, the
nature of their work, conditions for which each is chosen;
(c) setting and adjustment of tillage implements for different
working conditions; the practical teaching of their opera-
tion as regards speed, setting out of fields and expected
hourly output under different soil conditions;
(d)  maintenance and repair of tillage implements, replacement
of wearing parts, effects of not replacing them;
(e) the operation of other farm machinery likely to be introduced;
some examples are the mechanical details of hand and power
sprayers and the effects of mechanical inadequacies; maintenance
and operation of threshing machines and driers if used.
65



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
3.   The Advisor will also prepare a manual for use by the SMSs and
will supervise and assist StiSs in the preparation of suitable manuals for
KVS, farmer and machine operator training.
4.   Following a period of training in Maha Illupalama, the Advisor
will follow up by accompanying the SMSs on their field trips to ensure the
completeness of their practical training and will supervise the SMSs as they,
in their turn, train AIs, KVSs, farmers and operators.
5.   The Advisor will supervise and assist the SMSs in the preparation
and delivery of in-service training courses for custom operators of agri-
cultural machinery.
Qualifications
6.   The Advisor should have a Bachelor's degree in either agriculture or
agricultural engineering or equivalent and have at least five years experience
in the field operation of agricultural machinery. Relevant experience in
developing countries would be an advantage.
II. Post Title: Advisor on Water Management and Irrigation Agronomy.
1.   Principal Function.  To advise and train local SMSs in the
principles and practice of on-farm irrigation (downstream from farm outlets).
2.   Duties.  The Advisor will advise and train SMSs of the Department
of Agriculture in the most efficient method of irrigating rice and other food
crops, with due regard to maximizing water use efficiency consistent with
optimum yields and production costs. To this end, the Advisor's duties will
include but not be confined to the following:
(a) assist project personnel and work with them in
training farmer groups to carry out rotational
irrigation along the field channels and to maintain
the field channels and related structure to assure
performance;
(b) from field observations and perusing past and
ongoing relevant work in Maha Illupalama, develop
the desirable irrigation depth and frequency,
taking into consideration the effective rainfall
between irrigations; and
(c) develop a cadre of project personnel and farmers who
in turn would train others in the details and routines
of project operation and maintenance and new irrigation
methods.
Note. Since most of the foregoing are tied to field conditions, training
will necessarily be mainly on the job, while actually designing the farm
66



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 3
layout and irrigation and drainage system and methods. As the SMSs gain
experience, an increasing amount of the planning will be done by them and
the Advisor will be increasingly confined to advising and reviewing the
SMSs' performance.
(d) the Advisor will prepare a manual for use by the
SMSs. This should contain information on con-
sumptive use (from the Irrigation and Water Man-
agement Specialist and Maha Illupalama), moisture
availability in the root zone, desirable irrigation
depth, irrigation frequency, best irrigation method
(furrow, basins, etc.) and desirable flow rates.
This information to be presented systematically and
precisely according to readily identificable local
soil types, slopes and crops;
(e) the Advisor will supervise and assist the SMSs in
the preparing and presenting of the same information
in a simplified form for use as training and ad-
visory materials for AIs, KVSs and for presentation
to farmers;
(f) in collaboration with the SMSs for the respective
crop, establish a simple demonstration program designed
to show the effects of the different components of
the program being executed differently, its effect
on yields and water use efficiency. An ongoing
program for such demonstrations should be developed,
flexible enough to include the examination of new
problems as they arise.
Qualifications
3.   The specialist should have a Bachelor's degree in agriculture
and not less than five years experience in irrigated agriculture including
rice growing.
III. Post Title: Farm Management Advisor
1.   Principal Functions.  The Advisor would divide his time between
two main tasks:
(a) He would train his counterpart SMSs to be the prin-
cipal advisors to the Tank Coordination Committees
(TCCs) in developing every season, the general
cropping pattern and crop varieties to be grown
in the various identifiable sub-areas of the tank
commands.
67



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 4
(b) Within this overall plan, he would identify
the criteria for successful individual farm
management plans in various localities of
the area and from them develop models that
can be adapted to the physical and managerial
resources of the farmers.
2.   Duties.  The Advisor's training function which is of at least equal
importance to technical developments and achievements can only be fulfilled
by field studies and enquiries. Therefore these must be carried out either
together with the SMSs or by the SMSs under the Advisor's close supervision.
All output in respect of the two principal functions would be a synthesis
and the application of information gathered, either from outside research,
farming and marketing sources or from the close examination and analysis
of the environment, be it entire sub-areas or individual farms within
these sub-areas. To achieve these aims, the Advisor's duties will include
but not be confined to, the following:
(a) assisted by some, or all seven SMSs who concentrate
on the other disciplines, as well as the appropriate
research workers, soil scientists, within the Ministry
of Agriculture collate detailed land capability in-
formation for each sub-area, using as many different
units as aredeemed necessary and practicable.  A sig-
nificant component of the overall picture would be
the inclusion of the economically most useful irrig-
ation regime that would optimize returns for water
and for land;
(b) considering the foregoing, and taking into account
the likely water availabilities for the coming season,
advise and assist the TCCs in their decision on the
date of water release and the best design cropping
pattern;
(c) maintain constant liaison with the rainfed pilot
project in Maha Illupalama and adapt and extend
their findings to areas in the command of the five
tanks of the project that do not get water in a nartic-
ular season, and, if time permits,to other parts of
Anuradhapura Districts not yet served by irrigation;
(d) from individual farmers and other extension
staff, an inventory of resources at the farmers'
disposal; for example, possible irrigation facil-
ities for upland plots, grazing facilities for
livestock, the local availability of hired tillage
machinery;                                                      68



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 5
(e) market intelligence from private and public
purchasing agents, from which to enable farmers
to estimate market prospects of the crops their
locality enables them to grow;
(f) farmers who seek advice must be evaluated as
to their farming and managerial skill, their
attitude, risk-taking potential, ability to
implement possibly innovative, unorthodox
farm plans, their aptitude and resources to
develop machinery operation contracting as a
side enterprise or an off-farm livestock pro-
gram within the resources of the area. The
Advisor must concentrate not only on collecting
the relevant information concerning responding
farmers but also on imputing to his trainees
the methods of collecting such information, for
future application;
(g) from information thus gathered, developed a
detailed, individually designed farm plan, man-
agement routine and business line plan which
takes full account of the responding farmers'
needs, abilities and limitations;
(h) for each completed farm plan, first the Advisor
and later, under his guidance, the SMS must
record the reasons for the plan as appraised
at the time. Follow-up should take place
every season from which to learn and to apply
when developing future plans;
(i) a routine of follow-up visits must be organized
in which details of the original plan are dis-
cussed and modifications that appear necessary
in the light of developments incorporated.
Qualifications
3.   The Advisor should have a Bachelor's degree in agriculture, have
had extensive experience in managing tropical field crop production pro-
jects and in designing individual business plans for small farmers.
69



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        Water for the project is regulated by five separate tanks (Map
11749). The principal water supply features of the tanks are summarized as
follows:
Maha-      Maha-
Feature          kanadarawa  wilachchiya  Pavatkulam  Vavunikulam  Padaviya
Tank capacity
(ac ft)                34,000       32,500       27,000       35,000       85,000
Tank surface area
(acres)                 4,000        3,200        3,000        3,150        6,480
Head on outlet at
full supply level
(FSL)                      19.0         22.0          19.0        24.0         24.0
Catchment area
(sq mi)                   126          141          115           88          206
Irrigated area
(acres)                 6,000        2,600        4,400         6,000      12,500
Area irrigated per
sq mi of catchment
(ac)                       47.6         18           38            68          60
2.        The monthly inflows to each of the five tanks were computed using
measured tank releases, calculated evaporation losses based on pans near the
tank, estimated percolation losses and the tank area/capacity diagram. The
determined annual inflow for each year of tank operation is shown in Table 1
together with the annual precipitation and related probability of exceedence.
No correlation could be established between the rainfall and tank inflows.
Also no correlation appears to exist between yields per square mile of the
catchments of the tanks.
3.        The catchment area of each of the tanks contains many small irri-
gation and village tanks which intercept and hold water for paddy grown on
70



ANNEX 5
Page 2
the catchment. Depending on the quantities of precipitation and occurrence,
the upstream interception and depletion could be substantial. The indeter-
minant interceptions of flows upstream of the tanks rule out effective cor-
relation.
4.        Based on a continuance of the existing upstream regime and consid-
ering the short terms of inflow data available as a representative sample of
the future with a normal distribution, the probability of recurrence of the
inflows was established by the Irrigation Department (ID). The probable
annual tank inflow of each tank for 75%, 50% and 25% exceedance thus deter-
mined are:
Estimated Annual Inflow
Exceedance
Expectancy   Mahakanadarawa  Mahawilachchiya  Pavatkulam  Vavunikulam  Padaviya
(%)                                  (ac ft)
75            43,500            21,000         20,500       32,000    127,000
50            60,000            33,000         32,000       57,000    175,000
25            76,000            45,000         43,000        83,000    224,000
Comparing the dry year (75% exceedance expectancy) with historic flows (Table
1), the estimate of tank inflows would have exceeded five years in six for
Mahakanadarawa, nine years in 11 for Padaviya, six years in seven for Vavuni-
kulam, seven years in ten for Pavatkulam and only three years in seven for
Mahawilachchiya.
5.        Evaporation losses for each tank during the maha and yala seasons
were developed by the ID based on 75% probable exceedance of inflow and a
schedule of tank releases based on an assumed project cropping pattern.
These estimates for the five tanks are (ac-ft):
Evaporation
Tank Scheme         Annual Inflow  Sept-Apr  May-Aug  Total  Annual Tank Yield
Mahakanadarawa          43,500       5,000    2,700      7,700    34,000 /a
Mahawilachchiya         21,000       4,600    2,300      6,900    14,100
Padaviya               127,000       10,500    5,100    15,600    85,000 /a
Pavatkulam              20,500       4,900    2,500      7,400    13,100
Vavunikulam             32,000       5,500    2,500      8,000    24,100
/a   Regulation is limited to an amount equal to tank capacity plus evaporation
because filling largely occurs during the maha season when releases are
minimal.
71



ANNEX 5
Page 3
6.        The ID using the observed data on the five tanks (monthly basis)
for about seven to 11 years and employing a computer program for the gene-
ration of data from a Thomas and Fiering Serial correlation model, developed
monthly yield data for each tank for 50 years. These data were subsequently
used in studies to establish a combination of maha and yala acreage that
would assure an overall cultivation success of about 75%.
Water Demand
7.        Crop Water Requirements.  The crop water requirements were developed
using a modified Penman method. Water requirements for the maha and yala
seasons are shown in Table 2.
8.        Project Irrigation Demand.  The demand for irrigation water from
the tanks is based on the crop water requirements and on judgements on the
crop pattern and the extent of the irrigated area projected for the maha and
yala. Shown in Table 3 are the area irrigated, water supply required for
paddy and dry crops for the maha anid yala season and the total irrigation
demand for each tank. Also noted in Table 3 are the number of years over
the period of record that the tanks could fully meet their expected irrigation
demands. The irrigation operations of the tanks to provide the water require-
ment shown in Table 2 and 3 are discussed at length in Annex 10.
9.        Adequacy of Water Supply.  The number of years that the tanks could
have met the projected irrigation demands over the past years of record shown
on Table 3 is a reasonable expression of the probable outlook for each tank's
water supply performance. This approach was finally adopted after careful
examination of the studies prepared by the Irrigation Department. The Depart-
ment studies generally indicate greater amounts of water available from the
tanks and generally discount the effect of successive near-dry years that
could greatly affect the small farm (2-3 ac) holder who predominates in the
area. These small farm operators have almost no flexibility of operation and
cannot accept much risk in cropping success. The tank water supply would be
able to meet the projected crop pattern and cropping intensity within accept-
able risks to the small farmer. Should operating experience prove in time
that the tanks are capable of providing more reliable water with acceptable
risks to the farmer, irrigated area cropping intensity could be increased.
10.       Only at the Padaviya tank do the inflows presently indicate
possibilities for further expansion of the irrigated land area. The need
for additional storage and conveyance facilities would be studied. This
evaluation would be part of the project tank operation and training program.
The water management specialist to be provided under the project would guide
the evaluation and preparation of plans and recommendations of future Padaviya
tank irrigation expansion. The ternms of reference for the specialist would
provide for this activity (Annex 10).
ov .rbE.r 1976                                                                72



SRi I.1aiA                         ANNEX 5
Table 1
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Tank Inflow
Annual Precipitation
Annual                       Probability of
Tank            Year          Amount           Annual        Exceedence
(ac-ft)         (inches)          (%)
Mahakanadarawa       68/69           9,300            35-5           95.5
72/73          47,900            60.9           42.0
67/68          53,600            38.8           90.0
71/72          64,400            52.8           70.0
70/71          66,950            66.7           23.0
69/70         119,900            65.4           25.0
Padaviya            68/69           64,250           56.6            62.3
64/65         106,250            47.8           88.7
72/73         132,4oo            52.5           75.5
71/72         149,900            55.8           63.0
63/64         159,000            59.5           49.0
70/71         160,500            63.7           44.o
65/66         196,60o            49.7           79.5
67/68         220,250            59.1           49.2
66/67         222,500            61.3           48.o
62/63         228.100           106.3            3.0
69/70         276,800            80.3           20.5
Mahawilachchiya     72/73           12,300           60.8            36.0
70/71          16,800            44.3           85.o
68/69          18,700            32.8           97.0
71/72          20,300            48.3           74.5
69/70          48,700            60.3           36.5
67/68          54,loo            41.6           87.5
66/67          57,500            39.9           90.0
Pavatkulam          68/69            8,500           35.3            99.0
70/71          18,700            54.1           67.6
64/65          19,600            53.7           70.0
71/72          26,900            4o.9           93.0
72/73          35,100            65.9           32.3
69/70          37,700            54.7           67.2
66/67          38,700            48.8           85.0
65/66          42,4oo            44.9           90.5
63/64          47,300            56.1           60.0
67/68          50,900            60.0           48.4
Vavunikulam         68/69            6,900           33.7            99.0
66/67          38,950            46.6           74.o
71/72          50,700            48.4           73.0
70/71          56,65o            63.3           36.5
72/73          61,350            35.1           98.0
67/68          84,450            71.2           24.0
69/70          99,150            68.5           29.0
73



AN NWLk 5
Table 7
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Crop Water Demand Per Acre
Maha                                 Yala
Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Total Feb. Mar. Apr. May June Total
Paddy
Evapo-transpiration (in)          6.7    5.2  4.1  4.3   4.5            5.5   6.7   6.5   7.9  4.2
Crop factor                        -     1.00  1.15  1.20  0.90         -    1.00  1.15  1.20  0.90
Consumptive use (in)              -     5.2  4.7   5.2   4.1  19.2    -    6.7   7.5   9.5  3.8  27.5
Land preparation (in)            4.o    2.0   -       -    -      6.o  4.0   2.0    -      -    -    6.o
Total water requirements (in)    4.0    7.2  4.7   5.2   4.1  25.2  4.o   8.7   7.5   9.5  3.8  33.5
Effective rainfall 1/ (in)        0.5    3.5  3.4   3.0  0.8  11,2   0.4   1.3   2.5   1.1    -    5.3
Net irrigation requirements (in)  3.5   3.7   1.3   2.2   3.3  14.0   3.6   7.4   5.0   8.4  3.8  28.2
Tank release at 55% overall
efficiency (in)               6.4    6.7   2.4   4.0   6.0  25.5  6.6  13.5  9.1  15.3   6.9  51.4
Field Crops
Evapo-transpiration (in)          6.7    5.2   4.1  4.3   4.5           5.5   6.7   6.5   7.9   6.2
Crop factor                        -     0.4  0.8   0.9  0.6             -    o.4  o.8   0.9   o.6
Consumptive use (in)              -      2.1  3.3   3.9  2.7  12.0    -    2.8   4.9   7.1   2.6  17.4
Land preparation (in)            4.0    2.0    -      -    -      6.o   4.0   2.0    -     -     -    6.o
Total water requirements  (in)    4.0    4.1  3.3   3.9  2.7   18.0  4.0   4.8   4.9   7.1   2.6  23.4
Effective rainfall 1/ (in)        0.5    3.5   3.4   3.0  0.8  11.2  0.4   1.3   2.5   1.1    -    5.3
Net irrigation requirements (in)  3.5    o.6    -    0.9  1.9    6.9  3.6   3.5   2.4   6.0   2.6  18.1
Tank release at 55% overall
efficiency (in)             6.4    1.1   -    1.6  3.5  12.5   6.6   6.4  4.4  10.9   4.7  33.0
/ 75% rainfall exceedance expectency.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Irrigation Demand and Supply
Number of
Years
Total            Crop-                    Demand Met
Maha                                    Yala                       Irri-    Irriga-       ping                       During
Service       Paddy              Dry Crop              Paddy              Dry Crop           gated    tion          Inten-     Water  1/       Period
Tank             Area     Area      Water     Area      Water      Area       Water     Area      Water      Area      Demand       *itv     Available        of Record
(ac)     (ac)    (ac ft)    (ac)    (ac ft)    (ac)        (ac ft)    (ac)    (ac ft)    (ac)        (ec ft)       (7,)     (ac ft)
3/
Mahakanadarawa           6,000    5,700    12,100        300      300       2,100      9,000    2,000    5,5W         10,100    26,900       1.67        26,300       5 out of 6
Pavatkulam               4,400    4,150      8,800       250       300        400      1,700       400    1.100        5,200    11,900       1.18        12,600       8 out of 10
Mahawilachchiya          2,600    2,450      5,200       150       200        900      3,900       900    2,500       4,400    11,800        1.69        14,100       5 out of 7
3/
Padaviya                12,500   11,900    25,300        600      600       6,000      25,606    2,100    5,80X      20,600      57,300      1.65        69,400      10 out of 11
Vavunikulam              6.000    5,700    1Lnn          300      300       1.300      5.600    1,500    4.100         8.800     22.100       1.47       24.000       6 out of 7
31,500   29,900    63,500      1,600    1,700    10,700       45,80C    6,900   19,00o       49,100   130,000        1.57       146,400
1/   Annual inflow less tank evaporation,
2    Excess water supply; not practical to run tanks dry.
3/   Insufficient storage space to regulate entire inflow.



SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year
MAIN ACTIVITY                              ._.
1976                1977                1978                 1979                1980
1. Board Presentation
2. Establishment of Project Organization
3. Hiring of Water Management Consultant
4. Credit Effectiveness                                                tA
5. Preparation and Submission of Proposal
on Project Evaluation
6. Preparation and Submission of Proposal for
Study on Maize and Sorghum
7. Tank Modernization
2600
Mahawilachchiya (2,600 ac)                                                                           3000
Mahakanadarawa (6,000 ac)
Vavunikulam (6,000 ac)                                                          3000                                     4400   A
Pavatkulam (4,400 ac)                                                                               6000                                     6500
Padaviya (12,500 ac)                                                                                                           0
20%                 50%          6000  80%                  100%
8. Procurement and Distribution of Farm                                                      I I I '                             - _-                    --
Equipment (cumulative %)
9. Procurement and Distribution of Extension
Equipment and Vehicles (cumulative %)
10. Establishment and Staffing of District
Agricultural Extension Service                                                                                                                             LA
11. Project Evaluation-                                                                        ---                                           -
World    I BanT-1606
a                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-16064(R)  (D |><



SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
ACTIVITY NETWORK DIAGRAM
1976                   1977                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1978                           1979                                           1980
OF SPEIFICATON    TENERS  HRF ANDFILDRCTRS  ECANASLT LININ  AND
4                   SURVEYS      DESIGNS    EST.                  WISHOP      2183,300 CU. YD.                                295   uV
E/W IN ROADS AND         II                    9WI  OD   N
0                                                        BUND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~~Si 1300  CU.Y D. I  UDl3.0C.Y.
GRAVELING OFROD         "'GAENGF
40,400 CU. Y O.       %EIRTOMC& RELOCADSI40,45  MCU   .                 REARTO CRALCAONOMC
F'IELD OTRS.   EXC/DESILFIELD CTRL.EC/DESILT IN CHNL.
4  SURVEYS  DESIGNS    EST.           & W/SHOP       219,900 CU. YD.                                 21P11SHOP  49,850 CU. YS.
SURVEYS    DESIGNS                -                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~E/WOR IN ROADS &ND
AND ESTIMATES  .-~~~~~~~                  OUNDS ~1264000 CU. YD.
i                                                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~,   ST~~~~~TCKPLOCK PILE  CONCRETE
METAL & SAiDLTIIUCETLRES INANHNMETAL&                   SRCTURES INCH
G AV   NG OF ROA                     ~~~~~~~~~GRAVELING OPF
40,450 CU, YD~~~~~               ROADS 400.900 CU. VO.  A   EAR   OMCFELOAINO   /
FIELD QTRS    EXC/DEESSFIC/ESIT N CLTO. IC/ESCHNNLCNL
-"4'& WISH6P  439,8&50SRP                              35,00 U CU42,10YCUED
4                                                                                                                                                                    EVA IN ROADS ANDSURVES  DEIGNIN/WROADS RAAND
AN     iTSURVEDS  DESIGN CUT. YUD   3,0  U.Y.j                                                                                                    BNS20,0   U  D
GRAVELING OFGOVLNGOFRAD                                                             GAVLNGO
ROADS__ __ __ __ __0 _ __900  _  __  TC                                                                  OA S   0,00 CU  YO
FIELD OTR.  EXCIDEIT IHNL            MXCCDREALLOCATION
ADNSHOPIC, IL 314.1501  CU1 YDOD
- .- .-                  FAN~~~~E/ IN ROAD  EANDRODSA 
>                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SURVEYS             DESIINGN EUDS10,7TC..O
ROADS 07 700CUD.     !,E.ISO.                  ODS7,0
ELD QTRS.    EXC/DE ILT IN  M/~~~~~~~~ FIEALLOCATION6SE



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
A. Civil Works
1.        Costs for civil works were developed from surveys, sample area
analyses, and estimates made on similar tank schemes by the ID. Surveys
of the improvements required on main canals, distributaries and related
structures were made on the Mahakanadarawa and Mahawilachchiya schemes. A
100 ac typical area for each of the three schemes -- Mahakanadarawa, Maha-
wilachchiya and Padaviya -- was analyzed in detail on modernization needs of
the field channels and related structures. Data from these varied sources
and judgments exercised by the ID personnel indicated that the conveyance
system has the following characteristics:
Average Length (yd)
Type of Channel           per Irrigated Acre
Main and branch canals            6.5
Distributary canals              10.0
Field channels                  28.0 /a
Drainage channels                17.0 /b
/a   This is higher than usual as field chan-
nels provide an inlet to every farm (aver-
age size 3 ac).
/b   Assumed to be about 60% of the length
for field channels.
On this basis, the estimated lengths of channels in the 31,500 ac project
area are: main and branch canals (205,000 yd); distributary canals (315,000
yd); field channels (882,000 yd), and drainage channels (536,000 yd).
78



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Earthworks
2.        Earthworks proposed under the project would fall into two cate-
gories: desilting of channels (including excavation of new channels), and
the provision of earth and gravel from external soil dumps to make up
channel bunds and roads. The following average quantities (cu yd per
lineal yd of channel) are estimated:
Desilting   Earthworks   Earthworks   Gravel for
Type of Channel    (excavating) for bunds    for roads         roads
Main and branch canals       2.5         0.6            -           0.3
Distributary canals          0.25        0.5           0.5          0.25
Field channels                -          0.5           0.5          0.3
Drainage channels            3.0 /a       -             -            -
/a   The survey suggests that most drainage channels would have to excavated.
3.        The following unit rates are based on data provided by the Irriga-
tion Department. They do not include survey, design and supervision, nor
the cost of plant and equipment, which are allowed for elsewhere.
(a)  Desilting/excavation:  this is based on manual labor.
The current unit rate is Rs 4.02 per cu yd. The mission
has increased this to Rs 5.0 per cu yd as some of the
drains may have to be excavated in wet conditions.
(b)  Earthworks in roads and bunds and gravelling:  these
three operations are basically similar. The price
includes excavation by a front-end loader, loading
into dump trucks of 2.5 cu yd capacity, an average
haul of 3 mi, spreading by tractor, consolidation by
pedestrian operated roller and minor trimming by hand.
The official estimate of Rs 16.97 per cu yd has been in-
creased to Rs 20 per cu yd to allow for additional con-
solidation.
79



ANNEX
Page 3
4.        From this, the estimated earth moving requirements and the costs
would be as follows:
Item                            Quantity (cu yd)  Cost (Rs million)
Desilting/excavation
Main and branch canals               512,500               2.6
Distributary canals                   78,750              0.4
Field channels
Drainage channels                  1,608,000              8.0
Total                         2,199,250             11.0
Earthworks in roads and bunds
Main and branch canals               123,000              2.5
Distributary canals                  315,000              6.3
Field channels                       882.000              17.6
Total                         1,320,000             26.4
Gravelling for roads
Main and branch canals                61,500               1.2
Distributary canals                   78,750               1.6
Field channels                       264,600              5.3
Total                           408,850              8.1
Lining
5.        Lining under the project would be done on a selective basis.  The
main objectives would be to reduce excessive seepage or erosion, and to pro-
vide the necessary degree of water control. In addition, all field channels
under the Mahawilachchiya tank would be lined as a pilot program for deter-
mining the effects on seepage losses and on maintenance costs. Because of
the non-uniform channel cross-sections, lining would be of plastered brick-
work, except in Mahawilachchiya tank where various kinds of linings would
be tried on an experimental basis. The total lining requirements are esti-
mated to be: main and branch canals (1.6 M sq ft); distributaries (1.3 M
sq ft), and field channel (2.4 M sq ft;). At for the estimated average unit
80



ANNEX 7
Page 4
cost of Rs 1.00 per sq ft, the lining costs would be Rs 1.6 M, Rs 1.3 M and
Rs 2.4 M, respectively.
Other Works
6.        The following costs for other works were deduced from the survey
and unit rates agreed with the Irrigation Department.
Costs (Rs) Per Acre Served
Repairs to existing  Cross-channel  Measuring   Total Cost
TyPe of channel          structures          regulators    devices   (Rs million)
Main and branch
canals                   25                   70 /a          3            3.1
Distributary canals        15                   15            15            1.4
Field channels            200 /b                25            20            7.7
Totals               240                  110            38           12.2
/a   Example:  total length of main and branch canals on 31,500 ac is 205,000
yd - say 116.5 mi. It is estimated that a cross-channel regulator will
be required every 0.75 mi - say 155 regulators, or including subsidiary
tanks in the canals, say 170 regulators at Rs 12,500 each. Total cost
for 31,500 ac is therefore Rs 2,125,000, or Rs 70/ac including gates.
/b   Includes outlets to fields.
B. Equipment and Vehicles
7.        The estimated equipment and vehicle requirements for construction,
farm operations and the extension services are listed in Annex 8, Tables 1
to 3. The tables also give the estimated cif Colombo unit costs. In addi-
tion, provision has been made for covering FEEC charges, appropriate import
taxes and duties, and administrative and handling costs.
No-ember 1976
81



ANNEX 7
Table 1
SR.I LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates.-/
% of
Item                          Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Total
-----(Rs Million)-- -       ------(US$ Million)----------
I. Civil Works
Main and branch canals       9.5       1.5    11.0    1.3        0.2      1.5      5
Distributaries               8.7       2.3    11.0    1.2        0.3     1.5       5
Field channels              26.2       6.8    33.0    3.5        0.9     4.4      15
Drains                       8.1       0.7     8.8    1.1        0.1     1.2       4
Buildings                    1.1        -      1.1    0.1         -      0.1       -
Subtotal                53.6      11.3    64.9    7.2        1.5      8.7      29
II. Construction equipment
and vehicles                22.5     19.5    42.0    3.0         2.6     5.6      19
III. Agricultural equipment
and vehicles
Farming equipment           16.5      20.2    36.7    2.2        2.7     4.9      16
Extension vehicles and
supplies                   3.0      2.3      5.3    0.4       0.3      0.7       2
Subtotal               19.5      22.5    42.0    2.6        3.0      5.6      19
IV. Technical Assistance         1.3       0.7     2.0    0.2        0.1      0.3      1
V. Engineering and
Administration (15 % of I) 9.7         -       9.7    1.3        -       1.3       4
Basic Project Cost         106.6      54.0   160.6   14.3        7.2    21.5      71
VI. Physical contingencies
(20% of I)                 10.7       2.3    13.0    1.4        0.3      1.7       6
Subtotal             117.3      56.3   173.6   15.7        7.5    23.2       77
VII. Expected price increases  37.8        13.6    51.4    5.0        1.8      6.8     23
Total Project Cost  155.1       69.9   225.0   20.7        9.3    30.0    100
1/ Totals may not agree exactly due to  rounding.                                    82



ANNEX 8
Table 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Equipment List
Equipment and Vehicles for Construction -/
Estimated
Unit Cost
Item                                     Quantity      (cif Colombo)    Total Cost
-------(US$ '000)     
Front End Loaders 2/                         9             38.0            342.0
Trucks, 5 Tons 2/                            9             10.0             90.0
Dump Trucks 2.5 cu yd 2/                    40              9.5            380.0
Bulldozer (65 hp) 2/                         3             19.0             57.0
Bowsers for transport of fuel 2/
(1,500 gallons)                          2             17.5             35.0
Agricultural Tractor (65 hp)
with blade 2/                           14              9.0            126.0
Agricultural Tractor (65 hp)
with Trailer 2/                         20              9.0            180.0
Motor graders 2/                             2             46.0             92.0
4-wheel drive field cars                    10              6.0             60.0
Motorcycle                                  25              0.5             12.5
Air Compressor 2/                            5             17.0             85.0
Jack Hammers                                10              1.0             10.0
Concrete Mixers 2/                          25              1.5             37.5
Vibrators (Concrete)2/                      25              3.5             87.5
Generators (15 kVa) 2/                       5              6.0             30.0
Sludge Pumps                                10              5.5             55.0
Water pump for domestic supply               5              0.5              2.5
Rollers, Pedestrian operated 2/             20              3.0             60.0
Stone Crushers 2/                            5             24.0            120.0
Workshop Equipment                       Lump Sum           -               70.0
Office & Survey Equipment                    "                              40.0
Explosives                                   "                              60.0
Radios                                       6              3.0             18.0
Automatic recorders for
Parshall flumes                         20 sets         1.0             20.0
Rainfall recorders and
Current Meters                       Lump Sum           -               10.0
Subtotal                                                                 2,080.0
Spare Parts (25%)                                                          520.0
Total                                                                    2,600.00
1/ After the construction is completed, the following items would be retained by
the ID for O&M purposes: 5 Ton Trucks (5 nos), 2.5 cu yd Dump Trucks (10 nos)
Pedestrian Rollers (10 nos), 6 hp Agricultural Tractors with blades or trailers
(5 nos), 4-wheel drive field cars (5 nos), Small motor Graders (2 nos) and
Motorcycles (20 nos),Rest of the Equipment would be deposited to the DME's
Equipment Pool.
2/ Together with 25% spares to be procured under UK assistance.            83



ANNEX 8
Table 2
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Equipment List
Farm Equipment
Estimated
Unit Cost
Item                                    Quantity   (cif Colombo)   Total Cost
(Number)   ---------(US$ '000)-------
4-wheel tractors-/                         150          6.4             960.0
Heavy duty cultivators                     150          0.9             135.0
1/
Disc ploughl-                               15          1.2              18.0
Offset disc Harrows1/                       15          1.6              24.0
2 Ton Trailers-=                           150          0.9            135.0
Spare parts (25%)-/                        -           LS               318.0
Subtotal                                                       1,590.0
2-wheel tractors                           450          0.80           360.0
Rotary cultivators                         450          0.30            135.0
Ploughs                                    300          0.35            105.0
Trailers                                   450          0.40            180.0
Spare parts (25%)                           -           LS             195.0
Subtotal                                                         975.0
Equipment for repair and
maintenance facilities-/                  -           LS               75.0
Sprayers                                    -           LS               60.0
Total                                                          2,700.0
1/ To be procured under UK assistance.
84



ANNEX 8
Table 3
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Equipment List
Equipment and Vehicles for Extension Service
Estimated
Unit Cost
Item                       Quanity             (cif Colombo)    Total Cost
-___--(US$ 000)-
4-wheel drive field cars            20                     6.0             120.0
Motorcycle                          5o                     0.5              25.0
Bicycles                           150                     0.1              15.0
Mini buses                           2                     5.0              10.0
Teaching Aids and equipment       Lump Sum                                  30.0
Sub Total                                                     200.0
Spare Parts (25%)                                                           50.0
Total                                                        250.0
85



ANNEX 9
Table 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Total                  Years
Cost    1976      1977    1978    1979       1980
-------------------(Rs Million)----------------
1. Civil Works
Tank  Modernization                  64.9       -       11.5    18.6    21.4       13.4
Physical contingencies               13.0       -         2.3     3.7      4.3      2.7
Subtotal                    77.9       -        13.8    22.3    25.7       16.1
Expected price increases             32.4       -        2.5      7.2    12.3      10.4
Subtotal                   110.3       -        16.3    29.5    38.0       26.5
2. Construction equipment
Machinery and vehicles               42.0      12.6     29.4      -        -
Expected price increases              4.5       1.0      3.5      -        _
Subtotal                    46.5      13.6      32.9     -        -         -
3. Agricultural equipment & vehicles
Equipment and vehicles               42.0       2.1     10.6    11.0    11.0        7.3
Expected price increases             10.8       0.2      1.5      2.5      3.5      3.1
Subtotal                    52.8       2.3      12.1    13.5    14.5       10.4
4. Technical Assistance                  2.0       0.2       0.5     0.5      0.4      0.4
5. Engineering management and
administration                        9.7       1.3      2.0      2.2      2.2      2.0
Expected price increases              3.7       0.1      0.4      0.7      1.1      1.4
Subtotal                    13.4       1.4       2.4     2.9      3.3       3.4
6. Total Project Cost
Rupees (million)                    225.0      17.5     64.2    46.4    56.2       40.7
US$ (million)                        30.0       2.3      8.6      6.2      7.5      5.4
86



SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Aid Package
Amount Allocated                      % Of Expenditure
(UtS$ million)                        to be financed
Category                                Total    IDA    UK                   Total      IDA      UK
(i) Civil Works (including construction
materials procurred locally)          3.0      1.5    1.5                   24        12       12
(ii)  Equipment vehicles and spares ear-                                                l                  I/
marked for UK financing                .5        -     4.5                  100         -      100
(iii) Equipment vehicles and spares (other
than those under category (ii)        1.9       1.9     -                      1/
(a) Directly Imported                                                      1O0-       lO-        -
(b) Locally Procurred                                                       50         5o        -
(iv)  Technical Assistance                      0.1      0.1      _                  lO-1-/
(v) Unallocated                               1.5 
Total            11.0       5.0   6.o
I/ Of foreign expenditures only.
co



ANNEX 9
Table 3
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                        Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                               (US$ million)
Total  IDA      UK
1977
1st                                 0.5      0.1     0.4
2nd                                  2.5     0.5     2.0
1978
1st                                 4.0      1.3     2.7
2nd                                 5.5      2.0     3.5
1979
1st                                  7.0     2.7     4.3
2nd                                 8.0      3.2     . 8
1980
1st                                 9.0     3.7      5.3
2nd                                10.0      4.2     5.8
1981
1st                                 10.5    h.6      5.9
2nd                                 11.0    5.0      6.0
88



ANNEX 10
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance
1.        The rotational irrigation proposed under the project would be a
major departure from the present free flow method. Accordingly, a significant
improvement in the present 0 & M standards would be a prerequisite for real-
izing the full project benefits.
2.        The Irrigation Department (ID) would be responsible for the 0 & M
of the project irrigation works down to the 50 ac level. Below that level,
O & M would be undertaken by the CCs under the direction of APCs (Annex 4).
The ID would also oversee the 0 & M of the 50 ac irrigation service areas and
report deficiencies to the APCs. The APCs would delegate their water control
powers to ID as necessary. A water management specialist provided for a two-
year period would assist the ID, APCs and CCs (para 12).
3.        The ID would organize an 0 & M unit for each tank irrigation area.
Staffing, equipment and budgetary allocation requirements, for a typical
6,000 ac area, are given in Table 1. The estimated annual 0 & M costs would
be about Rs 75 per ac.
Present Irrigation System Operation
4.        The existing tank conveyance systems are designed to supply supple-
mental irrigation for the maha (paddy) crop. Sowing of the crop is delayed
until the tanks are filled by the maha rains to a predetermined level. Follow-
ing sowing, water is continuously released to the planted areas. Irrigation
deliveries supplement the rainfall to provide standing water in the paddies.
To the extent that water is available in the tanks at the end of the maha
season, the area of the yala crop is determined and irrigated in a similar
manner. In dry years, the delay in sowing the maha, coupled with a short
monsoon season, results in a heavy draft on the tanks. Also, because of
the farmers'present sowing practices, the project area is checkerboarded
with fields in different stages of production creating demands on storage
water that are physically difficult to meet.
Projected Irrigation System Operation
5.        The conveyance system capacity would be increased so as to deliver
three inches of water to a 3 ac farm in nine hours. Projected crops for the
tank project areas are paddy on all project lands during the maha season, and
paddy for the lowlands (40% of area) and field crops for the uplands (60%
of area) during the yala season. Irrigation would be intermittent and
would not allow for standing water in the fields.
89



ANNEX 10
Page 2
6.        The feasibility of the proposed method has already been demonstrated
in two other irrigation schemes in Sri Lanka. In those schemes water was
released from the tank to provide alternatively four days of continuous
irrigation followed by four days with no water. This practice was ultimately
accepted by the water users and gave greater crop yields than the continuous
flood irrigation.
7.        Taking into account the rainfall pattern, the soil moisture capacity
of the soils (about 1.0 to 1.6 inches per ft over the 2 ft root zone) and
the crop water requirements for paddy (Annex 5), a probable maha irrigation
delivery program would be:
--   one, six inch irrigation to the field for land preparation
during late September and October;
--   complete preparation of all land and planting within a
five-week period (110 day variety); and
-- it would provide supplemental irrigation water as follows:
(a) beginning on the sixth day of no precipitation
following any rainfall of two inches or more make
tank releases for the total project area on a con-
tinuous flow basis for a two day period (representing
2.4 inches delivered to the field) followed by six
days without water repeating until a rain of at least
two inches occurs ; or
(b) beginning on the fifth day of no precipitation following
any rainfall of two inches or more make tank releases
to provide three inches of water at the field on a
seven day rotation (daytime irrigation only) until a
rain of at least two inches occurs.
8.        In the yala season, when effective rainfall is limited to March
and April, a probable full rotational irrigation delivery program for the
yala lowland paddy area would be:
-- one six inch irrigation to the fields for land prep-
aration during late February and March;
--   completion of preparation of all project land and crop planting
within four weeks (90-100 day variety);
--   delivery of about three inches of water on a seven day rotation
following planting;
--   stopping releases from tanks for a period of seven days fol-
lowing a rainfall of three inches or more;
90



ANNEX 10
Page 3
-- resumption of delivery of three inches of water on a seven
day rotation schedule six days following any three inch
rainfall occuring as a continuous event;
-- delivery of about eleven 3-inch irrigations during the
season, and
--   cease irrigation 15 days before harvest.
9.        A modified program would be utilized for irrigation of yala pulse
and cereal crops as follows:
-- one six inch irrigation to the field for land
preparation during late February and March;
--   completion of a land preparation and planting within
a four week period;
--   delivery of three inches of water on a ten day rotation
during March, April and May;
-- cease releases from tanks for a period of seven days following
a rainfall of two inches or more;
-- delivery of three inches of water during June.
10.       The above irrigation programs are merely indicative.  For developing
the exact water release schedules and irrigation intervals best suited to
local conditions, it is essential that qualified staff of the Maha Illupalama
Research Station should conduct field experiments in the tank areas them-
selves.
Service Roads
11.       The 0 & M of the service roads along the canals would be the respon-
sibility of the ID.
Training for Project 0 & M
12.       The project would finance an irrigation water management specialist
for a two-year period to train personnel of both the ID and the farmer groups.
The specialist would:
(a) have at least ten years of experience in monsoon area
irrigation;
(b) have managed, operated and maintained an irrigation project,
and
(c) be able to set conveyance system design criteria and furnish
details and design requirements for measuring and water
control devices.                                                  91



ANNEX 10
Page 4
13.       The specialist's Terms of Reference would be to:
(a) assist the ID in design of the project conveyance system,
including measuring and control features extending from
the tank to the farm delivery turnout;
(b) assist and train project personnel in developing tank
operating programs to meet projected crop demands and
in operating the conveyance system to provide satisfactory
and efficient deliveries to the land;
(c) assist and train project personnel in scheduling and
executing maintenance routines, preventive maintenance
and repairs;
(d) assisted by the SMSs assigned to him, and in consultation
with the Irrigation and Water Management Specialist of
the Irrigation Department, collect relevant information
on rates of infiltration in different parts of the project
area and from it develop model field layouts for the
different crops and soils. The alignment of irrigation
and drainage channels, the length of runs with reference
to slope, soils etc., will form part of the models;
(e) develop a methodology within the farmers' ability for the
construction of the field channels and drains and including
field layout and land shaping.
INovember 1976
92



ANNEX 10
Table 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
Staff Requirements for a 6,000 ac Module Area
Staff Position                    No.         Salary/yr          Total Cost
(Rs)               (Rs)
Engineer                             1            12,000              12,000
Technical Assistant                  2             6,000              12,000
Maintenance Overseer                 4             3,500              14,000
Maintenance Laborer                 40             2,500             100,000
Driver                               5             3,000              15,000
Store Keeper                         1             2,000               2,000
Clerk                                1             2,000               2,
Sub-total                                                  157,000
Leave and Travel 20%                                                  31,000
Total                                                      188,000
Equipment Requirements for a 6,000 ac Module Area
Total Annual
Item                  No.       Hrs/year      Cost/hr    Operating Cost
(Rs)           (Rs)
5-ton Truck                     1         1,000         40            40,000
Agricultural Tractor            1         1,000          35           35,000
Dump Truck                      2         1,000          20           40,000
4-wheel Drive Field Car         1         2,000         25            50,000
Motorcycle                      4         2,000           6           48,000
Pedestrian Roller               1         1,000          10           10,000
Total Annual Operating Cost                                223,000
Contingencies  10%                                          22,000
GRAND TOTAL                                                43 ,O00
Say Rs 450,000
93



ANNEX 11
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
General
1.        The estimated future farm gate price of rice, maize, sorghum and
agricultural inputs are derived from projected 1985 world market prices in
1976 currency values with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and
processing. Production of other crops such as pulses and vegetables is rela-
tively small and most of the output is consumed locally. Projected farm gate
prices for these products are based on the typical ratio between their prices
and the price of rice.
2.        In recent years, because of severe shortages, foodgrains and fer-
tilizers have commanded unusually high prices in the world markets. In order
to isolate the effects of the project from the effects of these temporary
fluctuations, projected 1985 prices are used both for present and projected
future farm budgets.
Exchange Rate
3.        The Sri Lanka Rupee is officially pegged to the Pound Sterling at
a parity rate of E 1 = Rs 15.60 (approximately US$1.00 = Rs 7.50). 1/ However,
to promote "non-traditional" exports and to cut-down on non-essential imports,
the Government practices a dual exchange rate system through the sale and
purchase of Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates (FEECs). Currently,
about 20% of merchandise exports and about 60% of merchandise imports are
subject to the FEEC rate of about US$1.00 = Rs 12.40. Despite this, Sri
Lanka has faced severe balance of payments problems for the past several
years. The country is also experiencing widespread shortages of essential
materials, spare parts and capital equipment. In view of these, the official
exchange rate clearly understates the real value of foreign exchange to the
Sri Lanka economy. Absence of any economy-wide models and the presence of
a complicated system of import restrictions and excise duties makes it
difficult to estimate the true opportunity cost of foreign exchange. The
unofficial market rate of US$1.00 = Rs 15.00 may be taken as an upper limit,
but it partially reflects the demand for luxury imports and for capital
flight. A rate of US$1.00 = Rs 12.00 (roughly equal to the current FEEC
rate) is perhaps a more reasonable estimate of the value of foreign exchange
to the Sri Lanka economy. Accordingly, the economic analysis is based on
this assumption. To test the sensitivity of the economic viability of the
project to this assumption, the analysis has also been done assuming a 25%
error in this estimate.
94
1/ At the time of appraisal.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
4.        In line with the prevailing Government policy on paddy procurement
prices, the estimated crop prices for farm budgets are based on an exchange
rate which is in between the official and the FEEC exchange rates i.e.
about US$1.00 = Rs 9.00.
Crops
5.        Rice:  The projected 1985 price used as a basis for economic and
financial analyses is US$235 per metric ton of low-to-medium quality rice
(25% - 35% broken) fob Bangkok. 1/ This represents a sharp decline from the
shortage-related prices which have recently averaged more than US$400 per
metric ton. Adding shipping and insurance costs results in a projected
price of US$265 per metric ton cif Colombo. To this are added the estimated
average handling, transportation and marketing costs between Colombo and the
likely "deficit areas" re3ulting in an estimated local market price for
milled rice of US$300 per ton. Deducting US$25 per ton as the costs of the
marketing processing and transportation between the farm and the urban areas
close to the project, gives a farm gate price of US$275 per ton rice equiva-
lent. For an estimated milling yield of 65%, 2/ this is equivalent to a
paddy farm gate price of about US$180.
6.        Cereals (Maize & Sorghum):  The 1985 fob Gulf ports prices for
maize and sorghum are projected to be about US$110 and US$95 (1976 dollars)
per ton, respectively. Assuming a 50-50 mix of the two cereals in project
area production and adjusting the fob prices for shipping, insurance handling,
marketing and processing, gives an equivalent farm gate price of about US$140
per ton.
7.        Pulses:  Since pulses are not traded internationally in any appre-
ciable quantity, the Bank Group does not put out a price projection for them.
Historical comparisons of rice prices with those for pulses in Sri Lanka and
in the neighboring countries indicate that the price ratio remains fairly
stable, with pulses commanding a 50-70% premium over the paddy prices.
Somewhat conservatively, an average price of US$270 per ton (a 50% premium
over paddy price) is assumed in the analysis of this project.
Crop Inputs
8.        Fertilizers:  It is projected that the 1985 fertilizer prices
would be substantially below the unusually high prices experienced during
1/   The Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department's latest fore-
cast for 1985 is US$335 (1976 dollars) per metric ton of high quality
rice (5% brokens). The price for low-to-medium quality rice is assumed
to be 70% of the price for high quality rice.
2/   This is lower than the 70% yield assumed by the PHB since the rice
supplied by the PMB has to be reprocessed before consumption.
95



ANNEX 11
Page 3
the last few years. The price for nitrogen nutrient (fob Persian Gulf)
is expected to decline from about US$650 to US$350 per ton; for phosphate
nutrient (fob Morocco) from US$720 to US$470 per ton, and for potassium
nutrient (fob Vancouver) from US$120 to US$95 per ton. Shipping, insur-
ance, handling and local marketing would add an average of about US$80 per
ton nutrient. Accordingly, the per ton farm gate prices for the three nutri-
ents are estimated to be US$430, US$550 and US$175, respectively. For both
the commonly used basal mixture of 3-30-13 NPK and for urea (46% N), used
as top dressing, the price would be about US$200 per ton.
9.        Land Preparation:  Much of the land preparation work in the area
is done on a custom basis. The current rental charges of Rs 60 per hour
for 4-wheel tractors, Rs 15 per hour for 2-wheel tractors, and Rs 10 per
day for a pair of buffaloes are considered reasonable and are used as such
in the farm budget analysis. For economic analysis, the rental charge for
two-wheel tractors is increased to Rs 20 per hour as they are imported without
the imposition of FEEC charges.
10.       Farm Labor:  In the farm budget analysis, the prevailing average
wage rate of Rs 8 per day is used for all hired labor. However, in view of
the unemployment and underemployment situation prevailing in the area, the
market wage rate is considered inappropriate for economic analysis. Accord-
ingly, the economic cost of all farn labor (family as well as hired) is based
on a seasonally adjusted opportunity cost in terms of output foregone in
alternative employment. The details of the analysis are given in Annex 13.
11.       Table 1 of this Annex gives a summary of the various economic and
financial prices.
ITovember 1976
96



ANNEX 11
Table 1
SRI LANKA
TANt IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Prices for Economic and Financial Analysis
Prices
Item                             Economic             Financial
Crops
Paddy  (Rs/Ton)                       2,160                 1,620
Cereals (Rs/Ton)                      1,680                 1,260
Pulses (Rs/Ton)                       3,240                 2,430
Fertilizers
Basal (Rs/Ton)                        2,400                 1,500
(3-30-13 NPK)
Urea (Rs/Ton)
(46% N)                             2,400                 1,500
Land Preparation
h-wheel Tractor (Rs/hr)                  60                    60
2-wheel Tractor (Rs/hr)                  20                    60
BuSfaloes (Rs/day)                       10                    10
1/
Farm Labor (Rs/day)                       *                     8
1/ See Annex 13.
97



ANNEX 12
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
General
1.        Present agricultural practices in the project area and the expected
overall changes in cropping patterns, yields and production due to the project
are described in Annex 3. This Annex discusses the impact on the individual
farm. The purposes of this micro analysis are:
(i) to estimate the farm incomes for representative farm
sizes in order to determine whether the prospective
increases in farm income would be sufficient to compensate
the farmer and his family for the additional effort and
for other production costs they would have to incur;
(ii) to determine the distributional impact of the project
and to compare the income levels of the project area
farmers with those of farmers in other areas, and
(iii) to analyze the effects of different Government policies
regarding water charges.
2.        Choice of Farm Models.  Insofar as the farm sizes and the culti-
vation methods are the same under the five tanks, the only variable to be
reflected in the analysis is the water availability -- both at present and
as expected under future "with" and "without" project conditions. Three
models have been chosen for this purpose: the first model represents the
three tanks with the best water supply (Mahakanadarawa, Padaviya and Maha-
wilachchiya), the second model represents the Vavunikulam tank which has
a somewhat poorer water supply and the third model represents the Pavatkulam
tank which has the poorest water supply. In each model, 3 ac of irrigated
land was assumed and both cropping patterns and yields were adjusted to
reflect variations in present and prospective water availability and project
management.
3.        The analysis assumes the following:
(a) Crop Input Requirements: E'resent and projected unit input
requirements are given in Tables 1 and 2. The estimated
current levels of inputs are based on the agro-economic
surveys conducted during project preparation as well as
on the information obtained from the local administrations,
the Department of Agriculture and several other surveys in          98



ANNEX 12
Page 2
similar areas of Sri Lanka. Some improvements in farming
practices are assumed for future "without project" condi-
tions. Future "with project" requirements are based on
recommendations by the Department of Agriculture and on
observed cultural practices of the progressive farmers of
the area. The future estimates assume that land prepara-
tion would be fully mechanized under the "with project"
conditions.
(b)  Crop Yields:  The yields used in the three farm models are
taken to be the average yields for the respective tanks (Annex
3, Table 1).
(c)  Prices and Subsidies:  The prices used in the analysis are the
"financial" farm gate prices discussed in detail in Annex 11.
The crop prices are derived on the assumption that to promote
food self-sufficiency, the Government would keep the Guaranteed
Support Prices at 20% above the corresponding import prices
(at the official exchange rate). Crop inputs prices (particu-
larly, the fertilizers) assume the elimination of all sub-
sidies.
(d)  Hired Labor:  The estimated hired labor requirements (about
20% of the total) are costed at the average market wage rate
of Rs 8 per day. No value is put on family labor.
Farm Incomes and Incentives
4.        Farm incomes on an annual cash flow basis for the three farm
models detailed in Table 3, are summarized below:
Net Farm Income-  (Rs)
M4odel I      Model II     Model III
Present                         2,850          3,100         2,250
Future "without" Project        3,950          4,050         2,800
Future "with" Project           7,650          7,100         5,900
% increase over
(a) Present                     168            129          162
(b) Future "without"
Project                   94             75           116
/a   Before deducting water charges and payments under the Sale of State
Lands Act.
Tlus, it is estimated that the present farm incomes would be more than doubled
for all three farm models. These increases are considered to be sufficient
incentives for getting the cooperation and participation of the project area
farmers.
99



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Distributional Impact
5.        The landholding pattern in the project area is rather uniform and
as a result, the income levels are fairly even. Whatever income disparities
do exist, are largely due to the variations in the quality of irrigation
facilities utilized by the various farmers. However, even this difference
is partially compensated, since the farmers with inadequately irrigated lands
divert more effort to 'chena' cultivation, and increase their income from that
source. It is projected that the income levels within the project area would
continue to be essentially uniform, even "with" the project.
6.        In comparing the project area income levels with the average
national income, it is necessary to take into account the farmers' income
from sources other than irrigated agriculture. Unfortunately, however,
there are no reliable data on this. It is generally agreed though, that
the farmers do earn substantial incomes, perhaps about Rs 1,500 per year,
from chena cultivation and the cultivation of fruits and vegetables in their
homestead plots. Furthermore, if one takes into account the imputed value of
other goods and services (e.g. rent on homestead) and differentials in pur-
chasing power it is likely that the farm households have a total net annual
income of about Rs 6,000, or a per capita annual income of Rs 800. This is
about 80% of the national per capita disposable income of about Rs 1,000
per year. Assuming that the income from other sources remains constant, at
full development, the average household income in the project area would
increase to about Rs 10,000. Taking into account the population increase
during the intervening period, this would mean a per capita income of about
Rs 1,100. Assuming that the national. per capita disposable income increases
about 2% annually, at full development, the project area incomes would be
approximately the same as the national level.
Recovery of Project Costs
7.        At a discount rate of 10% per annum, the present value of the
project investments (in economic terns) is estimated to be about Rs 97
million or about Rs 3,100 per ac. In addition, the 0 & M of the irrigation
system would require an annual expenditure of about Rs 75 per ac. Assuming
that the water charges were introduced in phase with the construction sched-
ule but with a grace period of one year, it would require an average annual
charge of Rs 625 per ac I/ -- Rs 550 for recovery of capital costs and
Rs 75 for 0 & M costs -- to fully recover all the expenditures on this project.
These charges would represent about 50-60% of the net incremental farm
income (before accounting for family labor), at full development. During
the development period when the production is below the full potential, the
proportion would be even higher.
8.        For analyzing the farmers' ability and willingness to pay water
charges, it is necessary to estimate the 'project rent'. Simply stated, the
project rent is the incremental net income when all factors of production
1/   In constant 1976 prices.
100



ANNEX 12
Page 4
except project supplied services have been paid the returns necessary for
their cooperation. In the absence of uncertainty (about yields, crop prices),
the project rent would be the net incremental farm income less the necessary
rewards to family labor and management for their additional effort.
9.        Recently, GOSL enacted a crop insurance legislation (Annex 4)
and this should largely eliminate the uncertainty about the returns to
the farmers. However, it is assumed that a 10% reduction in the expected
gross farm income is necessary to arrive at the certainty equivalent.
10.       In economic literature, there is a considerable amount of con-
troversy about appropriate returns for family labor and management. Con-
servatively, in the following analysis, all family labor is valued at the
average market wage rate of Rs 8 per day. An additional 10% of the net
incremental income is allocated to farm management.
11.       On this basis, the project rent per acre for the three farm
models is estimated to be between Rs 720 and 820 per year (Table 4).
Since these estimates are based on "typical" farms, they do not take
into account the variations in land and human resources for the various
farms. Allowing a 10% margin for such variations, a reasonable upper
limit for the potential water charges would be about Rs 650 to 750 per
ac. This level should be adequate to recover approximately all project
costs.
12.       While in theory it should be feasible to recover all costs, in
the overall socio-economic context it may be better to impose somewhat
lower charges. This is because:(a) the income levels of the project
area farmers are somewhat below the national average; (b) traditionally,
farmers in Sri Lanka have not been required to pay for irrigation water
and an abrupt policy change would be difficult to implement politically;
(c) because of the prototype nature of the project, there is a need to
persuade the farmers to adopt the proposed notational irrigation; and
(d) through differentials between the crop procurement prices and their
"economic" prices, the Government would, in any case, indirectly regain
a large part (about 50%) of the total project cost. In view of these,
water charges at an average rate of Rs 300 (in constant 1976
values),would be more appropriate. These charges would represent the
following recovery indices:
101



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Cost Recovery Index 1/   :   48%
Benefit Recovery Index .2/:    20-25%
Rent Recovery Index 3/   :    37-42%
November 1974
1/   Cost Recovery Index:  Ratio of water charges to annualized O&M and
capital costs.
2/   Benefit Recovery Index:  Ratio of water charges to net incremental
farm income.
3/   Rent Recovery Index:  Ratio of water charges to project rent.
102



ANNEX 12
Table 1
MRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Crop Input Requirements  (per  acre)
Paddy               Cereals               Pulses
1/                 ___
P     v     W        P     W     w        p     W      w
2/
Land Preparation
4-wheel tractor (hrs)  2      2      2       1.5   1.5   1.5       1.5   1.5   1.5
2-wheel tractcr (hrs)  -      -      2       -      -     1.5     -      -     2
buffaloes (days)        1      1     -       1      1     -        0.5   1      -
Fertilizers
basal (lbs)            30    60   120        -      -    60        -    60   120
top dressing (lbs)    60    90   180         -    60   120        -      -     -
Agro-chemicals (Rs)      15    25    35        -    10    20         -    10    20
Seeds (lbs)              90    90    90       20    20    20       35    35    35
Crop insurance (Rs)      30    30    30        -    30    30         -    30    30
Miscellaneous 3/(Rs)     50    60    80        30   4h    50        4o    50    60
h/
Manual labor-  (days)   55    55    55         33    33    33       33    33    33
1/ P = Present,  W = future without  project, W   future with project
2/ Project conditions will bring about the replacement of buffaloes by tractors
for all land preparation work
3/ Excludes rent and water charges.
4/ Labor requirements for rice and cereals under future situations are expected to
remain as at present. There will be reductions in labor as a result of shifting
from buffaloes to tractors for seedbed preparation. This is assumed to com-
pensate for the additional labor required for harvesting and threshing resulting
from higher yields.
103



ANNEX 12
Table 2
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERiNIZATION PROJECT
Monthly Labor Requirements for Various Crops             2/
Jan  Feb  Mar  Ar  M    Jun  Jul  Aug  Sept  Oct  Nov  Dec               Total
Paddy (Maha)        P         5     8    5    2-           _    _    2    9    12    7    5             55
W        10     8    5    -   -        -    -    3   15       7    4    3            55
Paddy (Yala)        p         2    10   12    7   5    12    4    3    -          -    -    -           55
W         3    15    7    4   3        9    8    5    -       -    -    -            54
Cereals (Maha)    P           3     4    5    -   -        -    -    -    4       9    4    4           33
w         6     5    -    -   -        -    -    3    &       4    4    3            33
Cereals (Yala)    P           4     9    4    4   3        4    5    -    -       -    -    -            33
W         3     8    4    4   3        6    5    -    -       -    -    -            33
Pulses (l4aha)      P         -     -    -    -   -        -    -    -    -       -    --
W         9     2    -    -   -        -    -    -    7       5    4    6            33
Pulses (Yala)       P         7     5    4    6   9        2    -           -        -       -           33
w         7     5    4    6   9        2    -    -    -       -    -    -            33
1/ P: Present, W: Future with Project
2/ The future labor requirements without the projects are projected to remain as at present.
° C



ANNEX 12
Table 3
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Farm Budgetf
2/                               3/                              4/
Farm Model I                    F-,m Model II                  Farm Model III
P          W         w            p        W         w            p                    w
Cropped Area (ac)
Maha - Paddy                   2.3        2.3        2.8         2.3      2.3        2.9         2.4        2.4       2.8
- Cereals                 -          0.1       0.2          -        0.1       0.1           -        0.1        0.2
- Pulses                  -           -         -            -        -         -            -         -          -
Yala - Paddy                   0.7        0.7       1.2          0.8      o.8       o.6          0.1        0.1       0.3
- Cereals                 -           -        0.3          -         -        0.3           -         -         0.1
- Pulses                 0.1         0.1       0.5          0.1      0.1       0.5          0.1       0.2        0.2
Total                         3.1        3.2       5.0          3.2      3.3       4.4          2.6        2.8       3.6
Cropping Intensity (%)           103        107       167          107      110        147          87         93       120
Crop Production (Tons)
Paddy                 2.5         3.3       5.7         2.7       3.4       5.2          2.0       2.4        4.6
Cereals                -          0.08      0.51          -       0.08      o.42          -        0.08       0.29
Pulses                o.o4        0.04      0.33        o.o4      o.o4      0.33         0.04      0.07       0.13
Gross Production Value (Rs)      4,150      5,550    10,700        4,450    5,700      9,800       3,350      4,150     8,150
Production Costs (Rs)                                                                                90           O     1,950
Non-labor inputs            1,050      1,300     2,650        1,100    1,350      2,350         900      1,10       ,
Hired labor                   250        300       hoc          250      300        350         200        250       300
Total                                    1,600     3,050        1,350    1,650      2,700       1,100      1,350     2,250
Net Farm Income (Rs)             2,850       3,950    7,650        3,100    4,05c      7,100        2,250     2,800      5,900
I / P = Present, W = Future without Project, W = Future with Project
@   2/ Mahakanadarawa, Padaviya and Mahawilachchiya
3/ Vavunikulam
4/ Pavatkulami



ANNEX 12
Table 4
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
_                       1~~~~~~~/
Project Rent For the Three Farm Models
Farm Model I        Farm Model II      Farm Model III
'W        w         w           w       w           w
(i)     Expected Gross Pro-
duction value 2/ (RF)   5,55C   10,700        5,700    9,800      4,150    8,150
(ii)    Certainty Eauivalent
of (i) (Rs)              5,ooc    9,650       5,150    8,800      3,750    7,350
2/, 3R
(iii)   Crop Inputs         (Rs)    1,6oC    3,o50     1,650    2,700       1,50    23250
(iv)    Family Labor (Rs)          1,100    1,600      1,150    1,400         950    1,200
4/
(v)     Net returns  (Rs)          2,300    5,000      2,350    4,700      1,5450    3,900
(ii) - (iii) - (it)
(vi)    Management Fee (Rs)          250      500        250       450        150      400
10% of (v)
(vii)   Net Farm Returns (Rs)    2,050    4,50o        2,100    4,250      1,250    3,500
(v) - (vi)
(viii)  Project Rent (Rs)               2,450               2,150                2,250
(ix)    Project Rent per (Rs)             820                 720                  750
acre
(x)    Rent Recovery Index (%)            37                  42                   40
with charges set
at Rs 300 per ac
1/ a = without Project, W = with Project
2/ From Table 3
3/ Excluding family labor and management
I/ Before management fee.
106



ANNTEX 13
Page 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Assumptions
1.        The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Prices: The farm gate prices used in the economic analysis
are derived from projected 1985 world market prices expressed
in 1976 currency values. Appropriate adjustments have been
made for freight, handling and processing. A shadow exchange
rate of US$1.00 = Rs 12.00 is used to reflect the scarcity
of foreign exchange. The price assumptions are discussed in
more detail in Annex 11.
(b) Benefits: The extension service provided under the project
would cover the whole of Anuradhapura District and accord-
ingly would have beneficial effects in areas other than the
five tank areas. The improvements in the road network would
lower the transportation costs. The project would also have
substantial secondary income and employment effects in
processing industries and trade and transport. In this
analysis, however, only increased crop production due to the
project in the five tank areas is counted as a project bene-
fit. Expected crop yields, acreages and production are shown
in Annex 3, Table 1.  The gross benefits are summarized in
Table 1 of this Annex.
(c) Crop Production Costs: Per acre crop input requirements are
shown in Annex 12, Table 1. Crop production costs are sum-
marized in this Annex on Table 2.
(d) Pricing of Labor: Based on an equivalent of three full time
adults per household, working an average of 250 days per year,
the total farm labor availability for the 10,500 farm house-
holds in the project area is estimated at about 7.9 million
man-days, or an average monthly availability of about 0.65
million man-days. Estimates of the total monthly labor re-
quirements, taking into account the cropping patterns (Annex 3,
Table 1) and monthly per acre labor requirements for various
crops (Annex 12, Table 2) are shown in Table 3 of this Annex.
Thus, presently there is an annual need for about 1.8 million
man-days compared to an estimated availability of 7.9 million
107



Au'TvX 13
Page 2
man-days. Even in the "peak" month of October, the monthly
demand is less than 50% of the availability. At full devel-
opment in 1986, "without" the project the total labor demand
would remain practically unchanged, while the supply is likely
to increase by about 20% through population increase, resulting
in a further deterioration of the employment situation. "With"
the project, the annual labor demand would increase to about
2.4 million man-days, an increase of about 33% over the present.
However, this would still leave a large amount of surplus labor.
Undoubtedly, cultivation of 'chena' land and upland homestead
plots partially relieve the unemployment pressure. Nevertheless,
the prevailing average wage rate of Rs 8 per day is considered
to be overstating the economic opportunity cost of farm labor.
Accordingly, for the economic analysis, the incremental farm
labor requirements were valued at Rs 4 per day for the period
April to August and Rs 6 per day for rest of the year. On this
bases, the total cost of the incremental farm labor requirements
of 0.58 million man-days is estimated at Rs 3.3 million or an
average of Rs 5.7 per man-day. This rate is about 70% of the
prevailing market wage rate of Rs 8 per day. Unskilled con-
struction labor has been valued at the market rate.
(e) Investment Costs: All project costs except price contingencies
(Rs 51.4 million), cost of farming equipment 1/ (base cost,
Rs 36.7 million) and taxes and duties (Rs 30.5 million) 2/ are
included in the economic analysis. On this basis, the investment
costs are estimated at Rs 106.4 million of which Rs 36.0 million
are in foreign exchange (Annex 7, Table 1). Shadow pricing the
foreign exchange component results in an estimated "economic"
cost of Rs 128.0 million. Conservatively, no salvage value
was assumed for the construction equipment even though some
of the equipment is expected to be useable after project com-
pletion.
(f) Operation and Maintenance: The annual 0 & M costs for the irri-
gation system are expected to increase from about Rs 25 per ac
at present to about Rs 75 per ac with the project, or a total
annual increment of about Rs 1.6 million. The strengthened
extension service would add a further Rs 1.4 million to the
operating expenses, leading to a total annual 0 & M cost of
Rs 3.0 million. These costs are used as a cost stream against
the project benefits.
1/   Depreciation and 0 & M of farm  equipment (tractors and sprayers) is
included as a recurrent crop production cost.
2/   This figure differs from the one in the text (para 4.10) as taxes
and duties in the amount of Rs 20.0 million are included in the
price contingencies and the base cost of farm equipment.               108



ANNEX 13
Page 3
(g) Development Phasing: Implementation would be phased over five
years. It is assumed that full project benefits would be
achieved five years after project implementation. The overall
phasing of the benefits is estimated to be as follows:
Year            1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11
Net benefitss  0   5  15  35  5n  65  75  85  90   95  100
(% of full
development
benefits)
Economic Rate of Return
2.        Resulting costs and benefit streams are shown in Table 4.  Assuming
a 30-year project life, the economic rate of return is estimated to be 23%.
Sensitivity Analysis
3.        The most serious risk to the project would result from the possibility
that the rotational irrigation proposed under the project would not be fully
accepted by the farmers resulting in a lower irrigation efficiency and hence
a reduced cropping intensity. Annex 3, Table 2 shows the alternative cropping
patterns likely to prevail in case the project irrigation efficiency goes
down from 55% to 40%. The resulting cropping intensity would go down to
about 125%. Sensitivity tests indicate that the economic rate of return
would still be about 14% and the project would remain viable.
4.        Further tests were made to determine the sensitivity of the rate
of return estimates to various alternative assumptions about costs and bene-
fits. The tests indicate the following:
109



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Alternative                                        Rate of Return
(i)  Basic case                                                    23%
(ii)  Foreign exchange valued at US$1.00 = Rs 9.00                   20%
(iii)  Foreign exchange valued at US$1.0n = Rs 15.00                  25%
(iv)  Farm labor valued at the market wage rate of
Rs 8.00 per man-day                                      22%
(v)  A decrease of 25% in net incremental benefits                  18%
(vi)  An increase of 25% in project investment costs                 19%
(vii)  A slower development of project benefits /a                    20%
(viii)  Combination of (v) and (vi)                                    15%
(ix)  Combination of (vi) and (vii)                                  17%
(x)  Combination of (v), (vi) and (vii)                             13%
/a   Assumed phasing of benefits:
Year             1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13
Net benefits   0   0  10  25  40  50  60  70  80   85   9n   95  100
(% of full
development benefits)
Thus, the project's rate of return is moderately sensitive to changes in
costs, benefits and the build-up of project benefits. However, even in the
unlikely event that project costs are 25% higher, net benefits are 25% lower
and the build-up of project benefits is considerablv slower, the project
would still be viable.
Analysis of Individual Tanks
5.         Tests were also made to determine the viability of each tank on its
own. These tests indicated that the rate of return for the individual tanks
varied from a high of 29% for the Mahawilachchiya tank to a low of 20% for the
Padaviya and the Pavatkulam tanks. Thus, all five tank schemes are viable
on their own.
cvemnbe- 1976
110



ANNEX 13
Table 1
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Annual Gross Benefits (Economic  -'
Gross value
Price     Production ('000 tons)            (Rs million)
Item              (Rs/Ton)  W        W      Increment    W       W          Increment
Paddy                   2,160       34-32  59.83     25.51    74.o    129.0          55.0
Cereals                 1,680        0.88   4.36      3.48     1.5       7.3          5.8
Pulses                  3,240        0.52   2.76      2.24     1.7       9.0          7.3
Sub-total                                            77.2   U45.3           68.1
Less 5% losses in
transport and handling                                      -3.9    _-7.3           3.4
Annual Total                                                  73.3    138.0          64.7
1/ W = Future without project
W = Future with project
111



ANNEX 13
Table 2
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1/
Annual Crop Production Costs (Economic)
Quantity Used                 Economic Cost
Price                   w        Increment  WT         w      Increment
______(Rs million)------
:and Preparation
4-wheel Tractors
('000 hrs)              Rs 60/hr       67.2       94.0        26.8      4.0      5.6       1.6
2-wheel Tractors
('000 hrs)              Rs 20/hr        -         96.0        96.o        -      1.9       1.9
Buffaloes (1000
days)      Rs 10/day      34.2        -         -34.2       0.3       -      -0.3
Fertilizer (Tons)
Basal (3-30-13 NPK)    Rs 2,400/Ton    900        2,560      1,660       2.1     6.1       4.0
Urea (46% N)            Rs 2,400/Ton  1,330       3,550      2,220      3.2      8.5       5.3
Agro-Chemicals                   _           -         _          -         0.8     1.6       0.8
ieeds (Tons)                            2/
Paddy                   Rs 2,160/Ton  1,300       1,660        360       2.8     4.3       1.5
Cereals                 Rs 1,600/Ton-/   10          40         30        -      0.1       0.1
2/
Pulses                  Rs 3,240/Ton      20         70         50       0.1     0.3       0.2
Farm Labor (million man-               3/
days)          Rs  5.7/day    1.81       2.39       0.58      10.3    13.6       3.3
Miscellaneous                    -           -          -          -        2.0     3.7       1.7
Total Crop Production Costs                                                25.6    45.7      20.1
Annual Net Benefits = (64.7 - 20.1) = Rs 44.6        Say  Rs 45 million
Future without project
Future with project
Increment = W -1i
2/ For "without" project case. A 20% premium is assumed for "with" project case to
account for improved quality.
3/ See para 1 (d) and Table 3 for details.                                             112



ANNEX 13
Table 3
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
Items                    Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  jr.  Msp   June  Julv  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Total
Labor Requirement
Present                       0.15  0.27  0.22  0.11  0.04  0.09  0.03  0.07  0.21  0.29  0.16  0.12    1.76
Future without Project        0.15  0.28  0.22  0.11  0.05  o.og  0.03  0.07  0.22  0.30  0.17  0.12    1.81
Future with Project           0.38  0.45  0.25  0.08  0.08  0.12  0.10  0.06  o.46  0.21  0.12  0.08    2.39
1/
Incremental                   0.23  0.17  0.03 -0.03  0.03  0.03  0.07 -0.01  0.24 -0.09 -0.05 -0.04    0.58
Average Economic Opportunity
Cost (Rs/man-day)                6    6       6     4      4      4      4     4      6      6      6    6
Incremental Economic Cost
(Rs million)             1.38  1.02  0.18 -0.12  0.12  0.12  0.28 -0.04  1.44 -0.54 -0.30 -0.24    3.30
1/ Future "with" over future "without"
I-J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P 



ANNEX 13
Table 4
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Year                    Investment Costs        O& M Costs    Net Benefits
-----------( Rs million)-----------------
1                           12.0                 0.5
2                           50.0                 1.0              2.3
3                           23.0                 1.6              6.8
4                           27.0                 2.0             15.8
5                           16.0                 2.5             22.5
6                            -                   3.0             29.3
7                            -                   3.0             33.8
8                            -                   3.0             38.3
9                            -                   3.0             40.5
10                            -                   3.0             42.8
11-30                                             3.0             45.0
Economic ROR = 23%
114



c,/          034                                  °     Q                                                 t~~~~~~I 
q  q  0~ ~~~~~ r, F>                             r )49E           
I                                                            --
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          8 &f}m t
0a                                                          0                                             O  n
0    Z                                              X.                         7                        91. 
0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00-
0 Z  0o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                                Z 
03                                                                          r
>
z
0
r1                   ED  ~H
ZZ






IBRD 11750
SEPTEMBER 1975
SRI LANKA
TANK IRRIGATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
MAHAWILACHCHIYA TANK
i~~~~~~~~~~~
V I L L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ohp, 
A   A S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMM I jKUAS~bI
_~~~~~~~~~         ~     ~~~~~~~                               ~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~ EOd  is          UW UKIt>
O   200  400  600  BOO  1,000   i200        t0                                                         g     ,       >|  COOB 
0°     1,000    2,0,00   3,000   4,000                    \                                                  0    S    0       :       k   ,,   ;    ,   O C e O r4
FEET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



