Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16731
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GIANA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITA TION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1921-GH)
June 19, 1997
Industry and Mining Division
Industry and Energy Department
World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Name           =   Cedi
US$1.00                 =   2,020 Cedi
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I troy ounce (oz)         =  31.1 grams
I gram (g)                =  0.032 troy ounces
I metric tonne (mt)       =  32,1 1 troy ounces
=  2,20i pounds
I short ton (T)           =  2,000) pounds
I carat (ct)              =  0.2 grams
I gram                    =  5 carats
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                          -African Development Bank
Caisse Centrale             -Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CDC                          -Commonwealth development Corporation
CIDA                         -Canadian International Development Agency
DMC                          -Diamond Marketing Corporation
EDC                          -Export Development Corporation (Canada)
EIB                          -European Investment Bank
ERP                          -Export Rehabilitation Project
ERPTA                        -Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project
GCD                          -Ghana Consolidated Diamonds
GNCB                         -Ghana National Commercial Bank
GOG                          -Government of Ghana
GNMC                         -Ghana National Manganese Corporation
MC                           -Minerals Commission
MLNR                         -Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
PPF                          -Project Preparation Facility
RIC 11                      -Reconstruction Import Credit 11
SGMC                         -State Gold Mining Corporation
UJNDP                        -United Nations Development Program
VRA                          -Volta River Authoi ity
Vice President               :      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                     :      Serge Michailof
Division Chief/Manager              Peter van der Veen
Staff Member                        Leo Maraboli



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1921-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ......................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................                                                             ii
PART I:         PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................1
A.      Background  ......................................I
B.      Project Description .....2................................2
C.     Achievement ofProject Objectives .....................................               3
D.      Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................5
E.      Project Sustainability .....................................7
F.      Bank Performance .....................................8
G.      Borrower Performance .......................................9
H       Assessment of Outcome ......................................9
1. Future Operation .....................................                                   10
J.      Key Lessons Learned ......................................                         II
PART II:  STATISTICAL TABLES
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Missions' Aide-Memoire
Appendix B: Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C: Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Implementation Completion Report
Glhana
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 1921-GH)
PREFACE
1     This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mining Sector
Rehabilitation Project in Ghana, for which Credit 1921-GH in the amount of SDR 29.3 million
was approved on 14 June 1988. The Credit became effective on 4 March 1989. The Credit was
closed on 31 December 1996, three years after the original closing date. Final disbursement took
place on May 6, 1997, at which time a balance of SDR 7,191.67 was canceled. Cofinancing for
the project provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB) was in the amount of DM
23,230,000, which was fully utilized. Additional cofinancing made available by the African
Development Bank (ADB) in the amount of US$ 34.5 million and by the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (Caisse Centrale) in the amount of FF 72 million (US$ 13 million
equivalent) was not utilized.
2.    The ICR was prepared by a World Bank team from the Industry and Mining Division,
Industry and Energy Department and the Environment Group of the Africa Region. The ICR
was reviewed by Serge Michailof, Country Director, Ghana; James Kerr, Senior Mining
Engineer (COMD2); and Jerome Chevallier, Project Advisor. During the final supervision
mission an initial evaluation of project performance was carried out by a World Bank mission
with key staff of participating agencies.
Mr. L. Maraboli (IENIM); Ms. 1. Hewawasam (AFTEI); and Mr. P. Dyson (Consultant)
Is'.1






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
MINING SECTOR REIABILITA TION PROJECT
(Cr. 1921-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   In the early 1980s the initial thrust of the Government's policy under the Economic
Recovery Program was to concentrate on the agricultural sector of the economy which had the
greatest potential for the short term increase in exports. By the mid- 1 980s the Government
started to put increasing emphasis on the mining sector which was recognized to have significant
potential for exports in the medium to long term. IDA support for rehabilitating the mining
industry in general, and the gold mining sector in particular, started in 1984 with the Export
Rehabilitation Credit (CR 1435-GH). This support was continued with the Export Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance Credit (CR 1436 GH) and was followed by this operation - the Mining
Sector Rehabilitation Project (CR 1921-GH). Important elements of these operations focused on
the rehabilitation of the mines operated by the State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC). A
parallel objective of Cr. 1921-GH was the privatization of SGMC.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to continue to support the rehabilitation of the mining
sector by (i) rehabilitating certain existing, economically viable state-owned mines; (ii) helping
to attract private investors to the mining sector; (iii) strengthening the main governmental
agencies involved in the administration of the sector; and (iv) increasing national benefits from
small-scale gold and diamond mining activities.
3.    The IDA Credit of SDR 29.3 million equivalent to US$ 40 million was fully disbursed
except for SDR 7,191.67. About 2/3 of the proceeds of the credit was assigned for the
rehabilitation of the State owned gold mines and the balance including the borrower's
contribution of US$ 0.3 million was assigned primarily for institutional strengthening of key
sectoral agencies.



iii
Implementation Experience
4.    The Period prior to the divestiture of the mines. The Credit provided much needed
support for rehabilitation of the mines enabling them to continue operations. The funds under
the Credit helped arrest the drain of public resources by significantly reducing the downward
trends in production and efficiency at all three mines. However, the Government and the
cofinanciers realized that joint venturing of SGMC's mines and downsizing and restructuring of
SGMC would be necessary in order to fully arrest the operating losses being incurred.
Accordingly, agreements were reached to fund activities necessary to attract prospective
investors and proceed to divest all of SGMC's mines. The rehabilitation of the mines improved
their potential for divestiture. In recognition of the Government's responsibility for the adverse
environmental, health and safety problems resulting from past mining operations, agreements
were reached to utilize funds from the IDA Credit to address related priority problems at the
mine sites.
5.    Technical assistance was provided to SGMC to increase its efficiency through
restructuring and rehabilitation. Technical assistance was also provided to the Minerals
Commission (MC), Mines Department (MD) and the Geological Survey (GS) to upgrade their
capacity to enable the agencies to play a more effective role in promoting the sector. The support
provided under the Credit helped uplift the morale of the workforce of these institutions by an
infusion of equipment, technical assistance and training.
6.    The Credit was also responsible for initiating policy dialogue relating to the formalization
of small-scale mining and the liberalization of controls affecting small-scale gold and diamond
mining. These efforts led to the organization of small-scale miners and encouraged these miners
to operate within the formal sector under the Small-scale Gold Mining law of 1989.
7.    The period after divestiture of the mines. The IDA Credit facilitated the divestiture of
the three gold mines formerly owned by the Government. Upon transfer to private ownership,
the mines have started contributing revenue to the Government through royalties and taxes. At
the Dunkwa and Prestea mines taxes have been deferred. At Tarkwa, production and
productivity have increased with investments and new management. These have delineated
major amounts of additional reserves. The Credit has therefore facilitated the realization of very
high potential for growth at Tarkwa and enhanced the potential for growth at the other two
mines: Dunkwa and Prestea. The Credit has also facilitated attracting new investments in mining
and increased opportunities for employment and skills development in related industries. The
renewed mine operations have also led to the growth of economic activities in the region with
related income generating activities in adjacent communities.
8.    During the various co-financiers' meetings to review progress of the project and issues
affecting its implementation, agreements were reached to provide support for the remediation of
priority environmental health and safety problems resulting from past mining operations. The
remedial work included the alleviation of environmental health and safety problems at all three
mines (Tarkwa, Prestea and Dunkwa) and resulted also in improving socio-economic conditions
affecting adjacent communities - particularly at the Dunkwa mine.



iv
9.    The divestiture process facilitated by the IDA credit provided opportunity for increased
collaboration and coordination with labor unions and community representatives.
10.   Actual costs for the project were close to those estimated in the SAR. Cofinancing was
secured as follows:
(a)   African Development Bank (ADB) with US$ 34.5 million;
(b)   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (Caisse Centrale) with $13 million
(FF 72 million); and
(c)   European Investment Bank (EIB) with DM 23,230,000.
11.   Total available cofinancing was thus approximately US$ 62 million equivalent. The only
cofinanced funds to be disbursed were those from the EIB as the Government felt the terms and
conditions attached to the ADB and Caisse Centrale funds were too restrictive. Nevertheless the
reform process was assisted by all cofinanciers through the dialoging and negotiation process
that took place at four cofinanciers' meetings. Implementation of the project fell significantly
behind schedule at the start when effectiveness was delayed by seven months as the Borrower
was slow in putting in place satisfactory management arrangements for SGMC and in appointing
an investment advisor for assisting in the joint venturing of the SGMC mines. Once the project
was effective, annual disbursements increased to approach the schedule foreseen in the SAR.
Nevertheless the project closing date was extended twice for a total of thirty six months to enable
rehabilitation work associated with the privatization of SGMC to be completed.
12.   The decision of the Government to proceed to privatization of the SGMC mines during
project implementation was a positive step in keeping with evolving international trends relating
to State-owned enterprises. However the lack of experience in privatization of state-owned
entities in general and mining companies in particular, led to slow decision making at both high
and working levels.
13.   The Bank was faced with the need to supervise a project against a rapidly evolving sector
policy. While the policy changes were positive, it made supervision of the project complex.
With regard to the SGMC mines, the incorporation of the private sector into management
functions resulted in a new orientation of attitudes and priorities. The resulting set up, due to its
complexity and need for broader consensus among larger number of stakeholders, led to slow
process of decision-making. The Bank was required to maintain maximum flexibility towards
project implementation within the original project scope. As a consequence some covenants
became irrelevant but were not formally abandoned. The Borrower was faced with an
increasingly difficult task to comply with convenants, as the privatization of SGMC progressed,
but made every effort to comply with the requirements for execution of the project.



v
Key factors affecting project achievement
14.   Several factors affected timely credit implementation. Some of the key factors were: (i)
the slow decision making process at high as well as working levels; (ii) the lack of exposure to
privatization of State owned enterprises; (iii) a steep learning curve involving considerable
discussion and controversy exacerbating the delays; (iv) highly centralized management culture
which slowed operational decision making process. Key institutional issues involved: (i)
inappropriate skill mix in key institutions; (ii) insufficient skilled manpower resulting from high
turnover of staff; (iii) the lack of coordination between key agencies; and (iv) insufficient
commitment to strengthen and restructure MD and GS. The lack of coordination between a
parent company and subsidiary companies of the joint venture partners also affected the smooth
implementation of divestiture related activities.
15.   The transition to private ownership of the mines resulted in increased awareness within
communities living adjacent to mine sites of social, environmental and tenurial issues. This
situation needs attention by policymakers and appropriate policy, regulatory and institutional
measures need to be identified to avoid potential for further conflict.
Sustainability
16.   All of the gold mines formerly owned by the Government were privatized. Experience
relating to privatization indicates that the economic, financial and technical viability of all 3 gold
mines are well assured. However, with regard to environmental sustainability, the Government
needs to establish sufficient capacity and coordination to ensure the realization of long term
goals. The social impact with regard to the expansion of private investment needs to be assessed
carefully and appropriate policy interventions formulated.
17.   The primary focus of the project was in rehabilitating the SGMC mines and attracting
private sector investment. Some emphasis was placed on strengthening the key institutions
related to sector development. Additionally, SGMC was provided necessary support and
technical assistance to rehabilitate the mines and facilitate their divestiture. Equipment, technical
assistance and training were also provided in limited amounts to MC, MD and GS. Project
implementation experience identified the need for major institutional strengthening and technical
assistance to enable the Government, to meet evolving and potential requirements of the country
with regard to increased private investment and the growing importance of environmental as well
as social issues. The increasing growth of the small-scale mining sub-sector also required
additional study and support. In recognition of these priority issues the Government and the
Bank formulated a follow-on project which aims to strengthen institutional capacity; promote
further private investment in mining and mainstream environmental aspects into mining sector
development. The project also aims to support the small-scale mining sub-sector, and at the
same time mitigate environmental consequences of these activities.



vi
Bank and Borrower Performance
18.   Bank performance was satisfactory throughout the project cycle. The Bank mounted a
total of 8 full supervision missions during the project. These missions provided timely and
effective guidance to the Government and to the implementing agencies. During the course of
project supervision efforts were made to expose key staff of participating agencies to
international best practice, particularly with regard to divestiture of state-owned mining
companies and to trade liberalization process. Guidance was provided with regard to negotiation
with joint-venture partners and also in dealing with adverse environmental impacts associated
with past mining operations. The project which was formulated during the mid-I 980s did not
place adequate emphasis on environmental aspects. Flexibility in project design and discussions
and agreements reached during successive cofinanciers' meetings allowed the project task team
to start addressing environmental, health and safety issue in a systematic manner. The
Borrowers' performance was also generally satisfactory and responsive, except in situations
where continuous changes and turn over in key management positions, particularly in SGMC, led
to inordinate delays in decision-making process.
Project Outcome
19.   The project is rated highly satisfactory since it has met all its main objectives:
rehabilitation of state-owned gold mines; attracting private investment into the sector;
strengthening of the policy and regulatory capability of main sectoral agencies; and the
regularization of small scale gold and diamond mining. The Credit initiated policy dialogue with
regard to the liberalization of trading of precious minerals. Under the reformed policies of the
Government, significant growth of private investment in the sector was realized and Government
ownership in the largest gold mine in the country - Ashanti Goldfields - dramatically reduced.
Over $400 million was raised through public offerings between 1994 and 1995. The public
today, holds 51 million, or 47% of the total capitalization of the company, while Lonrho and the
Government hold 36 million and 21 million shares, respectively.
20.   The Credit was also instrumental in bringing the small scale gold and diamond activities
into the formal sector, thereby increasing the levels of formal trading and exports of both these
minerals. The project has even exceeded its stated objectives, in that it has facilitated the
successful divestiture of all 3 gold mines previously owned by the Government. In doing so, the
drain on public resources was arrested and the mines are currently operating soundly; they are
expanding; and are making effective contributions to the national economy.
21.   However, increased private investment in mining has resulted in some adverse
ramifications including social conflicts within affected communities. In addition, the potential
for environmental and safety problems needs to be closely monitored. Furthermore, it is widely
recognized that the Government needs to identify and implement appropriate measures to ensure
that the benefits of mining are more equitably distributed and reaches affected communities.



vii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
22.   Findings. In accordance with evolving Bank and Government policy, needed steps were
taken for the rehabilitation and restructuring of SGMC. A series of measures were
implemented at SGMC aimed at improving its efficiency. These included a series of cost cutting'
and downsizing measures which finally led to the divestiture of the 3 mines and the virtual
dissolution of SGMC by end of March, 1997. The Government is currently taking necessary
steps for the liquidation of SGMC. As the above-mentioned mines transferred from the public
domain to private ownership, the potential for conflicts within labor unions and in affected
communities increased significantly. While all parties should recognize the need for adjustment
to meet the changed circumstances, the Government needs to identify and implement appropriate
measures that would address such issues in a satisfactory manner. The Government should also
define pro-active policy and regulatory mechanisms to dissolve and mitigate the potential for
such conflicts.
23.   Future Operations. The implementation experience of the Credit revealed the need for
technical assistance, training and equipment in several different areas related to the growth and
sustainable development of the sector. For example, the efforts related to institutional
strengthening revealed the need for major capacity building support for all mining sector
agencies, in order to carry out policy formulation, geological information and other sectoral data
gathering and promotional activities. Institutional strengthening was also needed for monitoring
and enforcement of health, safety and environment aspects. The regularization of small-scale
mining and the studies undertaken with regard to small-scale mining identified the need for
technical assistance, extension services, training and equipment to improve these activities. Such
support needed to be complemented with the introduction of environmentally sensitive
approaches and technology.
24.   Lessons learned. Implementation experience demonstrated that an appropriate policy,
legal and institutional framework is essential for sustainable development of the mining sector.
The privatization of state owned mines could not have taken place without these elements.
25.   Based on current experience with regard to the reform of state owned enterprise, it is
unlikely that IDA funds would be targeted on the rehabilitation of existing facilities. Instead the
funds would be assigned to provide expert technical advice on attracting private investment and
facilitating the speedy divestiture of the enterprises. Additionally, it is likely that IDA funds
would be assigned to address environmental, health and safety problems resulting from past
mining operations, that are determined to be clearly the responsibility of the Government.
26.   Open lines of communication and constructive working methods had contributed to
successful project implementation leading to almost complete disbursement of the IDA Credit. It
was recognized that a higher level of commitment and strong leadership within Government,
including timely decision making, coordination and realistic target setting are needed elements
for privatization of State owned enterprises. The process of investigation clearly indicated the
need for a one-stop-shop within Government to promote and attract private investment and joint
venture partnerships. Another important lesson was the need to strictly adhere to environmental



viii
regulations in order to ensure that separate and costly mitigation programs will not be needed
upon changes of ownership. The incorporation of comprehensive environmental impact
assessments and audits will assist both the private sector and Government agencies in
monitoring and managing adverse environmental impacts of mining development.
27.   Implementation experience revealed the need for skills enhancement within sectoral
agencies as well in the private sector. An urgent need exists for the development of technical,
economic, legal and environmental skills pertaining to mining, within the public as well as the
private sector.
28.   As Bank and Government policy related to privatization and private sector development
underwent significant changes during the life of the project, the project design also needed
complementary modifications. The flexibility in project design was a major factor which allowed
the achievement of all stated project objectives. It also enabled the implementation team to make
necessary improvements in the project design to meet operational realities on the ground.
29.   Implementation experience revealed the need for better clarity and delineation of
responsibilities between the mining sector agencies and the environmental as well as other sector
agencies. In particular, with regard to social issues, implementation experience revealed an
urgent need to formulate sound policies, regulations and guidelines to address situations where
relocation or resettlement of communities would be involved.






Project Implementation Completion Report
Glhana
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
(Cr.1921-GH)
PART I.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background
1.   In the early 1980s the initial thrust of the Government's policy under the Economic
Recovery Program for Ghana was directed towards the rehabilitation of the agricultural sector,
particularly cocoa and timber. However by the mid 1980s it was decided to expand the
Economic Recovery Program to the mining sector which was the second largest foreign
exchange earner after cocoa. In 1986 the mining sector had exports of US$ 126 million,
approximately 26% of Ghana's foreign exchange earnings. Gold accounted for about 85% of
these earnings. Gold production had fallen from about one million ounces a year in the early
1960s to only 277,000 ounces in 1983. This decline had been caused by:
(a)    a fixed dollar price for gold in the 1960s and early 1970s;
(b)    the over-valuation of the Ghanaian currency, the cedi, during much of the period;
(c)    a severe shortage of foreign exchange in the country;
(d)    a shortage of technically qualified management in the mines;
(e)    the exhaustion of known ore bodies and the failure to develop new ore bodies; and
(f)    an investment climate perceived as unfavorable by outside investors.
2.   In the three years leading up to the decision to prepare the Mining Sector Rehabilitation
Project, the outlook for the mining sector started to improve as the Economic Recovery Program
began to take effect. IDA had provided major support for the recovery program with the Export
Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 1435-GH/SF-9-GH), the Export Rehabilitation Technical
Assistance Credit (Credit 1436-GH), and the Second Reconstruction Imports Credit (Credit
1573-GH) all of which contributed in some manner, to support, and reform the mining sector. In
particular the main positive factors which evolved from these projects were:
(a)   the mines were permitted to retain a portion of their foreign exchange earnings;
(b)   the over-valuation of the cedi was significantly reduced;
(c)   infrastructure, including the Western Railway line which served the mines was
rehabilitated



2
(d)   encouraged by the Economic Recovery Program, new capital started to flow into
the mines from IDA, IFC, the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), and private sources;
(e)   a new Minerals and Mining Law of 1986 was enacted thereby providing a new
framework for investments in the sector; and
(f)   the Government became receptive to foreign investment.
3.    Against this background the Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project was prepared to
support the continuing improvement of the mining sector which was again starting to contribute
to the economy.
B.   Project Description
4.    The objectives of the project were to continue the support for the rehabilitation of the
sector by:
(a)   rehabilitating certain existing, economically viable mines;
(b)   assisting to attract private investment into the sector;
(c)   strengthening the governmental agencies responsible for the administration of the
sector; and
(d)   increasing the national benefits derived from small-scale gold and diamond
mining.
5.   In accordance with these objectives the project was largely directed to the rehabilitation
of the state owned mines of the State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC). Approximately 85% of
project cost was directed to this component. The rehabilitation of the SGMC mines aimed in the
short term to stem the drain on the public budget which was being used to provide subsidies to
the company. In the medium term this component of the Credit was used to improve the
productivity and cost structure of the operations to the extent that private sector investment in the
mines or joint ventures could be attracted.
6.    A second component of the Credit aimed at improving the regulatory framework for
private sector investment by assisting the GOG to develop clear, non-discretionary regulations
for the implementation of the Minerals and Mining Law (1986). It also provided technical
assistance to strengthen the principal agencies responsible for sector administration - the Mines
Department(MD) and the Geological Survey (GS), both within the Ministry of Lands and Natural
Resources (MLNR) and the Minerals Commission (MC).
7.    Some support of the Credit was also assigned to increase the benefits of small scale
mining by reviewing the legal framework for this sub-sector. A small amount of technical
assistance was provided to assess technical, environmental and social conditions prevailing in the
sub-sector.



3
8.    The project was an important component of the World Bank's strategy to support the
Government's liberalization efforts and to develop a viable mining sector that would generate
significant revenue and employment benefits. The institutional component supported
improvements in Governmental capacity to monitor sectoral development and implement
appropriate policy reforms.
C.   Achievement of Project Objectives
General
9.    The project clearly achieved all its main objectives: rehabilitation of state-owned gold
mines; attracting significant private investment into the sector, strengthening the policy and
regulatory capacity of main sectoral agencies; and the regularization of small-scale gold and
diamond mining. The Credit initiated policy dialogue with regard to the liberalization of trading
of precious minerals and under the reformed policies of the Government, significant growth of
private investment in the sector was realized. Government ownership in the largest gold mine in
the country - Ashanti Goldfields - has been reduced dramatically. Over $400 million was raised
through public offerings between 1994 and 1995. The public today, holds 51 million, or 47% of
the total capitalization of the company, while Lonrho and the Government hold 36 million and
21 million shares respectively. Ghana is now viewed as a model by other African countries for
attracting private investment into the mining sector.
10.   The mines of SGMC were rehabilitated thereby preventing their imminent total collapse
while at the same time improving their productivity and cost structure to enable their divestiture.
As support for the privatization process, the project funded remediation of the poor
environmental situation at the SGMC mines which had resulted from lack of appropriate
consideration for environmental impacts in the past.
11.   Sectoral institutions, particularly MC, started functioning more efficiently following
technical assistance, extensive training and some upgrading of their basic equipment. During the
course of the project, MC's capabilities as promoter of private investment into the sector, policy
maker and regulator were developed significantly. MC developed satisfactory capability to
negotiate several complex agreements with investors for new mines and with joint venture
partners for state-owned mines. Some support was also provided to the Geological Survey and to
the Mines Department to improve their capacity. The assistance provided under the Credit,
revealed the need for further support and skills development particularly in technical specialties.
12.   The Credit facilitated the regularization of the small-scale mining sub-sector. This
project was the first project in Africa where the complex, inter-disciplinary issues related to
small-scale mining were assessed. This project set the stage for the design of the follow up
project which aims to improve the economic, technical, social and environmental conditions
pertaining to the sub-sector. The findings of the studies carried out under this Credit also set the
stage for follow-up projects in other parts of Africa as well as in other regions.



4
Achievements since Privatization
13.   Since their transfer to private ownership the former SGMC mines - Dunkwa, Prestea and
Tarkwa - have ceased to constitute a recurrent drain of public resources. The losses incurred by
the mines prior to divestiture were quite significant. For example, the losses incurred by the
mines in 1992 exceeded US$ 12 million. Production at each of the three mines has duplicated
when compared to the lowest output levels since the late 1980's. Environmental, health and
safety aspects have been assessed and priority problems addressed at each of the mines.
14.   Current Status of the Mines. The Tarkwa mine has been managed by Goldfields since
July 1993. Production has reached 47,450 ounces of gold in 1996, which is about 75% higher
than prior to divestiture. Reserves of 13 million ounces of gold have been identified with
considerably larger potential established. Expansion has been planned. Dunkwa has been with
Continental Construction and Mining Company Limited since July, 1995. Production has
reached 5,548 ounces in 1996 which is 66% higher than prior to divestiture. Dredges are
rehabilitated and operational. The company has identified main areas where dredge operation
can be technologically improved and is taking steps to effect these improvements. Production
continues to increase, reflecting such improvements. Prestea has been with JCI since June 1996.
Production reached 34,151 ounces in 1996 which is 26% higher than in 1995, enhancing its
financial performance. The shaft repairs are well advanced. Reserves are increasing from
ongoing exploration efforts aimed at establishing larger reserves, which would support the
establishment of increased production capacity. This revitalization of the mining operations has
led to the growth off economic activities in the adjacent regions with related improvements in
living conditions in the affected communities. A further benefit of the Credit was support
provided for the remediation of priority environmental problems resulting from past mining
activities at all three mines and the setting of operational and monitoring standards for current
and future operations.
15.   Improving capacity in sectoral institutions. The technical assistance provided to MC,
MD, and GS has started the capacity to build within these institutions thereby enabling these
agencies to play a somewhat a more effective role in the administration of the sector. While the
direct benefit of the Credit was the provision of technical assistance, equipment and training.
Additionally, an important indirect benefit was a major improvement in the morale of the work
force. The focus of the institutional strengthening efforts was aimed at MC while only minimum
support was directed at MD and GS. The reason for this decision of the Government was the
need to establish MC as the focal point to orchestrate and execute activities leading to the growth
and development of the mining sector. The main thrust of the Credit was to support the
Government's efforts to establish an enabling environment for attracting private investment into
the mining sector.
16.  In-country capacity in mining as well as in management has been enhanced through
recurrent flows of staff from public mining sectoral institutions. The Credit funded training
programs in management, accounting and technical specialities related to mining, through
seminars, on-the-job practical training and targeted overseas programs. Some of these trainees
were actively sought by the recently established private mining companies. Although this



5
turnover represented a constraint as regards project implementation, on the positive side, it
resulted in widespread improvement of in-country capacity which proved to be invaluable to the
growth of private sector led mining.
17.   Small Scale Mining. The Credit facilitated policy dialogue pertaining to the formulation
of small-scale mining. This resulted in the enactment of the small-scale gold mining law
PNDCL.218 of 1989. Subsequent implementation resulted in the regularization of small-scale
mining activities. Several studies were undertaken to assess the technical, economic,
environmental and social conditions of small scale mining. Vehicles were provided to mine
wardens. The Government established 6 regional and district centers to support small scale
mining activities. Dialogue was initiated and continued throughout implementation of the
project regarding the liberalization of Government monopoly on the trading of gold, and by
project closure the Government had abandonned its monopoly and liberalized trade in both gold
and diamonds. It is anticipated that the Government will formally close its gold and diamond
buying facilities - the Precious Minerals Marketing Corporation (PMMC) - in the near future.
Environmental Aspects
18.   At the time when this project was designed, awareness of environmental issues and
criteria to address them were limited at best, when compared to current approaches. Under the
circumstances, environmental aspects were dealt with only in a peremptory manner and
interventions were limited to safety aspects within the mine sites. Surveys were funded under the
Credit to assess the air and water quality and characteristics of effluents within the mine sites.
19.   During the various cofinanciers' meetings to review progress of the project and issues
affecting implementation, the need to address environmental aspects was emphasized, reflecting
the evolution in awareness and international concern for environmental, health and safety issues
affecting eco-systems and communities. Consequently, agreements were reached to fund
environmental audits of the state-owned gold mines and to finance priority areas. IDA funds
were assigned to fund mitigation activities including the containment of tailings; transformation
of on-dredge processing facilities using mercury to a single centralized plant located on land;
reclamation of mined-out land; and pollution abatement of a roaster stack emitting arsenic and
sulfur dioxide fumes.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
20.   Project Management. The project was mainly managed by SGMC, under the general
supervision of the Ministry of Mines and Energy and MC. Much emphasis was placed on
strengthening the administrative and technical capabilities of MC. During the latter stages of
implementation, with the progressive downsizing of SGMC, MC assumed an increasing role in
project management, coordination and closure.



6
21.   The effectiveness of SGMC during the initial stages of the project was undermined by the
following factors:
a) the dilemma within key agencies in the Government whether to proceed with the
rehabilitation and continued operation of the mines within state-ownership and
control or to proceed to divestiture and private sector led mining development;
b) lack of continuity in the management of SGMC; and
c)  inadequate transfer of management skills and technology from expatriate staff, due
to high turnover within SGMC - particularly at the higher levels.
22.  Implementation Record. The Credit was approved on May 10, 1988 but did not
become effective until March 10, 1989. The long delays in credit effectiveness largely resulted
from the failure of GOG to expeditiously fulfill the conditions for effectiveness. These
conditions included the putting in place of satisfactory management arrangements for SGMC and
the appointment of an investment advisor to assist in joint venturing SGMC's mines. The delays
largely reflected the initial lack of consensus, on the part of key agencies within the Government,
on the appropriate approach to the joint venturing of SGMC's mines.
23.   Following effectiveness the project made satisfactory progress with the institutional
components but the start of the rehabilitation of SGMC's mines was extremely slow with the
result that the project implementation was rated unsatisfactory in March 1990. Delays primarily
related to the process of joint venturing of the mines, which had been planned to take place
concurrently with the rehabilitation process. Two years later, in mid 1992 the project
implementation was still rated unsatisfactory on the basis that the SGMC component was still
lagging. Delays were reportedly linked to the complexities both political and commercial in the
evaluations of joint venture proposals.
24.   The above difficulties in implementing the project on schedule resulted from: (a) slow
decision making at high as well as at working levels; (b) the lack of previous exposure to the
privatization process which resulted in a steep learning curve accompanied by considerable
discussion and controversy within various Government departments; and (c) a highly centralized
management culture which slowed the operational decision making process. The process was
further hampered by institutional weaknesses including: (a) inappropriate skill mix in key
institutions; (b) insufficient skilled manpower as a result of high turnover of staff; (c) poor
coordination between key agencies; and (d) inadequate commitment to the reform of the sectoral
agencies in the early stages of the project.
25.   Throughout most of the project implementation period, the availability of cofinancing
remained in a state of flux. While the initial commitments were made by the agencies as noted
above the only funds to be disbursed were those of EIB, which were fully disbursed by June
1993. No disbursements were made from either ADB funds or the Caisse Centrale funds which
GOG elected not to utilize on account of the attached financial conditions. The Caisse Centrale
did however provide some funding to support activities of SGMC, outside the purview of the



7
project. Nevertheless the project benefited significantly from the support of those cofinanciers
whose funds were not utilized as these agencies made significant contributions to the policy
dialogue through their participation at cofinanciers' meetings.
26.   In retrospect, it would probably have been better to have placed emphasis on privatization
from the outset of project implementation. However, during that period in time, particularly in
the developing world, privatization was still a relatively new concept
E.    Project Sustainability
27.   Sustainability. The policy reforms implemented under the project have a high staying
power, particularly since they have been reinforced by the follow-up project. This latter project,
the Mining Sector Development and Environment Project, builds on the experience and lessons
learned from implementing the institutional strengthening, environmental and small-scale mining
components of this project. The prospects for sustainability, therefore, are good, particularly
since the project has already contributed significantly to the flow of private sector investment
into the mining sector, providing continuing financial and economic growth.
28.   State Gold Mining Corporation. All the mines of SGMC were privatized during
project implementation and all signs point to the renewed economic, financial and technical
viability of the three mines. The new owners of the mines have already established significant
new reserves of gold and the outlook appears secure for sustainable mines for many years to
come. As a part of the privatization process, environmental issues related to past mining
activities were recognized and priority issues were addressed. Environmental Audits were
conducted and monitoring arrangements were initiated. IDA funds were set aside to finance
priority areas relating to tailings containment, pollution control and rehabilitation. These
programs aimed at reducing the impacts both at the nine sites and improving conditions of
communities adjacent to the mine sites.
29.   Institutions. From the experience of this project and other mining sector TA projects it
has, become clear that the building of institutional capacity is a long-term task that requires more
time than is usually available under any one project. The primary focus of the project was in
rehabilitating the SGMC mines and attracting private sector investment. Some emphasis was
placed on strengthening the key institutions related to sector development. Additionally, SGMC
was provided necessary support and technical assistance to rehabilitate the mines and facilitate
their divestiture. Equipment, technical assistance and training were also provided in limited
amounts to MC, MD and GS. Project implementation experience also identified the need for
continuing institutional strengthening and technical assistance, to enable the Government to meet
evolving environmental and social issues.
30.   Small scale mining, The regularization of small-scale mining and the liberalization of
the market resulted in increased volumes of gold and diamonds into the financial market. In
order to ensure the sustainability of such developments, the Government is implementing a
technical assistance program and extension services delivery to further strengthen the small-scale



8
mining sub-sector. The Government is implementing a strategy towards further liberalization by
taking steps to downsize the state-owned PMMC in readiness for its eventual privatization.
Additionally, the extension services delivered to small-scale mining include the introduction and
the promotion of environmentally responsible practices and procedures related to production,
processing and closure of small-scale mining operations.
31.   Environmental and Social Aspects. All of the gold mines formerly owned by the
Government were privatized. Experience relating to privatization indicates that the economic,
financial and technical viability of all 3 gold mines are well assured. However, with regard to
environmental sustainability, the Government needs to establish sufficient capacity and
coordination to ensure that mining activities do not result in long-term, significant, negative
impacts on the environment and on the health of adjacent communities. This issue is being
addressed under the follow-up project which aims to support establish a sound environmental
framework for mining. Technical assistance is being provided to set up capacity in sectoral
agencies to carry out environmental monitoring, EIAs, environmental information gathering, and
environmental remediation. With regard to social issues GOG needs to ensure better
redistribution of the benefits of minings.
F.    Bank Performance
32.   The Bank performance was "satisfactory" in identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision. The project was identified during the course of the Bank's supervision of several
projects that contained mining sector components and which supported the economic reform
process. At the preparation stage the Bank correctly diagnosed the need: (a) to continue support
to the state owned and operated mines of SGMC so as to preserve their assets for successful
privatization; (b) to strengthen the institutions administering the sector; and (c) to bring small
scale mining into the formal economy thereby improving the benefits for both the miner and the
Government.
33.   Supervision missions were frequent and the Bank maintained a lively dialogue with those
GOG officials responsible for the sector, thereby strengthening the GOG's commitment to,
support for, and effective administration of today's private sector led mining industry. The Bank
showed flexibility in modifying the details of project content and implementation to respond to
the evolving needs of GOG and international trends relating to divestiture of state-owned entities.
There is an excellent record of the project. However, fewer formal implementation summaries
than would be expected were completed.
34.   The Bank task team responded to the needs of the Government by assigning IDA funds to
carry out needed environmental audits, monitoring and mitigation of priority areas. In addition
IDA funds were assigned to carry out urgent health and safety related improvements at the
mines. The need to address these issues assumed greater significance during the divestiture
process, when private investors were being attracted.



9
35.   In reviewing compliance with the legal covenants, it is readily apparent that events in the
reform of the Ghanaian economy in general, and in the mining sector in particular, quickly
overtook the conditionality of the Credit Agreement. This being the case, several covenants were
not, complied with, in a strict sense. However, the spirit of the covenants was fully complied
with or exceeded in all cases. All decisions with regard to evolving policy reform, and needed
implementation measures were taken in conjunction with the Borrower and cofinanciers.
G.    Borrower Performance
36.   During the initial stages of the project there was a noticeable lack of commitment on the
part of the Borrower, to the project objectives, as was manifested in the delayed effectiveness of
the Credit. The project picked up momentum as the Borrower gradually became committed to the
development of a private sector led mining industry. There is no doubt, however, that project
implementation was hampered by the lack of qualified personnel both in SGMC and MLNR.
Consultants retained by the Borrower's companies/agencies were generally competent. They
provided important contributions at a time when sectoral agencies across the board operated with
very limited capacity. However, the orderly transfer of management skills and technology was
adversely affected due to the turnover of higher level staff particularly in SGMC. Additionally,
project implementation was affected, at least during the earlier stages, by the dilemma within key
Governrnent agencies to proceed with rehabilitation and continued state-ownership and control
of the gold mines or to proceed to divestiture and private sector led development of the mining
industry.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
37.   The project is rated highly satisfactory since it has met all its main objectives. The
project has even exceeded its stated objectives, in that it has facilitated the successful divestiture
of all 3 gold mines previously owned by the Government. Further, these mines are currently
operating soundly; they are expanding; and are making effective contributions to the national
economy.
Status of SGMC's Mines after Privatization
Joint-Venture    Transition to  Gold Production  Reserves   Environmental Mitigation
Mines   Partner        Private      (ounces)           (million
Management                     ounces)
Tarkwa  Goldfields     July 1993    20,528 in 1989     13.0         Containment of
(South Africa)             47,450 in 1996                  Tailings
Removal of mercury from
Dunkwa  Continental    July 1993    2,834 in 1994      1.0          processing plant;
Construction               5,548 in 1996                   Reclamation, revegetation
(Canada/India)                                             of past mining areas
16,389 in 1992                 Containment of Tailings
Presta   JCI           June 1996    34,151 in 1996     0.5          Abatement of
(South Africa)                                             Arsenic and S02 emissions



10
38.   The promotional activities carried out under the Credit resulted in the realization of
significant private investment. However, increased private investment in mining has resulted in
some adverse ramifications including social conflicts within affected communities. In addition
the increase in mining activity has increased the potential for environmental damage and health
and safety issues in the workplace. This will place an increasing burden on those agencies
charged with the administration of the sector and the continued support under the current mining
sector project is essential. Furthermore the Government will need to implement measures to
ensure that the benefits of a strong mining industry are equitably distributed and reach affected
communities.
39.   The Government has recognized that while promotion of the mining sector needs to be
continued, such efforts, need to be complemented with appropriate policy, institutional and
regulatory reforms and capacity building to implement those reforms to meet the present and
potential demands associated with the growth of the mining sector. In the follow-up Mining
Sector Development and Environment Project, the Government and IDA have put in place a
series of measures and programs aimed at addressing these concerns.
40.   The project resulted in the progressive liberalization of the trading of gold and diamonds.
The market reforms initiated under the project are being reinforced under the follow-up project.
Increased private sector competition to the government agency for marketing of precious
minerals (PMMC), is being fostered.
41.   The project also resulted in raising awareness of the importance of issues related to small-
scale mining activities. Studies that were carried out under the project led to the regularization of
the sub-sector and to the design of a program targeted at improving the economic, technical,
environmental and social conditions affecting these mines. The follow-up project is aimed at
supporting the Government's initiatives in the sub-sector.
I.    Future Operations
42.   The implementation experience of the Credit revealed the need for technical assistance,
training and equipment in several different areas related to the growth and sustainable
development of the sector. For example, the efforts related to institutional strengthening
revealed the need for major capacity binding support for all mining sector agencies, in order to
carry out policy formulation, geological information and other sectoral data gathering, as well as
promotional activities need to be continued. Necessary skills need to be established for
monitoring and enforcement of health, safety and environment aspects. The regularization of
small-scale mining and the studies undertaken with regard to small-scale mining identified the
need for technical assistance, extension services, training and equipment to improve these
activities. At the same time, environmentally sensitive approaches, equipment and technology
need to be introduced to complement the support for small-scale mining sector promotion and
improvement.



I 
43.   The Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project established the role of the GOG as the
administrator and promoter of a private sector led mining industry. At the same time initial
steps were taken in the improvement of the legal and fiscal framework for both large and small
scale mining and in the establishment of efficient sectoral institutions. It now remains to
complete the revision of the legal and fiscal framework, to continue to strengthen the institutions,
to improve the environmental performance of the sector and to assist the small scale miners. In
recognition of the need for further support to the institutions especially with regard to
environmental matters and the continuing issue of small scale mining, the GOG and IDA
formulated a follow on project. This project, the Mining Sector Development and Environment
Project (Cr.2743-GH) aim to strengthen institutional capacity, promote further private
investment in mining, the integration of modem environmental management into the
administration of the sector and provide support to small scale mining. This latter credit
approved in June 1995, and declared effective in March 1996, builds on the needs identified in,
and lessons learned from, the Mining Sector Rehabilitation Credit.
J.    Key Lessons Learned
44.   The implementation experience has illustrated the value of a continuing Bank policy
dialogue in a sector over an extended period of time. This dialogue, supported by several lending
operations, has contributed to agreements on major changes in sector policy, to strengthening the
role of sectoral institutions and ultimately to increased private sector investment. On the other
hand the project illustrated the difficulties encountered by governments in divesting their
interests in major corporations on an ad hoc basis without the assistance of extensive specialist
expertise.
45.   Implementation experience demonstrated that an appropriate policy, legal and
institutional framework is essential for sustainable development of the mining sector. The
privatization of state-owned mines could not have taken place without these elements.
46.   Open lines of communication, positive attitudes and constructive working methods
developed by Bank task team and the staff of key implementing agencies of the Borrower,
contributed significantly to successful project implementation leading to almost total
disbursement of the IDA Credit.
47.   It was recognized that a higher level of commitment and strong leadership within
Government, including timely decision making, coordination and realistic target setting are
needed elements for privatization of state-owned enterprises. The process of investigation
carried out under the project, clearly indicated the need for a one-stop-shop within Government
to promote and attract private investment and joint venture partnerships.
48.   Another important lesson was the need to strictly adhere to environmental regulations in
order to ensure that separate and costly mitigation programs are not needed upon changes of
ownership. Comprehensive environmental impact assessments and audits would assist both the



12
private sector and government agencies in monitoring and managing adverse environmental
impacts of mining development.
49.   Implementation experience revealed the need for skills enhancement within sectoral
agencies as well in the private sector. An urgent need exists for technical, economic, legal and
environmental skills pertaining to mining, to be developed in the private sector.
50.   The flexibility in project design was a major factor which allowed the achievement of all
stated project objectives. It also enabled the implementation team to make necessary
improvements in the project design to meet operational realities on the ground. As Bank and
Government policy related to privatization and private sector development underwent significant
changes during the life of the project, the project design also needed complementary
modifications.
51.   Implementation experience revealed the need of better clarity and delineation of
responsibilities between the mining sector agencies and the environmental as well as other
sectoral institutions. In particular, with regard to social issues, implementation experience
revealed an urgent need to formulate sound policies, regulations and guidelines to address
situations where relocation or resettlement of communities would be involved.



13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1.:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2.:    Related Bank Credit
Table 3.:    Project Timetable
Table 4.:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5.:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6.:    Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8.:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9.:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10.:   Bank Resource: Staff Inputs
Table 11.:   Bank Resources: Missions



14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial        Partial      Negligible        N-al
applicable
Macro policies                                                               Em1
Sector policies
Financial Objectives                            F
Institutional development          W3
Physical objectives                                                            m
Poverty reduction                               Fm]
Gender issues                                                                 EH
Other social objectives                                        F
Environmental objectives           V/
Public sector management
Private sector development
B. ProJect sustainability             Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
C. Banker_rmance                 Highlysatisfactory     Satisfactoyr         Deficient
Identification                     l
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance          Highly satisfacitry    Satisfactor          Deficien
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation                                                W
E. Assessment of outcome            Highly       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  Highly
satisfactory                              unsatisfactory



15
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit title                             Purpose                    Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations
I .Export Rehabilitation Credit (Credit    Strengthen Foreign Exchange earning   1984        Closed in 1988;
1435-GH/SF-9-GH)                     capacity by improving state-owned gold                   ICR in 1991
mining, cocoa, timber and port facilities
2.Export Rehabilitation Technical    Strengthen the institutional capacity of key  1984      Closed in 1988;
Assistance Credit (Credit 1436-GH)   state-owned exporters of gold, cocoa and                 ICR in 1991
timber industries
3.Second Reconstruction Imports Credit  Support the 1983-86 time slice of Ghana's  1985      Closed in 1988;
(Credit 1573-GH)                     economic recovery program                                ICR in 1991
Following operations
I.Mining Sector Development and                                                                 Under
Environment Credit (Credit 2743-GH)                                                          implementation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in the project cycle                Date planned          Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                N/A                01/15/86
Preparation                                               N/A                06/17/87
Appraisal                                                05/87'              10/19/87
Negotiations                                              11/87              02/25/88
Board Presentation                                        03/88              05/10/88
Signing                                                                      07/14/88
Effectiveness                                            08/882              03/10/89
First tranche release
Mid-term review                                           N/A                10/07/92
Second tranche release
Project completion                                      06/30/94             06/30/97
Loan Closing                                            12/31/93             12/31/96
'Dates for Appraisal through Board presentation taken from Project Brief/EPS dated 05/05/87.
2Dates for Effectiveness through Completion taken from SAR.



16
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY89   FY90   FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate                    4.5      15.6    27.0      34.1     37.1     40.0        -        -        -
Actual                                4.9      11.2     17.7    22.5    24.1       28.4      32.8     35.7    40.1
Actual as %  of estimate              109       72       66       66       65        71       82       89       100
Date of final disbursement                                                                   1997
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Type of Indicator                           Estimated                                  Actual
1. Key operating indicators in
SAR/Presidents Report
... M odified........... ndicators.......... (if.... .......................... ................................................................................... ..............................................................
applicable)
1i11 Modified  Indicators for future  .                                          privatization schedule - production-
operation (if applicable)               _________________cost of production - people trained



17
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                                         Purpose                                Status                   Impact of study
.                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~*.
I .Mine Evaluation -                      Evaluate the future potential and                         C             Rehabilitation and subsequent
Tarkwa and Prestea                          investment needs of the mines                                             privatization went ahead
.. ..................  ................................................................................................................................................................................................................
2.Small Scale Mining                       Study of the existing small scale                         C         Identified the issues with regard to
industry                                               regularization of the industry
...........................  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
3,Study  for Mine                 C.                                                                 C
Rehabilitation
4.GNMC - Study of                                                                                    C
Nodulizing Plant
5.Environmental Impact   Assess the impact of small scale mining                                     C         Made a significant contribution to
Assessment of Small                                 on the environment                                          the preparation of the next project
Scale Mining
6.Study on Improving                  Assessed the technology used by small                          C          Disseminated better practices and
the Performance of                                       scale miners                                           provided input for preparation of
Small Scale Mines                                                                                                              next project
7. and                                                                                               C
Reclamation/Cost
Benefit Analysis
8.Review of Small Scale   Review of the regulatory framework for                                     C            Improved legal frame work for
Mining Law                                          small scale miners                                             small scale miners introduced
9.Study on Cost                      Assessed whether the economic benefits                          C           GOG undertook reclamation in
Benefits of Reclamation                  of small scale mine reclamation by                                           small scale mining areas
of Small Scale Mining                               GOG were positive
................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................
1-6.Sand and Gravel              C. .C
Study
I I.Environmental                            Identified and quantified the                    ,'.   C          . Reclamation work started with
lImpact                                    environmental impact of mining                                                     project funds
Assessment/Audit -                        operation in the past to assist with
Tarkwa Mine                           delegation of responsibilities associated
with privatization
12.Environmental                             I identified and quantified the   ,.C                               Reclamation work started with
Impact                                     environmental impact of mining                                                     project funds
Assessment/Audit -                        operation  in the past to assist with
Prestea Mine                          delegation of responsibilities associated
with privatization
........ ............................................... ................................................................................................... ...... .................................................
13.Environmental                             Identified and quantified the                          C            Reclamation work started with
Impact                                     environmental impact of mining                                                     project funds
Assessment/Audit -                        operation  in the past to assist with
Dunkwa Mine                           delegation of responsibilities associated
with privatization
* Status of"C" indicates the study is complete.



18
Table 7A: Project Costs
(US$ Millions)
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimate
Item                 Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total
costs     costs               costs      costs
1. SGMC Rehabilitation
Tarkwa                             2.0      42.3      44.3       5.4        4.1      46.4
Prestea                            3.0      38.7      41.7       6.4        4.6      52.4
Dunkwa                             1.2      16.1      17.3       1.4        5.0       6.4
Total                           6.2      97.1     103.3       13.2      92.0    105.20
2. Sectoral Promotion                 0.1       2.9       3.0        0.1      0.35      0.45
3. Strenghtening of Agencies          0.1      1.80.       1.9       0.1      1.26      1.36
4. Small Scale Mining                 0.1       0.5       0.6        0.2      0.55      0.75
Total Base Cost                 6.5     102.3     108.8       13.6     94.16    107.76
Physical Contingencies                0.2       8.0       8.2          -         -
Price Contingencies                   0.5       2.5       3.0          -         -
Total Project Cost              7.2     112.8      120.0      13.6     94.16    107.76
Table 7B: Project Financing
(US$M)
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimate
Source               Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign     Total
costs     costs                costs      costs
IDA                       -      40.0       40.0          -      40.1       40.1
SGMC (cash flow)              6.9      21.6       28.5        9.0      34.8       43.8
Government                 0.3          -       0.3        2.9          -       2.9
Co-financing institutions         -       34.7       34.7         -       17.8       17.8
Joint ventures/Commercial          -       16.5       16.5         -        4.0       4.0
TOTAL                    7.2      112.8      120.0      11.9       96.7     108.6



19
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
The project has provided major economic benefits to Ghana. Revitalized sectoral organizations
are administering a vibrant private sector mining industry. The mines of SGMC have been
privatized and are already contributing revenues to the Government by virtue of both taxes and
royalties. Environmental damage from past mining operations has been mitigated thereby
improving socio-economic conditions in adjacent communities.
The calculated Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the operations of SGMC, as indicated in the
SAR, which was to be determined following the rehabilitation of the mines with the funding
from the Credit, has become irrelevant as all the former operations of SGMC are now in the
private sector.



20
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section    Covenant   Present    Original                   Revised               Description of covenant                  Comments
type        status    fulfilimen    fulfillment
t date          date
Credit   3.04(a)           10           NC         12/31/88                      Establish the Gold Exploration               GOG  and IDA
Agreement                                                                              Company (GEC)                               agreed to
reallocate funds
to institutional
strengthening
.......I. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. , . .. .. .. .. .. .. .... .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. , . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
3.04(b)          4           NC                                       Make available to GEC from                   Funds
proceeds of the Credit up to                reallocated
US$ 1.5 million equity contribution
3.05           10          CD         12/31/88        01/01/95      Complete a study of salaries in the          GOG decided
Mines Department                            not to increase
salaries
3.06           10          CD         12/31/89        01/01/95      Relocate the Chief Inspector of              Office space not
Mines to Accra                              available earlier
3.07           6            CP        12/31/89        01/01/94      Monitor the quality of underground    Intermittent and
air at major underground mines              late
3.08(a)          6            C         07/01/89          1994        Complete a study on the
environmental impact of surface
mining
3.08(b)          6            C        07/01/90                       Establish environmental and
reclamation regulations
3.09(a)         10            C         12/3 1/88                     Prepare an action plan for
establishing sales channels for gold
from small-scale miners
3.09(b)                       C         06/30/89                      Implement the plan for sale of gold
from small-scale miners
4.0 1(a)         I            C                                       Maintain records and accounts for
Parts B and C
4.01 (b)(         I            C                                       Obtain audits of the accounts for
i)                                                                 Parts A and B and the Special
Account
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........     .. . . .   .... . . . . . . .     ... ... ...   ...........   ......... .... . . . . . .. . . . . . .................  ......Fums.th.aditd.ccont.t.................... ....
4.0 1 (b)(        1            C                                       Furnish the audited accounts to
ii)                                                                IDA not more than six months after
the end of each year
4.01(c)          i            C                                       Maintain records of SOE
(i)                                                                expenditures
4.01(c)          i            C                                       Retain all documents until one year
(ii)                                                                after IDA has received audit
4.02            1           CP                                      Ensure that adequate foreign                 35%  retention
exchange funds are available to             permitted
SGMC
4.03            1          NC                                        Within six months of mine
privatization convert to equity 50%
of funds on-lent to SGMC
4.04           1            C         12/31/88                       Prepare a study on methods to               Debt to be
convert SGMC's debt to the Volta            regarded as GOG
River Authority and the Ghana               equity in SGMC
Commercial Bank into equity.



21
Project  3.04(a)                        6                 C            09/30/88                 1988             Furnish to IDA a plan for the
Agreement                                                                                                               systematic monitoring of effluents
from SGMC'S mines
.............................  ................... ...   .........................  ....................   ..........................  ............................  ................................................................ ............................
3.04(b)                6                  C            06/30/89                 1988             Commence systematic monitoring    Systematic
of effluent discharges                                       monitoring in
place
3.04(c)                6                NC             03/31/90                                  Furnish to IDA a plan for the                                Further
control of effluents and mine dust    consultation
3.05                 6                 C             12/31/88                 1988             Fence the tailings ponds at the
Tarkwa and Prestea mines and
prohibit farming within
.............................  ......................  .........................    ..................... ..........................  ............................   ......................................:.................................    ....................
4.0 1(a)                1                 C                                                      SGMC to maintain accounts
.............................  ......................  .........................    ....................   ..........................  ............................    ................................................................ .I ..........................
4.0 1(b)(                1               CD                                                       SGMC to have its accounts audited
i)
4.0 1(b)(                I               CD                                                       SGMC to provide audited accounts   Usually delayed
ii)                                             ....... to IDA within six months after year  about six months
end
.............................    ............   ..............   ............  ..........................    ..................   ...........................GMsiaminifrecho..............................     ..........................
4.02                  1               NC                                                       SGMC shall maintain for each of    Rate improved
its fiscal years after December 31,    but privatization
1991, a ratio of current assets to                           completed.
current liabilities of not less than                         Condition
1:3                                                           became
irrelevant
...............          ............................          ..................... 0    ..........................    ..................    ...................................................... ..................................o 
4.03                 1                 C                                                       SGMC shall not declare any                                   No dividends
dividend or make any other
distribution of its share capital
unless its ratio of debt to equity is
at least 60:40
.............................   ......................  .........................   ....................   .......................... ...............    ................................................................ ............................
4.04                  1                C            06/30/89                  1989             SGMC shall revalue its assets                                Done on a
continuing basis
......... ..........  ......................  .........................  ..................... ............ ......   .. .........................  .............................................................................................
4.06                 2                 C             12/31/93                                  SGMC shall not undertake any                                 None undertaken
investment exceeding US$2.0
million not included in the project
l __________    ________   _________                                                               __________    without prior consent of IDA



22
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of the                                                                   Planned                                                                                       Revised                                                                                        Actual
project cycle
Weeks   I   US$                                                                              Weeks                                             US$                                        Weeks                                     US$(000)
Preparation to                                                                                .                                                                                             .                                                               72.8                                         171.8
Appraisal
..................... ................ ............... 4........... .... ...............  ............ .....................4-- ........... ................... ............. .... : j  ...............  ..................................
Appraisal                                                                               .                                                                                            .                                                               23.8                                           98.6
.................   .....................   .......   ................... F*............  ............. .............                                                               ........................... .........................................................
Negotiations
thro'Board                                                                                .                                                                                            .                                                                15.2                                          37.7
Approval
.... ............................   ...........  ... .. ........... .. ................................                                      ................................................ ..............   ..........................................................
Supervision                                                 116 .3                                                                                        133.7                                                                                        192.6                                            557.6
C om          pletion               .     .   .........................                     ....... ...................................................                                  ......... ....................     ...............................  ...........



23
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of     Month/   Number  Days    Specialized        Implemen-    Develop-       Types of
project cycle    year      of       in       staff skills    tation status   objectives    problems
persons   field    represented
Through       12/85       4       15    FA,Eng,Eng,E
appraisal
04/86       4       12     E,Eng,,E,Con
09/86       2       18         E,FA
05/87       3       20      FA,Eng,Eng
10/87       2       21        FA,Eng
Appraisal
thro' Board
approval
Supervision    10/88       2        17       FA,Eng
02/89       I?       ?           ?              2            2
03/90       2        7        FA,Eng            3            2
09/90       2       10        FA,Eng            3            2
11/91       1        5         Eng
03/92
06/92       3       14    Eng,OpOff,Con         3            2
10/92                                                                 Mid-Term
Review
10/92
06/93       1       17          Eng
11/93       3       14    Eng,OpOff,Con        2             2
04/94       3       16    Eng,OpOff,FA
07/94       4       19   Eng,OpOffFA,
Con
12/94       2       12      Eng,OpOff
10/95       2       18      Eng,OpOff
02/96       2        4      Eng,OpOff          S             S
06/96       1        8         Eng              S            S
12/96       2        8      Eng,OpOff          S             S
Completion     04/97       2        10      Eng,OpOff          S            S
NOTE: Missions in italics were not full supervision missions. A review of the project was made on the
dates indicated in conjunction with supervision of earlier projects and identification, preparation, appraisal
and supervision of the follow-up project - Mining Sector Development and Environment Project (Credit 2743-GH).






24
Appendix A
Missions' Aide Memoire






25
GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
AIDE MEMOIRE
SUPERVISION MISSION: MARCH 24 - APRIL 5,1997
1.    This aide memoire summarizes the main findings of the IDA mission that visited Ghana
from March 24 to April 5, 1997 to review progress of the Mining Sector Development and
Environment project. This mission also reviewed actions for the for completing disbursements
of the Mining Sector Rehabilitation project, and arrangements for the preparation of the
respective project completion report. The mission consisted of Mr. Leo Maraboli and Ms. Indu
Hewawasam. Main meetings were held with officials of the Ministry of Mines and Energy
(MEM), Minerals Commission (MC), Mines Department (MD), Geological Survey Department
(GS), Precious Metals Marketing Corporation (PMMC), the Ministry of Environment, the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC), and the
Ministry of Finance. The mission would like to express its appreciation to MC for facilitating
and coordinating the mission's activities. The main findings of the mission are addressed below.
A. Mining Sector Development and Environment Project
2. Nordic Development Fund (NDF) Components. Government clearances for NDF funding
were completed on January 15, 1997. This enabled the initiation of activities funded by NDF by
February 1997. The main component initiated was an aerial survey. For this purpose MC and
GS have appointed liaison officers, and an owner-representative consultant responsible for
quality control. Additionally, vehicles funded by the project have been provided to the
Geological Survey of Finland (GSF), as contractor for executing the survey. About 10,000 line-
kilometers of survey have been completed so far, out of a total of 129,000 line-kilometers to be
surveyed in four selected areas of Ghana. These are scheduled for completion by end of July,
prior to the heavy rain season. It is noted that MC has functioned remarkably well as a one-stop-
shop for obtaining all permitting and logistical requirements for aerial survey equipment,
including its entry into Ghana, operation and maintenance. It is also noted that conservative
approaches were adopted on safety grounds, using crew replacements every two weeks, and
ensuring scheduled maintenance at the hangars of Ghana Airways.
3.    The interpretation of aerial survey data has also been initiated. For this purpose a team
from the Geological Survey of Sweden (GSS) visited Ghana in February for six weeks, as
contractor for survey data interpretation, to complete logistic arrangements and initiate training.
GS appointed 3 counterpart staff which are undergoing training in Sweden, using data generated
by nearly 10,000 line- kilometers of survey. Their return is scheduled for mid-April, when data-
processing equipment and software funded by NDF should be installed and be operational in



26
Ghana. Necessary office facilities and vehicles will be provided to the GSS/GS team at that
time. The sole identified elements in the critical path are the procurement of data-processing
equipment and software, for which clearances have been provided by NDF and IDA. Close
follow-up and coordination from MC is needed for the timely delivery of these elements, in order
to avoid: a) delays and related costly stand-by payments to GSS; and b) bunching of
interpretation activities contracted with GSS through March 1998. Moreover, the mission
suggested the possibility of obtaining bilateral technical assistance from Sweden, possibly on
setting up twinning arrangements, in order to enable follow-up support to ensure sustainability of
interpretation activities after project completion in March 1998.
4.    IDA Components. Initial emphasis for starting project implementation was placed in
preparing and initiating components funded by NDF. Consequently, except for training, IDA
funded components experienced some slippage, but are now being phased into implementation.
5.    Small-Scale Mining. In a first stage of studies, a total of 15 areas have been selected by
MC and GS as target areas to carry out pilot tests for the introduction of mechanization, to
artisanal mining communities. Initial assessments have focused on location, size, access,
drainage and relief, and geological considerations. A second stage of work is about to start,
involving geological and reserve assessments to rank each area. It will be followed by a third
stage of studies on the best ranking areas, which is likely to start by June 1997, to address
broader issues related to social aspects and environmental issues. These stages will have parallel
sequencing to avoid delays. Concurrently, procurement activities have been initiated with: a)
pre-qualification of potential suppliers of equipment suitable for small-scale mining; and b)
requests for price quotations for smaller components.
6.    However, in order to expedite project execution with close technical coordination, a fast-
track approach is being arranged through collaboration with the Dunkwa and Aboso mines. At
both places, specific areas not suitable for mining with large equipment are being released to be
mined by artisans. At Aboso, a company supervisor is already overseeing artisanal mining
activities. Main advantages for the miners will be the close coordination, technical inputs and
trading venues provided by the companies. Main advantages for the companies will be the
reduction of widespread illegal artisanal mining, which encroaches on mechanized large scale
mining at their concessions. Other important benefits include investor integration into the local
communities and the mitigation of potential for social conflicts. Potential for environmental
degradation by artisanal miners will also be mitigated through close monitoring and supervision.
Current preparatory activities are focused on the selection and procurement of equipment, and
consultations with artisanal miners and mine owners on procedural arrangements.
7.    Land Reclamation and Rehabilitation. In one of the three degraded areas identified as
priority sites for reclamation, an issue had arisen due to encroachment by developers, who had
started reclaiming these lands for housing construction. It had therefore become necessary to
identify an alternative site to carry out the pilot reclamation. After assessing several sites within
the Green Belt Zone, an alternative area - the Doblogonno area near Amasaman in the Ga
District, had been selected using the same criteria as the ones used for selection of the original
sites. The mission made an inquiry as to whether the potential for future encroachment in this



27
area had been assessed. Officials of the Minerals Commission assured the mission that this issue
had been assessed and that the potential was negligible since adjacent communities, when
interviewed, had demonstrated significant interest in the project and it had been agreed that the
reclamation would be carried out with their direct involvement and participation.  The
communities would play the role of monitoring the reclaimed areas and prevent encroachment or
future degradation by illegal mining or other activity.
8.    A company had been selected to prepare detailed reclamation plans for rehabilitation of
the priority areas. An inception report had been prepared by the consultants describing the
proposed work, the methodology, and work schedules. IDA had commented on the report,
requesting in particular, to (a) indicate the processes that would be utilized to involve local
communities in the rehabilitation work; and (b) to ensure that other sectoral agencies - such as
the department of Forestry - in the case of rehabilitation of an area within the Nueng Forest
played a participatory role. These comments had been forwarded to the consultants and the
preparation of the plans was now underway. The plans were expected to be completed by the
end of May 1997, when the actual civil works would be advertised.
9.    The mission emphasized the need for ensuring the sustainability of the project and for
ensuring that the potential for future encroachment and degradation of reclaimed areas should be
minimized. It was agreed that one way of ensuring that future encroachment would not take
place, would be by promoting a major involvement of the local communities in the project. Their
involvement and participation in the project would provide an incentive for the communities to
play a monitoring role which would ensure the sustainability of the project.
10.  It was agreed that the results of the pilot tests could lead to the formulation of a set of
detailed guidelines for reclaiming and rehabilitating abandoned mined-out areas in a cost-
effective and sustainable manner.
11.   Environmental Regulatory Framework for Mining. A company had been selected to carry
out a detailed review of the environmental regulatory framework relating to the mining sector.
The consultants had submitted a proposal, which is currently being reviewed by the Minerals
Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency. The mission was also provided with a
copy. It was agreed that detailed comments on the proposal would be sent from Washington,
after consultation with the Environmental Unit of the Legal Department of the Bank.
12.   The draft Mining and Environmental regulations are being reviewed by the Legal
Department of the Minerals Commission. This review is being carried out in parallel with the
review of the environmental regulatory framework that is being initiated by a local consulting
company. The Ministry of Environment indicated support for a joint review with the Minerals
Commission, of the findings and conclusions of the two assessments, by October 1997.
13.   Mineral Information System. TORs have been drafted for establishing a comprehensive
mineral information system. These were prepared by MC with assistance from the consultant
engaged to design the system. However, following field comments from the mission, prior to
finalizing the TORs, inputs will be sought by MC from a similar system recently funded by the
World Bank in Peru.



28
14.   Mineral Sector Promotion. A CD-ROM was prepared by local and foreign consultants
for promoting mining investments in Ghana. It updates Ghana's section presented in MIGA's
CD-ROM to attract investments in Africa, and will be availed for inclusion in revisions. MC is
making separate arrangements to produce the CD-ROM, in for immediate use in its promotional
activities.
15.   The text and maps for a promotional brochure for industrial minerals have been prepared
with assistance of local and foreign consultants. Final editorial revisions are expected shortly, in
order to print the brochure by May 1997.
16.   Training. Training activities are well advanced at all agencies (MC, MD, and GS), which
are participating in the project.  The mission reviewed extensively all training activities
undertaken over the last year, and the training program for 1997. The mission reiterated
emphasis to improve the cost effectiveness of overseas training, by increasing the amount of
mid-size programs, rather than concentrating in short seminars and workshops. It was also
agreed that an in-country group training program would be initiated, where a significant number
of mining officials including mine wardens, mines inspectors and officials of the Geological
Survey could be exposed to sound environmental practices and procedures relating to mining.
17.   Finally, the mission was pleased to communicate several compliments received, on the
presentations by delegates of MC at a recent seminar on mining law in Colorado, which is a
demonstration of very positive result of ongoing training programs.
18.  It was agreed that all those officials who undertake external training should disseminate
their knowledge among their colleagues within the sector, through regular seminars and
exchange of educational materials. It was also agreed that a brief expose would be written up by
each individual who undertakes training under the Credit, and these briefs would provide an
input to a Knowledge Node/Data base on Best Practice in Mining and Environment that would
be set up within the Minerals Commission.
19.  Inter-Sectoral Linkages. Mission observed noticeable improvements in inter-sectoral
coordination between the mining sector institutions and other sectoral agencies including the
Environmental Protection Agency. All parties agreed that these linkages should be strengthened
further, for promoting an effective integrated approach to sectoral growth and development.
B. Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
20.   The mission reviewed information provided by SGMC, to support final disbursements of
the IDA Credit for environmental, health and safety improvements at the three mines previously
owned by SGMC. These involved containment of tailings at Tarkwa and Prestea; b) shaft repair,
and mitigation of pollution of the roaster at Prestea; and c) reduction of pollution from on-dredge
with mercury processing at Dunkwa. Undisbursed credit funds were reduced to US$180,000.
This amount is also in the process of disbursement, for expenditures relating to studies and
designs for shaft safety repairs at Prestea. Full disbursement of the credit is expected prior to its



29
closing date of April 30. MC and SGMC are expected to conduct a comprehensive field review
during May, to assess the progress of the above activities at each mine.
21.   The mission also initiated the preparation of a project Implementation Completion Report
(ICE). Arrangements for ICR preparation were agreed with MC and SGMC, and outlines and
report samples were discussed in detail. Implementation experience was also reviewed in detail.
It was widely recognized that the objectives of the project were duly achieved on the divestiture
of SGMC's mines (Tarkwa, Prestea and Dunkwa), thus avoiding their collapse, and ending
recurrent drain of public resources. Tarkwa is already making fiscal contributions, and has
planned major production expansions based on recently established reserves of 13 million ounces
of gold. Mandatory clearances and permits relating to environmental and social assessments had
been granted by the EPA - subject to specific conditionality, to allow the company to proceed
with the expansions. At Prestea, production is increasing significantly (over 26 percent in 1996),
and exploration is delineating additional reserves. At Dunkwa, 3 out of 4 dredges were
rehabilitated and are undergoing production buildup (about 66 percent in 1996). The project also
contributed significantly to institutional strengthening, with initial support for capacity building
at the Minerals Commission, Mines Department, and Geological Survey Department. It also
supported steps to improve and organize   small-scale mining, and liberalize the
commercialization of precious minerals. The initial review of implementation experience of the
Credit is attached as Annex 1.
C.   Looking Beyond the Current Programs
22.   Current Government efforts related to the sustainable development of the Mining Sector
are focused on the orderly completion of the Mining Sector Rehabilitation project, and on the
execution of build-up activities related to the initiation of the Mining Sector Development and
Environment project. At present, the focus of the Government is on completion of the aerial
survey components, which are financed by the Nordic Development Fund, the implementation
of the small-scale mining components, co-financed by IDA and BGR program; and initiating
reclamation of past mined-out areas as a pilot project. The Government is also carrying out a
review of institutional and regulatory frameworks applicable to the sector. These activities will
constitute the core of mining sector work over the next year.
23.   There is however, a need to look beyond the above mentioned projects, in order to ensure
the sustainability of sectoral growth, and the realization of broader economic effects associated
with mining, as realized by other successful mining countries. Consensus was reached that
appropriate mechanisms should be identified for implementation over the medium-tern, to
continue the development of the mining sector; to improve linkages between mining and other
sectors, and to promote wider distribution of the benefits of mining for generating social
harmony while realizing broader economic gains.
24.   Some main priority areas already identified include the need for programs to diversify
from gold production, promote investment in downstream mineral activities, and develop
capacity for providing technical, contract and support services. Specifically, priority areas which



30
need to be addressed over the next 5-7 years may be grouped into programs of hardware and
software oriented activities.
25.   Hardware activities should involve emphasis on attracting investments for downstream
mineral products, and for diversification from gold production, which is becoming attractive with
the progressive improvement of Ghanaian infrastructure, and the development of favorable
geological trends for various minerals, such as bauxite and industrial minerals.
26.   Software activities should involve emphasis on capacity building focused on developing
domestic contractors and consulting capabilities for the mining industry, and for broader aspects
associated with mineral growth. Emphasis should also be given to address the fostering of small-
scale enterprise and handicrafts development at growing mining districts. Moreover, successful
experiences with health services being achieved at some mines, should be used as low-cost
models for possible replication at other mines and rural villages.
27.    With regard to contractors and consulting services, particular emphasis should be given
to develop: a) contractor capabilities for civil work and plant construction; b) service support
capabilities such as drilling, laboratory assaying, foundry and machining, and maintenance; and
c) consulting capabilities for mining technology and mineral processing.
28.   Unless mitigating measures are identified, designed and implemented, the growth and
expansion of mining would involve adverse environmental and social implications. As mining
and related activities are promoted, the Government needs to recognize the potential for these
activities and formulate appropriate policy, institutional and regulatory mechanisms for
minimizing such potential. Proactive steps for putting in place a sound and transparent regulatory
framework, strong linkages between different sectoral agencies including those responsible for
managing the environment, and programs targeted at improving the socio-economic conditions
in mining areas will go a long way towards meeting such future requirements. Additionally, in-
country capacity for consulting services relating to mining and environmental requirements could
also be promoted including capacity for land reclamation, environmental impact assessments,
laboratory testing and analysis.



31
Appendix B
Borrower Contribution to the ICR






f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PR*JECT COMPLAO_N R~EPORT
: : -- . -- G~~~~~RH UXTA   _N............. ......-:- 
*  PflWSECT XEVIEW FROM flOKR~~~~~~DIOWVEKS PRPECTIVE
- i1. - In  th. mid  l98Os,  the  InttrnaitipaL a        e1omen-
-:--Assc.iat;ei6(IDA) gavespport fo3 -te -ehaI   a          c    -
:--. .the -ning secto --in Gharia withartiula n sis   n
the  .;go.ld-, sector- as  an  integral . mpo r ent .f.  he
--.:-Gove-rr=nzent*w; policy, of Ec^onomic Recoervy.. -, :
--.Overv~iuGtarr of the local currerncy, tbad&quate private:..
-.-inVStment .in theL-sector 1anc reAted  'tactoxsr: had 1caust.d
*-:: -.a sham :decline in gold production duzi:ng this period. - - a
--  : ~~ ::;  -   -T- - .  -- -.-              .    -         -  
--.:.:.. .-The  :xport Rehz6ilitaLton  Cre3it  fl425-GH) a5d  the
-.--.- -..Technica. :Assistance  Credit  (1436  GH) b --.984  were:
'.Ollt"'wed by the KiLning Sector   ih  lta. toecti-
- .  O  .  .;I.921l ai4 ' i- .l19 88 s l-. ( -r.    -    - ;
,,~~ .      ..    ,    ,....                  ;Sl  }s;,, -  - ;   -  *  .  -. 
>- -n                  of . .  - .: .. e prajee.en-re` of  t. COlane the .
;-: ;:.rehbi t:L.a  tion  of.- SGMC *raines   t trAikwa, .L  esPr a  and .   -a n
Dunkwta Lnciease -heir output, and,redu;e safety-h iards
-:...t.o . atrac-private  inves:tors  to: the- serct;e-.   Oth-e.r
: . : - . . - : . .comp7one;s -vldd teporision o6 -tec,6nic,ai'.as' iatance-.. 
to -strebngthen mat6Cr governmental invti .tutI6s  dealing--        '
-- -- .-wi the mining sector tp assitt them--in:.attra cting-
pri"xa e-capital, an+I technical assistahce: to-`impr, e--the
- .- .: .oeratis!s ;df smalt scale-:miners .ii.th~ .6-se  f tAhe:.
---- '. > .:   ~Pr-OJ^    o;l  assLstance ;'mas  ls    35ti,aszess-- .  
;ementa~health and saf ety conditi       n,s ` i b the .*ianes.
* ; , ; , j ,n-     ;                 ,      - ,  --I
- -:;;  2., *    ei-ciart,. insti uftions _were t6: Ste' -o1d   n.g:
'"'C,,'."=  .o" '' "Vt0w aXtiO' :SG1Mc)Ghana Nati oniaqane C        ..o.at.cn
*     . .- :*: i . (GNMC, ,-, inistry of Lands and Nata"  Reso s (BI^Nayt,
*,Dep&ttt)., rG Glogical Survey.             a' t             ,'
V; Z-v %dt -Di.amoi~da ComP.Any (C)                            .-
,   -     -   - .,.       .4      iod    o y(3    -      *  
' ' ' " ' ' ' t' 'z' t;aLO'r f   29.3>z nillion r(approx1htlyY TJS$4O Mii1
was- '' 'Z ' eanarked  by .the  IDP  all -4  whieh  0except fo- 
uS$~QO~ we'redsuxe  within the. px'O`je t  T.mpementati.ofl. 
period  ndihtj 30 Ap-ril,1 9R-.U .OD$67m~-ol
tbu ted.t was salied  to. the rbi             o    r.  of t
ow?i~ zo~e wiheth  balance bein-g ep-ent
;,,sttedsthenieT:  of key sector insti-ttOnsi
* 1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
^~~~~~~~~~~~~:                                      L.   *   ,-~ -  -I , Z *; . .  A ;



-as as ~  ~     *          * 
' 4 --the~'4Aancr. pla,  was asrll       j ;w 
'': Apraial Entimts -AcuEPrCos,
*   ....  .   -     X    .>i   ....... :  t      uS Mi1os    .,;..- t7$   M1 L.oz      .,
': 40.  .  s                              - X ' ' ; -. . *. ,st . 0 0   -  r  ,
`SGM-,,CashfThw                  ,                    `:28.5:0,  -   43
'-Govent,~o"f Ghana            0.3 -
::  V :^  .  ::    -inancis )  :34.7'            17,A ::
'o    : ""nVentur.e/Co,mercial. ,"..'    .-  -' '
'I -v '-s                       Z,'Ur Ve t - 
:   . .-:. Co-tinan.<ni  2ss e           froam   th     itp>   I b nen:it -          :
~s secured  fr
. : :. n     h.-.: V3M 26, 30,000  (.US$17 .Milhln)  E'urids uhdoer
thie credt. swere:isbursed from January, 1991 -"o'J  une A53. and:;
- -.:.w.e;:z;e-app}.i-. towards the acquisition 41 ;new -windirse a3  the
*    ~    -  w.ehabilitu-ttor: o* existing ones, The -GCD. Ldever;-7befitted:
..:.. -rm     G renh GVernment grant through Adkie aC1S' :en.1e .de 
. cOnomiqu.e ,Coopzation e(Caisse :Centrflle)   o.rf r atotxsv  of'
'''..t'UlS$O.-5m t'owards feasibility evaluations: nu:the pj ect--
: t  * - ; 5-  -be  0~7DA  fanding  provided  cruax ;it  - 4 ;
-:.   .:-:tab-Iitaton  04 xthe three state  oc[.  zxnes.>`  This 
.:.::-nsu-d .htr contnued operatioz' .aM d t     fac-itatedi:- .
the pr :cess o  div estiture throu,nh imDrovement o t heir
. -potFnt : capacities.
-:.-In te .ress,  iA helped in no& "sa 1->way to<-             h,
--.:d:- ..::in- -o: public xesources by  -objtieg the   .   for
; .     G ':ctne-Ovexnment 7.subsidies.   ,;
Z. -                                                                        Z                          
>     - .-    :    -he, trainiz  of fer'd by the Projectt ii.i'';t p61ile    f r
;an u           of  the  capacity   :     ey :.nng:ijectbz: 
.....:.....:-instItatiois; ie tte MC, MD and th lS. ,Ths enabad the
. :St toAs to ply a.mo  effrctire  ale.tn:reu.ng                     '
:.ad prn, oting sect4ral roles.        -: .         -
4~~~
>    C    S s .   G  S  ' \ .   : ';  ,"  s!e S .           ;
~~~~T r.  ''S''.i  '." "  ''''. ........, - .ion  of   iuipme~nt,  tedhiicla1X: astinEe ' ahd -; .................................
2; *. S.-i~  5 0boosted .the. morale  .o0:;t  -:f rce  and .
:.  -: .:-.: .aciaed -the reVersal of declXie'S  nodt   7
. : ,  ;  .: :   ':. e Cre. i*z iri itiaied  policy  d iatgi 1atin -: e the..  :
ie~z~i. -.;.r,ation   cf   small   - s cal e: .s .   itg a;nd ithe .
-  e  .'.saeiran of c-ntrols affect s-        .    e2goId and
::.: .      i. , .ondi.ng.  '   -b. 1          ,  -emt-.it- -  -
. 5 -- ... ere :.te   been a gvdal npovm    Th1Srfl s   u i-
**,ir * *    t~ !acti;ties tclLowing the :. y     l.gal: and.
An=ourapge:4he small operators under the smallscsale Gold
.                                    ,~~~~  4   1a -    -G j   d
L  ....    ''  ,
7.      4..   :'4  e.   ;                             a-. .., . *. .



13-JUN-1997  19:52                                                             P.05
t~~-      ~- -  t = =t- ti: s -, ,''S0 '  
ri~~         -'                                                                    1. 
. ~~~~-            ,  . ,, -.  *.  S t*     ;- 
Z=W -           -cV
.   T.                       suprc.ees has  f en suc essfu  ki.   lah   '  :s  ini
..    -  . - OHJ-4ev   *       '. 
:hi -- sti 1ture    o.,the st at-e   n    rie'         faL-al.edf--
:by tDe - A   crti t  in, -he    e eii- 'fllowna -e
di st'iti      The mlnes havie now staredri nt   lbb-t    gto.
-  ::G-  - - :   -: tRs..emrninttrevenui in  the form bf- -t s~ atna             1-alties
:-'-.''-.w-'':  --'' .-. '::'-.ich, werz .hithe~ deferr'ed and'djtuastabn -ng;. vu-st
;.---'''-.-:-'A   T.a  'production  and prodl~vitit  iha- -sed -
--:',-,,,- -oirs-ing,' -,new   ThAvestments   anS . zae.w i- '   -a;genent ' 'by: - "
.GoIdtie14d-,Ghana Lt,d since July,.-193 -Additional9reres               ,
'haWv' sben7 i:enrtifi*d and currenlt   fcrt        d ;'e :focug :on.-
the -   t-6ad;1ixIhmern6  of  new   riiAneS  WhI    i-g   iowtb
-': :-  .'=-.:.'p.o.te;nals:-nd incieased op,.ortuniSes :r  'e!cp1ont a.d
-s  1S-on41Ipment in rela.ed irdtdirte-    - 1d=p. o          ioi-
Al-,. 45O ~ou nces i   1996 2as ab6dt ,--Ihigh r         -i6an:mte r'
.period.,bef e dive.iture:-  The: rnew-ea
has a.bO 1td to th- growth;of eco.t  ie tct   ities3  n ti-e-.
r uegi:Ci  :wih  .related  incotae  gen atar icti-i- s ti 
-- '_,,',''r  - ,-, ' .;ad c-1ALnq,r.   unittes.                       ,
''" n$-'::  '-    d-wivesdivesteb in Ju`1y 19B5=-,a  6.%-nc .ase in
g .';;':;::.;: .id Ep6d7ieion lhi&s  since' beeni .ne'Xrde4by>te   -Duna
-.' ' . - : ,- ... -Con*,nen.Ax i o idf1ds Lti' foll' 1.g       ezi nio f ;,- dlp...............................  
.--':.:''''',dd6sna1-I' ca pita,-                  - '
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ie   .y .zBa.  >-                .             s   t.,.Rm
;st- -- - S-as :'taken, ver by B anex   I tt .            f       n
.,3une:- J99f;.and  since  then  a ,.  '.        r        i.   J.id-
:,;.odUtio^ .has beern registered.                         -
... , .~~~~~~~ - .                                                         ,~!.   .  -  V
, ::The, ::pr6>ed  provikbed  support '.fbk . the- rx .:di a;i v   o'f
iii.envi*ozimeata-l :sit'ation. kesultilg,    oni'pa'st'i'mining ''.;,.
..-'pera~ivoDS-hich i cluded .alleviitioio        e :f  .k envi tofrmebtal
:.','.','':, ,' ,-  ; d"'-'4amages at'lJ. three munes.
,,~~~  ~             ,.. .    .,                .   , ., E e1v.  '-.;
.-.  <;.c-'  .Xis tane, trai rng adi                p     tr       e  to
(C^.,.-',  - :;''^.,G*.,-t: < i^e LZ dit^ 'to be ,able to mow, Cettif  C'rzy
^ it.s  p'. ,1nning;,  policy.- forii ton           t"''d 'e'stment '-
,,-   e  ,i>,,,...on :t    also -able'  f :rm   e tire '-t
; ^;,,  -.; 5 ;,;,ti=a@ng,ad analysis to:^form^iJe..>                       ;} e._'.r.^    e
v  *  t   t   >   t             r        f    >  t   -  -* - 
tare-lso in' bett                                          : posatt  to  ra)y  a
ICUec-  .le  in" the  administ;a-&n-tin- o            the ,linlcg       -
i~~~~~~~~~~~ . .                                     k ;1P- ,, 0{i     
,~~~~     ~ ~ ..; ,                    ...........    -  -  4                     -: - -r ..  
' -'" .. S. ""i"                f
'4                i              - ,..
-: ,,  ,  . .  .:    ..   ,  . -  - -   .:   :.   :   .  - C  t    4:  .,    i: -  C  - -  -  s ;  , .
F  7



C-
;: ;.84 .: As..a-resullt of  PhEi;:rojectJ the '5ibterrmest took:'.teps to
- ..:devep. -a'- plan to ,allow the l           'oi     sn l scal:
. : : :.d:minng.   This culmihated in the smal-l scaIl min:
' '..L--PNDC   w 218 .of 1989.   .       . : :          :.,  -
;Sue :st dieAs were:undertaken   W         dss 'th46h
* i:-  .: "- -;   - .c:,orSd r.isn  of small 2  cald  ^ ,,,-:.   -n; ..wf~  'rom  zr-hs
--reoXi2ai. ax,d district centres weze -se'tp. =hroughitt the-
; :  :: - co>u;ntryr t-Osupport small scale .ining--atti iCtIet- under -
---;---:.thealpic   of the MC. Some vehicles, *4e alsxe   pro-de6.
t'te-..ne w ens.      .         
-otal -coficcing  utilised were >e,3-b:                  the:B.3
-:.al   E o hi-ch went to SOMC t.o rehbilitate Its win ders and-
acqgu:e rneiw ones.  The government:Eonsidrfd the termS .c:-,
- .other -.`redLts by .-the African DeLop'lie t Ba-nk:.d  the..'
-'..,Caisse  `Centrale -totalling    U -  Ai-lon fs   too
-res t.tc ive' and n&o disbursements :were .ma-de the-i-id ex
. ..- >: s- .:. .;.>.- -^. .  Addi,na3: Fime was to t4ken b.?X 1t:bven  t   p ut:'
.-  Ogetbd  l.p ropri e azazngement.-- forhtie management- 0t
M-aand -eLated ` istitut.ions t           dte:iayzg ohe. pro j e    .
ationeme          by Aip to seven -6pths -f'-r'  .thexd'te .o'  '
*                                  -  s   '   '    s   JCs   -'    '' ffi _ _ - c - v | 0 t 1 t 5 t -~~~~~~~~ - '   4
~~~~~~~~~* ;poa                     -.,. ................ ..-'..--... .-
C  'mPm6N2i4xd~RECODADMJR
't-. '' '''-!''='".-^,'  *;            -       .'  ;'r~. 0  -    -s -'      n 
0.T          -a .,':eparation, negti'atiol  -d  s1Zsxgg
-'-,'. :appr'd.d:: th  -credit, as  effect:i-..L .rt  Narch: I.O;'.9Sg ,
....-.. . .bsetly    the ffirst tranche o+'',zd;.       rel.sed. 
:T .elays i on  the' part i                `      Gover;t  iri
; v 8     ;^nome  conitiul uv   ezrev>.ent. .Thes-
-.ref 1ted  lack of agreement on te  a..of  e1i;Xt key
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    Se  *    4 -   -*    *-
.TheP o-ect .was  rnianaged. by  SGItC  und r  the gneral
:: :-:.:direction o.f tthe MiMistry of Manes  ndZd Zergy `(MlN) and
; .   : 1ateF,: SC  ,jowards the end of the  .kpreei.iOfl  the MC.
asSUmed  .more significant role .folo 1 ng the: -...eductioon:
'  th-. 4,ctit,ties of SGMC.
I!A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S  '  ' ' ' ' ''  "' "' *' "  '  ' .   f   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '44 ~ 4.
8'  ';i  ,4 't ' '; g ''~  J , ;t            '    4 i- ',';,    0''.':
t-s'>,.';S,"5.;',^',~~ .4..                                                  . -  - :      -'.



_ * ,> fi %, z ~~.               .                     7   .       
F61    in  .thre    e-    e
; -:  -   .i    ->  d<i   l : e    expe=iene        frm.                  dpoizas  .o.r.      ;n   .-     k 
;~ ~ ~~- -           l.-   .13Uiq, 2,o  -the- mines .  ;                     ,.                               >
: S ta-: `.nvszment intereists expsed; 1   re   a w-er'
. zecw<w. .  Duzsequenz  pzoposal,,s .:to-: -e   over,, -Lbe  mrine:    ., 
.: -. :   .      ;-were. atr> .ilayed; over long  peri odS  c" ngt                     'z; Wh1 no  -`
.- -. ... - :sI.a  lso afffectedD   Dankwa. -`thups ladys wre'.ike':'
---- ---;....:. -to.s `:a :-   ex-  miXture.  ()I    re's  ns6 :.m;               trr3?e          :. Wo-.  -  .
- -- ..-.--. -.   rc :a: :.      d   p-  li t icalP    v lt.            if>7r:a<ain;                        w 
' t .  .    ;:.--~O MB.f.acMzrs that;-.,af fected  the.-ti3ae v   itplmntation. o'  -..f 
*  ;.!  . 11e-,      rei  were:  '                                       t 
. ~~~~~~~~--      .t..  igtonrised   miagemeh-i
:- . .  -.-   . : sto  .P ezat    cinal  deci:s io    macin  p rocess, :and                      .   
.-:-   -:.  .'<':Y.- Sii>i    _.~lea-  ig    proceass       av oti8<:n.le.b                         -     --
< ' .'',"' -;*''''  -  2'4+3cs-on,     ntrovery    and~,**tul.an elyl`          -      t
;  :-    - -  .  sii   . '    Ppsropr.aesil   a.i   -fk    ingiut:ionms--    .    .: '
.... . .. : (;ii;- ..;I>irh o.  skilled 'manipower ,zesulti-ng; ;fro. whir.............................. 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~-z<!^-n  ; .:nv e r oft       staf f;.-  -  -  ;*
-.-: t;     - .(iii  .^.  ;: -ldequa.e          Joodn,-oq.   J> ,.eeeW-  .ky  .
~~~~~~~~.-  .l ..-J..;t-i--ntiutions_   .,L....                 .......iack  `.o.6o   lnahoition,. b.btwednt..................v>
-~~~~~~~"  .  '-b.:8;.   :>.:...........   .loal.1  subs idiary - and par6n:t 3  nw.-t  - tutr s sft.....................r
--: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~6 'V    .-}     <-on  enture           affts''l         <              h -         ..................................  
:.-. . . ::.~-  -.    .;.  smohImplemeritatior                  ............ esr tWce$X94^F  ........... 
.{:  . : .. >.. ;- :. e.-t*truct=re .sup;trting h:goc!b<t!-X a.C
;~~~~~~~~I .:         ;:<<.:,,-,Zetir4-  in . xnef'te.'               46n;xlu.--to- .-'!
* ;*"' 'f   -   ':  ';. - . -sectoral :gzowth;                ..           .. .-r. .< -.-.f
- *-;|3 . '"'S ;t;g' ivatisUeion  has. broug;l.'t'   r              e   aa.rene s' s
.; . ... ; ... . ;.:.t4sulinc n  nr.ased nabpchttni, ............................ --
:; ...  . . '   :  .-.>, ;. -.. aS  -.per<egh_.ived   ;tgt     wt     s,tentia t*;--or ;      :.
*,      t *.    '. .;  -4 5          t ,    .>s..                        ! --; --a            -   -    >
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Z:-.t      ;.H ti-#.--c     
t v  , *v sz* ,e X  * ;b S  4 
i " ' ' 9  ! , l ^ 
,,4;  0:.;gg\.+ ?    0   - ,;           .       ;. .     . t;> . -.  - .      ;  -|-  t      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



1s-e $st\  e-'     
J.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
~~~~~~~~~'                                '.   i,           ,  -   .  %*W,    .  0    tr;S  
--. 1,~~~~~~~~ ,                                         .f.6 6,2.         
:' . ' . .                       ,Susta nabty of the polky reSo  3i 
INA                  77~~~
12   Suiaib2it  ofthe poli=y refo=ms iLntr oduced -Lrn1derth
.pZoMeot ti   highly  likely  moe*s:i in  -iew  o.- the:.,
::-,.: Leentation of Ehe follow up, ojec_  W-this LcS .ow.uD.'        -
:   ..::::;  .    ,pproJ:ect; the Mining Sector Dev.e2opMrent.,a=i Zn*ionr-Mnt--
'''Pr*ct -:is   -r ry lk-ikely  to  sus t-h t--^nr''-e. 6 --
*  v -    sinsE;tituonal arrangements enviroetal.-inegeme   gnd
-  ':-srnt' 'ssr2ie nming -components ofninhg   estnZ proj,e.
- tf ;: ':- - -;; * s; ; *~~ *                -      .  ! , ,'i;  ^-  ' 
1 . ,...; Z :: >3. ..AII. te  -wd. mlires  previously   bby  -t-a 4ihely  Ly  te
.: oveziKantivad beeni picivatised. gCizent digns -p.int -to
- ^. . ; . -.,. 'the p.ositIve econoubi c, tec::hlnical ,d  and =a_-Tii&biliy. -t.:
of  etn.ree rmines-a.  Tark-wa, Fxiste oand-Dunh . .  -
* ; -. * >  ga-.ds ?envizronm al viabili .   e.e , .here  s .-ne
:nee-  J;est&blish adequate capaclty an4.coor.d.i          on lo
:   ;.  : :-ensue. 'the; realisation of long -eirr- g,l     -
'e Jsota1.  inpact wzh regard tote epah;on of-pzit.e' -.
inve.ent in- the regi.ons .need to-b    dsese da;efully
: -~ -;:. :  ap.rqoptriate policy interventitibtin  a latd.
14':'. d  - :- i=ry'. focus ;f the Proj ect; wis' i z reba           Eai  g:
_4: -: . .ines:-and  axtacting  pri-vt .hv.. s-. vet  . -s-    So.ne 
5  : asS Z   . Lz-  placed;. on str6ngthenig --ie e   nsttitiohs
:J. ated:;e o t;he  seCtor d               ,GC  .
s-           d4d  the: necessary  .s .    pOt ; 6  -      nic 1   :-
-   - .-.-assistcr:nce ;.to  rehabilitate  the' ns t  and:   z ita.e.
A- ~ ~    S                              
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          ,  .-  eswv 
' st:.'~':-.i...; .. oit6:mounts: od: equipment, te~'aI i.tne n
-  .  :. :  |..'v.  -ai.in   were provided to MC, MD:a-ati .eNSD. *-~ojeCt  m,
-:  '- .~. * .: *3erneataon    identi fied    the-  neie:, for'>.--m&aaor:   .2.
,,    ,_,*'; it.~2ona lstrefngthening and 'chnic&J. assi ce t.o.
_enrahej tbe  governrent to' neet  volv.z,  id                      ,
:   -e.  ,.it.  ;   oets   of "t e country wait'a-rd  to. e w .i Sets-d
*' p>zt m,*'- ,- '4stment,  enviro!xnental, -aSd sbo'aa  is s.L   -; 
I             iS     .                          e     i'--    -  -  i: -; -
-: ..:.1;5. .Th. nbr.easing  gwth  of.'the  s. sJe .inin.  s::
-:-:*: . tor'. a2s6.0 'requir.ed additional- stuy  n    pp . '.The Y.     e
.:a1: i:;satio6x  of  small  scale  mii-.nj   ha  rts.uted-` -in
.reased volumes -6f gold - and dia s i'lij  -the- fo-ir.ial
i . ;  rk s, ~I' -recogtion  of thesebi i 1 sthe-
O *4.;G, ; Ger''-D; f  .- ;and the: bank has fZriO ed -'he: f6liov:p
-/ .-r i 5 ; ..: . -..- :;:.:;p  sctkahiv aims-.to strengthen  fi et i   a'1. capi  - -
*" ''',,~~~~~~~~~-', ,,d$' ... J':. -Ae:!the  priv  et inve     h '"  -1~    5:  C.    .1  ad:~
maa.;.        tte-ntr:"irnvironknental. aspect6 - '   .1  ning  $   atrz ;
* ^; 6~~~e2Lpent.  -; ~-;
.;. i.Tb etalsc  atiis to    port         -     - ': -1i-
6-                           - C 3.. ..   -
~~~~-U8,.sr ..,.;:.. -- .-- .- ................6.:..r..--;f
-  .e.  ...  .  .. ,.........; -.*1  f. -';v--,    ..........  
i~ ~~~~~at 0'tt5''',''$0'r                             Xv                     ;  t     j



- ^  '  i; ; -:-,'Th r', ;Baik:t+-super%isorY   ;2           t.           
..  i.- . - .> -<...  .  .pezz, g.    the   redaiiissS &-                             ;.to  
;: :- -;:--   :.:::  ;-^id;iiic^<ionf pfe araion and tl..t m;..  t-i'Oo,-e'                ::
se<t.-  Super-,sion missionl wed   :A<                          t -tral;
-  .;  -. 0.-- i;-<lns werte:mcunted au_ingj he 7.-P,o         .       Sh:ai' -  s     ,^
-^-. ;.- ::::-:     ::~:-l:edisa:=   . 8c  co.ineSXprig   hg tatrs --4qwAe ft,-L                 . 
* ~ ~~~~ .   . :&,.<      :eSsessmnt of the sit"tim,fi h    7               
-   - .:       - ~~~~T, he       ton  Stace  o1  thec
-. : 198:  s: did;*ot hokeve t envd_--ge.ttt                 n4g1n    am   i am
-; ~~~~~~~~x. .-- i a -i..c er oetar-yss-; n                           an 
. ;-:~.::    ;- -- Fleix^;iO-ly-.insub~secuent prcjec      c;g:            t*n eht i2md.--Xi.
-:  -  .s. --.  ::.......... deet,-;s  ......by- tht   Bank, --and  cO6!-ce f.tatli&der.    -L 1   t ~the ............................. -
-~~  ~  {-:a  eS  :Wo.sta~ .acdaress.ing  enviro=e:1tal   he a t>X    and-- -7:
- --.; .i- .  : :   . e2e ;z.. L=s in  a  systemai     eGr            - . Mt;h   r ine,..--  
- - ~.~-~ -:-  .-   -mes   - co),rn. were  impdttant  i$itin:Xcsm                           ;  .  
.- -.: ;. . - -.; : -a-t-e zn privatr  invest2ent .:':~~'~~:t
Th <                                                   ldi    *-'^,              
, ^, '; ". .'--,.: .-  >z.-rn4e tsws   ena]bted th s,'                      ton -h
*. ' e^ .''.. '.:. : .' ,  .e-.-. iit.  te,ena        Cii6         "'.-ai,.   , ey, f.:         .,-
i- >>:"'' -*--<"  "-l:^-~-;T-:' p ' .'S   nce        the  -istiti' +
-,<:s:..';'.--  /;'-;': s-p. -et;' ~witi -,enetIly  *sat'isf act4t&fk' .-fi":t~emeX*  ,u s21 ,
: .L:.P,':--.1.s::iw  .chA'14es. -iS 'key. mdnagement,:psi'oi                      V,'ea,.2y     :-a. ,S GMC,.k    -.,
'. ' ' ' 'r'- 'srj 2l   .w4zeiit    the'-lorderly.---. rans-    etng.e :  kiS-: ;!f
. - - . ~~~. .-,a.n,d            k.;tnit ol&ow. '   ,'---':..a
: . .- .  ;  ; ;. ~ ilt ity    we    xperiitced -i ft     4          We in
''~~~~~~~~~us -'-,- ,,,:-,;  *!*'= n       u  f lays 01nt  taif  .                                     3re-4>iS.a  .'.   z 
- .>      : -: re~~c:at g    j - need. :t    trmed  w:iDti-    i6ibs.ut'-lre: -43  .-the:.>        s
--i'-   ^  ,   ^^t iaB    t~ela':s wer*:'Also exper i en A -e  ipIEbi  -s Ii      dc I-s-i  .-
*0 :.s 2 f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nt il re brts '  '-S-'.; '-','-''
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  7 .                           j
:'r W     @ ' _ '~~~~~.f:  g  ts 'm t   obe# Vs' 9                           t -a



-'-3o,^~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ }. .-
t~~~~~~~~~ -                                 -- ''''';'  zf'l' '~    ;X- -  :    -: '-  -:'
--...;-''1'9'   ' '~'''''"'"~ 'p' ivate' .'nvestmnt i n.nt i -    -eiedt4
-some'' ar.re-zse ra icati onS wi'  i 1                    s.
.;  -    ^;    . u -  .-, - <   +-  .;S  -  -         -i    r:-  r. . 
-'T'.-':-s-: iha o o inc.teased 'the patulta.   '.:entizo'e
idaaia.e  in the ev4it, medliansidsi-Ibead-
:~ ~ ~                        t ..-."', :. 5.-'. -.-:.. .5ads  he be'iifts  Qf incra.ed  1   : '  -  -n 
---;,-::.';o:'tIie:, S ,2 -comm=ity wh ich the fec or -
-                . . . . - . - ;.    : o - :. b I  t- and   Envir6iment   =roj  t  It.ef  h
_-tr, _.-rnZnz lt:cnd IDA- will kio5pefu1ity ad   5s:
' 20   Mait i~ 46s in-itiated under -tAbe  ic t h s .salted-.   -             Z
--:-  in.:-2rtl' cold &nd diamnrdnss                  of small'
- :                         ---- -..:.ca e  --f.issues have been enhancd.-s4- het s-etor ha-s.
t   .i -.     :ben*.weUl t-gul:artsed.              X f     ;  -  - -Z   -             =
W _                  I'; o.  a: r. 
r   i1! .     : 3e~~evealed the atucia2        VanCL  C M   *Orz
evie ~.-*1~u.~ txot  of  se :toral tinsti-ution   -   -  bass     -
VS ;;ichn    sista4ce to p-romote -ot.. =rd  ust .abi, -
. -: derelopzneL; fEffedtive sitpervistl:        ksan .-a  al6o
J,,,-ot-;..n en suring timely resirLtiG -;f: issuls thati
. :  .--   :.-ot    i5e :   a-   t     ve  delayed. . - -sU 'tion&1  cApacity   . :
- ., - ,-,,--; MId tr e to bp developed to Sefe v': kon-itor and
t    en    vronmehtal iss'ies.'
,  .  ;  - -  - ,  ,  - , . , . . , < , -,, , - - -~~~~~.  -          S
22 -hPr e -confiAed that aDprop  Pa-t -p2i.-j  Leql an -d
--.:   nD 7uE21ta   frazdework is. esse ultfdt -the _e.H:    ti. o
-:;:oi   p:;ArDhes   f 6z  sect-oral  d44Iledzt    SUe: sEul-
p.- : vaaton  of  state owned  mh   =-.my .zmo  ha   be            --.
..P- ss      hout these eldments:.. --
'23  -.Th e aAk i? effoot-  to       dersta  bth .        . ta't i   n  
4  c .   . .;.-.   -Y .t-s facin  l1ocaa  institut n6$ '    ddze.s the.m .d: ::
iz  -u S t  ~  r;   cs  :  Otruct ve   manrier  .4  :   -ff ^-zv . :fct -Ve4
i-'1-Xe:,_',.p-z~ion le-.ing t6: complI      b2leret _6f tth-
.P g  f   S               - :      .-   -       ;       5.
.: .ree    it-,.-trust .-and confidenr:   ieween:.par tid>atLng :
--r.'.*.   .      ' t '-t:gF    and t4rticu1 ly tly ea- -
ft:                   c. :t..;  .,weze.xrtvcal in ensuring .the supoessi1 imPiemerietat:ton;
*.o1 the. ~~~=*dit -- 
-.,i.i   J,.-',., .. -25J  iztrie't' t1-  regfalations kneed Xo. b*~  Oed .xth-:.2   - -;t 
t,';-'., t  4gr-ames;  ifare  rt   needed                4t < a'e&'--
{ ~~~~~~                     ~    ~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -     -  f
- - .. i ;I.- 8egation.         -A -
-.  ---t   at         :r at   fH     `    -     .   - - ;    -
! - 5 ; a~~~~~~~~~~ ' } - i ~~~~~~~t                                    4   5s
;h~~ -> __ eree    ,te   ;5'-',S .t            rr j.her    ,e  need.ae
en  Z. =ezietih praties  -h rost    eOped awfrenes-&
91t al  1..va5s on t.he needs. toa         pr~nizoi=GmWft"j&1 &n-d"
soc~U is~es re l&t.e dto .the m.uin1  sl-~ to  d~VtAl(0pmeht.
7~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
~~ ~~**.4                                       2 .*j.   . .  
-'---V-C-S        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



..17, .1,                                                                                                        ......
it te:
Oza
4j
-.'X!              i!.a
tii
V: 'A
0 ti                                                                      (D O
tn.
d) t-t K<
r                (D
V,Vl
tM.
m to                                                                                 kq                  H tj. M
P. "                                - , ut X
m 0
-4 L-J.
-we,
rt                                 -ft
(ID
P   0                                0 4   ct  m rt                                                                  m. n
..... . .....                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VT..A,
..........
..... ... .                                                                                                                                   P R '
.... . .. .....
fol;h"- -.v  la-                                       tj
i-%t-.V-4 -mk                           i.%:
ri
.. ........
qw                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                     10,,rT),FmlAfiv-t',rFVJn                                      -AO
.. .... .... ..
. ..... . .... .. .
. ..........
.... .... .    ....  .....
.  ............     ..............
. .... ........ ..                   ......    .        .                                                         g,
kq
.. .............
17. M.                                     eF+!(!':
...... ..... ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ct
...... ....
.  ......... .. . ...... ..        ...                                            :r   GF,                       :3.
.........
16  Y:
-7.i   :7                                                           ......             ... ...... .



z
IF) REMDILITATION OF STATE CtD MINING CORPORAT)ON -IDA CREWI(U.&.'ILLION)                                        _____
j~~g~~  ig~~j  iwz ~     1993       199        196l9 997                        TO'TAL            -
KIND OF IWFSTME?4 
1. tARKW.A,
Mikg equipn,en   wes res                                    .      06          .9058                 0.35       .1         0.00       0,0        000       0.0-0                      OD8
follv  *quipea Spams09                                                       0.26       0.06         .6        014        0.00       0.0        O0.0       0.00           0
m~gae1~  amin. et 1mW1o.4                                                            0,t         0.36       01          .0         .0        0.040023
En~~efrwinienta~ .tig~~6on  ~L0%1                      0.00        0~00v      Q~~00      0.00       0~00       0.00       0.0.       - GA         0,0
malnaclemsij.echnicai aisalelaAco & CiOn8iltkn 30Ce                0:94       0.82       0.2         oleo       0.8       0.00       0.00       0,00       0.00.          .6
Sub-Rltal                                                            2.64       2.69       2.24       1.74       0.65       0.00        0.00       0.03       0.95        11.34
Mining eqtipnlent &spares                                          0.46       0.69        0.18       0.24       0.57       1.71       1.47       0.07       0.00          5.39
NWtg equipmenit & Wmce                                             0.34       0.26        0.38       0,08       0.67       1.45       1.11       0.07       0.00          4.25
.V~iehsa mad Poellekq*mnaen                                        0,12       o    0.31  D08;       PA0  . .  ...oo      -0o          o.         0.09       0.00         0.51
Engineering & dwn*.equIpmeu.t                                .     0.39       0.31        0.50       0.11       0.23       11.20      0.62       0.37        1.22         4.94
Erwlrowi.E)W mitigation                  .  0.00        0.00 .    ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.00 .  0.00.  0~0    0.03;       0.03       0.09       0.86         100
.1   ..   .                           .... ...
ns~~~cona~~~ngser'4Ces  .  .O,~~~~~~~5  0~~~1     0.~~~1              '~~A71        :.              0.00 00  ,00                   .1.3r0
k                                                 6X~~~~~~~~~~~~1.7 t8   083        05         61          0.4         0          .1         1            0
.  , ~~~~~~  ,                3.~~~~a44  2, ~       50          .6        (.7      ~    737.16
4 17
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ......



r.)
a-
-            ii-
'I.
'---I
.X& 4                                                                                      . -    .- -   Cr
0       A...a-   <AI<
A.-                     t
U
Ii
ii
* II
61        1               ,  It
-                                                   u 4r. >4 %w-.w.VJ. t.'.t.q'-s.<.. r. r..'...'>-.., ..    'A   e t,....a.r..;.-. r4..AA..-..,1
i.                                                                                                   'L
St                    3J<
                                          U
a
.S..4.t.L....,*' 4  .4.                                                                                                                               -NC-h
*1'
.7
ii
a'
IwI 4.
I-)21                    .-                to        I-
In



OD
--STATEGOLOWNINGCOW,             W      TION 4 THE im         V OF 8A.KC.'s WNES.
NA    N
- 1- - - - - - - - kD
(A                             012ATIP ONE  UNCE.-Y,
T
AW
-L                                         20053
OKMI-FA" -                                                                              ,                                                         12 49?
Loo, iAC
'Ala          2
.......... . ..... .
awwrAb'"''WI
4
V.- !N '-T.
a.
(6) GOLD PRODMTION AFTER PRIVATIZATIONVINE OUNCES)
MINE LlrQT                           iges       lm         iggo      1991       i992      1993       1994      1995       1996       1997
.. . . .... . ......... ........ . .... . ......
'II I-A9j366-   44;460                  "lojeo
DS  -0.                                                ------                                                                         VAN
TrOUGOLD'FIEL  LT           ................                                                                                                      20.190       14,830
PGL/9ARNEX(PRESTEA) LTD.                                                                                                                                        !A2
OGUDLWWA CO nNE47Aj_.GGLDFIELD$ LTO.                                                                                                                             M2
7t476
'o        0.        .0,--- -21 All    39 aft    46 IIM
IAP
piepto 4419w-__
Ir-AM                                         rc                       tMOWAVGWTI



I.W
t..      --?!IOOUPON AEFORe FIRIVA--02ATldW.S.VMIlUJbN)
41                                                                                                                     .....  .. ;          ,r..
xr
i5-m
o-,
io.69     20.06     16.82     M5.9    .6.00-    11.31         0.00
TOTAL'
22-31     Wo
(D) VALUE OF PRODtXTION AFTER PRIVATIZATION(U.S.$'MILL
-MAY)
7
a    L                                  ... .. ....... 0---
MO  KW 0
m-wr-
TOT
bwio4,T, 6F-TARXWA-QOkMFPEt
MAMG                                 ,Jut.(
*WA                       G   O-UZKOVeRTHE-                 &
-PF os 14
W tkf   -N            XNAGEMEW- OF PRATO!3QLDFla-C
yl-0






IBRD 2101 lRl
301                                                                   00                      1                        20
BURKINA  FASO
_1    10    ,    ,       _             _O  T,m                           H P u li m d (o\             G H A N A
_*nih                                                                         --<,Z  !  MINING SECTOR
r EGIO                  ...... ..REHABILITATION PROJECT
\&   UPPER XS                     iz\9 <\-
A    REGION   f \ J  woI\
K       >         NORTHERN  DbTg. .                 REGION
",  (Sho                                            Ch"' >q
-90                                                                                     1' _*b Domongo   P^Bo\eD.    SSM Mining Areas    90
\  >   OBuiPe/          /        31mt ,A                    _     Primary Roads
Major Secondary Roads
Other Secondary Roads
COTE                                  logo                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railroads
D'IVOIRE                                                                                  /               Region Headquarters
DCIVOI RE  i oo )  k n+94i9o  X J   Nkt  :    National Capital
-Region Boundaries
International Boundaries
PO          BR  G-AHAFO  R  ION                               Kl                           Ports
jLo,m    UNYANI>-~zYA
7- r                                   SA TI                                                                                   7 4             -
0S                                         EA_lT,R          G    N                    Ak  \     I                   0
5   E--<-SEKONDi                                                P~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,0 2 3 410 !50 MILES   -SB
0  20  40  60  80 KILOMETERS
Ihio oo  la  ,npo. by l. Mo  Dtegn Unit of 7he Mo  Iank.
rany godgowt non lb. iaaaralo   of oror IefK. Or any .oo.no
JUNE 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:          16731
Typr       ICR



