Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7039-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 10, 1988
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a rcsicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Name = Cedi
US$1.00        =  175 Cedi
Cedi 1.00      -  US$0.006
SDR ±.00       -  US$1.36642
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 troy ounce (oz)   .- 31.1 grams
1 gram (g)           -  .032 Troy oz
1 metric tonne (mt)  -  32,151 Troy oz
- 2,205 lbs
1 short ton (T)      -  2,000 lbs
1 carat (ct)         -  0.2 grams
1 gram               -  5 carats
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              - African Development Bank
AGL              - Ashanti Goldfields Ltd.
Caisse Centrale  -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CAST             - Consolidated African Selection Trust
CDC              - Commonwealth Development Corporation
CGM              - Canadian-Ghana Mining Group
CIDA             - Canadian International Development Agency
DMC              - Diamond Marketing Corporation
EDC              - Export Development Corporation (Canada)
EIB              - European Investment Bank
ERP              - Export Rehabilitation Project
ERPTA            -  Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project
GBC              - Ghana Bauxite Company Ltd.
GCD              - Ghana Consolidated Diamonds
GNCB             -  Ghana National Commercial Bank
GOG              - Government of Ghana
GNMC             - Ghana Natiunal Manganese Corporation
ICB              -  International Competitive Bidding
MC               - Minerals Commission
MLNR             - Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
PPF              -  Project Preparation Facility
RIC II           - Reconstruction Import Credit II
SGMC             -  State Gold Mining Corporation
UNDP             - United Nations Development Program
VRA              - Volta River Authority
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa2te
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................i
I.  INTRODUCTION ............................................                   1
II. THE MINING SECTOR
A.  Role of Mining ....................................                  1
B.  Structure of the Sector ..........................                   3
C.  Prospects for the Sector .........................    10
D.  Sector Markets ...................................                 11
E.   Sector Strategy and The Role of the Bank ....             .....    13
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives ......................                          14
B.  Project Description ..............................    15
C. Project Implementation Arrangements
and Schedule ...........                                        17
D.  Environmental Aspects and Safety .....               ............  18
IV. CAPITAL COST, FINANCING/MANAGEMENT PLAN AND PROCUREMENT
A.  Capital Costs ....................................                 20
B.  Financing/Management Plan ........................                 22
C.  Procurement ......................................                 24
D.  Allocation and Disbursement ......................                 28
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF SGHC .............................                  29
VI.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ......................................                  36
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........................    38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
2.1    Organization Chart of SGMC
2.2    SGMC Production by Mine 1975-1987
2.2    Gold Market
3.1    Terms of Reference for SGMC and GNMC Evaluation Studies
3.2    Implementation Schedule
4.1    Capital Costs
4.2    Disbursement Schedule
4.3    Procurement Arrangements
5.1    SGMC Financial Statements
5.2    Assumptions for Financial and Economic Projections
5.3    Pro Forma Financial Statements for SGMC 1988-92
List of Documents in Project File
MAPS: IBRD 18470R1 - Ghana - Geology
21011   - Ghana - Mines



- i -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:      State Gold Mininp Corporation (SGMC)
Ghana National Manganese Corporation (GNMC)
Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
Minerals Commission
Small-scale Miners
Ghana Consolidated Diamonds Corporation
Amount:             SDR 29.3 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:   The Government will onlend up to US$35.85 million to
SGMC, at an 8.5? interest rate, for 20 years, with a six
year grace period. SGMC would bear the foreign exchange
risk. The Government will make available US$3.24
million to the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources,
US$0.55 million to the Minerals Commission, and $0.36
million to Ghana National Manganese Corporation.
Proiect
Description:        The objective of the Project is to continue to support
the rehabilitation of Ghana's mining sector, which was
started under previous IDA Credits. The Project
includes four components:  (i) continue the
rehabilitation of the SGMC mines (Tarkwa, Prestea,
Dunkwa), to increase their output, improve efficiency
and reduce safety hazards; (ii) provide technical
assistance to promote the sector, primarily in the form
of evaluation studies for Government owned mines which
could be used to attract private capital and by helping
fund a mineral exploration program mainly oriented to
investigating gold prospects; (iii) provide technical
assistance to strengthen the major governmental
institutions dealing with the mining sector, to
strengthen and assist them in attracting private
capital; and (iv) improve the operations of small scale
miners through technical assistance, and help with
regularization of their operations.



- ii -
Proiect Benefits:  The Project has several major benefits for the country.
First, it will lead to a major increase in gold output,
exports and foreign exchange earnings for SGMC. Second,
the Project will help attract private investors to
Ghana's minerals sector by: (i) providing assistance
for attracting joint venture partners for SGMC mines;
(ii) strengthening the Government agencies dealing with
private investors and improving their ability to work
with investors; (iii) helping develop prospects; and
(iv) through the evaluation studies, creating a
framework for considering joint ventures for the diamond
and manganese mines. Private sector participetion in
turn would lead to an inflow of private capital and
provide access to management and technical skills needed
for sector development. Third, the Project will benefit
Ghana by improving the operations of small scale miners.
Finally, it will considerably improve the safety and
environmental conditions at SGMC mines, and ultimately
throughout the mining sector by helping formulate
environmental regulations.
Risks:              The Project faces four major project specific risks.
The first is that the increase in production at the SGMC
mines will be less than expected or slower than expected
as a result of skilled perconnel or operating problems
at the mines. This risk i!i, however, substantially
reduced by the rehabilitation program which includes
training and substantial technical assistance and by the
expected inflow of private capital with attendant
management skills.  The second major risk relates to the
possible lower price of gold, but the entire project
remains viable at gold prices substantially below
current levels with part of the Project viable even if
the price drops by 50Z. A third major risk is that it
may not be possible to attract private investors for one
or more SGMC mines. This risk is, however, limited
since private investors have shown interest in Ghana,
the Government is showing flexibility in its
negotiations, and IDA should be in a position to
encourage cooperation between the Government and private
investors. Finally, there is a risk that cofinancing
will not be available. However, tentative commitments
by cofinanciers are currently sufficient to fund the
project even with substantial cost overruns.



-iii -
Foreign        Local      Total
-(USS million)---------
Estimated Proiect Costs 1/
SGMC Mines Rehabilitation
Tarkwa                                     42.3          2.0        44.3
Prestea                                    38.7          3.0         41.7
Dunkwa                                     16.1          1.2        17.3
Total                                   97.1           6.2       103.3
Sectoral Promotion                            2.9          0.1          3.0
Strengthening of Agencies                     1.8          0.1          1.9
Small Scale Mining                            0.5          0.1          0.6
Total Base Cost                          102.3           6.5       108.8
Physical Contingencies                        8.0          0.2          8.2
Price Contingencies                           2.5          0.5          3.0
Total Project Cost                        112.8          7.2       120.0
1/ Net of duties and taxes.
Financing Plan
IDA                                          40.0           -          40.0
SGMC (cash flow)                             21.6          6.9         28.5
Government                                     -           0.3          0.3
Cofinanciers                                 34.7           -          34.7
Joint ventures/commercial                    16.5           -          16.5
Total                                  112.8          7.2        120.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements 2/
IDA Fiscal Year
--------------------US$ million------------------
89      90        91       92        93        94
Annual                 4.5      11.1      11.4      7.1       3.0       2.9
Cumulative               4.5      15.6      27.0     34.1      37.1      40.0
Financial Rate
of Return               23Z  (SGMC rehabilitation only)
Economic Rate
of Return               29?  (SGMC rehabilitation only)
2/  Based on standard disbursement profile.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
';LNING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Ghana (GOG) has requested an IDA credit of
US$40.0 million equivalent to finance part of the foreign exchange cost of
a program designed to rehabilitate the mining sector of Ghana. The mining
sector is the second largest foreign exchange earner (after cocoa) with
exports of US$126 million in 1986, approximately 17Z of Ghana's _oreign
exchange earnings. The main product is gold which accounts for about 85Z
of the value of total mineral exports. The mining sector has considerable
potential for rapid growth, since Ghana has the resource base to
substantially expand gold production, and the price of gold is high enough
to justify the expansion of existing gold mines and the construction of new
mines. The proposed Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project (the Project)
would assist with the rehabilitation of existing mines, help strengthen
Government institutions dealing with the mining sector and lay the
groundwork for encouraging private development of new mines.
1.02     The Project continues the dialogue with the GOG on mineral sector
issues begun under earlier projects (para. 2.39). Under these projects,
the rehabilitation of Ghana's State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC) was
started and the institutional and legal framework for minerals production
has begun to improve. The proposed Project would continue and accelerate
the rehabilitation of Ghana's mining sector by: (a) continuing the
rehabilitation of SGMC's mines, (b) helping attract outside private
capital, (c) strengthening Government mining agencies, a..d (d) encouraging
the development of small-scale mines.
II. THE MINING SECTOR
A. Role of Mining
2.01     Ghana's mineral production for the last four years and the value
of its mineral exports in 1986, shown in the table below, indicate that
gold production dominates the country's minerals exports.
Official 1/ Production of Major Minerals
------------------Year---------------  Export Value
1984      1985       1986      1987        1986
US$ Million
Gold (oz)              288,021   299,615   287,124   327,960        107.8
Bauxite (mt)            27,453   180,286   204,074   196,255          5.0
Manganese Ore (mt)    267,966   357,270   338,979   295,061           8.2
Diamonds (Cts)         341,978   341,978   557,301   435,900          5.0
Source:  Minerals Commission, Ghana Chamber of Mines.
1/ Excludes production of small-scale miners.



2.02     Mining, primarily gold mining, has a very long history in Ghana.
It is not known when gold production started, but there was a well
developed small-scale mining industry by the time the first European
explorers arrived in the late 1400s. By the late 1800s, 'modern" mining
methods had been introduced and gold production had begun to increase
rapidly.  Since 1900, gold production has gone through various boom and
bust cycles with production increasing significantly though erratically.
Gold output peaked in the early 1960s at approximately one million ounces
per year. Since 1963-64, gold production has dropped steadily, hitting a
low of 277 000 oz in 1983. There are a number of reasons for the decline
in Ghana's gold production, the most important of which are:
(a) a fixed dollar price for gold in the 1960s and early 1970s;
(b) the over-valuation of Ghana's currency, the cedi, during much of
this period;
(c) a severe shortage of foreign exchange in the country;
(d) a shortage of technically trained management;
(e) the exhaustion of existing ore bodies and the failure to develop
new ore bodies; and
(f) an investment climate perceived as unfavorable by outside
investors.
All of these factors led to deteriorating equipment, a decline in skill
levels at existing mines, and the closure of a number of mines. Also, no
significant new mines have been developed over the last 40 years.
2.03     In the past three years, under Ghana's Economic Recovery Program,
the outlook for the mining sector has improved rapidly as:
(a) foreign exchange has been made available recently to the mines by
the Government which now permits foreign exchange retention
accounts for a portion of export revenues, and by means of the
weekly foreign exchange auctions carried out by the Bank of Ghana;
(b) the over-evaluation of the cedi has been substantially reduced by
devaluations and the foreign exchange auction. (However, the
over-valuation has not yet been eliminated);
(c) the infrastructure has begun to improve, especially Ghana
Railways' Western Line, which is the key transportation link for
the mines;
(d) new capital accompanied bv management assistance has been flowing
into existing mines from IDA, IFC, Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) and private sources, encouraged by the
Economic Recovery Program;
(e) the new Minerals and Mining Law of 1986, is providing a useful
framework for new mining investments in the country, (para. 2.26);
and



- 3 -
(f)  the receptivity of the Government to foreign investment is
improving.
2.04     As a result of the above factors, production of the mining sector
is rising. Output at existing mines is generally increasing and
considerable interest has been shown by foreign mining companies in
developing new gold mines. The first such new gold mine in 40 years was
North Queensland Company's (Austra'ia) heap leach operation near Kor:ongo on
which construction started in November 1986. Since that time, the Canadian
Bogosu Corporation, partially financed by IFC has reached agreement with
the Government on setting up a new mine as has Teberebie Goldfields
(U.S./Ireland). Others are in various stages of prospecting, evaluating
and negotiating potential operations.
2.05     The Government is placing greater emphasis on the mining sector.
In the initial stages of the Economic Recovery Program, the main emphasis
was restoration of exports especially by the sectors which were viewed as
having the capacity to expand rapidly - cocoa and timber. However,
emphasis is now shifting towards mining, which has a slower production
response to the improving economic environment, but has tremendous long run
potential. The mining sector, though greatly improved over the past three
years, still needs further assistance. Most of the existing mines require
extensive rehabilitation and several of rhe Government agencies dealing
with the mining sector need strengthening (paras. 2.18-2.24). In addition,
there is a need to "regularize" the role of small-scale miners and to
attract private capital for new mines and existing state owned mining
companies through joint ventures. The Project is designed to assist with
these needs.
B.   Structure of the Sector
Mining Companies
2.06     There are five long established mining companies; Ashanti
Goldfields Ltd. (AGL), State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC), Ghana National
Manganese Corporation (GNMC), Ghana Bauxite Company Ltd. (GBC), and Ghana
Consolidated Diamonds Ltd. (GCD). They employ about 24,000 people of whom
about 80Z are at the two gold mining companies, AGL and SGMC. All of the
mines operated by these companies are in the south western part of the
country, an old mining area with fairly complex geology (see maps).
2.07     Ashanti Goldfields is by far the largest and most profitable
company. It employs around 11,000 workers and operates a single large
underground gold mine at Obuasi. The company, 452 owned by Lonrho and 552
by the Government of Ghana, is in the midst of a US$160 million expansion
program to increase production from the current level of around 250,000 oz
per year to around 400,000 oz per year. Ore reserves are adequate to
support this expansion which has been funded from commercial sources and
IFC (para. 2.40).
2.08     The State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC) is the second largest
mining company, and is wholly Government owned. SGMC used to have five
mines but two of these have been shut for economic reasons (Konongo and
Bibiani) and the remaining operations are Tarkwa and Prestea, both of which



- 4 -
are underground mines, and Dunkwa which is a dredging operation. Tarkwa
and Prestea suffer from obsolete equipment, which is generally in poor
operating condition, and insufficient skilled and experienced personnel,
though this situation has improved sharply with the current rehabilitation
program.
2.09     Production at SGMC has been declining for 20 years, but the
decline accelerated sharply in the late 1970s and early 1980s. As late as
1978, production was 150,000 oz per year from four mines (Bibiani was
already closed). With the closure of Konongo in 1984 and the sharp decline
in output at Tarkwa and Prestea, production fell to only 35,000 oz in 1985
(see Annex 2.2). The problems at SGMC's mines were similar to those
experienced at other mines in Ghana, but more acute. SGMC was
unprofitable, lacked funds for buying spare parts or new equipment, and
suffered from the departure of many of its more skilled and experienced
personnel. The Government, under its Economic Recovery Program, has
started to rehabilitate SGMC with assistarce from IDA and CIDA.
Rehabilitation of the mines has so far caused production to rise to 40,000
oz in 1986, and 48,000 oz in 1987. However, at current levels of
production the mines, discussed below, are still not generating sufficient
revenues to cover operating expenses and additional outside financing is
necessary to complete the rehabilitation program.
2.10     Tarkwa employs around 2,400 workers and produces ore from large,
moderately dipping banket reefs, of sedimentary origin, similar to the gold
reefs found in South Africa. Proven and probable reserves (see below) are
adequate to support an enhanced production program for about 15 years and
in addition, there is a great deal of potential for developing additional
reserves in the banket reefs which underlie much of the area around the
mine.
2.11     Prestea employs about 4,000 workers and is physically a larger
mine than Tarkwa with more shafts and more extensive underground workings.
It exploits a series of steeply dipping reefs or veins similar to those
found at AGL, but with a lower grade of ore. Proven and probable reserves
(see below) are not quite sufficient to support a 15-year enhanced level of
production, but additional discoveries are anticipated. However, the
potential at Prestea is probably less than at Tarkwa since the reefs are
quite irregular and productivity will be harder to improve.
2.12     The Dunkwa operation employs 1,200 people and consists of five
dredges and associated support facilities. These dxedges are on the Offin
river where they mine gravel from the river banks and extract small
quantities of gold. From a typical cubic yard of gravel only about .004 oz
of gold is extracted. The key to the economic operation of Dunkwa is to
have the dredges operate as close to capacity as possible. At 'high levels
of utilization, enough gravel can be processed and gold extracted to make
the mine profitable. Currently, the dredges are in fairly poor shape, lack
spare parts, have ill-trained operators and as a result, utilization is
quite low although it has improved under the rehabilitation program.
Proven reserves, for the dredges are quite large (over 40 years of
production at substantially enhanced production levels) and potential
reserves are larger still.



Reserves of Selected Mines 1/
(Thousands tons)
Proven      Probable
Product          Mine                    Reserves      Reserves      Total
Gold            Prestea                   1,594.3       2,575        4,169
(grade, oz/t)             (0.19)        (0.25)       (0.23)
Gold            Tarkwa                      538         4,771        5,309
(grade, oz/t)             (0.24)       (0.20)        (0.21)
Gold            Dunkwa
(thousands cubic yards)          339,973                  339,973
(grade. oz/cubic yard)         (0.0042)                 (0.0042)
Manganese Ore   Nsuta oxides                182          1,257       1,439
carbonates                                   12,000
Diamonds        Akwatia
(thousands cubic meters)    9,87a         11,912      21,782
(grade, carats/cubic meter)   (1.29)        (1.10)       (1.19)
l/ As of early 1987.
2.13     Ghana National Manganese Company (GNMC), which is wholly
Government owned, has a manganese ore mine at Nsuta, close to Tarkwa. It
employs around 1,400 workers and produces two types of manganese ore,
manganese oxide and manganese carbonate, which are shipped by Ghana
Railways' Western Line to the port of Takoradi for export. Reserves of
mangaxnese oxide are quite limited (roughly four years of current
production) while reserves of manganese carbonate are extensive. However,
the export prices for manganese carbonate are !ignificantly lower than for
manganese oxide and the size of the mangane'o  a.bonate market is quite
small. Thus, GNMC does not think it can ri:cfitably expand its exports of
manganese carbonates. In order to prepare for the time when it exhausts
its manganese oxide reserves, the company, in 1979-82, had a large kiln
built to roast the manganese carbonate ore, and convert it to an artificial
manganese oxide ore (the roasting drives off the carbon dioxide, converting
the carbonates into oxides). This kiln has never operated, however,
because of a dispute between GNMC and the kiln contractor with the
contractor ceasing work before the kiln was commissioned. At this point
the economics of completing and operating the kiln are uncertain and the
future of the mine, after the manganese oxide ores are exhausted, is
uncertain.
2.14     Ghana Bauxite Company (GBC) is 45Z owned by British Alcan and 55Z
by the Government of Ghana. GBC operates a small bauxite mine, with
extensive reserves, at Awaso in the Western District of Ghana. It employs
around 500 workers. The bauxite is shipped by Ghana railways on its
Western Line to the port of Takoradi and exported from there to Europe -
almost entirely to the British Alcan plant at Burntisland in the United



Kingdom. The bauxite is used there to produce chemicals, for which it is
especially suitable. The mine currently earns a modest profit, but would
be much more profitable if exports could be increased. The main constraint
on exports is the shortage of railway locomotives and wagons to carry the
ore from the mine to the port of Takoradi. This transport issue will be
addressed in part under the Ghana Transport Rehabilitation Project and in
further discussions with Ghana Railway Corporation and British Alcan.
2.15     Ghana Consolidated Diamonds (GCD) operates a diamond mine at
Akwatia, about 150 km from Accra. It is wholly owned by the Government and
employs about 2,200 workers. The mine was a joint venture with
Consolidated African Selection Trust (CAST) until 1982 when due to the
exhaustion of the existing Akwatia reserves and the financial losses being
sustained as a result of the over-evaluation of the cedi, CAST turned its
share of the mine over to the Government. Since that time the mine has
been partially rehabilitated. New lower grade reserves (the Birim field)
have been proven and are now providing most of the diamond production. New
mining equipment has been purchased (primarily eight new trucks and two new
draglines) and the existing processing facilities for the diamond
containing gravel have been partially rehabilitated. However, GCD
estimates it needs additional funding of around US$16 million to complete
the rehabilitation of the mine. Without this additional funding the
rehabilitation will not be completed, production will not be sufficient to
finance operations and output will decline. Once fully rehabilitated,
however, the mine should produce about one million carats per year. Proven
reserves of diamonds are sufficient to sustain production for roughly 10
years at that level. In addition, there are several areas with substantial
potential reserves. GCD sells its diamonds through a system of limited
auctions which are attended primarily by dealers from Antwerp. GCD is not
part of the De Beers' controlled central s.elling organization, the diamond
cartel, however, it benefits from the pricing umbrella established by De
Beers.
Small-scale Mining
2.16     The small-scale mining industry is large, long-established and
well organized. It mines gold and diamonds, produces revenues of around
US$35 million per year and employs around 30,000 people. All of the gold
and diamaonds are produced from surface or near surface workings using only
artisanal technology since small-scale miners have little or no access to
even moderately sophisticated mining equipment or explosives. All of the
small-scale gold mining is unlicensed as is virtually all small-scale
diamond mining. The output of gold and diamonds is smuggled out of the
country since there is no legal way to sell the gold in Ghana and the
single official purchaser of diamonds, the Diamond Marketing Corporation
(DMC), has not been able to offer competitive prices for the small-scale
miners' production of diamonds (para. 2.25). However, the Government is
now trying to bring the above export of gold and diamonds into official
channels. A study of this issue was carried out with IDA funds under RIC
II (Credit 1573-GH) and completed in the spring of 1987. After discussing
the study with IDA, the Government is formulating a program to provide
legal channels for the sale of gold. Potentially, if all the gold were to
move through these legal channels it could add around US$25 million or more
to Ghana's annual exports.



-7-
2.17     There are two key issues:  (1) the number of legal buyers for
gold; and (2) the price such buyers can afford to pay for the gold. IDA
has encouraged the Government to establish several legal buyers including
at least the existing gold mining companies and DMC. A single bIyer, such
as DMC, is unlikely to be as innovat4kve or competitive with the snugglers
as several buyers. The most important issue, however, is the plice of
gold. Any legal buyer will be allowed to offer to buy gold at the free
market price for gold converted into cedis at the auction rate. It is
unclear at this point, however, whether this price will be suffi:iently
high to attract many sellers. The key is the difference between the
auction rate for foreign exchange and the parallel market rate. If these
two rates are close then the legal buyers of gold should be able to match
the cedi prices paid for gold by smugglers and as a result sumall-scale
miners should be willing to sell some of their gold production to these
legal buyers. However, if the parallel market rate for foreign exchange is
far higher than the auction rate, then the smugglers will be able to outbid
the legal buyers. Since a significant divergence between these two rates
is fairly common, some means must be found to deal with ..t. (The
divergence between the official rate for foreign exchange and the parallel
market rate has been greatly reduced by using an auction to determine the
official rate, but a significant divergence still exists.) An approach to
this problem is to pay the small-scale miners partly in foreign exchange,
which they can sell or use to import goods. The recent introduction of
Bureau de Changes will then allow the small-scale miners to legally sell
foreign exchange at close to parallel market rates. Other approaches are
also possible. In any case, this problem must be overcome if gold produced
by small-scale miners is to be diverted to legal channels. As part of this
project, the Government has agreed by December 31, 1988 to complete an
action plan satisfactory to IDA to provide legal and competitive sales
channels for the gold produced by small-scale miners and to implement this
plan not later than June 30, 1989.
Government Agencies
2.18     The main Government agencies dealing primarily with the mining
sector are all associated with the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
(MLNR). They include the Mines Department and the Geological Survey
Department (both Departments of MLNR), and the Minerals Commission (MC)
which is overseen by MLNR but operates outside it.
2.19     The MLNR oversees not only the Mines Department, the Geological
Survey Department, but several other Departments not directly related to
the mining sector. The headquarters staff of the MLNR which is headed by a
Secretary is extremely small and under-equipped. It lacks modern office
equipment (particularly small computers) and does not have any four wheel
drive vehicles for visiting the more remote mines (e.g. Awaso, Dunkwa).
This small group should, however, play a vital role in overseeir.g the
revival of the mining sector. The project includes office equipment and
four wheel drive vehicles for the MLNR.
2.20     The Minerals Commission (MC) was established under the Minerals
Commission Law of 1986 primarily to help formulate Government policy with
respect to "exploration for and exploitation of mineral resources" and to
handle "all public agreements relating to minerals." Its main current



- 8 -
function is to encourage the development of Ghana's mineral resources
through attracting foreign investors, negotiating leases with foreign
investors, and trying to bring the small-scale miners intc regular channels
(see para. 2.17). The MC has a small secretariat headed by a Chief
Executive and is funded by a levy on domestic aluminum sales in Ghana.
This funding keeps it outside the civil service pay system and allows it to
pay somewhat higher salaries. The MC is being helped by the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), which has a resident advisor working with the
Commission in Accra.  Nevertheless, the MC needs some additional assistance
both in its efforts to attract outside investors and to bring the small-
scale miners into regular channels.
2.21     The Mines Department is supposed to inspect Ghana's mines to
ensure their safety and to enforce the licensing and leasing provisions of
the Minerals and Mining Law of 1986 (para. 2.26). The Department is
totally incapable of doing this, however, because it lacks transport and
equipment. Until the spring of 1987, the Department had great difficulty
attracting qualified recruits since its salaries were too low.  Recently,
by promising salary increases, it has been able to attract six additional
employees, bringing its total professional labor force to eleven persons to
fill 17 positions. The Department, however, has only one vehicle, which
means that its inspectors have considerable difficulty getting to the
mines. Almost all of its instruments for testing mining equipment and
materials are broken and need to be replaced by more modern testing
equipment.
2.22     Unless the Government can manage to raise salaries in the Mines
Department, especially for mining engineers, it will remain understaffed
and unable to adequately perform its assigned tasks.  In fact many of the
current staff may leave if the promises of salary increases are not kept.
Under the project, the Mines Department will obtain the equipment and
vehicles for testing and mines inspections as well as technical assistance.
However, it might have insufficient personnel to adequately carry out these
functions, especially if salaries are not increased. MC, the Ghana Chamber
of Mines, and IDA have suggested to the Government that the Mines
Department should be delinked from the civil service pay scales and paid
out of royalties from the mines or paid for inspections which would be
compulsory. This would allow higher salaries and should be feasible given
the small size of the Department. As a part of this project, the
Government has agreed to carry out a study by December 31, 1988 of ways to
raise salaries in the Mines Department.
2.23     The Mines Department is located in Takoradi, about a three hour
drive from Accra. This location has the advantage that it allows easier
access to the mines but has the major disadvantage that the Mines
Department has poor communications with the rest of the Government in
Accra. Since the Mines Department will play a major role in implementing
the Minerals and Mining Law of 1986 and the program for improving the
operations of small-scale miners, closer communication and coordination
with the rest of the Government in Accra is critical for its effectiveness.
For this reason, the MLNR has agreed that it will move the Chief Inspector
of Mines to Accra as soon as housing and office space are available and in
any case no later than December 31, 1989. The technical part of the
Department will remain in Takoradi.



_ 9 _
2.24     The Geological Survey Department collects and publishes
information on Ghana's mineral resources. It employs around 2,000 people
including part time employees, of whom 45 are geologists and the rest
mostly lower level employees of various kinds including laborers, drivers
and laboratory technicians. The Department has relatively modern
laboratory equipment supplied under various bilateral arrangements.
However, it is seriously lacking in equipment for doing field work
including vehicles, tents, etc. As a result, the amount of field work
performed is very limited and its laboratories are underutilized. Another
major weakness of the Department is that it has no means of publishing the
geological work it has done or is doing. Papers written on various
geological topics are filed in the library.
2.25     The Diamond Marketing Corporation (DMC) has for a number of years
tried unsuccessfully to buy diamonds produced by small-scale miners in
Ghana, but it has been unable to match the prices paid by diamond
smugglers. As a result, essentially all of the diamonds produced by small-
scale miners are smuggled out of the country. The main problem is again
the divergence between the official and parallel market rates for foreign
exchange; which allows the diamond smugglers, who pay for the diamonds at
the parallel rate for foreign exchange, to outbid the DMC. The DMC, with
support under RIC II, has recently adopted a new approach to trying to
attract small-scale miners to sell to it. It has provided funds to two
diamond cooperatives to buy mining equipment. These cooperatives are
licensed small-scale diamond producers and, under the terms of their
financial arrangement with DMC, will be required not only to repay it for
the funds it has advanced them but also to sell the bulk of their diamond
output to DMC. If this approach is successful, it is likely to result in
greater diamond sales through DMC than the current approach of simply
trying to compete with the smugglers for diamonds. Moreover, when a
solution is found which enables legal buyers to purchase gold, it can also
be applied to diamonds. Finally, the DMC suffers from the problems typical
of many Government agencies (low salaries, underfunding, lack of
motivation), and this is likely to limit its success. Thus this market
should also be opened to other buyers.
Legislative and Financial Framework
2.26     The legislative and financial framework governing the mining
companies is laid down in the Minerals and Mining Law of 1986 (PNDC Law
Number 153). This Law establishes: (i) the licensing procedures required
to prospect for minerals; (ii) the procedures for obtaining a mining lease
which allows a company to carry out actual mining operations; and (iii) the
rights and obligations of prospectors and miners. Perhaps of greatest
importance, it sets the financia] framework for mining companies operating
in Ghana. The more important financial provisions are:
(a)  The Government automatically receives a 1OZ interest in all mining
operations and has the right to acouire another 20Z interest Won
such terms as will be agreed upon between the holder of a mining
lease and the Government";
(b) royalties are between 3-12Z with the rate set by MLNR (based on
profit margins);



- 10 -
(c) the income tax rate is 452 with rapid depreciation on capital
equipment (75Z depreciation in the first year);
(d) for very profitable mines there is a complex surtax called the
Additional Profit Tax;
(e) export oriented mines are guaranteed a foreign exchange retention
account for export revenues of at least 25Z; and
(f) imports of all mining equipment for new mines are duty free.
2.27     Though the Minerals and Mining Law establishes the legal framework
for the mining industry, it does not go into detail on most issues and
therefore its actual impact depends heavily on the implementing regulations
or interpretations established by the MC and approved by the MLNR. IDA and
IFC have carried out an active dialogue with the MC and the MLNR on the
necessity for having a workable set of implementing regulations or
interpretations of the Law which would make it financially feasible to
establish new mines in the country. This dialogue has been successful and
the Canadian Bogosu Resources Company, consisting of Canadian and Dutch
companies with IFC participation, has now completed its negotiations with
the MC and obtained a mining lease as has Teberebie Goldfields (US/Irish).
C. Prospects for the Sector
2.28     The mining sector has great potential for increasing production
and exports as a result of two major advantages: (i) its main product (85Z
of the value of sector output) is gold and the market for gold is very good
since it is in part an investment vehicle (para. 2.32), and (ii) Ghana has
considerable potential for increasing gold output from both new and
existing mines. The south-western part of Ghana is an area which is very
gold prone. It has a number of outcrops of gold bearing ore, old abandoned
gold mines, tailings and alluvial deposits. In 1986 an IDA consultant
identified, from readily available public information in Accra, a number of
good prospects with an indicated or inferred grade of at least 0.4 oz of
gold per ton of ore. This is over twice the ore grade which would attract
investors in the United States or Canada. Outside investors are becoming
aware of Ghana's gold potential and the MC has a number of applications for
prospecting licenses. If the MC continues to provide reasonable financial
terms for outside investors, there is likely to be a rapid increase in the
number of new mines leading to rapidly rising gold production.
2.29     However, not all of Ghana's increase in gold production will come
from new mines. As noted above, the two existing gold mining companies,
AGL and SGMC, have considerable potential to increase output. AGL is
embarked on a program to increase output substantially by 1990-91 (para.
2.07); wh:Lle the three SGMC mines, with the help of the proposed Project,
should be able to raise preduction from 40,000 oz in 1986 to over 140,000
oz per year by the early 1990s. For both of these companies there is also
the potential for further production increases, beyond the above levels.
2.30     The potential thus exists for Ghana to regain its earlier level of
gold production (close to one million oz per year in the late 1960s) or
even exceed it by the mid 1990s. The main requirements are gold prices



- 11 -
around US$400 per oz or above, an acceptable investment climate and
avoidance of a greatly overvalued currency. Ghana can do little about gold
prices, but it must continue to maintain an acceptable investment climate
for foreign investors. Ghana is competing with other gold mining
countries, including the United States, Canada and Australia, for capital
to be invested in gold mines, and if the investment climate is poor or the
currency severely overvalued, it may be difficult to attract this capital.
2.31     The prospects for growth in Ghana's other mineral exports, are not
as good as for gold. Production and exports of both diamonds and manganese
are limited by the relatively small proven and potential reserves of these
minerals. Diamonds have been found in several areas of Ghana in low
concentration, with the Birim deposit being the only known exploitable
reserve. This deposit is moderate to low grade and is alluvial. The
source of these alluvial diamonds has yet to be discovered. Manganese
oxide ore reserves are rapidly being exhausted and no new discoveries have
been made (para. 2.13). Bauxite reserves are plentiful and with improved
availability of trains, bauxite exports could be doubled or tripled.
However, as bauxite is a low value product, it is unlikely that it will
represent a significant portion of Ghana's mineral exports over the next
decade.
D. Sector Markets
2.32     The gold market is an unusual commodity market because it tends to
be dominated by investment demand. The main use of gold is as an
investment vehicle, a rtore of value, as it has been for centuries. Gold
prices are thus set by the demand and supply for gold with both supply and
demand heavily influenced by the prices of other investment vehicles (for
example, stocks, bonds, foreign currency deposits etc.) as well as by
political developments which might put a premium on the special character
of gold (easily marketable, transportable, concealable). The fact that
gold is an investment vehicle means that a large number of economic and
political factors impact on its price such as currency movements, inflation
and interest rates, economic growth rates, political crises, etc. These
factors when added to other influences on the price of gold such as gold
mine production, and fabrication demand, make forecasting the price of gold
extraordinarily difficult. Nevertheless the general structure of the gold
market is clear and is summarized below.
2.33     There are three major sources of gold supply for the Western
world: mine production, sales by centrally planned economies and supplies
of gold scrap. Mine production is the largest source of supply and
typically accounts for about 75Z of total supplies. Mine production has
been growing steadily from 959 tonnes in 1980 to around 1,400 tonnes in
1986 or about 6Z a year. South African production has declined while non-
South African production (especially in the United States, Canada and
Australia) has soared. Sales by centrally planned economics (mainly the
USSR) tend to be around 200 tonnes per year but move up or down depending
in large part on the USSR's foreign exchange requirements and its other
sources of foreign exchange earnings. The third source of supply is scrap,
much of which is old jewelry which is sold for reprocessing. The main
sources of scrap are India, Indonesia and the Middle East. Indian scrap
production and use are fairly stable while Indonesia and Middle Eastern



- 12 -
scrap production are enormously variable. These countries or areas produce
large amounts of scrap when gold prices are high or economic or political
conditions are poor, but when times are good or gold prices low, much less
scrap is produced. The decision to produce scrap in these countries, in
other words to sell old jewelry, is in many ways similar to an investment
decision. The jewelry is used as a store of value and an investment
vehicle; and in the developing countries, it generally contains much more
gold than in the developed countries since the gold used is much purer.
2.34     The demand for gold is largely investment related, directly or
indirectly. The direct investment demand is central bank purchases,
official coin purchases (for example purchases of the Canadian Maple Leaf
coins) and hoarding of gold in various forms, mainly gold bars. In
addition, as noted above, gold used in jewelry in the developing countries
functions, to a significant degree, as an investment. These investment
demands for gold, altogether, account for around 50-60Z of total demand.
The rest of the demand is for jewelry in developed countries and other
fabrication demands (electronics, dentistry etc.) The investment demand
for gold is the major factor determining its price, but different parts of
the investment demand react differently to gold prices. The demand for
jewelry in developing countries appears to rise when gold prices are low
and falls when they are high, while hoarding of bars is high when gold
prices are high. Altogether, investment demand for gold has been rising
steadily with almost all of this increase being private investment demand.
2.35     The future price of gold will depend mainly on how fast the
investment demand for gold grows relative to the likely continuing
expansion in supplies. Changes in investment demand for gold will in turn
depend on a large range of economic and political variables as discussed
above. An additional complication is that each year's production of gold
is only a tiny fraction of the existing world gold stock (over 100,000
tonnes). Altogether this means that forecasting gold prices is very
difficult though the outlook appears to be good since indications are that
private investors in the Western world, especially in North America, are
putting more gold in their portfolios. Rather than try to forecast gold
prices, however, the analysis of this project is based on the average US
dollar gold price over the past 12 years (1976-87) expressed in 1987 dollar
terms, but eliminating the peak year, 1980. These prices are shown in the
table below. This average price is US$400 per oz and is substantially
below recent gold prices, as well as being substantially below recent long
range gold price forecasts. However, given the volatility of gold prices
over the past decade, future prices could be anywhere between 402 below
this price to lOOZ above it. (More information on the gold market is
provided in Annex 2.2).



- 13 -
Gold Prices 1976-87
(USU/oz)
Year
1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1967
Actual
price       126  143  193  865  612  466  876  424  861  317  868  446
Price in
1987
dollar*      249  277  337  478  846  675  442  484  396  335  382  446
2.36     The diamond market is also important and is largely controlled by
a long established cartel run by the so-called Central Selling Organization
in London, which in turn is controlled by De Beers. The cartel completely
dominates the diamond jewelry market (larger, high quality stones) and has
a good deal of control over the industrial diamond market (smaller, poorer
quality stones). The cartel sets its prices based on demand and operates
an inventory buffer stock. The cartel has been effective in maintaining
high prices for diamonds and, over the last year or so, has pushed prices
up. In the longer run, the Central Selling Organization is likely to keep
prices at least stable in real terms. Although GCD is not a member of the
cartel, the prices it receives are determined by the pricing policy of the
cartel.
2.37     Manganese ore is mainly used as a steel additive and its market
prospects do not appear very good. Demand for manganese for use as a steel
additive is expected to grow slowly while new low cost sources of manganese
ore in Brazil may expand exports from that country. However, in order to
obtain a more accurate picture of the manganese ore market, especially the
manganese carbonate and calcined manganese carbonate markets, which are
vital for GNMC (para. 2.13), a study of this market will be carried out
with an advance from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) approved prior
to appraisal.
E. Sector Strategy and the Role of the Bank
2.38     The initial thrust of the Government's policy under the Economic
Recovery Program was to concentrate on the agricultural sector of the
economy which had the greatest potential for short run increases in exports
(cocoa and timber). Recently, the Government has placed greater emphasis
on mining which has a slower response time, but far more potential for
exports in the long term. The Government's strategy for the sector is to:
(a) increase efficiency of operations at existing mines; (b) rehabilitate
financially viable mines; (c) improve mining sector institutions; (d)
regularize the role of small-scale miners; and (e) allow private foreign
and local participation in new mining ventures. This strategy is
considered sound.
2.39     IDA has been actively involved in rehabilitating the gold mining
industry. Under the Export Rehabilitation Project (ERP, 1435-GH/SF-9-GH)
and the Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project (ERPTA 1436-GH),



- 14 -
IDA is assisting the Government in rehabilitating SGMC, as well as the
cocoa and timber industries. At the time these Credits were approved
(1983) it was estimated that US$80 million was required to rehabilitate
SGMC but only SDR 20.3 million (then equivalent to US$23.6 million) were
allocated for this purpose. This was largely an attempt to keep the SGMC
mines, which were in very bad shape, in operation until additional funding
could be found or an alternative solution achieved. It was also decided
that SGMC management needed strengthening and funds were provided under the
Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Credit (1436-GH) to hire a
contract management team to run SGMC's operations. Recruitment of the
contract management team took much longer than expected. However, a team
was eventually hired, the Canada-Ghana Mining Group or CGM, which consists
of a consortium of three Canadian companies, Cominco, Noranda and SNC. CGM
was substantially more expensive than anticipated, so additional funding
was obtained from CIDA. Because of the above delays, rehabilitation of the
mines did not begin until early 1986. By late 1987, most of the fun.'s
available under the Export Rehabilitation Project Credit for rehabilitating
SGMC had been either committed or spent and the rehabilitation program was
slowing sharply. The main achievement of the program so far has been to
reverse the 19Z per year decline in SGMC's production, which it had been
experiencing since 1978. Production is now rising but much more needs to
be done, since the rehabilitation is only 20-30Z complete.
2.40     In addition to IDA's help in rehabilitating SGMC, IFC has assisted
with the rehabilitation of AGL. As noted earlier, AGL has a US$160 million
rehabilitation program which is well under way and fully funded by a
mixture of cash flow from existing operations and commercial financing.
IFC played an active role in putting together this rehabilitation project
and arranging for commercial financing as well as providing US$27.5 million
in financing itself. IFC is also assisting, through equity participation,
in the development of a concession held by the Canadian Bogosu Resources
Company (the Bogosu Gold Evaluation Project).
2.41     IDA has worked closely with the Government in establishing a
coherent mining sector policy. This has included discussions on macro-
economic issues, general sectoral issues and specific problems such as the
role of small-scale miners and how _heir production could be brought into
normal marketing channels. Under the Reconstruction Import Credit II (RIC
II, 1573-GH), funds were advanced to the MC for a study of small-scale
mining and to the DMC to fund the purchase of diamond mining equipment for
use by two diamond cooperatives.
2.42     In short, IDA's role in the rehabilitation of Ghana's mining
sector has taken the form of an active dialogue on macro-economic and
sectoral issues, and the provision of funding for the rehabilitation of
SGMC. The proposed Project will continue these efforts and will result in
a substantial increase in gold production, an increase in private
participation in the sector and much stronger sectoral institutions.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiective
3.01     The primary objective of the Project is to continue to support the
rehabilitation of the mining sector by: (i) rehabilitating certain



- 15 -
existing, economically viable mines; (ii) helping to attract private
investors to the mining sector; (iii) strengthening the main governmental
agencies dealing with the sector; and (iv) increasing national benefits
from small-scale gold and diamond mining activities. The underlying
strategy is to leverage IDA lending by attracting cofinanciers and private
investors.
B. Project Description
3.02     The Project would finance:  (i) the rehabilitation of the SGMC
mines; (ii) technical assistance for sectoral promotion, primarily in the
form of evaluation studies for Government owned mines which could be used
to attract private capital (and by helping fund an exploration program);
(iii) technical assistance to certain governmental agencies to strengthen
them and help in attracting private capital; and (iv) technical assistance
for small-scale mining.
Rehabilitation of SGMC Mines
3.03     The largest component of the Project is continuing the
rehabilitation of SGMC's mines at Tarkwa, Prestea and Dunkwa. They suffer
from worn out equipment and SGMC does not have sufficient skilled and
experienced personnel to operate the mines effectively without technical
assistance. The CGM group (see para. 2.39) is currently providing
technical assistance and training to the SGMC personnel. However, this
process is far from complete and technical assistance and training for
SGMC, which would be provided under this project, will be required for at
least another three years. The physical requirements for rehabilitating
the three mines, including the establishment of a spare parts inventory at
each mine, are summarized briefly below.
3.04     Tarkwa is an old mine and needs extensive rehabilitation.  The
work includes repair or replacement of existing equipment and development
work to provide access to new ore reserves. The largest single item is
repair of the mine's winders (hoists) which are unsafe. Other major items
are a new subvertical shaft in the Fanti area of the mine and an emergency
power system. The bulk of the expenditures are, however, spare parts and
new machinery including underground and surface transport, crushers, jigs,
compressors, pumps, filters, switchgear, compressed air lines, power lines,
etc.
3.05     At Prestea the largest items are to rehabilitate eight winders
which are unsafe and to deepen the No. 6 subvertical shaft and install a
new and more powerful winder at it. However, the bulk of the work is to
replace, or repair equipment and includes; new underground locomotives,
drills, secondary fans, raise boring equipment, skips and cages, etc.
Also, substantial repairs will be made to the electrical, air, water and
telephone systems for the mine including new piping, wiring, electrical
motors, switchgear, etc. The crushers and ball mills will be rebuilt and
many of the existing pumps for moving water and slurry will be replaced.
3.06     At Dunkwa the rehabilitation program would involve significant
reconstruction of the dredges to eliminate certain design flaws and
weaknesses. Of even greater importance, however, would be the



- 16 -
establishment of a spare parts stockpile and extensive training of the
dredge operators.  A spare parts stockpile would prevent shutting down the
dredges everytime a part breaks and has to be delivered from the United
Kingdom, while trained operators would reduce the damage inflicted on the
dredges by inexperienced personnel and increase operational efficiency.
Technical Assistance for Sectoral Promotion
3.07     Evaluation studies are being done for SGMC's Tarkwa and Prestea
mines (financed by a PPF) and to a large extent have been done for Dunkwa.
These studies should assist in the process of finding joint venture
partners for these mines. They will provide unbiased information on the
mines and a common set of facts to form the basis for negotiating on a
joint venture agreement. In addition, the Project will provide funds for
technical assistance in joint venture negotiations.
3.08     The rehabilitation plans for GCD and GNMC are not quite as far
advanced as the plan for SGMC because the former companies have not had the
amount of analysis and review that SGMC has experienced as a result of its
ongoing rehabilitation program. For this reason, as well as the
constraints on available financing, the Project will not attempt to fund
the rehabilitation of these companies but rather will have evaluation
studies done for GCD and GNMC. The evaluation studies would asses? the
rehabilitation programs for the companies and their ultimate viability.
They could be used to attract private investors, if the companies were
found to be viable. IDA will finance the evaluation studies for GNMC while
a cofinancier will finance the study for GCD.
3.09     This project will also include approximately US$1.5 million to
help fund the Government's 20Z ownership share of a gold exploration and
promotion company. The Government has agreed to take all measures required
on its part to set this company up by December 31, 1988 under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. This company will undertake prospecting
work and preliminary evaluations of minerals discoveries which will then be
turned over to other firms for development, with the exploration company
receiving an ownership interest or other form of compensation. Much of
this company's exploration work would be in areas which are currently
receiving less prospecting activity and the main mineral sought would be
gold. IFC and AGL will help set up the company and will be shareholders as
would a Ghana Gold Mutual Fund which IFC is planning to establish.
Technical Assistance to Strengthen Government Mining Sector Agencies
3.10     The Project will provide technical assistance to Government mining
sector agencies. The single largest component will be assistance to the
Mines Department in its rehabilitation program, which will be co-financed
by the UNDP. In addition, technical assistance will be provided to the
MLNR to do an environmental study of surface mining in Ghana (see para.
3.20). For the MC, some additional funds will be provided for training,
consulting, promotion, and for doing limited stadies on various mineral
deposits - mostly industrial minerals. These studies would then be used to
attract outside investors. Finally, in the case of the Geological Survey
Department, funding will be provided to publish the results of its work.
This should make the work more accessible to prospectors and as a result



- 11 -
make Ghana more attractive to prospectors and increase the likelihood of
success.
3.11     The Project will also provide direct support, primarily for
equipment needed to allow the Mines Department, Geological Survey
Department and MLNR, to carry out their roles more effectively. This would
include: (i) testing equipment for the Mines Department in order to ensure
the safety of the mines; (ii) prospecting equipment for the Geological
Survey Department; and (iii) office equipment including small computers for
the headquarters staff of the Ministry. In addition, four-wheel drive
vehicles will be provided to these agencies to improve the access of their
staff to some of the more remote mines and prospects.
Technical Assistance for Small-scale Mining
3.12     The Government is taking a major step in this area by developing a
plan to allow small-scale miners to sell gold legally, thus "regularizing"
their status. A second step is to allow other institutions, besides DMC to
purchase diamonds from small-scale miners (paras. 2.16-2.17). In addition,
the MC has a plan to improve the productivity of small-scale miners by
having the Mines Department employ a small group of mines wardens, whose
main task would be to work with the small-scale miners to increase their
output. These mines wardens, many of whom would be former small-scale
miners, could be hired for civil service salaries.  The Project would
provide: (i) various types of training equipment and motor bikes for the
mines wardens; and (ii) technical assistance to the MC in their effort to
regularize the position of small-scale miners.
C. Proiect Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
Project Implementation
3.13     The various components of the proposed Project will be
respectively executed by the operators of the mining firms and by the
Government agencies benefiting from it. At SGMC, the four year program to
complete the ongoing rehabilitation of its mines will be implemented by a
combination of SGMC management and skilled outside experts on the SGMC
payroll including some CGM personnel (see para. 4.04). After joint venture
negotiations are complete, it is expected that SGMC may continue to own and
operate Tarkwa and Prestea but that the rehabilitation of Dunkwa will
probably be the responsibility of an experienced management team from a
foreign joint venture partner (see para. 4.03). The evaluation studies for
SGMC, GCD and GNMA will be executed by consultants with the assistance of
the managements of these firms. SGMC's consultants (hired under a PPF) are
in the late stages of their evaluation studies while the consultants for
GCD and GNMC (the latter also hired under a PPF) are just beginning work.
At the MC, the MLNR, the Mines ' partment, and the Geological Survey
Department, strengthening and improvement programs for these Government
agencies will be implemented by the management of these agencies with some
technical assistance, especially for the Mines Department. Promotion
activities, to attract private capital and carry out joint venture
negotiations, will be implemented with assistance from foreign advisors.
The organization of the exploration company will be established by AGL and
IFC. Ongoing planning efforts at the MC to improve small-scale mining will
be assisted by foreign consultants as will implementation of these plans by
the MC and Mines Department.



- L8 -
3.14     The proposed Project will be implemented over four years.  An
implementation schedule for the Project components is given in Annex 3.2,
which shows that: (a) rehabilitation and training at SGMC is ongoing and
will continue throughout the duration of the Project; (b) evaluation
studies of SGMC will be concluded in May 1988 with the GCD and GNMC studies
completed by July/August 1988; (c) invitations to bid on joint venture
partnerships for the mines should be issued by Augusc 1988; (d) joint
venture negotiations should be initiated by October 1988 and possibly
concluded by January 1989; (e) promotion is also ongoing and should
continue, during the four years of project duration due to the growing
interest of international firms in developing new gold mines in Ghana; (f)
strengthening of Government sector agencies should be initiated by the MLNR
in the second quarter of 1988, with the acquisition of mIcrocomputers under
the Project Preparation Facility, followed by the Mines Department and the
Geological Survey Department in the third quarter of 1988, with activities
to initiate rehabilitation and training at the former, and procurement of
equipment and publication of geological exploration reports at the latter;
and (g) assistance to the MC and Mines Department for their work with
small-scale miners would be initiated in mid-1988 in order to complete
preparation of a program to improve small scale mining and implement it
over a period of four years.
D. Environmental Aspects and Safety
Environment
3.15     The current activities of the mining sector in Ghana have very
limited environmental effects in the form of subsidence. surface
disturbances or disposal of waste from mining and metallurgical processing.
This is primarily because there are few mines, they are not very productive
by international standards and because the underground mining methods
traditionally used are not based on caving techniques. The disposal of
waste is monitored by the Government through the Environmental Protection
Council, under the Mir.istry of Industry and Science. In addition, the
mines do some monitoring of their discharge waste, though this varies with
the particular mines. Air quality of underground facilities is not
currently checked. As a part of this project, IDA and the Government
agreed that the Mines Department will be responsible for monitoring
underground air to examine dust levels and the exhausts of underground
equipment and for analyzing the amount of carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide,
hydrogen, cyanide, sulfur dioxide, nitric oxides, arsenic and moisture in
the air to ensure they remain within safe limits. This monitoring will
start by December 31, 1989.
3.16     The operations of SGMC generate solid, liquid and gaseous waste as
by-products of its gold mining and metallurgical activities. At Tarkwa the
main effluent originates from gold leaching which is executed by adding 1.2
lb of cyanide, 2.9 lb of lime and 0.03 lb of zinc per ton of ore, which
produces tailings with average solid contents of 30Z at a rate of about
30,000 tons per month. These are disposed of to a tailings pond, which
discharges over a weir into the Bonsa river, with a stay period of



- 19 -
approximately two days which is believed to be enough to cause the cyanide
to decay. About 15 miles down the river, water is treated for village
consumption and monitoring of its chemical content is done by the
Environmental Protection Council. The other major effluent is excess
barren solution, containing about 0.1 lb of cyanide per ton of solution,
which is discharged in the tailings pond at rates of about 100 tpd. This
pond has been in use since 1936, and its basin is nearly full. A new pond
will become necessary during the next decade. It will be established in an
area already defined adjacent to the mine.
3.17     Prestea produces only small amouaLts of effluents containing
cyanide. These effluents originate from: (a) gold leaching with dosages
of 0.3 lb of cyanide and 0.5 lb of lime per ton of ore, producing around 20
tpd of tailings; and (b) excess barren solutions at rates between 15-20
tpd. These cyanide bearing effluents are discharged to a tailings pond.
The main effluents (95Z of total) are flotation tailings with a solid
content of about 65Z. These tailings do not contain cyanide or acids
although they do contain dosages of 0.17 lb of pine oil, 0.3 lb of
xanthates and 0.2 lb of copper sulphate per ton of ore. They are
discharged through a two mile ditch to the Ankobra river. Additionally,
Prestea produces smoke discharges from roasting, which contain small
amounts of antimony, iron, arsenic and sulphur.
3.18     At Dunkwa, environmental effects from dredging are similar or less
than those typically observed elsewhere in the world. Dredging is done
only in concession areas held by SGMC, and has not resulted and is not
expected to result in relocating farmers. The farmers do not live in the
areas dredged by SGMC since these areas are so often flooded. The farmers
are awarded monetary compensation when there is occasional dredging of
areas with cocoa trees. Apparently, the farmers welcome dredging because
it results in roads, since the dredges have to be accessible by road. The
main effluent from dredging is mercury which is replenished at a high rate
of 1,140 lb per year, mainly because of theft. Under the Project, security
of mercury storage, and monitoring of its consumption will be significantly
improved.
3.19     Limited systematic monitoring of effluent discharges is currently
undertaken by SGMC. As a part of the project, it was agreed that SGHC will
(i) develop a plan to systematically monitor effluents by September 30,
1988; (ii) start monitoring of effluent discharges by June 30, 1989; and
(iii) based on this monitoring to develop a p'an acceptable to IDA to
control effluents and mine dust by March 31, 1990 and to implement this
plan. Agreement was also reached with SGMC to fence the tailings ponds at
Tarkwa and Prestea by December 31, 1988 and prohibit farming within their
boundaries.
3.20     At GNMC and GCD there appear to be few waste discharge problems
since there is no chemical treatment of the ores. In fact, at both mines,
some of the waste rock is sold as paving material. However, both mines are
surface mines so there is some disturbance of the land. This is more acute
at GCD (Akwatia) than at GNMC (Nsuta) since the former mine covers a larger
area. The problems created by surface mines are likely to grow in Ghana
since most of the new mines in the country will be surface gold mines. The
Government has requested and IDA has agreed to a study on reclamation of



- 20 -
surface mines with this study to be completed no later than July 1, 1989.
The Government has agreed to review this report with IDA and use it to
formulate appropriate reclamation regulations by July 1, 1990.
Safety
3.21     SGMC's winders (hoists) are used at the uwderground mines to move
men, equipment, ore and waste materials between unierground and the
surface. They are in poor condition, and their failure could result in
substantial loss of life as well as a severe loss of production. Because
of the hazardous condition of the winders, the CGM team has initiated some
of the easier and more obvious repairs. A study of the strategy, scope and
basic engineering work for the rehabilitation of the winders has now been
completed by a task force with members seconded from Cominco and Noranda.
The rehabilitation of the winders is a key part of the project and will be
carried out rapidly in order to improve safety at the mines.
IV. CAPITAL COST. FINANCING/MANAGEMENT PLAN, AND PROCUREMENT
A. Capital Costs
4.01     The capital costs for the Project: are &,mmarized in the table
below. More detailed capital costs are contiaind in Annex 4.1. The total
cost of the Project, including all contingen.L_s, is about US$120 million
equivalent. Of this total, about 94Z is foreign exchange and 6Z local
costs. About 94Z of the funds will be used to rehabilitate the SGMC mines
with the remainder used to strengthen Government agencies, promote the
sector, and help small-scale miners. The outlays on the SGMC mines consist
overwhelmingly of purchases of spare parts, replacement equipment and
technical assistance. There is relatively little new construction or use
of local materials. These capital cost estimates were prepared by the CGM
group and are based on costs of equipment as of mid-1987. They include a
little under US$9 million in working capital. Most of these costs are
originally in pounds sterling since the existing equipment is
overwhelmingly of U.K. origin. Price contingencies are based on inflation
rates of 3.02 for 1987, 1.02 for 1988-1990, and 3.52 for 1991-1995. The
physical contingencies are estimated at 10? on all the mining equipment and
vehicles. The technical assistance is assumed to be fixed price as is the
case with the current management contract.



- 21 -
Summary of Capital Cost Estimates
(USS equivalent in millions)
A.  Rehabilitation of SGMC Mines           Foreign        Local      Total
Tarkwa
Equipment, spare parts, labor            37.3         1.5         38.8
Management contract, consulting           5.0           .5         5.5
Subtotal                               42.3         2.0         44.3
Prestea
Equipment, spare parts, labor            32.7         2.3         35.0
Management contract, consulting           6.0           .7         6.7
Subtotal                               38.7         3.0         41.7
Dunkva
Equipment, spare parts, labor            11.1           .7        11.8
Management contract, consulting           5.0           .5         5.5
Subtotal                              16.1          1.2         17.3
Total Component A                   97.1          6.2        103.3
B.  Sectoral Promotion                        2.9          0.1         3.0
C.  Strengthening of Government Agencies
Geological Survey                         0.2            -         0.2
Mines Department                          1.1          0.1         1.2
Other Agencies                            0.5                      0.5
Total Component C                     1.8         0.1          1.9
Di T.A. for Small-scale Mining                0.5          0.1         0.6
Total Project Base Cost                 102.3         6.5        108.8
Price Contingencies                       2.5           .5         3.0
Physical Contingencies                    8.0         0.2          8.2
Total Project Cost                   112.8          7.2        120.0



- 22 -
B. Financing/Management Plan
4.02     A financing/management plan for this rehabilitation Project was
agreed to at appraisal by SGMC, the Government and IDA, and confirmed at
negotiations. At this point it appears to be quite achievable. However,
this plan cannot be fully implemented until the fourth quarter of 1988 at
the earliest since it requires obtaining funding from cofinanciers, who
will do their own evaluations, and attracting private capital, both of
which take time.
4.03     The financing/management plan for this Project will try to
mobilize private investor(s) on a joint venture basis to the extent
possible. The reasons for this are that establishing one or more joint
ventures should: (i) attract additional private financing for the
rehabilitation of the mines thus making it easier to obtain the total
financing required; and (ii) serve to bring in a skilled and experienced
management team to manage the mine or mines which are joint ventured, with
this management team having a strong incentive to produce gold in order to
justify its investment. A program has been set up to offer all three SGMC
mines and their adjoining concession areas to potential joint venture
partners and a schedule for this joint venture program was agreed to at
appraisal. However, given that the three mines vary substantially in their
financial attractiveness (see para. 5.09); with Dunkwa the most attractive,
followed by Tarkwa and Prestea, it may not be possible to obtain joint
venture partners for all three of them. Thus, the plan makes the
conservative but realistic assumption that only the most attractive mine,
Dunkwa, (for which an offer already exists), can be successfully turned
into a joint venture. Nevertheless, every effort will continue to be made
to obtain joint venture partners for all three.
4.04     The plan also assumes that skilled, experienced management teams
are in place for all three mines throughout the period of rehabilitation
and beyond. For Dunkwa it is expected that SGMC will manage the mine only
during an interim period until a joint venture agreement is reached and
that the joint venture partner will eventually provide a management team
for it. SGMC will, however, in all likelihood be responsible for managing
Tarkwa and Prestea on a longer term basis. Currently, SGMC does not have
on its payroll, sufficient skilled and experienced staff to manage these
mines. It will therefore be necessary for SGMC to obtain these personnel
through individual hiring of experienced mining personnel and by keeping
many of the CGM personnel. Currently, SGMC is negotiating a technical
assistance contract with CGM whose personnel would then be supplemented by
recruitment of individual expatriates at lower cost. Lonrho (U.K.) will
assist SGMC in hiring these individuals. If it turns out not to be
feasible to recruit sufficient experienced mining personnel as individuals,
then it is possible that more CGM personnel will be used. In any event, a
condition of this credit is that progress on management arrangements
satisfactory to IDA should have been made prior to credit effectiveness.
4.05     The general financing plan for the Project is shown in the table
below. SGMC and the Government would provide all local financing required.
In addition, SGMC's cash flow should be sufficient to provide US$28.5
million in foreign exchange during the four year period of the plan (mostly
in the last two years). Private capital, both equity and non-Government



- 23 -
guaranteed loans, should provide another US$16.5 million consisting of
financing for Dunkwa and the purchase of a major interest in it (see Annex
5.2). This leaves a requirement of approximately US$35 million from
cofinanciers.
Financing Plan 1/
(US$ million)
Local             Foreign Costs
Gov. 2/ Dunkwa Prestea/Tarkwa Total
SGMC (cash flow)             6.9       _         2.7        18.9         28.5
Government                   0.3       -          -           -           0.3
IDA                                   4.5        2.4        32.1         40.0
Cofinanciers                          0.7                   34.0         34.7
Joint venturer/commercial    -125                            4.0         16.5
Total                      7.2      5.2      17.6         90.0       120.0
1/ Assumes only Dunkwa set up as a joint venture; other mines wholly
owned by SGMC.
2/ Includes sectoral promotion, strengthening agencies, small-scale
mining.
4.06     Role of Cofinanciers.  A number of potential cofinanciers have
been contacted including European Investment Bank (EIB), African
Development Bank (ADB), UNDP, CIDA, Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique, Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), and Export
Development Corporation (Canada) (EDC). During a cofinanciers' meeting in
December 1987, these agencies confirmed substantial interest in
participating in this Project, especially ADB, EIB, Caisse Centrale and
UNDP who appear to be the most advanced in terms of preparing their project
documentation. ADB, EIB and Caisse Centrale would provide financing for
SGMC. Caisse Centrale would also fund the evaluation study for GCD and
possibly assist in its rehabilitation, while UNDP would fund technical
assistance for the Mines Department. The precise need for cofinancing for
SGMC will not be known until negotiations with the potential joint venture
partners for the mines are well underway, probably around October 1988. In
the meantime, however, there is a requirement for at least US$35 million in
cofinancing, as shown in the plan.
4.07     The proposed IDA credit of US$40 million equivalent shown above
would be extended to the Government of Ghana under standard terms. The
Government of Ghana would then on-lend US$35.85 million equivalent to SGMC
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The conclusion of an
acceptable subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and SGMC would
be a condition of effectiveness.
4.08     It is quite probable that more financing will be available than is
indicated in the above plan. A bid might be made for Tarkwa or Prestea,



- 24 -
especially the former. This would increase the amount of funds available,
by providing additional private capital. In addition, more funds are
available from cofinanciers.
4.09     The above financing plan also implies a very substantial build up
of working capital by SGMC (see Annex 5.3). To the extent that SGMC is
slower in paying its overdue bills and building inventories, the
requirement for cofinancing can also be reduced.
4.10     Tranching.  The financing plan shown in para. 4.05 is the best
estimate of what the final financing plan will look like. It is not
important, however, that this exact plan be implemented. What is important
is that the final financing plan adopted and implemented for this Project
provide sufficient funds for its completion. A financing plan which does
not provide sufficient funds would lead to project delays and further
financing efforts would be required. In order to ensure that sufficient
financing is available and an experienced management team is in place, it
is recommended that the proposed IDA credit of US$40 million (after
refinancing of US$1.45 million in a PPF - para. 4.15) be committed in two
tranches. The first tranche of US$23.0 million (including refinancing the
PPF and funds for the sectoral institutions) would be available for
commitment on credit effectiveness,with progress on management
arrangements (para. 4.04) and financing, satisfactory to IDA, a requirement
for effectiveness. The main uses of the first tranche would be to fund the
urgently needed rehabilitation of the winders at Prestea and Tarkwa (to
improve safety) and to continue the ongoing rehabilitation project. SGMC
is not yet at a break even level in terms of foreign exchange earnings and
without additional outside funding, production will start to decline. A
condition of the second tranche is that it would only be made available
when the Government and SGMC have made arrangements satisfactory to IDA for
implementing the rehabilitation plan including adequate financing,
organizational arrangements and the extent to which the mines will be joint
ventured. The main criteria that would be used to judge whether these
arrangements are satisfactory would be the amount and availability of
financing for the rehabilitation plan and organizational arrangements at
SGMC such that the plan can be implemented.
C. Procurement
4.11     Procurement of all IDA-financed items will follow the Guidelines
for Procurement under Bank Loans and IDA Credits. Import taxes levied on
project imports financed by IDA in accordance with IDA guidelines should be
borne by the Government. During negotiations, the Government agreed to
exempt project imports procured under the Credit, through ICB or LIB in
accordance with IDA procurement guidelines, from pre-shipment price
inspection by a third party inspection firm. Procurement of items financed
by cofinanciers will follow the respective procurement procedures of these
institutions. The procurement arrangements are summarized in the following
table.



-25 -
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Total
ICB      LIB       Other      Cost
1. SGMC Rehabilitation
TARKWA
Mining equip. & spares           0.9        3.0        0.8        4.7
(0.9)      (1.0)      (0.8)      (2.7)
Winders & shafts               '11.5        7.4        0.7       19.6
(-)      (3.0)        (-)      (3.0)
Plant equip. & spares            3.1       11.3        1.8       16.2
(3.0)      (3.1)      (1.8)      (7.9)
Support & adm. equip.            0.7        2.7         -         3.4
Management, T.A. and
Consulting Services             -          -        5.5        5.5
(-)() (4.0)  (4.0)
Sub Total                    16.2       24.4        8.8       49.4
(3.9)      (7.1)      (6.6)    (17.6)
PRESTEA
Mining equip. & spares           2.0        2.1        0.6        4.7
(1.5)      (0.3)       (-)      (1.8)
Winders & shafts                 8.7        6.0        0.5       15.2
(-)      (2.0)        (-)      (2.0)
Plant equip. & spares            4.5        9.6        1.4      15.5
(4.0)      (2.7)       (-)      (4.7)
Support & adm. equip.
and spares                    3.1        0.5        0.5        4.1
(-)       (-)        (-)        (-)
Management, T.A. and
Consulting Services             -          -        6.7        6.7
(-)        (-)      (5.0)      (5.0)
Sub Total                    18.3       18.2        9.7       46.2
(5.5)      (5.0)      (5.0)    (15.5)
DULNKWA
Dredge equip. & spares           4.7        1.9        2.8        9.4
(-)       (-)       (1.4)      (1.4)
Support & adm. equip.
and spares                    2.0        1.5        0.5        4.0
(-)       (-)        (-)        (-)
Management, T.A. and
Consulting Services             -         -         5.5        5.5
(-)       (-)       (1.0)      (1.0)
Sub Total                     6.7        3.4        8.8       18.9
C-)        (-)      (2.4)      (2.4)
2.  Strengthening of Government
Agencies                            1.58       0.2        0.1        1.88
(1.10)    (0.2)        (-)      (1.30)



- 26 -
3. Technical Assistance for
Sectoral Promotion                0.27       0.73      1.97       2.97
(0.12)    (0.73)    (1.85)    (2.70)
4. Assistance for Small-scale
Mines                              0.5        -         0.1       0.6
(0.5)      (-)        (-)      (0.5)
Grand Total                   43.55      46.93     29.47    120.0
(11.12)   (13.03)   (15.85)   (40.00)
Notes Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 27 -
4.12     The table shows that US$10.0 million (equivalent to 25Z of the
proposed IDA credit) will fund technical assistance, either the hiring of
individual experts or the extension of the ongoing services of consultants
contracted under IDA Credit 1436-GH. Also, since a substantial component
of the Project will be the repair of SGMC's aged equipment ard facilities,
about US$6.0 million of the proposed credit will be disbursed towards
direct purchases of proprietary equipment, selected and purchased by SGMC
in a manner, and under contractual terms satisfactory to IDA. This amount
of sole source procurement will permit replacing or adding to existing
proprietary components already installed and in use at the mines,
processing plants and supporting facilities.
4.13     Additionally, IDA will fund equipment including about two years of
spares, and services amounting to about US$11 million which will be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) using Bank/IDA
Procurement Guidelines. The ICB will be mainly for 13 contracts (value
about US$7.4 million) dealing with mining equipment, and mineral processing
equipment. Also, about US$13.0 million (equivalent to approximately 30Z of
the proposed credit) will be procured through Limited International Bidding
(LIB) procedures for providing services and replacing equipment that: (i)
can only be supplied by a limited number of firms able to provide highly
specialized services or equipment suitable to replace existing mine and
plant equipment, including the rehabilitation of winders and improvements
or extensions of shafts; and (ii) are acquired in packages costing less
than US$350,000 each. Goods and services to be financed by IDA have been
grouped in packages acceptable to IDA. Since the credit will be disbursed
in two tranches (para. 4.10), these packages have been scheduled so that
procurement and disbursement of the credit will correspond to the tranches.
Moreover, the project implementation timetable requires advance contracting
starting after January 16, 1988, of spares and consumables amounting to
US$4.0 million to be procured following IDA guidelines and which IDA would
finance retroactively reflecting the urgency with which these items are
required by the project.
4.14     Technical Assistance, Consulting and Training.  Contracting of
technical assistance, consulting and training staff will be handled by the
operators of the mining firms and the Government agencies benefited by the
proposed project respectively, following procedures acceptable to IDA.
These services will include hiring of individual employees, using a
specialized mining employment agency, and the technical assistance contract
for CGM as well as consulting arrangements for sector promotion,
strengthening of sectoral agencies and improvements in small-scale mining
activities.
4.15     Studies.  The three evaluation studies have been contracted, using
procedures that follow Bank/IDA Guidelines. The contract for preparation
of evaluations for Tarkwa and Prestea was negotiated in October 1987, by
SGMC with RTZ Engineering (U.K.) on a sole source basis, in agreement with
IDA. This was done because RTZ is the only consulting firm familiar with
SGMC's operations as a result of a prior study, and because SGMC strongly
preferred them. GNMC has negotiated contracts with consultants selecte'd
from a short-list of consultants acceptable to IDA. These consultants will
prepare marketing and technical studies on GNMC's operations. In view of
the urgency of starting these studies rapidly, IDA has approved a PPF for



- 28 -
financing their execution. The remainder of the IDA financed consulting,
specifically, the study of the environmental implications of surface mining
estimated to cost about US$150,000 and the investment advisory role in
assisting the Government to joint venture the mines, will also be
contracted following IDA Guidelines, with funds from a supplementary PPF
approved by IDA after project appraisal.
4.16     Contract Review.  For the first tranche of the project, IDA would
review and clear on a case-by-case basis: (i) bidding documents prior to
their being issued to potential suppliers and to finalization of bid
evaluations, contract awards, and terms and conditions of contracts; and
(ii) SGMC's proposals for sole source procurement. For both tranches, on
the basis of an examination of goods and services required to rehabilitate
SGMC as proposed in SGMC's list of procurement packages, IDA would review
and clear bidding documents of SGMC, prior to their being issued to
potential suppliers, for packages estimated to exceed US$350,000 (about 39
equipment packages having a total value of approximately US$16.5 million).
For these packages, IDA would also review bid evaluations, proposed awards
of contract, and terms and conditions of contract prior to their
finalization. Each package with a value estimated below US$350,000 would
be subject to post review by IDA. To ensure satisfactory adherence to
IDA's procurement procedures, the first ten packages handled by SGMC will
be subject to prior review by IDA, irrespective of their value or
procurement procedure followed. For procurement packages of all remaining
project components, other than with SGMC, IDA would review and clear all
bidding documents prior to their being issued to potential suppliers. For
these packages, IDA would also review bid evaluations, award of contracts,
and terms and conditions of contracts prior to their finalization.
D. Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
4.17     The IDA credit of US$40 million will finance goods and services
for packages listed in Annex 4.3, in accordance with the allocation
summarized in the table below. A disbursement table is included in the
Credit and Project Summary of this Staff Appraisal Report and irl more
detail at Annex 4.2.
Allocation of IDA Credit
(US million)
Sector Promotion
Agency Rehabilitation  Mineral
Category         SGMC   and Small-scale Minins   Exploration   Total  '    Remarks
Equipment Spares                                                              100X of
and Materials     21.00          1.20             1.20      23.4    68.6   foreign costs
90% of local
costs
Mnageme nt, Tech. Asat.
*nd Consulting    10.00          1.80              .30      12.10   30.2   100l
Unallocated         4.50                              -       4.50   11.3      -
Total              85.50           3.00             1.60     40.00   100.0



- 29 -
Disbursement applications will be submitted with full supporting
documentation, with the exception of payments against contracts for goods
valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent, and payments against other
contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent. Supporting documentation for
applications made on the basis of statements of expenditure will be
retained by SGMC or MLNR as appropriate, suitably cross-referenced to the
relevant withdrawal application and made available for review by
supervision missions upon request. Audit reports will include a review of
the adequacy of documentation for all amounts withdrawn on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
4.18     To facilitate withdrawal of the credit proceeds, two separate
special accounts will be established in a commercial bank and operated on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The first account will be operated
by SGMC, with an authorized allocation of US$1,500,000. The second account
will be operated by the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources to serve
all agencies other than SGMC and will have an authorized allocation of
US$500,000. Replenishment applications for these accounts will be
submitted on a regular monthly basis, or when withdrawals are equal to one-
third of the amount advanced, whichever is first.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF SGMC
Historical Financial Performance
5.01     SGMC has sustained losses for many years but have worsened over
the past five years, 1982-86. These losses were due to a number of factors
which are listed in para. 2.02, and which caused gold production to
decline. In addition to incurring losses, the company did not generate
enough cash flow to cover operating costs and the minimal level of capital
investment which was undertaken. This cash flow shortage caused the
company to borrow heavily from the Ghana Commercial Bank, and from the
Government, to fail to pay its debts to the Volta River Authority (VRA) and
to fall behind on its staff welfare payments to the Government. This
resulted in a large build-up of debt. In addition, the company under the
ERP project borrowed on-lent IDA and CIDA funds from the Government which
further added to its debt.
Balance Sheet Restructuring
5.02     As a result of the above debt build-up, SGMC's balance sheet needs
strengthening. The company's current and fixed assets as shown on its 1986
balance sheet amount to 5.1 billion cedis with the largest single component
being the depreciated replacement value of the company's plant and
equipment (see Annex 5.1). (1987 balance sheets are currently available
for only Prestea and Dunkwa but not for Tarkwa or SGMC). This plant and
equipment has a net value assigned to it of approximately two billion
cedis. Liabilities (current and long term), however, are quite large
relative to these assets, amounting to about 5.0 billion cedis at the end
of 1986. The largest liabilities are the amounts owed the Government for
its onlending of the CIDA and IDA funds under the current rehabilitation
program (1.9 billion cedis), older debt to the Government primarily for
past loans (505 million cedis), unpaid electric bills owed to the VRA (227
million cedis) and an overdraft at the Ghana Commercial Bank (517 million



- 30 -
cedis). There are, in addition, a number of smaller creditors. No
interest is being paid on most of this debt since SGMC needs all of its
cash flow to keep the mines operating. IDA and SGMC have suggested to the
Government (Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning) that most of this
debt be converted to equity or near equity. Specifically, it has been
suggested that the older debt owed by SGMC to the Government be converted
to equity. In addition, the debt owed by SGMC to Ghana Commercial Bank and
VRA should be converted into near equity. One approach to handling this
latter debt is for SGMC to issue to VRA and Ghana Commercial Bank "revenue
bonds" in place of this debt. The principal amount of these revenue bonds
would be repayable after 10 years with repayment guaranteed by the
Government, but interest would only be payable to the extent SGMC had a
profit. This instrument would be called a bond but would have many of the
characteristics of equity. Other approaches are also possible including
the simplest, converting all the Government agency debt to equity.
5.03     Though both of the above steps would be helpful, they would still
leave the company with excessive debt. In order to very significantly
reduce this debt and enable SGMC to borrow commercially, two further steps
will need to be taken: (i) the revaluation of SGMC's assets; and (ii) the
conversion into equity of part of the CIDA and IDA funds on-lent to SGMC by
the Government. As a result of the depreciation of the cedi, SGIIC's fixed
assets (which are denominated in cedis) have dropped sharply relative to
its debt which is mostly denominated in foreign exchange. These assets
should now be revalued which wi'll increase their value significantly and
improve SGMC's balance sheet. In addition, however, part of SGMC's largest
debt, its debt to the Government for the on-lent CIDA and IDA funds (Credit
1435-GH, 1436-GH), must be converted into equity. This debt is so large
relative to the size of the company that unless around half of it is
converted into equity, the company cannot achieve and maintain a
substantial positive net worth.
5.04     The problem of SGMC's excessive debt has been known for some time
and rescheduling it was part of the ERP (Development Credit Agreement,
*         Schedule 5, para. 3).  In practice, the failure to reduce SGMC's debt has
not made a great deal of difference since the company did not pay interest
on the debt and was not able to borrow commercially in any case. However,
in order to strengtheni the balance sheet to facilitate future borrowing, an
agreement has been reached to convert SGMC's older debt to the Government
into equity. This agreement was confirmed at negotiations and its
implementation is a condition for release of the second tranche. IDA has
also obtained a commitment from the Government to work with SGMC, Ghana
Commercial Bank and the VRA to try to convert the debt SGMC owes the latter
two organizations into equity or near-equity. This latter task is more
complex since it involves more institutions with different financial
requirements and will thus take longer. However, as a part of this
project, an agreement has been reached for the Government to complete a
study of this issue by December 31, 1988. Also, an agreement has been
reached for SGMC to revalue its assets prior to June 30, 1989, and for half
of the funds provided by CIDA and IDA under the Export Rehabilitation
Project and the Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project and on-
lent to SGMC, to be converted into equity.



- 31 -
Depreciation
5.05     SGMC has a policy of depreciating assets very rapidly for
accounting purposes. This policy was reasonable when almost all of the new
assets being acquired were short lived items. However, the rehabilitation
process will involve substantial expenditures on assets with longer lives
such as new shafts, new wiring, rehabilitated or new winders, etc. It is
not reasonable to depreciate these assets over three or five years and if
this is done, it causes a significant drop in the company's net worth.
Therefore, agreement has been reached that SGMC will use estimated useful
lives acceptable to IDA for its assets acquired under this project.
Financial Proiections
5.06     Summary financial projections for SGMC for the 6-year period,
1988-93 are given in the table below. (The 1988 forecast assumes that
balance sheet restructuring and the joint venturing of Dunkwa occur in
1988, but these everts may well occur in 1989). The first four years
(1988-91) are those during which the rehabilitation will occur, while the
fifth and sixth years are the first years after rehabilitation. The
Project will serve to increase SGMC's production from around 48,000 oz in
1987 to 129,000 oz per year in 1992 (including only 55Z of Dunkwa). These
projections assume that project implementation will begin in mid-1988 and
will proceed without interruptions. They also assume that the major
balance sheet restructuring as described in paras. 5.03 and 5.04 will occur
and that SGMC uses estimated useful lives for its assets acceptable to IDA
as described in para. 5.05. The projections are in current dollars using
the inflation assumptions described in para. 4.01. The price of gold is
assumed at US$400/oz in constant 1987 dollars. The capital expenditures in
this table differ slightly from the capital expenditures shown in the
Project capital cost table because the mine labor used for rehabilitation
is included as part of the total project cost in the project capital cost
table, but excluded from the financial projections since for accounting
purposes the cost of labor would be expensed not capitalized.



- 32 -
SGMC1/ Summary Financial Performance--19811-93
(US$'000)
1988 2/   1989      1990      1991       1992       1993
Production (oz)         52,100    72,500  101,300   121,700   126,600   128,800
Revenues               21,450    29,890   42,430    52,750    56,800    59,800
Costs
Operating Costs      19,790    23,390   28,330    32,000    33,700    34,860
Interest Paid          -          -       2,770      2,700      3,390     3,190
Deprec. & Amort.      5,850      8,580   10,380    11,530    11,520    11,690
Income
Income pre-tax       (4,190)   (2,090)      940      6,520     8,210    10,060
Tax                                                   -           210     1,940
Income after tax    (4,190)   (2,090)       940      6,520     8,000      8,120
Cash Flow
Internal cash
generation          1,660     6,490   11,320    18,050    19,510    19,810
Capital
expenditures3/    12,590    30,850   21,540    15,620        3,960      4,100
Assets
Current Assets        5,130      5,810    8,660    11,120    12,060    12,310
Total Assets         80,690   110,500  127,370   136,290   130,010   123,030
Liabilities and
EquitX
Current
Liabilities        18,260    13,700    6,760       2,010     3,290      3,540
Long Term Debt       33,430    72,160  100,280   114,240   105,890    96,810
Equity (net worth)  24,450    20,050   15,690    15,220    15,860    17,530
Ratios
Current Ratio          .3         .4      1.3        5.5       3.7        3.5
Debt Service
Coverage             -          -       3.3        5.2       3.9        4.3
1/  Includes 55Z of Dunkwa, assuming Dunkwa is joint ventured in 1988.
2/ This forecast assumes that the debt to equity conversions and other
financial restructuring agreed to at negotiations occurs in 1988. If
this restructuring does not occur until 1989, the balance sheet figures
for 1988 would be very different with much more debt and less equity.
However, the operating cash flow figures would not change very much.
3/ Excludes mine labor.



- 33 -
Dunkwa 1, Summary Financial Performance--1988-93
(US$'000)
1988      1989      1990       1991      1992       1993
Production (oz)           7,440    10,750   17,300    28,240    32,640    32,640
Revenues                3,050      4,450    7,240    12,220    14,630    15,140
Costs
Operating Costs       4,150      4,230    4,360      4,650      4,870      5,040
Interest Peid          -          -         -         -         1,410      1,230
Depreciation            460      1,070    1,040      1,020        915        910
Income
Income pre-tax       (2,210)   (1,500)   1,190       5,900      6,780      7,300
Tax                                                   -           390      3,530
Income after tax    (2,210)   (1,500)   1,190        5,900      6,390      3,770
Cash Flow
Internal cash
generaticn         (1,100)      220     2,880      7,570      7,960      5,330
Capital
expenditures        1,130    8,090       1,730     1,790        920        960
Assets
Current Assets        2,740      2,370    2,020      4,220      4,310      4,330
Total Assets          7,700    15,700   17,890    21,200    20,640    20,060
Liabilities and
Equity
Current
Liabilities           350        360       370       390        410        430
Long Term Debt             0     9,500   11,550    12,810    11,190        9,400
Equi-y (net worth)   7,350       5,840    5,970      7,820      8,800      9,990
Ratios
Current Ratio         7.8        6.6       5.5      10.8       10.5       10.1
Debt Service
Coverage             -          -         -         -         2.8        2.9
1/ Assumes 452 of Dunkwa sold to a joint venture partner in 1988. Also see
footnotes previous page.



- 34 -
5.07     The financial projections indicate that SGMC will shift from a
negative operating cash flow position in 1986 and 1987 to generate
substantial positive cash flows by the early 1990s, if its mines are
rehabilitated.  The sharpest turn-around will occur at Dunkwa which can
shift from being SGMC's least profitable mine to being its most profitable
over the course of about two years, as the dredges are renovated, labor
trained and a spare parts inventory built up. Overall, SGMC would become
self-financing by 1991 as rehabilitation is completed.
Financial Rates of Return
5.08     The financial rates of return (FRR) for the rehabilitation of SGMC
were calculated based on all contingencies (physical and price) and after
tax.  Given past tax losses and rapid depreciation, Tarkwa and Prestea
should pay no corporate taxes only royalties. Dunkwa, on the other hand,
because of its profitability, should pay both corporate tax and enhanced
royalties. A joint venture partner will be mainly interested in the rate
of return on equity after taking advantage of leverage. This is likely to
be higher for Dunkwa than the FRR shown below. The Project FRR's are
calculated including 10OZ of Dunkwa's capital costs and cash flows, since
the rehabilitation of Dunkwa is part of the Project no matter whether it is
financed with private capital or capital from multilateral institutions.
5.09     Financial rates of return have been calculated based on two
different concepts. Under alternative I, all sunk costs of SGMC are
ignored and the FRR is calculated based only on the cash flows from the
rehabilitation project starting in 1988. The financial rate of return
(alternative I) for SGMC is 14Z, which is reasonable. However, the
differences among the mines are large with Dunkwa having a FRR (alternative
I) of 272, Tarkwa 12Z and Prestea 9Z. Financial rates of return under
alternative I are not, however, the best way to assess the Project. We
should rather be concerned about what would happen if this project was not
undertaken. In that case, the mines would continue to lose money,
production would decline and in three or four years the mines would
probably have to close, making SGMC liable for large severance payments as
well as continuing pension benefits. Thus the alternative to
rehabilitation is not zero cash flow but an extended period of negative
cash flow. Therefore, the financial rates of return have been recalculated
assuming that the alternative to rehabilitation is a gradual shut down of
the mines.  This more realistic alternative has been called, alternative
II.  The FRR's are higher under alternative II than under alternative I.
The FRR for the entire project under alternative II, rises to 232 with 39Z
for Dunkwa, 162 for Tarkwa and 22X for Prestea (which has high shut down
costs because of it; large labor force). The FRR's under alternative II
are considered more relevant for SGMC, the Government and IDA (but not
necessarily for a joint venturer). In the rest of this report, all FRR's
are alternative II unless otherwise specified.
Financial Rates of Return (%)
Tarkwa   Prestea   Dunkwa   SGMC
Financial Rates of Return
Rate of Return (alternative I)          12Z         92      27Z      142
Rate of Return (alternative II)         162        222      39Z      232



- 35 -
Sensitivity Analysis
5.10     The rates of return shown above are most sensitive to the price of
gold. For the Project as a whole, a 14X decline in the price of gold (from
US$400 per oz - para. 2.35) would be required to reduce the FRR from 232 to
10. This means that the Project needs a price of US$345/oz in order to
earn a 10? rate of return. The Project is also sensitive, though less so,
to production of gold (which in turn depends heavily on ore grade) and to
operating costs. The table below shows the switching values for various
critical variables for the Project as a whole and for each of the mines
individually. The changes in these variables required to reduce the Dunkwa
rate of return to 10? are much larger than the changes required to reduce
the rates of return at Tarkwa and Prestea to lOZ.
Switching Values 1/ of Critical Variables
Project     Tarkwa       Prestea     Dunkwa
Price of Gold               -14Z         -07?        -12X          -44Z
Production                  -22Z         -13?        -17?          -54Z
Operating Costs             +212         +10Z        +17X         +103Z
Capital Costs               +50?         +23Z        +36Z         +2002
1/  The percentage change in the variable that reduces the financial rate
of return to 102.
5.11     In the above calculations it was assumed that the alternative to
rehabilitating the mines is a gradual shut-down. The mines would actually
run two or three years with declining production and increasing losses,
before they would shut. Employees would be laid off gradually after the
mine shut. with this process continuing two to four years. This has been
the pattern with past closures of SGMC mines. However, it was decided to
test if the assumption of a gradual shut-down rather than sudden, complete
closures of the mines as the alternative to rehabilitation significantly
increased the financial rate of return. This was done by calculating the
FRR on the cash flows from rehabilitation compared to the cash flows
obtained with the closure of all three mines on January 1, 1989 and the
lay-off of all employees. Assuming this alternative, instant shut down,
rather than the gradual shut down, reduced the FRR on the Project by about
2?.
Auditing and Reporting Requirements
5.12     As part of the project, SGMC agreed that it will submit annual
reports to IDA audited by independent auditors within six months of the end
of the accounting year. SGMC is currently audited by independent auditors
but has been slow about completing its financial reports until recently.
Aareement was also reached that by June 30 of each year, IDA and the
Government will review SGMC's performance in the previous year, and that
(i) SGMC will submit monthly progress reports within 21 days of the end of
each month; (ii) it will submit quarterly procurement reports within 45
days of the end of the quarter; and (iii) within six months after the



- 36 -
closing date for the Project, SGHC will pLepaLe acd fucnish to IDA a
completion report on the Project dealing with its implementation and the
costs and benefits derived therefrom. Finally, agreement was reached that
the records and accounts pertaining to this project, including those for
the special account, at the MLNR and its agencies will be audited and a
certified copy of the report by such auditors furnished to the association
not later than six months after the end of each year.
Financial Covenants
5.13     All of the mining companies in Ghana have retention accounts to
which they allocate 25-45Z of their foreign exchange earnings for use in
buying foreign supplies and equipment and for servicing debt. SGMC
currently has a 35Z retention account. This is adequate given the current
levels of production and high cedi requirements. However, it may not be
adequate during the rehabilitation program. It will clearly not be
adequate if SGMC has to fund its debt service out of this account.
Therefore, an agreement has been reached with the Government during
negotiations that SGMC will have adequate access to foreign exchange.
5.14     In order to ensure that SGMC is financially sound after
rehabilitation, agreement was reached with SGMC on the following issues:
*ij    SGMC will not pay dividends to the Government until its
debt to equity ratio is at least 60:40;
(ii)   SGMC in 1992 and thereafter, will maintain a current ratio
of 1.3;
(iii) SGMC will revalue its assets when these become at least 30?
undervalued due to any decline in the value of the cedi
relative to the SDR; and.
(iv)   until completion of the project, SGMC will not undertake
any investment not included in the project exceedirg the
equivalent of US$2 million, without the prior consent of
the Association.
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Benefits
6.01     The Project would continue to reinforce past efforts by IDA and
IFC to foster the growth of Ghana's gold production. This Project has
several major economic benefits for the country, the most obvious of which
is that it will result in a major increase in gold exports and foreign
exchange earnings by SGMC. In addition, from a social point of view, the
Project will prevent the closure of any of the three SGMC mines which would
have a major negative regional impact since all three towns (Dunkwa,
Prestea, Tarkwa) are dependent on the mines for a significant part of their
formal employment, especially Prestea (40,000 inhabitants) where there is
no other industry and little agriculture.  The Project will also help
attract private investors to Ghana's minerals sector.  It will do this by:
Ii) strengthening the Government agencies dealing with private investors



- 37 -
and improving these agencies ability to work with the investors; (ii)
establishing the framework (evaluation studies) for considering joint
ventures for the diamond and manganese mines; and (iii) providing
attractive prospects by helping fund a mineral exploration program. The
attraction of private capital in turn should lead to an inflow of funds and
management skills which will be of great value to the sector. The Project
will also benefit Ghana by improving the operations of small-scale miners.
Finally, it will considerably improve the environmental conditions at the
SGMC mines and ultimately through out Ghana by helping formulate
regulations for surface mines.
Economic Rates of Return
6.02     The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the SGMC rehabilitation
(alternative II) project was calculated by eliminating from the net cash
flow stream generated by the rehabilitation process, all tax or royalty
payments and by adjusting for what is believed to be the moderate over-
valuation of the cedi. This produces an ERR of 29Z. (For reference
purposes the ERR under alternative I is 17Z). The ERR for each of the
individual mines are higher than the FRR but the rank ordering of the mines
is unchanged with Dunkwa still showing by far the highest return. As with
the FRR, the ERR is most sensitive to changes in gold prices and less
sensitive to changes in production and operating costs and least sensitive
to changes in investment. Also, the ERR is not very sensitive to moderate
changes in the value of the cedi relative to the dollar primarily because
of the high foreign exchange component in the rehabilitation project. As
the cost of the project and the revenue from it are both mostly foreign
exchange, a decline in the value of the cedi only raises the rate of return
to the extent that it reduces the local content of the rehabilitation
project, mainly certain operating costs.
Risks
6.u3     There are a number of project specific risks in the Project.  The
most important is that the increase in production will be less than
expected or slower than expected as the result of personnel or operating
problems at the mines. These are old mines using equipment in a bad state
of repair and with a labor force that has lost many of its skilled
professionals. In addition, there will be a partial change in operating
management as some of the CGM group are replaced by individual experts.
Close supervision of the project combined with the requirement that
satisfactory progress on management arrangements be made prior to credit
effectiveness should reduce the risk. Moreover, an adjustment has already
been made for these potential problems by using production estimates in
1988 and 1989 below those considered attainable by the CGM group. Also,
the continuing rehabilitation of the mines and the influx of private
capital should limit the downside potential. A second risk is falling gold
prices, though again the assumption used (US$400/oz) appears conservative.
A third major risk is that it may not be possible to attract private
investors for the SGMC mines. This risk, however, seems fairly limited as
private investors are showing interest in Ghana, there is an offer for one
of the SGMC mines, the Government is showing flexibility in its
negotiations, and IDA will be in a position to assist in attracting private
investors. Finally, there is a risk that cofinancing will not be



- 38 -
available. This risk is, however, fairly low since tenative commitments by
cofinanciers are currently more than sufficient to finance the project.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements
7.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached or confirmed:
(a) with the Government on the following:
(i)     an action plan to provide legal and competitive sales
channels for Ghana's small-scale gold miners will be
completed by December 31, 1988 and implemented by June 30,
1989 (para. 2.17);
(ii)    a study be carried out by December 31, 1988 of ways to
raise salaries in the Mines Department (para. 2.22);
(iii)   the relocation of the Chief Inspector of Mines to Accra as
soon as office space and housing are available but no
later than December 31, 1989 (para. 2.23);
(iv)    the gold exploration company to be set up by December 31,
1988 under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 3.09);
(v)     the Mines Department to begin monitoring the quality of
underground air at the major underground mines by December
31, 1989 (para. 3.15);
(vi)    the report on reclamation of surface mines to be completed
by July 1, 1989 and to be reviewed by IDA and the
Government which will use it to formulate appropLiate
reclamation regulations by July 1, 1990 (para. 3.20);
(vii)   the exemption of project imports procured under the Credit
from pre-shipment price inspection by a third party
inspection firm (para. 4.11);
(viii) by June 30 of each year, IDA and the Government will
review the performance of SGMC in the previous year (para.
5.12);
(ix)    MLNR's records and accounts dealing with this project will
be audited and a report submitted six months after the end
of the fiscal year (para. 5.12); and
(x)     SGMC will be given adequate access to foreign exchange
(para. 5.13).



- 39 -
(b) with the Government and SGMC on the following:
(i)     a rehabilitation plan for SGMC, agreed to at appraisal
(para. 4.02);
(ii)    the strategy for implementing this plan, agreed to at
appraisal, including the schedule for privatization (para.
4.03);
(iii)   to carry out a study by December 31, 1988 of methods to
convert SGMC's debt to VRA and Ghana Commercial Bank into
equity or near equity (para. 5.04); and
(iv)    that half of the funds provided by CIDA and IDA under ERP
and ERPTA and on-lent to SGMC be converted into equity
(para. 5.04).
(c) with SGMC on the following:
(i)     a plan to systematically monitor effluents will be
developed by September 30, 1988 with monitoring to begin
by June 30, 1989 (para. 3.19);
(ii)    the tailings ponds at Tarkwa and Presta to be fenced by
December 31, 1988 and farming prohibited within their
boundaries (para. 3.19);
(iii)   not later than March 31, 1990, IDA and SGMC will agree on
a plan to control the effluents (para. 3.19);
(iv)    prior to June 30, 1989, SGMC will revalue its assets
(para. 5.04);
(v)     use of estimated useful lives acceptable to IDA for its
assets acquired under the project (para. 5.05);
(vi)    annual reports audited by independent outside auditors
will be submitted to IDA six months after the end of the
accounting year (para. 5.12);
(vii)   monthly progress reports will be submitted to IDA within
21 days of the end of each month (para. 5.12);
(viii)  quarterly procurement reports will be submitted to IDA 45
days after the end of each quarter (para. 5.12);
(ix)    six months after the closing date for the Project, SGMC
will submit a completion report to IDA (para. 5.12);
(x)     SGMC will not pay dividends to the Government until debt
to equity ratio is at least 60:40 (para. 5.14);
(xi)    in 1992 and thereafter, SGMC will maintain a current ratio
of 1.3 (para. 5.14);



- 40 -
(xii)   SGMC will revaluate its assets when these become at least
30Z undervalued due to any decline in the value of the
cedi relative to the SDR (para. 5.14); and
(xiii)  until completion of the project, SGMC will not undertake
any investment not included in the project exceeding the
equivalent of US$2 million without the prior consent of
the Association (para. 5.14).
7.02     The proposed conditions of effectiveness are:  (i) the conclusion
of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of Ghana and SGMC,
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.07); and (ii) that the borrower and SGMC shall
have made progress satisfactory to IDA in establishing management and
financing arrangements for the rehabilitation of the three mines (paras.
4.04 and 4.10).
7.03     The proposed conditions for release of the second tranche are that
(i) SGMC and the Government must have made arrangements satisfactory to IDA
for implementing the rehabilitation plan including financing, organization
and the extent to which the mines will be joint ventured (para. 4.10); and
(ii) the Government will have converted SGMC's older debt to it into equity
(para. 5.04).
B.  Recommendation
7.04     On the basis of the above actions and agreements the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 29.3 million (US$40
million) on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



Republic of Ghaun
Mining SocEo2r c a iUaton Project
ORGANIZATION CHART OF SGMC
B oard of Directors|
|Chief Exscutiva   H Technical Adviser|
Procure_ent         COM Project        Manager            Director of             AdDirector of               Director of
Manager            Manager           Finance             Finance               Administration      |       Operations
| Gn-ral Manag r|
.II
General Mines                General Mines              General Mines |
Manager - Dunkws            Manager - PrOstea          Manager - Tarkwl



R:pubfic of Ghana
Mining S  ctor Rehabilitation Pro3ect
SCMC PRODUCTION FIGURES FROM 1976 - 1988 BY MINE UNIT
TARKWA GOLDFIELDS LTD.    PRESTEA GOLDFIELDS LTD.    DUNKWA GOLDFIELDS LTD.    KONONCO GOLDFIELDS          STATE COLD MINING CORP.
PERIOD
Tons        Ounces       Tons         Ounces       Yardage        Ounces      Tons        Ounces      Tons        Yardage       Ounce,
Milled     Recovered     Milled      Recovered      Dredged      Recovered    Milled     Recovered    Milled       Drodged     Recovored
1976      294,966      57,488     366,625        83,922       3,36e,400     12,416      43,343       5,613       703,924    3,356,400      169,316
1976      294,096      58,319     334,166        83,761       2,230,300      9,588      18,810       3,199       647,071    2,230,300      164,865
1977      303,416      68,271     308,630        79,894         55,600          84      27,738       4,282       639,684       6655,8      140,611
1978      298,070      62,931     313,802        96,283         264,442      1,0657     11,823         997       0'3,636      284,442      160,248
1979      243,449      39,210     270,796        82,102       1,239,100      4,103       1,726          61       616,970    1,239,100      125,476
1980      236,496      38,999     231,196        64,018       1,8O6,900      8,599       4,623         536       471,2q3    1,806,900      110,162
1981      192,390      32,528     189,896        40,687       2,244,000      6,668       8,102         934       390,382    2,244,600       86,665
1982      168,440      31,188     176,160        33,065       1,903,866      3,734       2,462         318       344,042    1,963,800       68,303
1983       96,310      16,166     123,680        20,587         963,866      3,480       2,258         196       222,248      963,800       46,399
1984      102,9560     14,435     131,300        20,390       1,038,700      3,304       1,866         163       236,116    1,038,766       38,292
1985       98,840      13,416     137,966         16,709      1,203,720      2,789         -           -         237,606    1,203,720       34,914
1986       81,166      15,473     141,080        19,557       2,060,600      4,946         _           _         222,240    2,060,666       3',99m
1987      119,966      18,259     178,676        22,196       2,899,600      8,598         _           _         298,830    2,899,660       48,400
t1
4'J



ANNEX 2.3
- 43            ~            Page 1 of 3
Republic of Ghana
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
GOLD MARKET
1.       Paragraphs 2.32 to 2.35 of the report provide an overview of the
gold market. This annex provides some additional information to supplement
the main report.
Supply
2.       The main sources of gold supply are production, scrap sales and
sales by the centrally planned economies (CPE's). World gold production
has grown steadily over the past 10 years as South African production of
gold has been flat to down while non-South African production has soared
(see table below). The world's top gold producing countries aside from
South Africa and the Centrally Planned Economies (for which good data are
lacking' are, in order of 1986 production; United States (108 tonnes).
Canada (107.5 t), Australia (75 t), Brazil 67.4 t), Phillipines (39.9 t),
Papua New Guinea (36.1 t), Colombia (27.1 t) and Chile (19.2 t).
Production outside South Africa is expected to continue to grow rapidly,
since the cost of production for most non-South African mines is well below
US$300/oz while gold prices have been running over US$400 oz, making gold
mining a very profitable industry. South African production is expected to
remain relatively stable as new investments are limited. The result will
be growth of around 4-52 a year in new gold production outside the
Centrally Planned Economies (CPE's) over the next five years.
WORLD GOLD MARKET (1980-86)
(Tonnes)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
SUPPLY
South African production   675    658    664    680        683    673    640
Other production            284    323    364    435       477    560    641
Total Production           959    981  1,028  1,115   1,160  1,228  1,281
Net CPE sales                  90    280    203      93     205    210    402
Scrap                        982    232    237    289       284    299    465
Total Supply             1,531  1,493  1,968  1,497   1.649  1,742  2,148
DEMAND
Central Bank purchase
(sales)                    230    276      85  *(142)    (85)   135    181
Fabrication 1/
Jewelry developing
countries                 187    373    436    392       578    592    549
Jewelry developed
countries                 315    401    456    419       474    535    548
Other fabrication           242    248    229    242       282    236    242
Investments
Official coins              190    191    131    165       130    104    327
Bar, other hoarding         367       4    132    421      270    140    301
Total Demand             1,531  1,493  1,469  1,497   1,649  1,742  2,148
1/ Excludes official coins.
Source:  Consolidated Gold Fields PLC.



- 44 -                     AN-NA 2.3
Page 2 of 3
3.       Sales of scrap and sales by the CPE's (mostly the USSR but also
China to a limited extent) typically account for 40-50Z of total Western
World gold supplies and are not really predictable.  Scrap supplies are
mostly old jewelry from the developing countries. In these countries
jewelry is usually sold at a small premium (20-30Z) over its gold value and
serves as a form of savings. When economic conditions deteriorate or gold
prices rise sharply, this jewelry is resold. A good example is Indonesia.
When gold prices were high in 1980, it produced 70 tonnes of gold scrap and
when oil prices collapsed in 1986, it produced 40 tonnes. In between these
two dates, scrap production averaged 5-10 tonnes. For the world,
production of scrap varies between about 200 and 500 tonnes or around
1OZ-25Z of world gold supplies. CPE gold sales are even more variable and
in the past six years have been 90 to 400 tonnes per year depending largely
on the USSR's need for foreign exchange.
Demand
4.       The main sources of demand for gold are Central Bank purchases,
fabrication and investments. Until about 1970, the gold market was
entirely dominated by Central Banks since the world monetary system was
based on gold and it was used to settle debts between Central Banks. Since
the early 1970s, Central Banks have played a less significant role in the
gold market, selling moderate amounts of gold in the 1970s and buying
moderate amounts in the 1980s. There is, however, tremendous latent buying
power for gold in the Central Banks. If they begin to shift at the margin
from holding their foreign exchange reserves in dollars to holding more
gold, it would cause a major increase in world demand for gold.
5.       Fabrication demand for gold is the most stable component and
typically accounts for around 70Z of total demand. It consists of three
sub-components; developed country jewelry, developing country jewelry and
other fabrication. Demand for jewelry in developed countries has grown
steadily over the past few years and is only moderately sensitive to gold
prices, declining when gold prices rise. Demand for iewelry in developing
countries is much more sensitive to gold price changes. It collapses when
gold prices are high and soars when they are low (see discussion of scrap
above). It, also, appears to be growing more rapidly than demand for
jewelry in developed countries. Typically, total world jewelry demand is
50-60Z of total world gold demand. Other fabrication of gold consists
primarily of gold used in electronics and dentistry. The largest of these
is electronics. Gold is used for electronic components such as connectors,
contacts, switches and relays because of its high conductivity and
corrosion resistance. Gold use in electronics is not price sensitive and
is growing fairly rapidly, but it typically accounts for only 7-9Z of total
demand. Dentistry use is small, 3-5Z of demand, and slowly declining as
substitutes are developed.
6.       Investment demand for gold is the residual category and has the
largest impact on price. Typically it is a surge in investment demand,
that drives up prices. The main categories of investment demand (excluding
jewelry and Central Bank holdings) are official coins and other hoarding,
primarily gold bars. Demand for official coins is more stable than demand
for other forms of gold to hoard. Typically, total investment demand will



- 45 -                      ANNEX 2.3
Page 3 of 3
be around 20X of total gold demand, but it shifts violently. In 1986,
investment demand was strong, especially for gold coins, and it appears to
have been strong again in 1987.
7.       The price of gold is set by its use as an investment vehicle.  On
the demand side, over half of total demand is investment related including
LDC jewelry, official coins, bar hoarding, other hoarding and possibly
Central Bank purchases. On the strnply side, scrap production is basically
disinvestment and is a function of price. Thus, the variables that affect
gold prices are mostly those that affect other investment vehicles, namely:
interest rates, currency values, stock prices, inflation, economic growth,
political events, etc. In addition, the amount of newly mined gold has an
impact on gold prices though this is thought to be modest since newly mined
gold in any year is only 1-2Z of available gold stocks (100,000 tonnes +).
8.       Given the above variables, which impact on gold prices, no attempt
was made to forecast them. Rather, as is described in the text, the gold
price used for the financial calculations was the average price over the
last 12 years (1976-1987) in 1987 dollars excluding 1980. This price
(US$400/oz) is thought to be conservative but clearly in any given year the
price could be substantially above or below it. In 1987, the actual
average price of US$446 was substantially above it.



ANNEX 3.1(a)
- 46 -                      Page 1 of 4
Republic of Ghana
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
STATE GOLD MINING CORPORATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE - EVALUATIONS OF UNDERGROUND MINES
AT TARKWA AND PRESTEA
Introduction
1.       In Ghana, the mining industry is the second largest foreign
exchange earner after cocoa, contributing almost 20 percent of Ghana's
foreign exchange earnings. Of this, gold dominates contributing
approximately 85 percent of the total amount. Of the five major mining
operations in the country, the State Gold Mining Corporation and the
Ashanti Goldfields Corporation produce gold.
2.       In recent years, however, the mineral extraction industries have
been beset with serious difficulties as a result of the general
deterioration in the overall condition of the economy with the resulting
decline in mineral production. A primary cause of this decline has been an
inability to replace worn out equipment and infrastructure due to foreign
exchange constraints. A further result has been the exhaustion of existing
orebodies, and a failure to develop new reserves.
3.       As an example, the State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC) currently
operates three gold mines comprising the deep underground operations at
Tarkwa and Prestea and the surface alluvial dredging operations at Dunkwa.
Unable to retain adequate foreign exchange earnings and faced with
unrealistic prices for gold sales (due to inflated value of the local
currency), exploration and underground development essential to maintain
reserves had to be curtailed, capital expenditures were delayed with the
result that equipment and operating conditions greatly deteriorated. In
such a climate, it was impossible to sustain production, and the total
effect was dramatic with production levels from the three operations
reduced from a total of about 110,000 ounces of gold in 1980 to 35,000
ounces in 1985.
4.       Against this background, the Government began in 1983 a
comprehensive Economic Recovery Program which emphasized the rehabilitation
of industries associated with export earnings. Over the past four years,
the Economic Recovery Program has resulted in the inflow of a considerable
amount of resources to the mining sector. primarily for rehabilitating some
of the mines and corresponding road and rail infrastructures. Support has
been provided by the World Bank and other bilateral donors for making
foreign exchange available to purchase new equipment, spare parts, and
supplies for the mining companies.
5.       Within the gold mining industry of Ghana, the Ashanti Goldfields
Corporation was able to initiate a US$161 million expansion program, and
SGMC to begin an extensive rehabilitation program which is intended to
provide the necessary equipment, spares and technical support to bring
about a four-fold increase in gold production over the five year period
from 1985-1990. The World Bank, together with associated bilateral donors
have undertaken to finance the first three years of this program.



47 -                      ANNEX 3.1(a)
Page 2 of 4
The SGMC Rehabilitation Program
6.       The aim of the Bank-supported program is to raise SGMC production
over the next three years (1986-1988) from about 35,000 ounces (1985
production) to more than 100,000 ounces per annum. For this effort, the
IDA is providing US$30 million from Credits related to the Export
Rehabilitation Program, the Canadian Government US$5 million (grant) and
the Netherlands Government US$4 million. Funds are for procurement of
equipment, spare parts, technical training, and operations management.
7.       Implementing the rehabilitation program is the responsibility of
the Project Management Contractor (PMC), known as the Canada-Ghana Mining
Group (CGM), which is a consortium drawn from three Canadian Companies:
Cominco, Noranda, and SNC. The actual contract period extends three years
starting from October 1985, and involves the provision of a technical
management team peaking up to 35 expatriate engineers and technical
personnel with executive powers to manage SGMC's three main producing
mines: Tarkwa, Dunkwa and Prestea.
8.       The PMC reports to the SGMC Board of Directors, which has the
overall responsibility of effectively monitoring, supervising and guiding
the PMC's activities as well as SGMC's overall rehabilitation and
development.
The Organization of the State Gold Mining Corporation
9.       The State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC) established in 1961, is
wholly-owned by the Government of Ghana, and has four mine units, namely:
Tarkwa Goldfields Ltd., Prestea Goldfields Ltd., Dunkwa Goldfields Ltd.,
and Konongo Goldfields. SGMC presently operates three gold mines
comprising the underground operations at Tarkwa and Prestea and the surface
alluvial dredging operations at Dunkwa. It is also responsible for the
Konongo Mine which is presently shut down being on a care-and-maintenance
basis. The SGMC mining operations are supported by a Technical
Headquarters at Tarkwa, Head Office in Accra, a Port Agency at Takoradi,
and a London Office in the United Kingdom for procurement services.
10.      The Corporation is managed by a Board of Directors appointed by
the Government, on the recommendation of the Secretary responsible for the
Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, including the Executive Chairman
of the SGMC.
11.      Each operating mine unit is managed by a General Mines Manager
supported by production, technical and administrative management personnel.
The total staff and work force of SGMC at the beginning of 1987 wcre as
follows:
Tarkwa                    -    2,800
Prestea                   -    4,200
Dunkwa                    -    1,200
Tarkwa H.Q., Accra,
and Port Agency         -      400
Total                      8,600



- 48 -                       ANNEX 3.1(a)
Page 3 of 4
12.      In Accra, the SGMC Management personnel along with the top (CGM)
contractor management, are presently housed in a suite of offices that
constitute the Head Office of the State Gold Mining Corporation.
13.      As part of its ongoing efforts for defining future strategies for
the two undergound mining operations, SGMC is seeking the assistance of a
reputable consulting firm to evaluate the mine operations and concessions
at Tarkwa and Prestea, as indicated in these terms of reference.
14.      Dunkwa is excluded as an evaluation has already been carried out
and completed for that mining unit.
Obiective
15.      The assignment's objective for the Consultant are reliable
evaluations of SGMC's two underground mining operations and adjoining
concessions for the purpose of determining a present value of the
rehabilitated mining operations. To do this, the Consultant will have to
estimate rehabilitation costs and cash flows during and after
rehabilitation. This will include an evaluation by the Consultant of the
criteria that determines the value and will address ore reserves, mining
methods, development and infrastructure, processing plant and metallurgy,
supporting infrastructure and all other pertinent data which, in his
opinion, lead up to a valuation of the mining operations, facilities and
concessions as they are at the tiite of the evaluation (i.e. in 1987).
16.      The valuations will be organized in two separate and self-
supporting reports along the following lines:
Evaluation of Tarkwa Goldfields Ltd.
(i)   Present value of the rehabilitated mining operations of Tarkwa
Goldfields Ltd.
(ii)   value of the adjoining mineral concessions of Tarkwa Goldfields
Ltd.
Evaluation of Prestea Goldfields Ltd.
(i)   Present value of the rehabilitated mining operations of Prestea
Goldfields Ltd.
(ii)   value of the adjoining mineral concessions of Prestea Goldfields
Ltd.
Scope of Work
17.      The Consultant will be responsible for all work required to
determine the value of SGMC's mining operations, and concessions, at Tarkwa
and Prestea. For this, the Consultant must acquaint himself sufficiently
with both properties including site visits and familiarity with data
available. SGMC and CGM will cooperate fully in providing the Consultant
with all pertinent information available on the existing operations, and on
plans and future projections for the rehabilitated operations.



ANNEX 3.1(a)
Page 4 of 4
18.      For each valuation of the rehabilitated mining operation, it is
expected and requested that the Consultant will provide opinions, backed by
assumptions on the following:
- Present value (including chosen discount rate)
- Revenues (including gold price assumptions)
- Ore Reserves (including projection assumptions)
- Mine Development and Stope Preparation
- Mining Methods and Infrastructure
- Metallurgy and Concentration Methods
- Production Plan (over mine life)
- Capital and Operating Cost Estimates
- Cash Flow (including applicable taxes, royalties, etc.)
19.    These presentations should also include presentation of present
potential value for the adjoining mineral concessions between a willing
buyer and a willing seller. These evaluations must describe the
Consultant's views and assumptions concerning the determination of the
valuations with particular emphasis on the ore reserves.
20.    The Consultant will be provided full access to all pertinent data by
SGMC and CGM, and which will include the following:
-      Ore reserves - geological plans - assay plans
-      Mining Plans and Projections
-      Plans of Mine Workings
-      Production Reports
-      Financial Reports
-      Annual Reports and Balance Sheets
-      Annual Budgets
-      Five Year Plans
-      Geological and Other Reports
-      Concession Maps and Data
-      Metallurgical Reports
-      Other Pertinent Information
Reports and Schedules
21.      A short progress report must be presented within 30 days from the
date of the first monthly payment to the Consultant.
22.      Approximately 15 weeks after notice has been given by SGMC to the
Consultant to proceed, the Consultant shall submit first draft reports to
the client. These draft reports, in addition to the values of the
operating mines and concessions, must contain all the Consultant's views
and assumptions concerning the determination of the values.



- 50 -                    ANNEX 3.1(b)
Page 1 of 3
Republic of Ghana
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
GHANA NATIONAL MANGANESE CORPORATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE - MANGANESE MARKET STUDY
BACKGROUND
1.       The Ghana National Manganese Corporation (GNMC) is a state owned
enterprise responsible for operation of manganese oxide/carbonate mines
near Nsuta. These deposits have been exploited since 1916. Currently GNMC
markets manganese oxide and carbonate ores through CAEMI International
Incorporated.
2.       In 1978 GNMC engaged the Fuller Company to design and construct a
rotary kiln/grate cooler facility at Nsuta. This unit was completed at the
cost of about US$18 million in early 1982.  It was entirely financed out of
GNMC's retained earnings and cash flow so that it now carries no debt
burden. The original intent was to nodulize carbonate fines. That is to
heat the fines to incipient fusion and agglomerate them to a marketable
product. It was also intended to upgrade carbonate ores by calcining them
to marketable oxides. Fuller had built an almost identical facility in
Mexico which has been successfully operated by Minera Autlan.
Commissioning of the Nsuta kiln was initiated in mid-1982. Due primarily
to problems in power supply, commissioning was terminated in early 1983 and
the kiln has stood idle since.
3.       To arrive at a dependable evaluation of the kiln economics, GNMC
is seeking consultant assistance in determining the market for the calcined
carbonate product in the context of the markets for manganese oxides and
manganese carbonates, and in determining the requirements and costs of
commissioning and operating the kiln facility. The marketing and the
commissioning studies are to be conducted in parallel but not necessarily
by the same consultant. The results of these two studies would be the
basis of an economic viability study of a carbonate operation.
4.       The shipping of quality oxide ore is nearing depletion in the area
of original ore reserves. A limited quantity of carbonate ore is presently
mined and mtrketed. However, the market for this carbonate is not
sufficient to justify the operation of the mines at the present level of
activity after the marketable oxides are depleted. The GNMC has initiated
exploration for oxide deposits in the nearby areas outside their present
mining concession. Conclusive results of this exploration are not yet
available. Prior to completion of this market study, GNMC expects to have
available results of the exploration adjacent to its operating property
that would indicate whether or not new marketable oxides are available.
Having information on availability of additional oxides and on the costs
and marketability of calcined carbonates would permit GNMC to make a sound
decision on the kiln start-up.
5.       It is envisaged that the market for this product will be
concentrated in Eastern and Western Europe, due to shipping costs.



- 51 -                     ANNEX 3.1(b)
Page 2 of 3
6.       These Terms of Reference are solely for the marketing study.
OBJECTIVE
7.       The assignment's primary objective is a reliable assessment of the
future market for a manganese oxide product which is expected to be
produced by calcining Nsuta carbonate ore. However, in doing that the
consultancy will be expected to provide forecasts of the manganese oxide
and manganese cakbonate markets.
SCOPE of WORK
8.       The consultant is responsible for all work required to project
potential consumption and prices for manganese oxides and manganese
carbonates. He will use this information and the specific information he
has gathered on the market for the calcined product to make projections of
the potential consumption and price of the calcined product both by major
use and major geographical area.
9.       Initially, the consultant should acquaint himself with GNMC's
production and shipping operations, and with CAEMI's marketing operations.
This would entail visits to Ghana and The Hague (Centre of CAEMI manganese
ore sales activities). Both GNMC and CAEMI will cooperate fully in
providing the consultant with information on the existing operations and
markets. The consultant will use information from these sources and others
to make reliable projections of the manganese oxide and manganese carbonate
markets.
10.      The consultant should search out all available information on
calcined carbonate products which are now on the market and any product
produced during earlier tests with Nsuta carbonate. In particular, the
consultant should learn the chemical, metallurgical and physical properties
of the existing calcined product. Cooperating with GNMC and the consultant
preparing the commissioning engineering/cost study, the marketing
consultant should develop a description of Nsuta calcined carbonate
product, its similarities and differences to natural manganese ore, its
potential uses, projected sales volumes and prices given likely
developments in the manganese oxide and carbonate markets.
11.      As the last phase of this assignment, the consultant should
compile a list of potential consumers and their potential consumption of
the calcined product. The consultant should make an assessment of the
shipping costs to the potential consumers, estimate the consumption versus
delivered prices for Nsuta calciiied carbonate, and recommend a "market
entry" price and a "market maturity" price, and a schedule for moving from
one to the other.
REPORTS AND SCHEDULE
12.      A short inception report must be presented within 15 days from the
date of the first payment.



- 52 -                      ANNEX 3.1(b)
Page 3 of 3
13.      Approximately 10 weeks after r tice to proceed, the consultant
should submit a first draft of a ICALC1AED CARBONATE MARKETING* report.
This report will contain all the consultant's views on the market, price
and use of Nsuta calcined carbonate product and its position in the
manganese raw material market.



53 -                     ANNEX 3.1(c)
Page 1 of 3
Republic of Ghana
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Proiect
GHANA NATIONAL MANGANESE CORPORATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR KILN COMMISSIONING EQUIPMENT/COST STUDY
BACKGROUND
1.       The Ghana National Manganese Corporation (GNMC) is a state owned
enterprise responsible for operation of manganese oxide/carbonate mines
near Nsuta. These deposits have been exploited since 1916. Currently GNMC
markets manganese oxide and carbonate ores through CAEMI International
Incorporated. The shipping of quality oxide ore is nearing depletion in
the area of original ore reserves. A limited quantity of carbonate ore is
presently mined and marketed. However, the market for this carbonate is
not sufficient to justify the operation of the mines at the pre3ent level
of activity after the marketable oxides are depleted. The GNMC has
initiated exploration for oxide deposits in the nearby areas outside their
present mining concession. Conclusive results of this exploration are not
yet available.
2.       In 1978 GNMC engaged the Fuller Company to design and construct a
rotary kiln/grate cooler facility rated at 350,000 tpy at Nsuta. This unit
was completed at the cost of about US$18 million in early 1982. It was
entirely financed out of GNMC's retained earnings and cash flow so that it
now carries no debt burden. The original intent was to nodulize carbonate
fines. That is to heat the fines to incipient fusion and agglomerate them
to a marketable product. It was also intended to upgrade carbonate ores by
calcining them to marketable oxides. Fuller had built an almost identical
facility in Mexico which has been successfully operated by Minera Autlan.
Commissioning of the Nsuta kiln was initiated in mid-1982. Due primarily
to problems in power supply, commissioning was terminated in early 1983 and
the kiln has stood idle since.
3.       To arrive at a dependable evaluation of the kiln economics, GNMC
is seeking consultant assistance in determining the market for the calcined
carbonate product in the context of the market for manganese oxides and
manganese carbonates, and in determining the requirements and costs of
commissioning and operating the kiln facility. The marketing and the
commissioning studies are to be conducted in parallel but not necessarily
by the same consultant. The results of these two studies would be the
basis of an economic viability study of a carbonate operation.
4.       These terms of reference are for the engineering and cost
evaluation for (1) starting-up and operating the kiln for an initial
training/market introductory period requiring minimal investment, and (2)
for rehabilitation/preparation of the kiln for full scale commercial
operations, if the previous phase is profitable.
OBJECTIVE
5.       The primary objective of this assignment is the definition of
actions and costs required both to commission the kiln and to operate the
mine, kiln, transport and port facilities at the most profitable level,
complementing the current raw carbonate and oxide operation.



ANNEX 3.1(c)
Page 2 of 3
SCOPE OF WORK
6.       The consultant is responsible for all work required to prepare
appropriate action plans and cost estimates for calcining carbonates. This
will require work both on site in Ghana and in the consultant's home
office.
7.       On site, the consultant should:
-   Investigate the current physical condition of GNMC's kiln, mine,
plant, rail and port facilities.
-   Familiarize themselves with local conditions affecting
mining/processing operations.
-   Learn current mine, plant and port operating methods.
-   Acquaint themselves with the current GNHC management and
supervision personnel.
-   Review all available information compiled by the site personnel.
-   Review all available information on manganese carbonate and oxide
ore reserves in GNMC's present operating concession.
-   Review all available information on the design, construction,
commissioning and proposed operation of the kiln facility.
-   Review all available informatior, on pre-design laboratory and
pilot plant calcination or nodulization tests, and the results of
the initial commissioning trials.
-   Acquire cost data on GNMC's current operations.
8.       At the consultant's home office, the consultant should:
(1) Calculate the maximum capacity of the kiln/cooler, to produce a
calcined carbonate product. This could require recalculation of
kiln material and energy balances based on projected feed material
from a carbonate ore mine.
(2) Estimate the investment required to rehabilitate, complete or
modify as necessary the kiln, mine, plant, and port loading system
for projected levels of production of existing products, and the
maximum and minimum levels of kiln output.
(3) Estimate the costs or tariffs to operate the mine, plant, kiln and
transportation system with the kiln at maximum capacity, and also
at lower levels of production.
(4) Cooperate with both GNMC and the marketing consultant to arrive at
the best possible description of the expected calcined carbonate
product, sales volumes and prices.



ANNEX 3.1(c)
Page 3 of 3
(5) Prepare a financial analysis of GNMC's costs and revenues, and
also with the kiln at various levels of production. Prices of
existing products and potential demand levels will be available
from the marketing consultants.
(6) Prepare an action plan, schedule and costs for a minimum cost
start-up for a market introduction period.
(7) Prepare an action plan and schedule for all aspects of kiln start-
up and commercial operation of the kiln, complementary to the
existing operations.
(8) Prepare an action plan and schedule to rehabilitate, complete or
modify as necessary the kiln, mine, plant, and port facilities to
handle kiln production in addition to projected levels of current
products.
REPORTS AND SCHEDULE
9.       Approximately 10 weeks from the notice to proceed, the consultant
should submit for GNMC's review a draft KILN COMMISSIONING ACTIONS AND
COSTS REPORT and a draft START-UP/OPERATIONS ACTION PLAN AND COSTS REPORT.
GNMC should have its comments back to the consultant within two weeks so
that the consultant can issue the final reports 14 weeks from his initial
notice to proceed.
SERVICES PROVIDED BY GNMC
10       The consultant will be under the direction of the Managing
Director of GNMC.  The Managing Director will appoint a GNMC staff member
as Study Coordinator. This Coordinator will work closely with the
consultant's personnel throughout the period of the consultant's assignment
in order to facilitate contacts with GNMC staff, with infrastructure
organizations supplying power, rail, port and fuel services, and with
Government agencies.
11.      GNMC will provide the consultant with required access to its mine,
plant and port operations, to its operating managers and supervisors, to
its files and records on the kiln/cooler design, construction and initial
commissioning operations, and to its current operating cost data. If
requested by the consultant, GNMC will arrange meetings with Government
agencies. If necessary and possible, GNMC will arrange for the consultant
to meet with Fuller engineers.
12.      During the "on-site" work, GNMC will provide the consultant with
living accommodations, office space and local transportation. Should the
consultant require to work in Accra, the consultant will arrange his own
hotel accommodations to be covered as a reimbursable cost. Any study
related to travel or accommodations outside Ghana will be arranged by the
consultant on a reimbursable basis.



- 56 -
GHANAAne32
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT                                    Annex 3.2
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
18D fSCAL YEAR                           FY89              Fyt0               FY91              fV92              Ft93
CALENDAR YEA                  1988               4989              1990               1994              1992
SGMC RE4AIUTATK)N                                               I
Mrngn Eau-Pmet & Spore                                     c                                                            
Cocnrafirg/Mulpent&Saelsgc Eqit km tSae                                                   _                                                    | 
MMI&KI11019 & Support EWIpimentC                                 i_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
SGMCMd-Teom Management (CGM ContOct)
SGC   ngTerm M       ana                                                        - w nt
StucloEvluations at Toawo & Prested
la..ds& Nala R wc                                                                      l        l ,c e4 
SIRENGFITENINIG CF GOVERNENT AGENCIES                                    ,
Mines Depmtent                                                         I   ^    
tEquo elt  E  .  e.
t Envicnanl.Aal A uneygTwf
MInaICormCarran                       ,                  I    
Olice Equprnent
AnstQ.ee for Indus se01 MiraI Asselsnt nt                        ,
TECre:AL ASRSTIC FOM SECTOR P TON                                        I             iN
iCAMC - Male?/TechrncaI/Economrc StudI 
GCD - Feab. tv Ev0luofians                         Di
MUNP - Joint Ventures
MC - Prospects for Gold & DiamIonds
ASS1STANCE FOR SMALL SCALE MINES
Mineral ComnTyss on
MvI Deoffent_I
0 8.d Ins.toton      V DelNetV Conpiete
* Contract tffectre    T Commissoning Cornpiele
O Stat of AOtIIY     -ntemtent Act"                                                                                                  World Sank - d0901



Reoublic of Chann
Mining Sectot Rehabilitti on Project
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES 3/
US3 lillion                  Cedis Mi;llion /
Foreign  Local   Total       Forrign     Local      T=ota
A. Rehabilitation of SGMC Mines
TARKWA
Mining Equipment and Spares                      4.0     0.2      4.2         709.0       85.o      735.0
Winders and Shafts                              18.6     0.6    17.2        2,905.0      105.9   3,910.9
Plant Equipmnt and Spires                       13.7     0.6      14.3      2,397.5      105.9   2,C02.6
Support and Administrative Equipment             3.0     0.1       8.1        525.0       17.5      542.5
Management Contract and Consulting               5.S     0.5       5.5        875.0       87.5      9e2.6
PRESTEA
Mining Equipment and Spares                      3.9  o.3         4.2         682.5       52.5      735.8
Winders and Shafts                              12.5    0.9    18.4         2,187.5      157.5    2,345.0
Plant Equipment and Spares                      12.8     0.9    18.7        3,240.5      157.5    2,397.6
Support and Administrative Equipment             3.5    0.2       8.7         612.5       35.o      647.5
Managment Contract and Consulting                6.O     0.7      8.7       1,09050      122.6    1,172.6
DUNKWA
Dredge Equipment and Spares                      7.7     0.5       8.2      1,347.5       87.6    1,436.0
Sqpport and Administrative Equipment             3.2     0.2       3.4        580.0       35.e      596.0
Management Contract                              5.2     0.5      5.7         910.0       87.5      997.5
B.  Sectoral Promotion                                 2.9     9.1       3.0        5o7.5       17.5       52.6
C. Strengthening of Government Agencies
Geological Survey                                0.2      -       0.2          35.0        -         35.0
Minos Department                                 1.1     0.1      1.2         192.5       17.5       21.0
Other Agencies                                  09.       -       0.5          87.5        -         87.5
0.  Assistance for Small Scale Mining                  9.5     0.1    09.            87.5       17.5       10.5
Total Project Base Cost                        102.3     6.5   108.8       17,902.5    1,177.6   19,989.0 9
Price Contingencies                              2.6     0.5       3.0        437.5       67.5      525.0                 o
Fh H
Physical Contingencies                           8.0     0.2      8.2       1.400.0       35.0    1,435.0                H
Total Project Cost                           112.8     7.2   120.0    19,940.0    1,899.9  21,049.0
3J  Project base cost include an allocation for working capital. No interost Is paid or accrued for account;ng
purpose  during the four yer implementation period.
V At cedi/US8 rate of 175.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4.2
Republic of Ghana
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE FOR IDA CREDIT
(US$ million) 1/
IDA                                 Quarterly              Cumulative
Fiscal Year          Quarter           Disbursement            Disbursement
89                  I                 0.8                      0.8
II                 1.1                     1.9
III                 1.2                     3.1
IV                 1.4                     4.5
90                  I                 2.6                      7.1
II                 2.6                     9.7
III                 2.9                    12.6
IV                 3.0                    15.6
91                  I                 2.8                    18.4
II                 2.9                    21.3
III                 2.7                    24.0
IV                 3.0                    27.0
92                  I                 2.2                    29.2
II                 2.1                    31.3
III                 1.7                    33.0
IV                 1.1                    34.1
93                  I                 0.8                    34.9
II                 0.8                    35.7
III                 0.7                    36.4
IV                 0.7                    37.1
94                  I                 0.9                    38.0
II                 0.8                    38.8
III                 0.7                    39.5
IV                 0.5                    40.0
1/ Loan effectiveness assumed August 15, 1988.



- 59 -                     ANNEX 4.3
Page 1 of 3
Republic of Ghana
MininR Sector Rehabilitation Project
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Total
ICB     LCB      Other      Cost
1. SGMC Rehabilitation
TARKWA
Mining equipment and spares           0.9    3.0       0.8        4.7
(0.9)  (1.0)    (0.8)       (2.7)
Winders and shafts                   11.5    7.4       0.7       19.6
(-)   (3.0)      (-)       (3.0)
Concentrator eqpt. & spares            -     1.1       0.9        2.0
(-)   (1.1)    (0.9)       (2.0)
Metallurgical eqpt. & spares          3.1   10.2       0.9       14.2
(3.0)  (2.0)    (0.9)       (5.9)
Vehicles & road repair eqpt.          0.7    1.1        -         1.8
.(_)    ( _)     C-)        (-)
Engineering & admin. eqpt.             -     1.6        -         1.6
Management, tech. asst. &              -       -       5.5        5.5
consulting services                                            (4.0)
Subtotal                          16.2   24.4        8.8       49.4
(3.9)  (7.1)    (6.6)    (17.6)
PRESTEA
Mining equipment and spares           2.0    2.1       0.6        4.7
(1.5)  (0.3)      (-)       (1.8)
Winders and shaft                     8.7    6.0       0.5       15.2
(-)   (3.0)      (-)       (3.0)
Concentrator eqpt. & spares           2.0    3.3       0.5        5.8
(2.0)  (1.0)      (-)       (3.0)
Metallurgical eqpt. & spares          2.5    6.3       0.9        9.7
(2.0)  (0.7)      (-)       (2.7)
Cranes, vehicles & road repair
equipment                          1.9    0.2        0.4        2.5
(-)    (-)       (-)        (-)
Engineering & admin. eqpt.            1.2    0.3       0.1        1.6
(-)    (-)       (-)        (-)
Management, tech. asst. &              -       -       6.7        6.7
consulting services                 ((.O)                      (5.0)
Subtotal                          18.3   18.2        9.7       46.2
(5.5)  (5.0)    (5.0)    (15.5)



-60 -                       ANNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 3
DUNKWA
Dredge equipment                     1.7    0.9        0.8       3.4
(-)    (-)      (0.5)     (0.5)
Dredge spares                        3.0    1.0        2.0       6.0
(-)    (-)      (0.9)      (0.9)
Supporting fa:ilities
and sparea                         1.4    1.0       0.4        2.8
(-)    (-)       (-)       (-)
Transport itnd spares                0.6    0.5        0.1       1.2
(-)    (-)       (-)       (-)
Management, tech. asst. &              -      -        5.5       5.5
consulting services                                 (1.0)     (1.0)
Subtotal                           6.7    3.4       8.8       18.9
C-)    (-)      (2.4)     (2.4)
2. Strengthening of Government Agencies
Mines Department                        0.88    0.20       -        1.18
(0.40)  (0.20)    (-)       (0.60)
Geological Survey                      0.20      -         -       0.20
(0.20)   C-)       (-)      (0.20)
MLNR                                    0.27     -         -        0.27
(0.27)   (-)       (-)      (0.27)
Mineral Commission                      0.23      -        -        0.23
(0.23)   (-                 (0.23)
Subtotal                             1.58    0.20       0.1      1.88
(1.10)  (0.20)    (-)       (1.30)
3. Sectoral Promotion
SGMC - evaluations of Tarkwa
and Prestea                    -       -        0.37      0.37
(-)     (-)      (0.35)   (0.35)
GNMC - market, technical and
economic studies               -      0.36       -        0.36
(-)    (0.36)    (-)      (0.36)
GCD - feasibility evaluations          0.15      -         -       0.15
MLNR - joint ventures, etc.              -      0.37       -        0.37
(-)    (0.37)    (-)      (0.37)
MC - prospectus for gold and
and diamonds                    0.12      -        -        0.12
(0.12)   (-)       (-)      (0.12)
Gold Exploration Company                -        -        1.60     1.60
(1.50)   (1.50)
Subtotal                             0.27    0.73      1.97      2.97
(0.12)  (0.73)   (1.85)   (2.70)



- 61 -                        ANNEX 4.3
Page 3 of 3
4. Assistance for Small Scale Miners
Minerals Commission                     0.2       -         -        0.2
(0.2)    (-)       (-)      (0.2)
Mines Department                        0.3       -       (0.1)      0.4
(0.3)     -       J.j       (0.3)
Subtotal                              0.5       -        0.1       0.6
(0.5)   J.j                 (0.5)
Grand Total                        43.55   46.93    29.47   120.0
(11.12) (13.03)  (15.85)  (40.00)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 62 -                     ANNEX 5.1
-62-                          Page 1 of 3
Republic of Ghana
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Proiect
SGMC Financial Statements
1.       The table below gives SGMC's income statements from 1983 to 1986
in cedis. For the last four years the company has generally lost money
both on an operating basis and ir total.  Only in 1983 did the company
report a profit and this was not achieved on an operating basis, but was
due to a large foreign exchange gain.  In all four years, SGMC has had a
negative cash flow from operations and it has required an infusion of funds
from the Government or commercial banking system.
SGMC Income Statement
(m cedis)
1983     1984       1985        1986
Revenues                             302.1      512.2      718.3      1,810.7
Operating costs                    324.1      707.7   1,188.5      2,314.3
Operating income (loss)            (22.0)   (195.5)   (470.2)        (506.2)
CGM Group costs                      -           -          -         395.2
Depreciation                        15.9       26.5      232.9        279.6
Exchange loss (gain)              (115.8)      (1.8)      (7.2)        48.8
Export levy (royalty)               22.9       39.1       28.4         67.0
Net Income (loss)                 55.0    (259.3)   (724.1)    (2026.2)
Cash Flow from Operations
After Tax 1/                       (44.9)   (234.6)   (498.6)        (573.1)
(US$ m) 2/                         (13.0)      (6.6)      (9.22)       (6.4)
1/  Excludes CGM contract.
2/ Cash flow from operations after tax in dollars converted at average
cedi/dollar rate for year.
2.       The basic problem over this time period was low production of gold
which averaged about 38,000 oz per year for these four years. SGMC needs
production of over 60,000 oz per year to break-even on a cash flow basis.
3.       In addition, the company was hurt by the over-valued cedi.  In
1983, this was particularly severe, however, the cedi was devalued by 902
over the course of that year (from 2.75 cedi/dollar to 30 cedi/dollar).
The impact of this devaluation was to generate a large foreign exchange
gain since the cedi value of SGMC's bank balances rose faster than the cedi
value of its very limited foreign debt. In 1986, the situation was the
opposite. Due largely to the IDA funds on-lent to SGMC, the company's
foreign exchange debts far exceeded its foreign exchange assets and the
devaluation of that year caused a 814 million cedi foreign exchange loss.



- 63 -                       ANNEX 5.1
63 -               ~~~~Page 2 of 3
4.       By the end of 1984, SGMC's cumulative losses, leading to a build
up of short term debt, had caused its balance sheet to show a negative net
worth of 493 million cedis (balance sheet as of December 31, 1984). In
order to "improve" this balance sheet in 1985, SGMC revalued all of its
assets. This revaluation led to an increase in the value of the company's
fixed assets of approximately two billion cedis and caused it to show a
positive net worth of 780 million cedis at the end of 1985. Continuing
losses in 1986 caused the company to have a net worth of only 57 million
cedis at the end of that year (see table below). Moreover, this net worth
was achieved by including as assets part of the CGM contract which has been
paid for but not expensed (deferred expenditures) and capitalized foreign
exchange losses. This may be acceptable according to international
accounting standards but makes the balance sheet misleading. Without these
"assets" the company would have negative net worth of 11 billion cedis. It
is anticipated that over the next two to three years, the company will once
again revalue its fixed assets and improve the appearance of its balance
sheet. However, without a major infusion of equity the company will still
have minimal or negative net worth.
5.       This revaluation of SGMC's fixed assets is correct from an
accounting point of view since their value has risen sharply as a result of
the devaluation of the cedi and local inflation. However, its impact on
the economic reality of the company is of less significance since these
assets cannot easily be sold or used as the basis for obtaining new loans.
Of greater value tc the company would be to reduce its rather extensive
debts. The table below gives SGMC's audited balance sheet for 1986
including this debt.
SOUC
Consolidated Balance Sheet 1986
(million cedis)
ASSETS
Ea-ST                                      887.7
Inventories                                701.2
Accounts recolvable                        65.60
Total Current Assets                   1,933.9
Fixed assets                             2,570.2
Minus deprociation                         598 2
Not fixed assets                       1,974.6
Investments                                 1.9
Deferred expenditures                      368.3
Capitalized exchange loss                 824.8
Total Assets                        56102.9
LIABILITIES
Accounts payable                         1,481.2
Bank overdrafts                            617.8
Other                                      114.0
Total Curront Liabilities              2,112.5
Government of Ghana Loan                   560.6
On-lent Foreign Loans (IDA)              1,918.1
Other Loans                                76.7
Reserve for end of service awards          438.1
Total Liabilities                    6 4 
TOTAL NET WORTH                           67.4



ANNEX 5.1
Page 3 of 3
6.       The largest single debt is the amount SGMC owes the Government of
Ghana for the current rehabilitation project financed by IDA and CIDA.
This is 1.9 billion cedis. Next in importance is the 505 million cedis
owed by SGMC to the Government, primarily for past loans. Other large
debts are a 517 million cedi overdraft at the Commercial Bank of Ghana, and
227 million cedis in overdue electric bills owed to the VRA. IDA has
strongly urged the Government to convert all or most of the 505 million
cedis owed it into equity. The Government has agreed. In addition, IDA
has been suggesting that the debt SGMC owes Ghana Commercial Bank and VRA
be converted into equity or near equity but this has not yet been agreed
to.
7.       SGMC's balance sheet, also, shows one of its labor liabilities -
the reserve for end of service awards. Every SGMC employee on leaving the
company, except for cause, receives an award based on salary and years of
service. For example, a miner declared redundant would receive 20Z of his
base pay times the number of years of service. For a typical miner with 15
years of service, this amounts to three years base pay. The reserve is a
way to recognize this accrued liability. Another accrued labor liability,
future pension benefits, are not, however, recognized on SGMC's balance
sheet. SGMC's pension plan covers all laborers, who can retire at a fixed
age with a fixed number of years of service. For example, an underground
miner can retire at age 45 with 21 years of service undergound. The
pension is a fraction of the base wage for miners so that it rises with the
overall level of wages. Currently, SGMC is paying out around 170 million
cedis or US$1 million per year in pension benefits. This unfunded pension
cost represents a significant liability.



- 65 -                     ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Ghana
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
Assumptions for Financial and Economic Projections
A. Inflation
1.       The inflation assumptions used for this report are those given in
paragraph 4.01. For the period 1990-2000 the overall assumption is 3.5Z
inflation.
2.       Inflation assumptions are relevant for calculations of total
project cost and financing requirement. They are also used to calculate
taxes. However, the cash flows used for calculating rates of return are
all in 1987 terms.
B.   Period of Proiections
3.       All financial projections are carried out for the period 1988-2000
C.   Financing Plan
4.       The financing plan for the rehabilitation of the SGMC mines
involves obtaining a joint venture partner for Dunkwa. In order to do the
financial projections it has been assumed that the joint venture partner
will buy 45Z of Dunkwa for US$4 million in cash and will invest US$2
million in equity in Dunkwa. Furthermore, it is assumed that SGMC will
also invest US$2 million in new equity in Dunkwa. The rest of the foreign
exchange required for the rehabilitation of Dunkwa will be raised from a
commercial loan or loans with a three year grace period and six years to
repay at lZ interest. The Dunkwa joint venture will assume none of SGMC's
longer term debtq except for pension and severance liabilities. All loans
by IDA and cofinanciers to the Government are assumed to be on lent to SGMC
at 9Z interest with six years grace and 14 years to repay.
D.   Depreciation and Amortization
5.       SGMC uses 5-year depreciation for equipment, 10 years for
buildings, and three years for vehicles. Under the covenant contained in
paragraph 5.05, the depreciation period is assumed to be lengthened to an
average of ten years reflecting their relatively large investments in
winders and shaft facilities which have working lives exceeding 15 years.
SGMC in its balance sheet capitalized the technical assistance outlays for
1986 and amortized them over 10 years. For financial projections of SGMC
and Dunkwa this same convention is adopted.
E.   Consolidation
6.       All SGMC financial statements include its proportionate share of
Dunkwa, which is assumed to be 55Z.



ANNEX 5.2
- 66 -                       Page 2 of 2
F.   Costs
7.       In general, costs are based on the CGM/SGMC rehabilitation plan
and the 1987 budget breakdown provided by CGM. Specific comments are given
below.
Labor - in calculating the impact of a devaluation on rates of
return, 85? of the rise in the cedi/dollar rate is passed
through to labor costs.
Local Materials - again, 852 of any increase ir. the celi/dollar
rate is passed through in higher local material costs.
Electric Power - 50Z of any increase in the cedi/dollar rate is
passed through in higher electric tariffs.
G.   Production
8.       Production estimates are from the CGM/SGMC rehabilitation plan
except that in 1988, 1989 and 1990 these estimates have been reduced. The
reductions are 252 in 1988 for Tarkwa and Dunkwa and 1OZ in 1989. For
Prestea, the reductions are 20Z and 1OZ respectively.
H.   Balance Sheet Items
9.       Inventories are based on the CGM/SGMC rehabilitation plan with
some additional inventory assumed for Tarkwa and Prestea. Accounts
receivable are a variable proportion of sales. Accounts payable are
related to operating costs and are less for domestically purchased items
(two weeks) than foreign purchases (six weeks). Cash balances are assumed
to be somewhat higher than in the SGMC/CGM plan. In addition, it is
assumed that SGMC uses some of its cash flow to reduce its current high
level of accounts payable and bank loans.
10.      Two unusual items are shown on SGMC's balance sheet.  These are
deferred capital costs (capitalized but not yet amortized technical
assistance costs) and the end of service reserve.
11.      It is assumed that SGMC's old debt to the Government of Ghana is
converted to equity and its debt to the Ghana Commercial Bank and VRA are
paid off as cash is available. It is also assumed that half of the CIDA
and IDA funds on-lent to SGMC by the Government under the Export
Rehabilitation Project, are converted to equity.
I.   Economic Assumptions
12.      For calculating the ERR, the main changes were an assumption that
the cedi should be valued at 220 to the dollar and that all taxes were
eliminated.



- 67 -                      ANNEX 5.3
Page 1 of 5
Republic of Ghana
MininR Sector Rehabilitation Project
Financial Proiections
1.       Shown below are incorte statements, balance sheets and source of
use of funds statements for SGMC and Dunkwa. The SGMC statement includes
55Z of Dunkwa, which is assumed to be a joint venture of SGMC and a private
firm by the end of 1988. (For details on the assumed financing of Dunkwa
see Annex 5.2, Section C). Comments on these financial statements are
given below.
SGMC Income Statement
(USS '000)
1988      1989       1990       1991      1992   1993
REVENUE              21,446    29,887    42,428    52,749    56,800  59,808
Operating cost    19,788    23,391    28,332    31,998    33,688  34,861
Interest                0          0     2,774      2,697     3,387   3,193
T.A. amortization  2,514      2,514      2,514      2,514     2,514   2,514
Equipment deprec.  3,332      6,069      7,865      9,017     9,003   9,177
Total Costs      25,633    31,973    41,484    46,226    48,591  49,745
Income             (4,187)   (2,086)       944      6,524     8,209  10,063
Tax                     0          0         0          0       213   1,944
Income after tax  (4,187)   (2,086)        944      6,524     7,996   8,119
DUNKWA Income Statement
(US$ '000)
REVENUE               3,051      4,450     7,235    12,223    14,626  15,138
Operating costs      4,148      4,231     4,355      4,650     4,872   5,042
Interest                 0          0         0          0     1,410   1,231
Equipment depre.       463     1,071      1,044      1,022        915     910
Technical asst.        650        650       650        650       650      650
Total Costs        5,261     5,952      6,049      6,322     7,846   7,834
Income pre-tax      (2,210)   (1,501)    1,186       5,901     6,780   7,304
Additional royalty       0          0         0          0         (0)    585
Corporate tax            0          0         0          0        388   2,950
Income after tax   (2,210)   (1,501)    1,186        5,901     6,392   3,770
Income Statements
2.       SGMC makes a loss throughout the first two years of the
rehabilitation project and then starts to become profitable. However, 1990
profits are mostly due to SGMC's assumed 552 interest in Dunkwa which is
inherently a much more profitable operation and starts to show a profit in
1990. The taxes which appear on SGMC's income statement starting in 1992
are its share of Dunkwa's taxes. These consist of corporate income tax and
later additional royalty payable because the profit margin at Dunkwa
exceeds 30?. The base royalty of 31 is included in both SGMC and Dunkwa's
operating costs since it is a cost of operating and not related to
profitability.



- 68 -                           ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 5
DUNKWA SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(USvef60)
v198       1989       1990     1991    1992     1998
Source of Funds
Not Income after tax       (2,210)    (1,561)      1,188    6,901   6,892    8,779
Depreciation                  468      1,071       1,044    1,922     915      9l0
T.A. Amortization             6S5        659        a60       a65     6s5     6a6
Cash Flow from Oporations    (1,097)       220      2,879    7,573   7,9E7   65,88
Now Equity                  2,000
Long term loans                 9      9,590       1,000
IDA/SGMC funds              2,Gd
Total Sources             2,903      9,720       8,879    7,573   7,967    6,830
Application of Funds
Technical Assist.           1,501      2,060      2,600    1,000        0        0
Plant and Equipment         1,128      6,085       1,726    1,786     924      96M
Working capital             2,774        (365)      (346)   1,010
Debt repaymnts                                                      1,620    1,798
Transfer to J.V. partners                                   2,787   5,418    2,676
Total Dunkwa Applications    2,908      9,720      3,879    7,573   7,957    5,830
SOUC SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(USe'660)
Sources of Funds
Not income after tax       (4,187)    (2,088)        944   6,624    7,996    8,119
Depreciation                8,832      6,069      7,865   9,017    9,003    9,177
Amortized Tech. Aset.       2,514      2,514      2,514   2,514    2,514    2,514
Cash Flow from Operations     1,658      6,490      11,822   18,054  19,512   19,819
Equity sale                 4,600
Share of Dunkwa debt            0      5,225        550         0       0        0
New debt                   12,000     29,940      28,785    7,647
Share of Dunkwa equity      2,200
Total Sources            19,858     41,661     85,657   25,701  19,512   19,810
Applications of Funds
Technical assistance        2,650      5,600       3,875    2,560       0        I
Plant and equipment        12,590     80,846      21,687   15,624   8,968    4,097
Working capital             2,719      5,215      0,588    6,787
Debt repayments                 0          0        662    789   1,716    1,909
Inveatment In r unkwa       2,000
Preopymnt of debt               0                                  18,888   18,804
Payants to Shareholders                                         9 , 2
Total Applications       19,868     41,661     86,657   26,701  19,612   19,810



- 69 -                       ANNEX 5.3
Page 3 of 5
Sources and Uses of Funds Tables
3.       These are the most important tables because they indicate the
financing required for the rehabilitation project. As can be seen from
these tables, SGMC develops a positive net cash flow from operations, which
increases as the project continues and production expands. SGMC is assumed
to take advantage of this positive cash flow and the inflow of new funds
under the current project, to not only buy equipment, but also to add
substantially to its working capital by building inventories, paying its
overdue bills and building cash balances. The minimum required increase in
working capital for SGMC including all of Dunkwa is just under US$9
million. However, the actual build up of working capital from the end of
1987 to the end of 1991 exceeds this minimum requirement with the excess
going to pay off overdue bills.
4.       Dunkwa by 1991 is generating excess cash.  Rather than assuming a
cash build up, the assumption used for these projections is that Dunkwa's
excess cash is paid to the shareholders, SGMC and the joint venture
partner. This assumption is an important one. The cash from Dunkwa will
make it easier for SGMC to service its debt to the Government. It is not
just a problem of servicing the new debt of roughly US$74 million required
to omplete the rehabilitation project, but also servicing the
approximately US$20 million in debt in the first part of the rehabilitation
project after conversion of half of this debt to equity. Given the high
rates of return at Dunkwa, it is possible that some of this cash flow could
also be used there.
5.       Cash flow to SGMC from the combination of Dunkwa, Tarkwa and
Prestea will substantially exceed debt service in the period 1991-93, as
the rehabilitation project is largely completed while interest and
principal repayments on the new debt will not have started, as a result of
the six year grace period. During this time period, the financial
projections assume that all available cash flow is used to repay debt. It
is important that this occur since after the grace period expires, in 1994,
SGMC will have a fairly high level of debt service which could give it
trouble if gold prices dropped sharply. However, in the late 1990s and
thereafter, the continued inflation anticipated by IDA will lead to a
substantial improvement in SGMC's cash flow.



- 70 -                             ANNEX 5.3
Page 4 of 5
DUNKWA SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET
(US$ 'POW)
1988     1989         19"0      1991      1992      1993
Current Assots
Cash                         1,117        9e8          245     1,246    1,246      1,246
Accounts receivable            117        171          278       470       588       562
Inventories                  1,590      1,600       1,500      2,500    2,500      2,600
Total                      2,786      2,389       2,024      4,216    4,308      4,328
Plant and equipment at
cost                       5,840    13,926       15,650    17,438   16,886    19,316
Accumulatod depreciation    1,228       2,296        8,888     4,881    5,276      6,186
Total not fixed Asosts       4,181    11,680       12,312    18,076   18,084    18.180
Defeorrd capital costs           a80      1.7W0        a.660     3.soo    8.25s      2.60w
Total Assets               7,701    15,790       17,886    21,190   20,642    20,068
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable               851        86s          869       898       412       427
Bank loans                       a          0            0       167       241       246
Total                        851       a8s          869       s5o        658       672
Long term debt                      0     9,600       11,646    12,916   11,196      9,398
Shareholders equity            7,860      6,842        6,972     7,816    8,794      9,988
SGMC SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET
(USE '000)
Current Assets
Cash                            616       584          710     1,260    1,660      1,860
Accounts receivable           1,787    2,491        3,686      4,896    4,788      4,984
Inventories                   2,725    2,742        4,417      6,467    6,467      6,487
Total                       6,127    5,816        8,682    11,122   12,060    12,811
Plant and Equipment at cost   74,029  104,874        126,411   142,086  146,994   160,090
Accumulated depreciation      5,646   11,614        19,478    28,496   87,498    48,676
Total net fixed assets       68,488   93,261       106,988   118,640  108,495   108,416
Deforrod capital costs        7.084   11.428        11.772    11.616    9.460      7,804
Total Asset.               80,694  110,606      127,887   186,279  180,016   128,029
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable             11,768    8,949         2,267     1,608    2,598      2,649
Bank loans                    6,60    4,748         4,590        5W        692       887
Total current liabilities      18,268   18,897         6,767     2,908    8,285      8,586
Reservo for end of service      4,566    4,601         4,647     4,810    4,978      5,162
Long term debt               88,427   72,1568    100,277   114,244  105,888    96,808
Shareholders equity          24,463   20,049       15,886    16,217   15,684    17,652



- 71 -                      ANNEX 5.3
Page 5 of 5
Balance Sheet
6.       Summary balance sheets are also included.  The assumptions behind
most of the items on these balance sheets are given in Annex 5.2. Dunkwa's
balance sheet shows an initial decline in shareholder's equity or net worth
as equipment depreciation starts immediately while debt reduction is
slower. More importantly, however, the current ratio remains favorable
with current assets substantially exceeding current liabilities as a result
of an inventory build-up and increases in cash balances. Also, long term
debt peaks in 1991 at around US$13 million or two time cash flow and then
declines steadily. Dunkwa's financial condition is thus basically very
healthy in spite of the decline in shareholder's equity.
7.       SGMC's balance sheet is also shown and is less healthy.  The
company currently (1987) has a large negative shareholders equity or net
worth which is eliminated in 1988 by revaluing assets and converting SGMC's
old debt to the Government and half the on-lent CIDA and IDA funds to
equity. This produces a substantial positive net worth or shareholder's
equity in 1988 which is reduced sharply in 1989 and 1990 as debt is built
up during the early stages of the rehabilitation program. Net worth begins
to rise once again after the rehabilitation program is complete. Part of
the company's cash flow in the early stages of the rehabilitation program
is used to reduce short term debt so that the current ratio is favorable
(greater than 1.3) after 1990.



- 72 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
Proiect Files
1.    SGMC 5-Year Plan - 1986
2.    SGMC - 15-Year Cash Flow Projections - 1987
3.    Prestea - An Economic Study of Long-Term Mining Scenarios
1988-2002 - SGMC, 1987
4.    Tarkwa - Economic Analysis of Tarkwa Goldfields Ltd.
(over a 15-year period) - SGMC, 1987
5.    Dunkwa Goldfields Ltd. - Background Information and Work Plan -
Osborne and Chappel, 1987
6.    Evaluation of the Dredging Operations of Dunkwa Goldfields Ltd.
Including a 15-Year Production Plan and Cash Flow Projection -
SGMC. 1987
7.    Review of the Osborne and Chappel Int. Work Plan for Dunkwa
Goldfields - R. Schaefer, UNDP 1987
8.    Report on the Depa;tment of Mines, Ghana - G.W. Walrond -
UNDP 1987
9.    GNMC - Manganese Oxide Nodulization Plant - Final Feasibility
Report - RPT Economic Studies Group, 1985
10.    Collection of Memos and Studies by GNMC and Caemi Int. on
Nodulization Plant, 1985-87
11.    GCD - Corporate Plan 1987-91
12.    Minerals and Mining Law of Ghana - PNDC, 1986
13.    Regularization of Small Scale Gold and Diamond Mining in Ghana -
Mackay and Schnellmann, 1987
14.    The Minerals and Rock Resources of Ghana - G. Kesse, 1985
15.    Gold Mining Prospects and Investment Opportunities in Ghana -
D. Bullock, 1986
16.    SGMC Rehabilitation Project - Performance and Appraisal Report
1986 - SGMC 1987



]U. Li I. .1 VI i15
3'                        2'                         1°                         0'                                                      .
BURKINA   FASO                                                             -                                GHANA
' } UPPER  Ei -d    /                                                     GEOLOGY
2 UPPER WEST (, . < S RECENT Unconsolidated
/  elgo:                         -
UPPER WEST                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I sand, clay, and gravel
\  c   REGION           >      r,   af          -                   \                   .    ' TERTIARY: Red continental de-
A5                                    -.t  /  *^\      . .''s  posits. mainly l,mona,t sand,
S /.Siw  )             sandy clay, and gravel
/f \   ^ _   w         Nasia                         /                    EOCENE & CRETACEOUS
I                             a _r  o  |     _      Marine series of shale, sand-
! V a                                                                        3                    stone limestone          10
-\f \                                                                                                               SEKONDIAN & ACCRAIAN
) )   ,  J  /   I    J (Devonian) Sondstone grit,
conglomerate, shole, and
Y                                                                                     P                       mu dnstone
NORTHERN                   REGION                                                 'I V    J VOLTAIAN (Palceczomc)
<                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Tamoleo                                     _ I --   Quartzite. shole, orkose,
./J              mudstone
BUEM FORMATION (Upper
0Damongo                                                                        Pre-Cambrian) Shale, sand-
_  >   o                                                    ,28                 stone, orkose, lava       9
,   TOGO SERIES- Quortzite,
-~~~         ½~2  shale, phyllite
TARKWAIAN. Quartzite,
Z        A     zE   \ %; r O . phyllite, grit, conglomerate
COTE  -  jf ,                f                 Sai                             . aa_        UPPER BIRRIMIAN Meta-
morphosed lava and pyroclas-
D'IVOIRE                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tic rack
rLOWER BIRRIMIAN (Middle
.5  D   Bambol         j,                                                   L - ...J,  Pre-Cambrian) Phyllite,
8                                                       K>^7  \GO                                                    schist, tuff, and greywacke 8 -
}  BKJRONG-AHAFO                                                .|    m   DAHOMEYAN (Lower Pre-
REGION                 0Atebubu                                        i--  e    o  Cambrian) Acidic and basic
gneiss and schists
<             * i   --  -  (   4    BASIC INTRUSIVES Gabbra,
IK - ~  ;   ~-,        :                    i                   _--  dolerite, epidiorite
Ejura                                                                  GRANITFS (Middle Pre-
Cambrian) Granite and grn-
nodior;te
ASHANTI                                                               -     Region Boundaries          7-
F j   ~\,   /  }  /     ()                - --   International Boundaries
4   jM.J _.Jz  Kumasi                   4;   >~
art N- 'CENTRAL                                                6',
ION IRE, F REG0ACCRA
-50                                                                                               0  10 20 30 40 SO MILES                        S
Axirn      * ^    Takoradi                                                   0   20  40  60  80 KILOMETERS
.er ow IrW  bi gered b T.s    soox a Ae* f- Ite I rIece el
r. teas a 0     y rt*  Fe ffese. do o1 rns bes o* od. tOU k-t ulsiI
Fr  CnebW The dsiot  ud-d ite b-i-  oo us bus -M   do mt
30t  °  1° of The d    nt d D* e wus  - eccuooPnco dy sowg.,
Ai:SUST 1986



IBRD 2101
30                                                  P                        0.                                                     2
BURKINA  FASO
-w~o.o  N    xi -MINING SECTOR
UPPER  3'                      s, NREHABiLITATION PROJECT
UPPER WEST   .                           \
REGION    /'.J
_.                                                                                                                                        101  ,.S//-
REGINNORTHERND
Chombulg,    --       ZbzgJ
b    Project Mines
.    Non-Project Mines
II' $auipel  /   almbib>  j        Primary Roads
___Major Secondary Roads
-aTE        - - 1<  j   [   g  Other Secondary Roads
COT          }        {                          gSaXp         | }        \KO E  K              Railroads
D'IVOIRE                      abf.                                                                                   ReinHaqrts
1                                 Makongo           ~Shi~oe                @     Region Headquarter
DYIVOIRE        \                              <\t)  ) t r iMokonl,  XJ    Nffl @ National Capital
Rnernaiona Boundaries
-8°       40_m,oa             l8R72/G-AHAF                                                                     _,_  International Boundarieo a
Egorm oa= Ejura ;t/'              <,,                 >   ;<g >)~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prt
i     UYN                   *'**ISX -lo 
rt~~AaS~                       Obuai fArT                             -              G @i                  T   
4                                        E~TE'             GN G AHAFOas  \15
7-                                                NTIi                                           Gwak Cois7
S   EibAn°akoradi                                                     10 1~~~~~~~~~~~~9 10 2,0 30 4,0  5,0 MIllES  5
s                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~0 20  40  60  80 KILOMETERS
Teni*,C Iw$ bmen Drebaredb n,e Vitd 65,0,5 dSI eoica for tle canwse ol
. :; :1,   v                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fence Coiporoton The de,oiel orast .m en l t bo.dnn arxle tnran msp do n)ot
enp*. oo tlerUt puftte W,itEld Bet an lehde,hltONa Fr,nce CogoreI ny 1on tn
cn lie legl etbAofS dr dtW,o or aP ando,net or Scernao edi booda tJI
OCTOBER O987



