Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1921 GH
              (Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                   STATE GOLD MINING CORPORATION
                        Dated July 14, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  July   14,   1988,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the  Association)  and  STATE GOLD MINING
CORPORATION (SGMC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith  between  Republic  of   Ghana  (the  Borrower)  and  the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to twenty-
nine  million  three  hundred   thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 29,300,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that SGMC
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and SGMC, part  of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to SGMC on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in said
Page  2
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS SGMC, in consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. SGMC declares  its commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and  mining
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for Part A of the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for Part A of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed  by the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) SGMC  shall  carry  out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement and Part A of the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
obligations  under  paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  SGMC shall
furnish to the Association: (i) monthly progress reports within 21
days of the  end  of  each  month;  and (ii) quarterly procurement
reports within 45 days after the end of each quarter.
     Section 2.04. SGMC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SGMC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  2.05.  (a)  SGMC  shall,   at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of Part  A  of  the  Project,  the performance of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and  other  matters  relating  to  the  purposes of the
Credit.
     (b)  SGMC  shall  promptly  inform  the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Part  A  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the
purposes  of  the  Credit,  or  the  performance  by  SGMC  of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  3
                 Management and Operations of SGMC
     Section 3.01. SGMC shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering,  mining   and   environmental   practices  under  the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. SGMC shall  at  all  times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property and, from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and mining practices.
     Section 3.03. SGMC shall  take  out and maintain with respon-
sible  insurers,  or  make  other  provision  satisfactory  to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. SGMC shall:
     (a)  furnish to the Association, not later than September 30,
1988, a plan  acceptable  to  the  Association, for the systematic
monitoring of effluents produced by its mines;
     (b)  commence, not later than  June  30, 1989, the systematic
monitoring of  the  effluent  discharges  in  accordance with said
plan; and
     (c)  based on the data  obtained,  prepare and furnish to the
Association, not later than March  31,  1990, a plan acceptable to
the Association, for the  control  of  effluents and mine dust and
implement such plan thereafter.
     Section 3.05. SGMC shall,  not  later than December 31, 1988,
fence the  tailing  ponds  at  the  Tarkwa  and  Prestea mines and
prohibit farming within their boundaries.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  SGMC  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  SGMC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, SGMC shall maintain for each  of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31,  1991 a ratio of current assets
Page  4
to current liabilities of not less than 1.3.
     (b)  Before  September  30  in  each  of  its  fiscal  years,
starting in 1992, SGMC shall,  on  the basis of forecasts prepared
by SGMC and  satisfactory  to  the  Association, review whether it
would meet the requirements set  forth in paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and the next  following fiscal year and shall furnish
to the Association the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  SGMC would not meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  for SGMC's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  SGMC  shall  promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
               which could in the  ordinary  course of business be
               converted into cash within twelve months, including
               accounts receivable,  marketable securities, inven-
               tories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
               operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, SGMC shall  not  declare  any  dividend  or  make any other
distribution with respect to  its  share capital, unless its ratio
of debt to equity is at least 60 to 40.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of SGMC
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The term "equity" means  the  sum  of the total un-
               impaired  paid-up  capital,  retained  earnings and
               reserves of SGMC  not  allocated  to cover specific
               liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever, for  the  purposes  of  this  Section, it
               shall be necessary to  value,  in terms of the cur-
Page  5
               rency of  the  Borrower,  debt  payable  in another
               currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
               of the prevailing lawful  rate of exchange at which
               such other currency is, at  the time of such valua-
               tion, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
               debt, or,  in  the  absence  of  such  rate, on the
               basis of  a  rate  of  exchange  acceptable  to the
               Association.
     Section 4.04. SGMC shall:
     (a)  not later than  June  30,  1989,  revalue  its assets in
accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Association; and
     (b)  revalue the assets  periodically, in particular whenever
they become undervalued by more than 30% due to any decline in the
value of the Cedi relative to the SDR.
     Section 4.05. For its financial  statements, SGMC shall use a
depreciation rate acceptable  to  the  Association with respect to
the goods acquired by SGMC under the Project.
     Section 4.06.  Until  the  completion  of  the  Project, SGMC
shall not undertake  any  investment  exceeding  the equivalent of
$2,000,000, not included in the Project, without the prior consent
of the Association.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of SGMC thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
SGMC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
Page  6
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For SGMC:
          State Gold Mining Corporation
          P.O. Box 3634
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                MINCORP                       974-2348
                Accra
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SGMC, may be taken or executed by the Chief
Executive or such other person  or  persons as the Chief Executive
shall  designate  in  writing,  and  SGMC  shall  furnish  to  the
Association  sufficient  evidence   of   the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    STATE GOLD MINING CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Eric K. Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Page  7
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts  shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $350,000 or more
each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures  on  the  basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Proprietary equipment  may  be  purchased  from  the original
manufacturer or authorized  supplier  on  the  basis of negotiated
contracts on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
provided, however, that the aggregate  cost of such contracts does
not exceed the equivalent of $7,000,000.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  The procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and  4 of
Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines  shall  apply  to: (i) all contracts
until the aggregate costs  of  such contracts reach the equivalent
of $18,000,000; provided, however, that at least ten contracts are
subject to these  procedures;  and  (ii)  thereafter each contract
estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $350,000  or  more. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section   4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order  to  assist  SGMC  in  carrying  out  Part  A of the
Page  8
Project,  SGMC  shall  employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
