Page  1
                                       December 7, 1988
His Excellency
Kwesi Botchwey
The Provisional National Defense Council
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M-40
Accra
Republic of Ghana
     Re:  Credit No. 1921-GH
          (Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project)
          Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement and
          Project Agreement
Dear Dr. Botchwey:
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Mining Sector
Rehabilitation Project), dated July 14, 1988, between the Republic
of Ghana and the International Development Association (the
Association), the Project Agreement of the same date between the
Association and the State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC), and the
Supplementary Letter No. 2 of the same date regarding SGMC's
Financing and Management Arrangements as Conditions of Effectiveness
and Second Tranche Release.
1.   The Association hereby proposes that the reference to
"satisfactory progress in establishing management arrangements for
the rehabilitation of the three mines" contained in Section 6.01 (b)
of the Development Credit Agreement shall mean:
     (i)  that SGHC has made arrangements satisfactory to the
          Association that at least ten of the line positions
          referred to in sub-paragraph 1 (b) of the Supplementary
          Letter No. 2, including the positions of General Mines
          Manager at Prestea, Tarkwa and Dunkwa as well as the
          positions of financial and procurement manager will be
          filled with skilled and experienced individuals
          acceptable to the Association after the expiration of
          the present CGM contract expected to be April 14, 1989;
          and
     (ii) that SGMC has furnished to the Association detailed
          plans for the filling of 14 of the remaining twenty
          positions (including all positions in Accra, technical
          headquarters Tarkwa and Prestea) listed in sub-paragraph
          1 (b) of the Supplementary Letter No. 2 by April 14,
          1989 (seven positions) and July 14, 1989 (seven
          positions), such plans to be acceptable to the Association.
In this respect, the requirement of filling all thirty positions as
set forth in sub-paragraph 1 (b) of the Supplementary Letter No. 2
is partially waived as an effectiveness condition.
2.   The Association further proposes to amend the Project
Agreement by
adding the new section 3.06 to read as follows:
          "Section 3.06. SGMC shall fill the positions referred to
     in the plan submitted to the Association in fulfillment of the
     effectiveness conditions set forth in Section 6.01 (b) of the
     Development Credit Agreement with individuals to be employed
     pursuant to Section II of the Schedule to the Project
     Agreement and in accordance with the timetable set forth in
     the plan mentioned above."
Page  2
3.   The date of February 10, 1989, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions instead of
December 12, 1988, which is at present the specified date.
     Please confirm the agreement of the Republic of Ghana and of
State Gold Mining Corporation to these amendments by signing the
enclosed copies of this letter on behalf of the Republic of Ghana
and obtaining the signature of the Chief Executive of State Gold
Mining Corporation and returning one copy to the Association.
                   Sincerely yours,
                  Caio K. Koch-Weser
                       Director
               Western Africa Department
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
     Authorized Representative
CONFIRMED:
STATE GOLD MINING CORPORATION
By
     Authorized Representative
Date: December 19, 1988
