CREDIT NUMBER 1921 CH
Development Credit Agreement
(Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1921 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              1A, 1988, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Bo rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a 'grant in an amount of four hundred
eighty thousand dollars ($480,000) to assist in financing part of
the Project on,\the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the UNDP Project Document) to be entered into between the
Borrower and UNDP;
(C) Part A of the Project will be carried out by State Gold.
Mining Corporation (SGMC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SGMC
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and SGMC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein


﻿-2-
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SGMC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "S-ubsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SGMC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to zhe Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "Project Preparation Advances" means the project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated June 29, 1987 and August 5,
1987, and March 19, 1988 and April 28, 1988, respectively,
between the Borrower and the Association;
(e) "GNMC" means the Ghana National Manganese Corporation;
(f) "GCD" means the Ghana Consolidated Diamonds Corporation;
(g) "MLNR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Lands and
Natural Resources; and
(i) "Cedi" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-nine million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 29,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the


﻿-3-
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association: (i) a special account (Special Account A) for the
purposes of Part A of the Project; and (ii) -a special account
(Special Account B) for the purposes of Parts B and C of the
Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amounts of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amounts of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement


﻿-4-
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrover shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1998 and ending February 15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
February 15, 2008 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank  lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the


﻿-5-
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement: (i) shall carry out or cause to be carried out Parts B
and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and mining
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts B
and C of the Project; and (ii) shall cause SGMC to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of SGMC therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
SGMC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend, out of the proceeds of the
Credit, an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 26,250,000
to SGMC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SGMC, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
include repayment over twenty years, including six years of grace,
interest at the rate of 8.50% per annum and the foreign exchange
risk to be borne by SGMC.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part A of the Project shall be carried out by SGMC
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying
out Part C of the Project:
(a) take all measures required on its part to establish, not
later than December 31, 1988, the Gold Exploration Company (GEC)
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) make available to GEC, as an equity contribution, under
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, an amount, out of
the proceeds of the Credit, not to exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $1,500,000, such proceeds to be used exclusively for
goods and consultants' services required for the establishment of
GEC and the start of its operations.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association, not later than December 31, 1988, a study to assess
the adequacy of the level of salaries of the staff of the Mines
Department and the means to adjust it so as to retain adequate
qualified and experienced staff.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall relocate the Chief Inspector
of Mines in the Mines Department to Accra not later than
December 31, 1989.


﻿-7-
Section 3.07. The Borrower, acting through its Mines
Department, shall commence, not later than December 31, 1989, to
monitor the quality of underground air at the major underground
mines.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Association for its review,
not later than July 1, 1989, a study on the environmental impact
of surface mining, including the reclamation of surface mines; and
(b) based on the findings of this study, establish, not
later than July 1, 1990, appropriate environmental and reclamation
regulations acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a) prepare and provide to the Association, not later than
December 31, 1988, an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, for establishing legal and competitive sales channels
for the gold produced by small scale miners; and
(b) implement such action plan not later than June 30, 1989.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts B and C of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out Parts B and C of the Project or any part thereof.'
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;


﻿- 8 -
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that SGMC has
adequate access to foreign exchange funds, taking into account
SGMC's imported input needs and debt service requirements.


﻿-9-
Section 4.03. Within six months after completion of
negotiations on joint ventures regarding the mines, the Borrower
shall convert into equity contributions 50 percent of the amounts
onlent by the Borrower to SGMC under the Export Rehabilitation
Project and Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project out
of the proceeds of the funds provided by the. Association and the
Government of Canada under the Development Credit Agreements,
dated February 9, 1984, the Special Fund Credit Agreement, dated
February 9, 1984, and the Canadian Contribution Agreement, dated
March 19, 1987, respectively.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1988, prepare and furnish to the Association, a study of methods
to convert SGMC' s debt to the Volta River Authority and the Ghana
Commercial Bank into equity.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to. Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) SGMC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Proj-ect Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that SGMC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The State Gold Mining Corporation Legislative Instrument
No. 1144, dated June 23, 1978, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of SGMC to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SGMC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the


﻿-10
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 "(d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue, for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SGMC; and


﻿(b) the Borrower and SGKC have made progress satisfactory to
the Association in establishing management and financing
arrangements for the rehabilitation of the three mines.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SGMC, and is legally binding upon SGMC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SGKC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SGMC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12,04 of the General Conditions,
ARTTCLE VIT
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11,03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
PNDC Secretary for Finance
and Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECONOMICON                       2205 HIFAEP GH
Accra


﻿- 12 -
For the Association.:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N,W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address;                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D,C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written,
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Byt         Ja%66
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By       Ct       <U- &oL
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal.of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Eguivalent)       to be Financed
Part A of the Project:
(1) Equipment,,spare          15,210,000        100% of foreign
parts, vehicles                            expenditures and
and materials                              90% of local
expenditures
(2) Consultants'               7,320,000        100%
services and
training
Part B of the Project:
(3) Equipment, spare             850,000        100% of foreign
parts, vehicles                            erp4nditures and
and materials                              90% of local
expenditures
(4) Consultants'                 410,000        100%
services and
training


﻿-14-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Palt C of the Project:
(5)  Equipment, spare             880,000       100% of foreign
parts, vehicles                             expenditures and
and materials                              90% of local
expenditures
(6) Consultants'                  220,000       100%
services and
training
(7) Refunding of                1,070,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advances                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated                 3,340,000
TOTAL                29,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 2,900,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but


﻿- 15 -
after January 16, 1988; (b) payments for expenditures under
Categories (1) and (2) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account under these Categories
and the total amount of commitments entered into to pay amounts to
the Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 16,800,000, unless:
(i) the Borrower and SGMC have concluded the financing and
restructuring arrangements, satisfactory to the Association,
required for the completion of the rehabilitation of the mines at
Tarkwa, Prestea and Dunkwa; and (ii) the Borrower has converted
all the outstanding amounts of the loans, made to SGMC by the
Borrower out of funds not provided by other donors, into equity
contributions; and (c) payments for expenditures under Categories
(5) and (6) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account under these Categories and the
total amount of commitments entered into to pay amounts to the
Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories shall
have reached the equivalent of SDR 200,000, unless: (i) the
actions referred to in sub-paragraph (b) above have been taken,
and (ii) the Gold Exploration Company has been established under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to rehabilitate the
SGMC mines at Tarkwa, Prestea and Dunkwa; (ii) to strengthen the
Borrower's mining sector institutions; and (iii) to attract the
participation of private investors in that sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of SGMC's Mines
1.   Acquisition of mining equipment, spare parts and materials
for the mines at Tarkwa, Prestea and Dunkwa.
2.   Provision of management assistance, consultants' services and
training for the operation of the three mines.
3.   Evaluation studies for the Tarkwa and Prestea mines.
Part B:   Support of the Mining Sector
1.   Strengthening of the Borrower's mining sector agencies (MLNR,
its Mines Department and Geological Survey Department, and the
Minerals Commission) through the provision of consultants'
services and training and the acquisition of vehicles and testing,
prospecting and office equipment.
2.   Improving the productivity of small scale miners through:
(a) the provision of consultants' services for the Minerals
Commission to develop and regularize the small scale mining
industry; and
(b) the acquisition of training equipment and vehicles for
mine wardens.
3.   Evaluation studies for GCD and GNMC.


﻿- 17 -
Part C:   Gold Exploration Company
Establishment of the Gold Exploration Company.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more
each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines -and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the


﻿- 19 -
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
In order to assist in the carrying out of Parts B and C of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ, and cause GNMC and the
Minerals Commission to employ, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of
Special Account A, Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) in the
case of Special Account B, Categories (3) through (6) set forth in
said table;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods &nd services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount, to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in each of the
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
equivalent to $1,500,000 in the case of Special Account A, and
equivalent to $500,000 in the case of Special Account B.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of any Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the corresponding Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the respective Special Account may be made as
follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation concerned, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the respective Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of such Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit


﻿- 21 -
into such Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish such Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of such Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into any Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the aggregate Authorized Allocations.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in any Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿-22-
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit into said Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the
Association into any of the Special Accounts shall be made until
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


