Report No. PID9870
Project Name                     India - CFC Production Sector Gradual...
Phase-out Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       INPE69376
Implementing Agency              Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
Environment Category             B
Board Date                       June 9, 2000
Appraisal Date                   December 6 1999
The project is aimed at assisting the Government of India (GOI) to meet
its international obligations under the Montreal Protocol, which requires
India to phase out both production and consumption of CFCs and other Ozone
Depleting Substances (ODS) by the year 2010. The Bank is already assisting
GOI through two previous MP operations, ODS I (closed) and ODS II (ongoing),
as one of the Implementing Agencies for activities funded by the Multilateral
Fund (MLF) for the MP, and the Trustee of the Ozone Trust Fund (OTF). ODS I
and II have addressed the consumption side only. This project helps GOI
address the phase-out of the CFC production sector.
The project consists of two components: (i) compensation to four CFC
producers for gradual phase-out of CFC production by the year 2010, and (ii)
technical assistance component for ministry of Environment &Forests (MoEF) to
monitor and supervise the project through a Project Management Unit (PMU).
The following are important elements in project design:
(a)     Performance-based grant: The project is based on the premise of a
performance-based grant for meeting the CFC production phase-out
targets agreed between India and the Executive Committee of the
Multilateral Fund (ExCom). This means that the disbursement of each
year's grant tranche is subject to meeting performance targets, as
opposed to disbursement against procurement of goods and services. The
ExCom has stipulated penalties that will be imposed in case of non-
compliance with agreed targets. In any case where annual national
production has exceeded the target for a given calendar year, grant
disbursement will be withheld until required corrective measures have
been implemented and the subsequent year's national production level
adjusted to bring production back within the target ceiling. In
addition to resulting delays in disbursement, the amount of the annual
grant tranche will be reduced by $1,000 per MT of CFCs in excess of the
ceiling.
(b)     Performance verification: A verification process of national
production targets (the main performance indicator) from the enterprise
level to the national level has been agreed upon. The national
production targets and annual program implementation will be verified
by a performance audit conducted by an independent audit agency under
the TA funding. A detailed reporting system will provide the Bank with



sufficient indicators to monitor project progress on a continuous
basis. In the case of non-compliance, established either through Bank
supervision missions (twice a year), technical assessment (once a year
by the Bank's technical consultants), performance audit, and reporting
activities, the Bank will make no further deposit until adequate
rectification is accomplished.
(c)     Production quota system:   The production quota system was
established on March 2, 2000, whereby MoEF issued a directive under
which it will set annual production quotas to enterprises eligible to
produce CFCs. For each calendar year, these annual production quotas
for the four enterprises are announced in the Annual Program, which is
submitted to the ExCom for approval and funding of that year's tranche.
Should the enterprises decide to produce more or less than the assigned
annual quotas, they are allowed to trade or auction the quotas amongst
themselves as long as the national total quota is maintained.
(d)     Procurement and disbursement: Due to the special nature of the
CFC production phase-out project, i.e., funds to be disbursed to
enterprises for foregone profits due to phasing-out of production
rather than funding goods and services, the project does not involve
any discussions on procurement matters. Disbursement on a performance
basis is already operational and working well in China for two ODS
production sectors, halon and CFC. The same principle is being adopted
for India; the difference is that in China, the Government is the
recipient of the funds for foregone profits, whereas in India the funds
are disbursed to enterprises directly, and GOI has no claim on such
funds.
The Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund (MLF) approved the CFC
Production Sector Gradual Phase-out Project at its 29th meeting in Beijing at
the end of November 1999. This was the culmination of developments that
lasted for almost twenty months. (See the World Bank's press release,
attached.) In March, 1998, India had requested the ExCom to consider such a
project, and had also requested that the World Bank be the implementing
agency. A proposal for phasing out production of CFCs in India was originally
prepared by the Indian producers, and in August 1998 MoEF started discussions
with the Bank to review the proposal and requested that it be developed and
submitted on their behalf to the ExCom for funding approval. In December
1998 a Bank team visited India and in close collaboration with MoEF and the
CFC producers prepared a revised proposal, which was submitted to the 27th
meeting of the ExCom of MLF in March 1999.
Most of the guidelines relating to the production sector had not been
agreed in final form by that time (reflecting in part the difference in
perspectives between the various constituent interest groups). There were
substantial differences in the assumptions between members of the production
sector subgroup of the ExCom which was authorized to evaluate and recommend
the funding level for India's proposal, on what is a fair calculation of the
foregone profits and the amount of compensation for the four CFC producers.
As a consequence, negotiations lasted for six months (March to September
1999), at the end of which the Production Sector Subgroup recommended a grant
of $82 million for India. This amount was subsequently approved by the ExCom
at its next meeting in November 1999. The grant is divided into $80 million
for disbursement to the four CFC producer to phase-out CFC production in
- 2 -



accordance with the agreed phase-out schedule over a period up to 2010, and
$2 million for technical assistance activities over the same period.
The Grant Agreement between the Bank and IDBI is for $80.8 million,
which covers the $80 million for disbursement to the four CFC producers, and
a balance of up to $800,000 as IDB's agency fee which is set at lt of the
compensation grant to be disbursed. This agency fee is funded from the agency
fee that the Bank as an implementing agency of MP receives from MLF. The
Project Agreement between the Bank and MoEF is for implementation of the CFC
phase-out program; the $2 million allocation for TA is channeled through the
United Nations Environment Program (UNEP). UNEP was designated, jointly by
MoEF and the Bank, to help MoEF with implementation of activities under the
TA component because of their comparative advantage in information
dissemination and institutional strengthening capacity.
The following non-standard procedures applied to this project:
- Because of the special nature of MP operations, project processing
has followed OP 10.21 (dated November 1993) which is tailor-made for
Investment Operations financed by the Multilateral Fund for
Implementation of the Montreal Protocol.
- A formally designated appraisal mission was not required for two
reasons. Firstly, the grant amount, project objectives, disbursement
categories and implementation schedule had already been determined
as part of the ExCom's approval, and could not be changed. Secondly,
over the long period of negotiations, each aspect of implementation
had been discussed in detail and agreed with MOEF.
Contact Point                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H St NW
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Tel 1-202-458-5454
Fax 1-202-522-1500
- 3 -



