Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF GRANT NUMBER TF023789
Memorandum of Agreement
(CFC Production Sector Gradual Phase-Out Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME 
Dated June 30, 2000
OTF GRANT NUMBER TF023789
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 30, 2000, between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, 
acting as Trustee of grant funds provided for the 
Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) by Parties to the 
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone 
Layer (the Trustee) and the UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT 
PROGRAMME (UNEP) of the other part (the Memorandum of 
Agreement hereinafter referred to as the MOA).
WHEREAS (A) The International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) pursuant to 
Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank (the Resolution), established a 
Facility, including the Ozone Trust Fund (OTF), to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and 
promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
The Parties to the Montreal Protocol on 
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, and to the 
Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone 
Layer have established the Multilateral Fund (the 
Page  2
Fund) for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol 
to operate under the authority of the said Parties to 
provide the financing of agreed incremental costs to 
enable the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of 
Article 5 of the Protocol to comply with control 
measures provided for in the Protocol;
(C)
The Executive Committee of the Fund (the 
Executive Committee) and the Bank have entered into an 
agreement effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which 
the Executive Committee has agreed to provide funds 
for the OTF to be administered by the Bank (the 
Trustee) in accordance with the provisions of the said 
agreement and the Resolution; 
(D)
The Executive Committee and India (India) 
have entered into an agreement dated October 1, 1999 
(the Consensus Agreement), whereby the Executive 
Committee has agreed to make available to India grant 
funding for carrying out the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the OTF Grant Agreement;
(E)
India and the Recipient, having satisfied 
themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the 
said Project, have requested that grant funding for 
the Project be provided through the resources of the 
OTF, and the Trustee has determined that such 
arrangements would be in accordance with the 
provisions of the Resolution;
(F)
The Trustee has entered into a Project 
Agreement with India (Project Agreement) and an OTF 
Grant Agreement with the Industrial Development Bank 
of India (the Recipient) for the implementation of the 
Project (the OTF Grant Agreement);
(G)
India has requested the Trustee, and the 
Trustee has agreed that the United Nations Environment 
Programme (UNEP) will assist MOEF in the 
implementation of the Technical Assistance, as defined 
in Annex I of this MOA; and
(H)
UNEP has agreed to assist MOEF in the 
implementation of the Technical Assistance in 
accordance with the terms of this MOA.
NOW THEREFORE the Trustee and UNEP hereby agree 
as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
1.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the preamble to this 
Agreement, the OTF Grant Agreement, the Project 
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined in 
the OTF Grant Agreement) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth, and the term “Service Fee” shall 
mean the fee payable to UNEP in accordance with 
paragraph 3 of Article II of this MOA.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
1.
The Trustee agrees to make available to UNEP, on 
Page  3
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
this MOA, an amount of up to two million, two hundred 
and twenty thousand United States Dollars 
(US$2,220,000) inclusive of the Service Fee of not 
more than two hundred and twenty thousand United 
States Dollars (US$220,000) (the Grant amount).
2.
The Grant amount shall be paid in tranches over 
a period of ten years, as determined in the Annual 
Program for each Program Year.  UNEP shall provide the 
Trustee with details of the account through which such 
payment will be effected.
3.
UNEP shall be entitled to a Service Fee of an 
amount equal to 11% of the tranches of the Technical 
Assistance disbursed in the initial three years, to be 
paid out proportionately with each tranche disbursed.  
The fee for the subsequent years will be agreed upon 
by the Trustee and UNEP, in accordance with the 
decision of the Executive Committee, provided, 
however, that the aggregate amount of the Service Fee 
to UNEP may not exceed two hundred and twenty thousand 
United States Dollars (US$220,000).
4.
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any 
payment under this MOA except to the extent it shall 
have received funds from the Executive Committee of 
the Fund.
ARTICLE III
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
1.
UNEP shall assist MOEF in the implementation of 
the Technical Assistance outlined in Annex I of this 
MOA in accordance with the Annual Program.
2.
The assistance of UNEP in the implementation of 
the Technical Assistance shall be dependent on receipt 
by UNEP of the funds as determined in the Annual 
Program.
3.
UNEP shall utilize the funds provided under the 
Grant in accordance with the disbursement schedule 
provided in Annex II to this MOA.  UNEP shall carry 
out its duties with due diligence and efficiency, and 
exercise the same degree of care as it would with its 
own funds.
4.
The assistance in the implementation of the 
Technical Assistance, procurement of goods and 
services, and the administration of funds for the 
Technical Assistance, shall be done by UNEP in 
accordance with UNEP’s procedures, regulations, and 
directives for execution of its own projects.
ARTICLE IV
Accounting Procedures
1.
UNEP shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Trustee, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the implementation of the 
Technical Assistance.
Page  4
2.
UNEP shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts 
referred to in Section 1 of this Article for 
each fiscal year audited in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles, 
consistently applied, by the internal and external 
auditors of UNEP;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Trustee shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other 
information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Trustee shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Reporting Procedures
1.
For each Program Year, UNEP shall provide the 
Trustee with the following reports prepared in 
accordance with reporting procedures that are 
satisfactory to the Trustee:
(a)
two semi-annual progress reports to be 
submitted not later than January 15, and July 15 
respectively, following the end of each half year of 
the said Program Year, and describing the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Annual Program for the 
said Program Year during the immediately preceding 
half year; and
(b)
a final report within six months of the 
date of completion or termination of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
1.
This MOA may be terminated by the Trustee or by 
UNEP.  The MOA shall cease to be in force thirty days 
after either of the parties gives notice in writing to 
the other party of the decision to terminate the MOA. 
A copy of such notice shall be sent to MOEF.
2.
Notwithstanding the termination of this MOA, 
UNEP shall continue to hold unutilized funds until all 
commitments and liabilities incurred in implementation 
of the specific services under the MOA have been 
satisfied.
3.
If the Trustee determines at any time that: (i) 
any payments were made for expenditures that are not 
eligible for financing under Annex II of this MOA or 
(ii) were not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Trustee, UNEP, shall promptly upon notice from the 
Trustee: (a) provide such additional evidence as the 
Trustee may request; or (b) refund to the Trustee an 
Page  5
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
4.
Any funds that remain unexpended after such 
commitments and liabilities have been satisfied shall 
be returned to the Trustee.
ARTICLE VII
Closing Date
1.
The Project activities shall be completed by 
December 31, 2010.  Thc Closing Date shall be June 30, 
2011, or such later date as the Trustee may establish. 
The Trustee shall promptly notify UNEP of such later 
date.
2.
UNEP shall notify the Trustee when the Technical 
Assistance under this MOA has been completed.
ARTICLE VIII
Arbitration
1.
Any dispute arising out of or relating to this 
Agreement which is not settled by agreement of the 
parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in 
accordance with UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on 
the date of this Agreement.  In the event of a 
conflict between the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and 
the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail.
ARTICLE IX
Effectiveness
1.
This MOA shall enter into force when the OTF 
Grant Agreement and the Project Agreement become 
effective.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, by their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this MOA 
to be signed in their respective names, as of the day 
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND
   DEVELOPMENT
as Trustee of the Ozone Projects 
Trust Fund
By /s/ Joelle Chassard-Manibog
Acting Country Director, India
UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT 
PROGRAMME
By /s/ Jacqueline Aloisi de 
Larderel
Authorized Representative
Page  6
ANNEX I
Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance for Project management 
and supervision, and strengthening of the PMU shall 
consist of the following:
(a)
staffing support for the PMU to be 
established by MOEF;
(b)
development of a Management Information 
System (MIS) for collecting and managing CFC 
production data;
(c)
provision of consultants' services for 
technical support to the PMU in fulfilling its 
responsibilities under the Project, including carrying 
out of the Performance Audit and implementation of the 
quota system;
(d)
design and implementation of public 
awareness programs on the importance of CFC reduction;
(e)
support for research activities on 
substitute chemicals;
(f)
provision of training, seminars and 
workshops related to the CFC Phase Out Program;
(g)
support for research on CFC recovery and 
recycling; 
(h)
provision of guidance to the 
Beneficiaries in the preparation of EMPs for plant 
modification, or partial or complete dismantling, as 
needed; and 
(i)
provision of support to other government 
departments and agencies collaborating in the CFC 
Phase Out Program.
ANNEX II
Use of Grant Proceeds
1.
The table below sets forth the categories of 
items to be financed under the Grant for supporting 
the implementation of the Project, the allocation of 
the amounts of the Grant to each category, and the 
percentage of expenditures to be financed in each 
category.
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’ services
  1,400,000
100%
(2)
Office supplies and
    400,000
Page  7
100%
operating costs
(3)
Training, workshops
    200,000
100%
and supervision activities
(4)
Service Fee
    220,000
100%
TOTAL
         2,220,000
2.
For purposes of paragraph 1 above, (i) 
“operating costs” means the cost of operating PMU’s 
office, including rent, utilities, communication, and 
maintenance; and (ii) “supervision activities” means 
visits by PMU staff and staff of other collaborating 
agencies in connection with activities related to the 
CFC Phase Out Program.
3.
Notwithstanding the allocation of the proceeds 
of the OTF Grant in the table above, if the Trustee 
reasonably estimates that the amount of the OTF Grant 
allocated to any withdrawal category set forth in the 
table above, with the exception of category 4, will be 
insufficient to finance the eligible expenditures 
under that category, the Trustee may, after 
consultation with UNEP, in the context of the Annual 
Program, reallocate to such category to the extent 
required to meet the shortfall part of the proceeds of 
the OTF Grant which are then allocated to another 
category, and which in the opinion of the Trustee and 
UNEP are not needed to meet any other expenditure.  
Any unused service fee may not be reallocated to any 
other categories and shall be subject to cancellation.
