Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF GRANT NUMBER TFO23789                
Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(CFC Production Sector Gradual Phase-Out Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Dated June 30, 2000
OTF GRANT NUMBER TF023789                       
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 30, 2000, between the 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, 
acting as Trustee of grant funds provided for the 
Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) by Parties to the 
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone 
Layer (the Trustee) and the INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT 
BANK OF INDIA (IDBI) (the Recipient) of the other part 
(the OTF Grant Agreement).
WHEREAS (A) The International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) pursuant to 
Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (the Resolution), 
established a Facility, including the OTF, to assist 
in the protection of the global environment and 
promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
The Parties to the Montreal Protocol on 
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, and to the 
Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone 
Layer have established the Multilateral Fund (the 
Fund) for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol 
to operate under the authority of the said Parties to 
provide the financing of agreed incremental costs to 
Page  2
enable the Parties operating under paragraph 1 of 
Article 5 of the Protocol to comply with control 
measures provided for in the Protocol;
(C)
The Executive Committee of the Fund (the 
Executive Committee) and the Bank have entered into an 
agreement effective on July 9, 1991, pursuant to which 
the Executive Committee has agreed to provide funds 
into the OTF to be administered by the Bank as Trustee 
in accordance with the provisions of the said 
agreement and the Resolution; 
(D)
The Executive Committee and India (India) 
have entered into an agreement dated October 1, 1999 
(the Consensus Agreement), whereby the Executive 
Committee has agreed to make available to India grant 
funding for carrying out the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(E)
India and the Recipient, having satisfied 
themselves as to the feasibility and priority of the 
said Project, have requested that grant funding for 
the Project be provided through the resources of the 
OTF, and the Trustee has determined that such 
arrangements would be in accordance with the 
provisions of the Resolution;
(F)
India and the Recipient represent that 
there are no impediments, under the laws of India, for 
the Recipient to carry out the Project and perform its 
obligations under this Agreement; 
(G)
The Project will be carried out by India 
through its Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) 
with the assistance of the Recipient, and the Trustee 
has entered into a Project Agreement with India (the 
Project Agreement); and
(H)
India has requested the United Nations 
Environment Programme (UNEP) to execute the technical 
assistance required in support of the Project, and the 
Trustee has entered into a Memorandum of Agreement 
(MOA) with UNEP.
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend a grant (the 
OTF Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as 
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of 
the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pool Loans, dated 
January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), 
Page  3
(6), (8), (9), (10), (15), and (20) 2.02 and 
2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first 
sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Sections 5.01, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 
5.08, and 5.09;
(vi)
Sections 6.02 (c), (d), (e), and 
(p); and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a), 9.05, 9.06 and 
9.07; 
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified 
as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in 
the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the 
second use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that in 
Section 6.02, the term 
"Bank" shall 
also include the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and 
Development acting in its 
own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used 
in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", 
wherever used in the General Conditions, means this 
Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan" and "loan" 
wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
OTF Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account" wherever 
used in the General Conditions, means the OTF 
Grant Account;
(vi)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Trustee and the 
Recipient shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the OTF Grant Account shall be made in the 
currency of the CFC Phase-out 
Account 
specified in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;” and
(vii)
a new sub-paragraph is added after 
sub-paragraph (j) in Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions, as follows: "an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen 
Page  4
in which any further disbursement under the OTF 
Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the OTF 
Grant for the Project."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, 
unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the 
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Agency Service Fee” means the fee 
referred to in Article 2.05 for the services carried 
out by the Recipient, as a financial intermediary.
(b)
“Annual Performance Audit” means the 
audit of the implementation of an Annual Program as 
referred to in Paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
“Annual Performance Audit Report” means 
the report of the audit of the implementation of an 
Annual Program as referred to in Paragraph 3(a) of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and Part A.5(b) of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement between India and 
the Bank (the Project Agreement).
(d)
“Annual Program” means a program of 
actions aimed at reducing CFC Production in the course 
of a Program Year, as referred to in Part B.9 of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
(e)
“Annual Program Amount” means the part of 
the proceeds of the OTF Grant approved by the 
Executive Committee as part of the said Committee’s 
approval of an Annual Program, and to be disbursed for 
the carrying out of the said Annual Program in 
accordance with this Agreement.
(f)
“Beneficiaries” means the four CFC 
production enterprises which are legal entities 
established under the Companies Act of India, 1956: 
(i) Chemplast Sanmar Ltd.; (ii) Gujarat 
Fluorochemicals Ltd.; (iii) Navin Fluorine Industries 
Ltd.; and (iv) SRF Ltd., and their successors or 
assigns.
(g)
“Country Program” means India’s Country 
Program for the Phase Out of Ozone Depleting 
Substances under the Montreal Protocol, dated 
September, 1993, as approved by the Executive 
Committee in November, 1993, and amended from time to 
time.
(h) 
“CFC” means chlorofluorocarbons 11, 12, 
113, 114, and 115.
(i)
“CFC Production” means the production of 
CFCs for both domestic consumption and exports.
(j)
"CFC Phase-out Account" means the account 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(k)
“EMP” means an Environmental Management 
Plan to be submitted by each Beneficiary prior to 
modification, or partial or complete dismantling of a 
Page  5
CFC or HCFC production line, after cessation of CFC 
and HCFC production.
(l)
“HCFC” means hydrochlorofluorocarbons.
(m)
“MOA” means the Memorandum of Agreement 
of even date herewith entered into between the Trustee 
and UNEP.
(n)
“MOEF” means the Ministry of Environment 
and Forests.
(o)
“ODS” means any ozone depleting substance 
or substances.
(p)
“ODS Regulations” means the regulations 
notified for public comments on January 25, 2000, and 
to be issued under the Environment (Protection) Act, 
1986, for controlling and monitoring the production 
and use of ODS.
(q)
“Performance Agreement” means the 
agreement referred to in Part A.4 of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement, to be entered into between MOEF 
and each of the Beneficiaries outlining the 
obligations of the Beneficiaries;
(r)
“Program Year” means a period of one 
calendar year covered by an Annual Program.
(s)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement 
of even date herewith entered into between India and 
the Trustee.
(t)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the 
manual dated April 20, 2000, setting out the detailed 
operational, financial, administrative, disbursement, 
accounting, auditing, and monitoring procedures 
governing the implementation of the Project, as 
revised from time to time in agreement with the 
Trustee.
(u)
“Project Management Unit” (PMU) means the 
Unit to be established by MOEF with the specific 
responsibility of implementing the Project.
(v)
“Quota Order” means an order issued by 
India on March 2, 2000, through MOEF for 
implementation of a quota system for the production of 
CFCs.
(w)
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means the agreement 
referred to in section 3.03 hereof , to be entered 
into between the Recipient and each of the 
Beneficiaries, outlining the terms under which 
payments out of the OTF Grant shall be made to each of 
the Beneficiaries for phasing out production of CFCs. 
(x)
“Technical Assistance” means the 
activities to be carried out by PMU with the 
assistance of UNEP, as specified in Annex I of the 
MOA.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Page  6
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make 
available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, 
the OTF Grant in an amount not exceeding eighty 
million eight hundred thousand United States Dollars 
(US$80,800,000) inclusive of the Agency Service Fee of 
eight hundred thousand United States Dollars 
US$800,000 (the OTF Grant).
Section 2.02. (a) The OTF Grant may be withdrawn 
from the OTF Grant Account for payments to be made to 
the Beneficiaries for reduction in CFC Production, and 
the Agency Service Fee in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of 
the Project open and maintain a Project account (the 
CFC Phase-out Account) in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including 
appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment. All withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account 
shall be deposited by the Trustee into the CFC 
Phase-out Account in United States Dollars.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the CFC Phase-out Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 
2011, or such later date as the Trustee shall 
establish.  The Trustee shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated 
to make any payment under this Agreement except to the 
extent it shall have received funds for the purposes 
of the Project from the Executive Committee.
Section 2.05. The Trustee shall pay to the 
Recipient, in consideration of the services provided 
by the Recipient under this Agreement, 1% of the 
payments to be disbursed to the Beneficiaries, such 
fee to be paid out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant in 
installments proportionate to each disbursement made 
by the Recipient to the Beneficiaries, payable only 
after such disbursement is made to the Beneficiaries.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its 
commitment to the objective of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to this end 
shall carry out its responsibilities as a financial 
intermediary in conformity with appropriate financial 
and administrative practices, and in accordance with 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall collaborate 
closely with MOEF in the implementation of the 
Project, and shall take all the necessary actions to 
enable MOEF to carry out its obligations under the 
Project.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall enter into a 
Sub-Grant Agreement with each of the Beneficiaries.  
The Recipient shall submit to the Bank for its review 
Page  7
and approval a draft of the Sub-Grant Agreement, and 
ensure that the Bank receives a copy of the fully 
executed Sub-Grant Agreements entered into with each 
of the Beneficiaries. No disbursement of funds shall 
take place to any Beneficiary who has not entered into 
a Sub-Grant Agreement with the Recipient and a 
Performance Agreement with MOEF as specified in 
Section 2.01(c) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a 
financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the CFC Phase-out 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Trustee shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other 
information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Trustee shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of 
the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
(a)
India or any other authority having 
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the 
dissolution or disestablishment of the Recipient or 
for the suspension of its operations.
(b)
India or any other authority shall have 
taken any action, including the enactment or issuance 
of legislation or regulations, which, in the opinion 
of the Trustee, may adversely affect, prevent, or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project or the 
performance by the Recipient of any of its obligations 
under this Agreement.
Page  8
(c)
India shall have failed to meet the CFC 
production phase-out targets agreed with the Executive 
Committee of the Multilateral Fund.
(d)
India: (i) shall have been suspended from 
membership in, or ceased to be a member of the Bank; 
or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the 
International Monetary Fund.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall enter into 
force and effect upon its execution by both parties, 
and the execution of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. This Agreement shall continue in 
effect until the OTF Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all 
their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Chairman and Managing 
Director, or any Executive Director of the Recipient 
is designated as representative of the Recipient for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are 
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Industrial Development Bank of India
IDBI Tower, Cuffe Parade
Mumbai - 400005
India
Telex:
0118-2193
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting 
through their duly authorized representatives, have 
Page  9
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names, in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year 
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Trustee of the Ozone Projects 
Trust Fund
By /s/ Joelle Chassard-Manibog
Acting Country Director, India
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF 
INDIA
By /s/ M. M. Haque
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of 
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, 
the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each 
Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   Grant
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Payments to Beneficiaries
 80,000,000
100%
(2) Agency Service Fee
    800,000
100%
2.
The term “Agency Service Fee’’ means the fee 
payable to the Recipient for its services as financial 
intermediary, as provided under Article 2.05 of this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist India 
in implementing its Country Program for phasing-out 
CFC production within its territory.
Page  10
The Project consists of the following, subject 
to such modification thereof as India, the Trustee, 
and the Recipient may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve the objective:
Reduction of CFC Production through preparation and 
implementation of Annual Programs.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by 
December 31, 2010.
SCHEDULE 3
CFC Phase-out Account 
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term 
“eligible payments” means payments to the 
Beneficiaries for reduction in CFC Production and the 
Agency Service Fee, to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the OTF Grant, in accordance with Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.  Eligible payments shall be specified 
in an Annual Program, and shall not include payments 
incurred prior to the date of this Agreement.
2.
Payments out of the CFC Phase-out Account shall 
be made exclusively for eligible payments in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the CFC Phase-out Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account in respect of any Annual Program shall be made 
based on requests by the Recipient for deposits into 
the CFC Phase-out Account as follows:
(a)
The amounts allocated in such Annual 
Program for CFC Reduction and the Agency Service Fee 
may be withdrawn by the Recipient only after receiving 
confirmation from the Trustee that: 
(i)
an Annual Performance Audit by 
MOEF has been carried out through PMU to ensure 
that the Beneficiaries have met the 
phase-out targets set out in the Annual 
Program for the preceding Program Year using 
monitoring indicators that are 
satisfactory to the Trustee, and an Annual Performance 
Audit Report has been 
prepared; and
(ii)
the information provided in the 
Annual Performance Audit Report prepared by 
MOEF through PMU in (i) above has been verified 
by the Trustee, and the 
Executive Committee has approved the Annual Program 
and associated funding for 
disbursements to the Beneficiaries; 
(b)
The Agency Service Fee may be disbursed 
from the CFC Phase-out Account only after the 
disbursements to the Beneficiaries have taken place, 
as specified in paragraph 3(a) above.
Page  11
(c)
The Trustee shall have received copies of 
fully executed Sub-Grant Agreements entered into 
between the Recipient and each of the Beneficiaries, 
and Performance Agreements entered into between MOEF 
and each of the Beneficiaries, pursuant to which CFC 
Production is to be reduced to at least the target set 
forth in the said Annual Program;
(d)
The Recipient shall have submitted to the 
Trustee the audited financial reports for each Program 
Year, referred to in Article IV of this Agreement; and
(e)
Other conditions for disbursements, as 
set forth in the said Annual Program, have been met, 
as confirmed by the Trustee.
4.
On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Trustee shall withdraw from the OTF Grant Account and 
deposit into the CFC Phase-out Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested, 
provided that the applicable conditions set forth or 
referred to in paragraph 3(a), (c), (d) and (e) of 
this Schedule 3 have been met to the satisfaction of 
the Trustee.
5.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of 
the CFC Phase-out Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Trustee such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible payments.
6.
If the CFC production levels of any of the 
Beneficiaries under the Grant exceed the phase-out 
targets as set forth in the Annual Program, as 
verified by the Trustee:
(a)
The Trustee shall require that no further 
payments under the Grant be made, with respect to the 
defaulting Beneficiary until such corrective measures 
as shall be necessary have been effected, and the 
subsequent Program Year’s production of the defaulting 
beneficiary is reduced, as set forth in the Annual 
Program; and 
(b)
The Trustee shall require that the amount 
payable to the defaulting Beneficiary be reduced by 
$1,000 per metric ton of CFC production above the 
target set forth in the Annual Program for the Program 
Year.
7.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at 
any time that any payment out of the CFC Phase-out 
Account was inconsistent with the provisions of 
paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Trustee deposit into the 
CFC Phase-out Account (or, if the Trustee shall so 
request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to 
such payment.
(b)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to 
paragraph 7 (a) of this Schedule 3 shall be credited 
to the OTF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
Page  12
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
