Document of
rLE CUOP                                The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1853-CY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK, LTD.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A
SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
May 11, 1976
This document has  resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit          Cyprus Pound (CL)
US$ 1          CL .40
CL 1          US$ 2.50
CL 1,000          US$ 2.500
CL 1,000,000          US$ 2,500,000
Cyprus Fiscal Year -- January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CDB       Cyprus Development Bank
EEAP      Emergency Economic Action Plan
KfW       Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau
SSI       Small-Scale Industries



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK, LTD.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A SECOND DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Cyprus Development Bank, Ltd. with the guarantee of the Republic of
Cyprus for the equivalent of US$6 million, for a second development bank proj-
ect, including a small-scale industry scheme. The loan would be repayable
substantially in conformity with the aggregate of the amortization schedules
for sub-loans and investments approved under the project, which would not
exceed 15 years. The interest rate would be 8.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic rgport on Cyprus was circulated to the Executive
Directors in May 1973, (153a-CY). An economic mission visited Cyprus in
November/December, 1975 to review the current economic situation and prospects,
particularly in view of the events and foreign intervention that occurred in
July 1974 and the political situation that has developed thereafter. The
mission had an opportunity to visit some of the important economic areas
in the northern part of the island, and were able to hold discussions with
several officials. However, reliable data is not available for that area and
it is therefore only possible to review the economic situation and prospects
in respect of the area in the southern part of the island, controlled by the
Government. A new economic report is expected to be distributed shortly and
its findings are reflected in this report.
3.        During the 1960's, despite the difficult internal political situa-
tion and unresolved tension between Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communi-
ties, Cyprus enjoyed a decade of rapid economic growth. The average annual
rate of growth of 7 percent for 1960-72 surpassed the Government targets.
The major factors behind the sustained rapid growth in the economy were: a
high rate of investment especially in the private sector, a rapid increase in
agricultural exports, a strong balance of payments and a flexible fiscal and
monetary policy which not only helped to stimulate growth but also maintained
domestic price stability.
4.        The unprecedented drought of 1973 caused serious economic diffi-
culties on the island, including a negative impact on the balance of payments.
Subsequently, the events of July 1974 shattered the growing economy of Cyprus.
The country is now divided into two bi-communal zones, with little movement of
people or trade across the dividing line. The area in the southern part of
the island under the Government's control, constitutes 64 percent of the land
mass of the island; the remaining 36 percent in the north, is under Turkish
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Cypriot control. Following the hostilities, there was a massive displacement
of population as some 150,000 Greek Cypriots moved south and about 45,000
Turkish Cypriots went to the north. About one third of the total population
of the island was thus displaced and is now being gradually settled through
the humanitarian assistance provided largely through the UN. The Government-
controlled area now has an estimated population of nearly 500,000, essentially
all of whom are Greek Cypriots; the area under Turkish Cypriot control, has an
estimated population of about 135,000, most of whom are Turkish Cypriots. A
de facto Turkish Cypriot administration has been created which concerns itself
with meeting the needs of its community members, as part of a federated
Cyprus, until an island-wide political solution emerges.
5.        The events of July 1974, have resulted in significant structural
changes in the economy, rendering the overall economic outlook quite diffi-
cult. There was a 17 percent drop in the GNP per capita which is estimated at
$1,210 in 1975 (based on the current Atlas methodology) as compared to $1,460
per capita enjoyed by the Cypriots in 1973. Unemployment remains high at 14
percent in the area under the Government's control, and the Government is
facing the task of having to reestablish 150,000 people. Although faced with
a lesser number of refugees, unemployment in the northern part of the island
is believed to be larger.
6.        The balance of payments position also suffered.     Both exports and
imports of the area under Government control fell by about 55 percent in the
second half of 1974. About 47 percent of the cultivated areas of Cyprus are
in the north, including the areas which in the past produced nearly half of
agricultural exports, and which have only been marginally exploited since the
1974 hostilities.
7.        Despite the overall economic impact of the July 1974 events, the
Government took bold measures and succeeded in arresting the decline in the
economy in the area under its control. In August 1975, it consolidated its
previous measures and introduced others within the framework of the Emergency
Economic Action Plan (EEAP) for 1975 and 1976. This Plan called for a total
fixed investment of $275 million, the creation of 16-20,000 new jobs, con-
centrating reactivation efforts in industry and agriculture. The private
sector was expected to undertake nearly two-thirds of the investment. In
industry, the EEAP aims at (a) the creation of additional capacity in labor
intensive export-oriented industries so as to take advantage of the available
labor force; and (b) increased utilization of the existing capital stock
through double shift work. There has recently been some improvement in manu-
facturing output and employment. The Government can do little more to im-
prove incentives which are already quite substantial. These measures and the
expected revival of private sector confidence as the economic situation im-
proves, should assist in a gradual recovery of lost economic ground. There are
however clear signs that this is happening. In agriculture, the Government
is promoting quick yielding small scale agricultural schemes to reactivate as
many as 13,000 farming families. Total output has increased by about 12
percent over the year, from its most depressed level in the second half of



- 3 -
1974. Industrial activities, and particularly industrial exports, are picking
up. The Cypriots have been successful in winning construction contracts in
the Middle East, and as a result they have been able to earn foreign exchange
and obtain significant employment opportunities abroad. Employment increased
by an estimated 11 percent in 1975. However, it is conceivable that the modest
objectives of EEAP may not be fulfilled, since our present assessment suggests
that public sector resources are likely to be inadequate to finance planned
investment.
8.        Growth of output of about 4 percent in 1976 and 1977 in the area
under the Government's control, seems feasible. There have been significant
gains in agricultural and industrial production. Construction and tourism are
also likely to pick up, though their growth may not reach the pre-July 1974
levels. The 1976 budget, approved in February, calls for ordinary expendi-
tures of $163 million and development expenditures of about $77 million.
Since total receipts are not expected to exceed $128 million, a deficit of
$112 million is to be financed by a $28 million grant from Greece, and the
remainder from anticipated foreign and domestic borrowing and a drawdown of
reserves. Considering that the economy still has significant idle capacity
and unemployment, the large budget deficit is not yet a cause for concern.
However even with the modest assumptions about overall growth, the balance
of payments position will remain tight. Bank projections indicate that at
a growth rate of 4 percent in GDP during 1976 and 1977, the import require-
ments will still be significantly in excess of export earnings, even assuming
annual increases of 19 percent in exports and 12 percent in imports. There
may be an improvement in net invisible earnings, but the overall deficit in
the current account will increase substantially from the $44 million incurred
in 1975.    Since expected capital inflows from all identifiable sources will
be small, around $30 million at best, the reserve position will probably
worsen by 1977 to about 3 months of imports, compared to 6 months in 1975.
9.        Over the longer run, Cyprus has several factors favorable to sus-
taining a satisfactory growth rate: there is still a fair amount of unuti-
lized land and water resources; there is a tradition of dynamic and responsible
entrepreneurship; the labor is skilled; wage levels are lower than in Europe;
and the island is located favorably in relation to the large and rapidly grow-
ing middle eastern markets. But clearly the pace and shape of economic devel-
opment over the medium-term depends largely on the speed with which political
settlement will be reached, and therefore cannot be projected with confidence.
The area under the Government's control is likely to face substantial balance
of payments constraints. Even with a rapid drawdown of reserves and given the
difficulty that Cyprus has continued to experience for some years - because of
the political situation - in getting external capital for development from
bilateral sources and the private capital markets, the overall growth rate in
the medium-term will have to be kept down to levels well below those recorded
in the past. Despite the promise of continued vigorous expansion of exports,
constraints on the availability of foreign capital may therefore restrict the
realization of the economy's potential.



- 4 -
10.       The external public debt over the past few years has remained at a
low level, both as a result of the Government's above-mentioned limited abil-
ity to borrow abroad, and its past policy of financing economic development
largely from internal sources. As of December 1974, the total public debt
outstanding amounted to about US$101 million of which $75 million was dis-
bursed. The debt outstanding and disbursed held by the Bank amounted to $41.5
million as of January 1, 1976. The debt service in 1974 was 6 percent of ex-
ports, but in 1975, as a result of the fall in exports, it is estimated at
9.5 percent. However, given the expected export growth, the ratio is expected
to remain within acceptable limits through the next decade. Cyprus' problem
is not the capacity to service external debt, but rather the problem of being
able to borrow enough to realize the full potential of available resources.
The degree of access to capital markets and provision of bilateral and multi-
lateral assistance on as extended terms as possible, may well determine both
the medium and long-term performance of the economy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS
11.       Bank lending to Cyprus commenced in 1963 and comprises so far 10
loans totalling $70.0 million (net of cancellation); of this $60.5 million
(including $21.2 million undisbursed) was held by the Bank as of March 31,
1976. Bank lending has concentrated on providing Cyprus with essential infra-
structure and fostering much needed institutional reforms. These included the
following: four loans in the power sub-sector ($37.8 million), which assisted
in the consolidation and expansion of the Electricity Authority of Cyprus; a
ports loan ($11.5 million), which mainly assisted the creation of capacity in
the Limassol port (which now handles most southern Cyprus traffic) and pro-
vided the basis for the establishment of a national port authority; a highway
loan ($5.4 million), two sewerage projects ($5.4 million) an irrigation proj-
ect ($14.0 million) and a first loan to CDB of $3.0 million. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31,
1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       Although the Bank has not lent to Cyprus in the last two years, it
has maintained contact with the Government, and to the extent feasible, with
the Turkish Cypriot administration with a view to keeping abreast of economic
developments in Cyprus and to advancing work on ongoing projects and preparing
future ones. This approach has facilitated the resumption of the satisfactory
implementation by Cyprus of most of the ongoing projects, which had been set
back for several months as a direct consequence of the events of July 1974.
However since then, the Government has taken initiatives and steps, within
constraints imposed by the political situation, to resume project implementa-
tion. As a result, except for the sewerage project in Famagusta which lies
entirely in the area controlled by the Turkish Cypriots, and for the construc-
tion of the Nicosia-Morphou highway (under the ongoing Highway Project) which



- 5 -
had to be suspended because its alignment virtually coincides with the de
facto line between the two bi-communal zones, ongoing projects are for the
most part being implemented as originally envisaged. The Bank has made
sustained efforts to serve the two communities, both in developing new proj-
ects and in retaining old projects in their initial form (as in the case of
the Nicosia Sewerage Project) but these have not yet borne fruit.
13.       The Bank's objectives in Cyprus are to finance projects to meet
urgent needs for productive employment, exports and rehabilitation; to com-
plete essential infrastructure useful in the context of the whole country;
and to accelerate the recovery of the economy towards the level prevailing
before the events of July 1974. A project for the construction of a highway
linking Nicosia with the port of Limassol, which was studied under the ongoing
Highway Project and determined to be a priority road in the context of the
whole country, is currently under preparation and should be ready for the
consideration of the Executive Directors in FY77. A project for integrated
rural development in the economically depressed Pitsilia area in the Troodos
mountains together with provision of supervised agricultural credit for labour
intensive or export oriented activities is being prepared, and the development
of irrigation facilities, are in the process of being identified for consider-
ation in future fiscal years. When a political settlement is reached as
a result of the ongoing dialogue between the two communities (under UN aus-
pices), the Bank would seek: to help through support of projects designed to
improve living standards of those groups in both communities which were left
out of the growing prosperity prior to 1974; to help build up stronger insti-
tutions; to encourage a national water policy; to develop resources on which
both communities are dependent; and attract long-term development assistance
from other sources.
14.       IFC's first investment in Cyprus was in a cement company in FY73.
The company has become a leader in the island's successful export drive. IFC
is currently providing limited technical assistance to CDB in appraising a
fairly large industrial project. No new operations are currently under con-
sideration. As of March 31, 1976, gross commitments totalled $2.9 million,
of which $2.3 million were still held by IFC.
PART III - INDUSTRY, TOURISM AND BANKING
15.       Industry.   Industry in Cyprus is relatively young and consists
largely of family-owned companies oriented towards the production of con-
sumer goods and building materials. Until mid-1974, the performance of the
sector had been good. Manufacturing value-added rose by 15 percent per annum
at constant prices up to 1972, and by about 6 percent in 1973. The 1973 dec-
line was primarily due to the effect of drought which affected the food pro-
cessing industry, and to shortages in skilled labor. Up to mid-1974, manu-
facturing contributed about 13 percent to GDP, and the gross industrial out-
put in Cyprus was CL 113 million, with a value added of nearly CL 48 million.



Industrial exports reached $43 million in 1973, as compared to $19 million in
1970, and accounted for 28 percent of commodity exports.
16.       According to the 1972 industrial census, Cyprus had a total of 6,421
manufacturing establishments (excluding cottage industries), employing about
32,000 people or about 14 percent of the work force; 90 percent of these es-
tablishments had less than 10 workers. About one-third of these establish-
ments with less than 10 workers, and which account for 27 percent of indus-
trial value-added and some 13,000 jobs, are located in the northern part of
the island. Thirty six percent of the smaller industrial units are also
located in the north. However, following the events of 1974, it appears that
very few of these units are in production. The northern part of the island
was a major supplier of raw materials and intermediate goods (particularly for
the building trades and for food processing) for the industrial units in the
southern part, and this has affected industrial activity. As mentioned in
Part I, the July 1974 events have resulted in replacement of full employment
by an unemployment rate of about 16 percent in the area under the Government's
control, the creation of a large number of refugees with minimal purchasing
power, and the loss of both the foreign tourists and Turkish Cypriot markets.
As a result, the domestic market for industrial products has shrunk signi-
ficantly.
17.       Substantial unutilized capacity exists that can help absorb about
5,000 to 6,000 displaced industrial workers, who remain unemployed. The Gov-
ernment has introduced extensive measures designed to encourage the creation
of additional capacity in labor-intensive export-oriented industries, as well
as increasing the utilization of existing resources. It will itself take
shares in several new large projects. It has introduced new tax incentives
for accelerated depreciation on new investment, mergers of firms, the estab-
lishment of foreign companies in Cyprus, and elimination of remaining import
duties on industrial raw materials and machinery. Although manufacturing
output in 1975 was still much less than the island-wide level for 1973, it is
picking up steadily. Increased output to replace "lost" production and earn
foreign exchange is vital. Industrialists have realized that given the
reduced domestic market and the fall in incomes since July 1974, they must
export to survive. As a result of the efforts to find new markets, particu-
larly in the Middle East, and Government's export credit guarantee scheme,
industrial exports in 1975 have been impressive and have amounted to nearly
25 percent of the gross manufacturing output.
18.       This gain in exports can be attributed to both the supportive Gov-
ernment policies as well as to Cyprus' comparative advantages. Cyprus still
has relatively low labor costs and unlike most countries, was able to control
its domestic price increase to a level under 5 percent in 1975. With its
skilled and well-educated population, surplus labor, and the Government
incentives, its exports should continue to expand, particularly for labor-
intensive consumer goods such as clothing, shoes, leather, and paper products.
Similar prospects exist for products such as cement and furniture, given
Cyprus' freight advantages due to its geographical location. With a further
increase in agricultural production, and a gradual reactivation of industry,
the aforementioned advantages should also favor the growth of agro-industrial
units.



19.       Following the events of July 1974, industrialists were understand-
ably somewhat hesitant to invest in the absence of a clear political settle-
ment or indications that the present status quo would continue indefinitely.
The commercial banks have also been hesitant in providing medium- and iong-
term financing needed for industrial expansion or the establishment of new
capacity. The Government has therefore decided to guarantee up to 75 percent
of these banks' approved loans for industrial projects; the Central Bank estab-
lished a special fund for lending to priority sectors (including manufacturing),
in an effort to mobilize the banks' high liquidity; and the Government has
taken steps to rehabilitate CDB so as to provide the medium and long-term
capital for industrial investment. The Government is also supporting the
establishment or enlargement of industrial estates in Nicosia, Larnaca,
Limassol and Paphos and the establishment of a free trade zone in Larnaca.
There are already indications that these measures, as well as the steps which
the Government has taken on broad economic fronts in reviving the confidence
of the private establishments, could lead to considerable increases in
private investment in 1976 and in subsequent years.
20.       Tourism.   Large-scale tourism is a relatively new industry for
Cyprus. It boomed in the 1960s and early 1970s, and played an important
role in development. The number of visitors increased steadily by about
27 percent per annum from 1966 to 1972, when the number of visitors reached
264,000 and earnings from tourism reached $68 million. Following the events
of July 1974, tourist traffic virtually ceased. About 64 percent of tourist
beds, most of them in the highly developed resorts of Famagusta and in Kyrenia,
lie in the northern part of the island which is under Turkish Cypriot control.
However, some 5,400 beds, including recent completions, are now available in
the area under the Government's control.     After the opening of a new airport
at Larnaca, there was a modest revival of tourist inflow in 1975, as 47,000
tourists visited the southern part of the island and spent about $16 million.
A further increase is expected in 1976 and 1977, with the enlargement of
the airport. The Government therefore envisages an increase in bed capacity
for the 1977 season, provided there is no further unrest in the area.
21.       The Government has played an active role, not only in promoting some
major tourist projects, but also in providing low interest loans, exemption
from import duties on equipment for hotel construction, and investment allow-
ances. It is difficult to forecast the potential of tourism for the southern
part which seems to offer fewer scenic attractions and amenities than the
north. Yet it possesses an excellent climate and offers competitive prices.
On balance, the Government's forecasts of an initially rapid revival, followed
by further expansion, seem reasonable; they depend, however, on political
stability and completion of infrastructure and hotel investments, some of
which are anticipated for 1976.
22.       Banking.   The financial community in Cyprus includes the Central
Bank, two Greek Cypriot banks, and eight international banks. Two cooperative



- 8 -
banks, three financial institutions (including the CDB), and the Loan Commis-
sioners, complete the banking structure. The Cypriots traditionally prefer to
keep savings in fairly liquid form, such as time and savings deposits. The
commercial and cooperative banks have thus been the main mobilizers of savings,
and the security market is virtually non-existent. The banks were in a
healthy financial situation up to the events of July 1974. The lending
activities of the commercial banks involved simplified appraisal procedures
based on knowledge of their clients and conventional collateral requirements.
Most of the lending was for working-capital and on a short-term basis, although
their practice of rolling-over short-term loans with little formality, as well
as their competitive interest rates, made them keen competitors of CDB.
23.       The events of 1974 have however substantially affected the finan-
cial sector. The loan portfolios of all banks, and primarily of CDB, were
weakened by the de facto division of the country. Collection of debts was
disrupted, the level of deposits stagnated and savings and time deposits were
shifted from Greek Cypriot banks to local branches of international banks.
The banks became hesitant to grant loans.
24.       To stimulate economic recovery, the Government initiated a reacti-
vation program in the fall of 1974, which includes financing facilities for
priority sectors and providing incentives for bank lending. The most import-
ant measures taken are: (i) reduction in the minimum liquidity ratio required
of commercial banks to 20 percent, and penalties for banks maintaining ex-
cessive liquidity; (ii) creation of a special fund by the Central Bank for
Government-approved priority investments in construction and manufacturing;
the fund amounted to about CL 6 million at the end of 1975, by which time more
than one-third had already been authorized; and (iii) Government guarantees
for up to 75 percent of commercial bank loans for approved priority invest-
ments.
25.       Cyprus has experienced a remarkable price stability in recent years.
Between 1965 and 1970, consumer prices rose at an annual average of 2 percent
and averaged 4 percent a year thereafter up to 1973; because of the general
international price increases and the domestic political situation, they
jumped to 16 percent in 1974. Nevertheless the Government has been able to
limit price increases in 1975 to a level of less than 5 percent. With the
Government's envisaged fiscal and economic policies, it is estimated that
between 1976 and 1980, prices will at most average an increase of around 6
percent per annum.
26.       In view of this background, the Government has set an interest rate
ceiling of 9 percent per annum for all loans, to prevent interest charges from
going beyond what the present conditions could justify and which might dampen
investments in expansion or in new lines of activity, needed to reduce the
considerable unemployment and to stimulate exports. It believes that any
action at this stage, including an increase in interest rates over the present
ceiling, which the investors - wrongly or rightly - would regard as an impedi-
ment or an additional burden in making new investments, should be avoided. It
is however prepared to review the situation whe-. the economic situation
changes.



- 9 -
27.       At present, the Government is channelling term finance to the econ-
omy through two channels: the Loan Commissioners, who provide soft-term
loans for agriculture, hotels and local communities from Government funds, and
the CDB which lends for manufacturing and tourism. CDB lends exclusively at
long and medium-term, but takes no deposits and so relies in part on Govern-
ment funds for its resources. Since mid-1974, its competitive situation
vis-a-vis commercial banks has improved considerably, as the latter have
recognized the high risks of their previous lending policy of financing long-
term investments through short-term loans. The commercial banks and CDB now
see each other's roles as complementary, and are willing to work together
to provide short and long-term financing respectively, for sound projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
28.       A first Bank loan to CDB was approved in 1972, and a second one was
first appraised in January 1974. The processing of the latter coincided with
the events that occurred in July 1974. These events also put CDB in a finan-
cial situation of such difficulty (paragraphs 31 and 32 below), that only
Government support could resolve it. In November 1975, the Bank sent a mis-
sion to discuss with the Government and CDB, the future role of CDB and the
steps necessary to restore CDB's creditworthiness. The Government decided
that CDB should be rehabilitated and act as the main instrument to reactivate
the industrial and tourism sectors in the island. For this purpose, the
Government and CDB worked out a program, described in paragraphs 33 to 38
below, which ensures CDB's financial viability and its ability to continue ef-
fectively to perform its role as Cyprus' development bank. CDB was appraised
for the proposed loan in January 1976. In the course of this appraisal the
Government asked the Bank to include under the loan a scheme to assist Small-
Scale Industries (SSI), thus providing further needed support to productive
operations of major traditional importance to Cyprus' economy which were
particularly affected by the events of 1974. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1976. The Cyprus delegation was headed by Mr. Joannides,
General Manager of CDB, and the Guarantor was represented by Mr. Theophilou of
the Ministry of Finance.
Project Concept
29.       The proposed loan of $6 million, would include two components:    the
first in an amount of $5.25 million to help finance the import content of
industrial and tourism sub-projects of the type so far handled by CDB; and a
second in an amount of $0.75 million to help finance the development of SSI
in the island. Although during appraisal, the demand and justification for a
small-scale industry component was tentatively evaluated, the details of how
this component would be conceptually organized and implemented were formulated
by the Government and CDB only thereafter, and reviewed by the Bank at the time
of loan negotiations. This detailed proposal provided a sufficient basis for



- 10 -
its acceptance and incorporation under the proposed project, subject to agree-
ment by the Bank of a final definition of the scope of the SSI scheme to be
implemented by CDB and the implementation arrangements thereof, both as condi-
tions of disbursing the loan proceeds for this component. It has been further
agreed that should, in the course of project implementation, the Bank be
satisfied with the progress of the SSI component and a need for a larger
resource allocation is established, a reallocation will be made within the
loan amount, to increase the loan funds available for the SSI component to
$1.5 million (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b)). The Bank funds provided for
CDB's normal operations, will help finance about 60 percent of that in-
stitution's foreign exchange needs for industrial and tourism sub-projects,
over approximately the next 30-month period.
30.       The details of the project are provided in the Loan and Project
Summary attached as Annex III. A report entitled "Appraisal of the Cyprus
Development Bank (CDB) Including a Small-Scale Industry Scheme Cyprus"
(No. 1079a-CY, dated May 10, 1976), is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
The Recent Situation of CDB
31.       CDB was established at the initiative of the Government in 1963, to
provide long-term finance to manufacturing and service enterprises. Sixty
percent of its share capital of CL 1 million was held by the Government in
non-voting shares and the remainder by private shareholders. In most res-
pects, CDB operated as a private institution, and its Board was drawn largely
from the private sector.
32.       CDB's management and staff are capable and experienced. Since its
inception, it has financed more than 250 projects totalling approximately CL
8 million of which some 60 percent has been provided to manufacturing enter-
prises (especially food processing and clothing) and 30 percent in the field
of tourism. After a slow start, the level of operations rose to a peak in
1973, when CDB approved 31 new projects for CL 1.5 million. This situation
received a substantial setback after the events of July 1974. CDB's loan
portfolio in the northern part of the island, de facto in arrears, comprised
47 percent of its total loan portfolio and a third of its total equity port-
folio by the end of 1975. Reports indicate that many of the enterprises in
the northern part which CDB had financed, are either closed down or operating
at a greatly reduced rate. With this loan and equity portfolio (including
accrued interest) amounting to CL 2.9 million virtually lost, CDB would have
been technically insolvent as its equity and reserves amount to only CL 1.2
million.
33.       The Government, recognizing that the political turn of events had
put CDB in this predicament and that CDB had an important role to play in
reactivating the economy, has agreed to undertake special measures to restore
CDB's creditworthiness. Following consultation with the Bank on various al-
ternatives, a package that included provision of adequate financial resources
and involved changes in CDB's ownership has been approved by the Cabinet. In



- 11 -
addition, again after consultation with the Bank, CDB adopted in February 1976
a new Statement of Policies and Procedures, major features of which include:
(i) emphasis on appraisal and supervision standards; (ii) promotion of new
projects; and (iii) diversification of CDB's portfolio and financial resources.
Proposed Ownership and Management Structure
34.       As of January 1, 1976, CDB's authorized share capital was CL 3 mil-
lion of which CL 1 million was paid-in capital; this consisted of 400,000 'A'
voting shares held by private investors who were guaranteed a tax free divi-
dend of 6 percent per annum between 1963 and 1972, and 600,000 'B' non-voting
shares held by the Government. As part of-the.aforementioned package the Gov-
ernment decided to acquire all 'A' shares, both as an expression of continuing
Government financial support to CDB and as indemnification for CDB's portfolio
losses in the northern part-of the island. As:compensation to the 960 private
holders of 'A' sha-res, Government has agreed to provide non-voting preference
shares carrying a dividend of 5 percent per-annum, to be redeemed at par by
the Government within 12 years. Th-is proposal has been accepted by the
shareholders since-without the Government rescue package, CDB would have
been unable to-meet its present financial commitments. The legal formalities
for the takeover of these shares have been initiated and are expected to be
completed within the next few weeks. Their completion including ratification
by the courts of the approval by the present shareholders *of the takeover
scheme, will be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(b)).
35.       After acquisition of all CDB's shares the Government also intends
to provide grants to offset past and future maturities of interest and prin-
cipal due on loans made to projects in the northern part-of the island.
Additional grants will be made to CDB to compensate for the losses it has
incurred as a result of its small equity holdings in these projects. This
guarantee was approved in principle by the Council of Ministers on December
19, 1975, and is expected to be finalized by a letter from the Ministry of
Finance to CDB once the transfer of shareholdings has been completed. This
action is- considered a fundamental step towards rehabilitating CDB's credit-
worthiness.
36.       Until now, CDB's Board of Directors h-as consisted of eleven members,
three appointed by -the Government, five elected by private shareholders,
and three selected by- the private and the government -directors jointly. The
Chairman comes from the private sector and the Vice-Chairman is a Government
Director. It has been an active and independent board, which has taken de-
cisions on the basis-of accepted business principles. Upon takeover by the
Government,- the new Board would consist of seven directors:   four, including
the Chairman, will be selected by the Government from among independent and
experienced private-sector leaders, and three will be appointed by the Govern-
ment from members of civil service or Government controlled corporations. The
proposed new composition and the quorum system of three directors of which two
must be private sector directors, will provide reasonable safeguards for an
autonomous Board policy and operation. The appointment of a new Board, is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(a)).



- 12 -
37.       The total strength of CDB staff as of February 1, 1976, was 16, of
which 7 were professional staff. These include two experienced economists,
who are now the General Manager and Deputy General Manager respectively, and
an experienced technical advisor provided and paid for by the British Govern-
ment who has been working with CDB since 1973. The staff quality is good and
in particular the efforts made to have in-house technical judgement by employ-
ing sufficient engineers is commendable. However, an expansion of staff is
required to meet the existing and projected work load. CDB has agreed to hire
five more professionals during 1976 for general and normal DFC operations and
three more for the SSI operations (Loan Agreement, Section 2.05(a) and
paragraph 5(a) of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.) Although further staff
increases are eventually anticipated, the current staff expansion program is
expected to be sufficient for the near future.
38.       CDB's technical and financial appraisal work has improved steadily.
It however intends to hire a marketing specialist to strengthen its evalua-
tion of markets and sales prospects. Technical supervision of projects under
construction is now satisfactory, but the supervision and follow-up of ongoing
projects needs improvement. CDB's ability to process a relatively large number
of projects within its staff-constraints especially with respect to the SSI
scheme, needs close attention. In- this respect, the Bank would keep a close
watch over CDB's volume and quality of work. This constraint is perhaps the
main challenge facing CDB for the next couple of years.
CDB's Recent Operational Performance
39.       CDB's annual approvals reached a peak in 1973.. The first Bank loan
in 1972 to CDB helped it to improve its development banking ability and achieve
this expanded level of activity. The loan was used to assist in financing the
foreign exchange component of 13 industrial and 4 tourism projects. The 17
projects provided about 800 new jobs, and were -for the most part oriented to-
wards increased export capacity or import substitution. The Bank also con-
tributed to CDB, through guidance given on sub-project reviews, discussion
with supervision missions and arranging for the training of some of the CDB
staff on the EDI courses. Based on the first half of 1974, results for that
year looked even more promising. However, the events that occurred in July
1974, led to a sharp decline in business in the second half of that year.
The 18-month period, from mid-1974 until end-1975, was essentially a holding
operation, pending a decision on the future of CDB. Investors were hesitant
to bring forward new projects during this period. Taking the overall situa-
tion into account, the 25 approvals (CL 591,000) in 1974, and the 28 in 1975
(CL 556,000) indicate a commendable effort. The share of tourism loans has
been drastically reduced, and in 1975 no tourism loans were made. The number
of manufacturing projects approved was in line with those of previous years,
although the reduction of more than 50 percent in total value of approvals
reflected the investors' perception of the uncertain prospects during this
period.
40.       CDB's loan portfolio was badly affected by the 1974 events.     As of
September 1975, 71 percent of its portfolio in southern Cyprus was affected by
arrears amounting to CL 435,000.    By the end of 1975, after an intensified



- 13 -
effort, the arrears in this portfolio were reduced to 54 percent. Some loans
(corresponding to 30 percent of the portfolio) have been rescheduled in view
of the temporary difficulties experienced by the sub-borrowers as a result of
the 1974 events. For the others, adequate provisions have been made against
possible losses and the situation is now under control. It is, however, open
to further improvement, and CDB should, by closer supervision, be able to
reduce arrears to much lower levels within a couple of years.
41.       CDB has been moderately profitable in the past, earning a 5.6 per-
cent return on its equity in 1973, the last year of normal operations. Prof-
its in 1974 and 1975, after substantial provisions for doubtful loans, have
been negligible. For 1975, the current debt/equity ratio was 3.1:1 and the
long-term ratio 4:1, well within the limit of 5:1 agreed with CDB for the
first Bank loan.
42.       CDB's disbursements have accounted for 5 to 10 percent of total in-
vestments in manufacturing and tourism sectors since 1972, although in 1974
its share rose to about 14 percent as a result of the general drop in invest-
ment and the hesitation of commercial banks after July 1974. Although CDB's
relative role in the economy appears to have been modest, it has been the only
institution in Cyprus providing long-term capital on the basis of an appraisal
of the financial and economic merits of projects. It is thus a valuable
instrument for the sound development of new productive investments. With
Government backing and under its new leadership, CDB is expected to play a
more important role in the reconstruction of the economy.
Future' Business Prospects and Resource Needs
43.       Normal DFC business prospects for CDB are good, and arise from the
Government's proposed investment objectives and program in the manufacturing
and tourist sectors which are intended to accelerate economic growth in south-
ern Cyprus. A relatively stable situation has been reestablished and this has
enabled the business community in the southern part of the island to regain
confidence in its economic prospects. The steps taken by the Government to
stimulate industrial and tourist investments, include as mentioned earlier
in this report, the development/expansion of industrial estates in Nicosia,
Larnaca, Limossol and Paphos, creation of a free trade zone in Larnaca, and
the provision of low interest government loans. These steps, coupled with the
growing feeling that the status quo may last for some time and that a satis-
factory political solution will be considered thereafter, appears to have
provided the stimulus for resumed economic growth. Projections relating to
the industrial, tourist, and other sectors provided to the Bank, seem to
represent a realistic target. Based on the data provided, the current pipe-
line for 1976-77 and thereafter, show an annual g'rowth rate of 15 percent
for industrial projects, 40 percent for tourism, and 10 percent for others.
This would entail resource needs of the order discussed below. However, these
projections (particularly in tourism) are necessarily subject to review in
case of drastic change in the political status quo.



- 14 -
Resources
44.       As of December 31, 1975, CDB had mobilized resources totalling CL
8.2 million (68 percent in local currency). The bulk of local currency
resources had been provided by the Government in the form of loans and
debenture stocks. As of December 31, 1975, total local currency resources
available for commitment amounted to CL 35,000. To finance imports, CDB until
1972 made loans in local currency, which in turn were converted into foreign
exchange at the Central Bank. Since 1972 however, it has financed imports
directly from its own resources in foreign exchange. As of December 31, 1975,
CDB's outstanding foreign borrowings of CL 1.4 million consisted of: CL .3
million from KfW, CL .1 million from the Export Credit Guarantee Department
of the U.K., and CL 1.0 million from IBRD. In addition, CDB obtained a US$1
million line of credit from the U.S. Export-Import Bank which it could not use
so far for lack of procurement in the U.S. by its sub-borrowers. All other
foreign exchange resources have been fully committed.
45.        In light of the projected business prospects for CDB's normal opera-
tions, it will need about CL 4.6 million in the period 1976-78. Local cur-
rency needs will be provided through CDB's self-generated resources and Govern-
ment funds. CL 3.7 million will be required in foreign exchange. These
foreign exchange requirements are expected to be met from a loan of approxi-
mately DM 10 million (approximately $4 million) from KfW and from the proposed
Bank loan. The proposed KfW loan will be provided to CDB for 30 years at an
interest rate of 6 percent per annum of which 2 percent shall be repaid as
interest to KfW and 4 percent per annum will be retained in a special CDB
account in local currency for special development purposes agreed between KfW
and CDB, such as financing SSI or promotional activities. The provision of
these funds or the provision of a similar amount from other sources on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank will be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09, and Section 6.01(c)).
In view of the fact that the SSI sub-borrowers of CDB will be funded partly
by the Government and partly by the Bank, as mentioned earlier in this report,
the aforementioned resource position is not affected by the introduction of
this new line of financing.
46.       On the basis of its expected funding and operations, CDB's gross
earnings should increase steadily, its net profitability after taxes over the
1976-80 period, taking into account the terms of the KfW loan, would increase
from 3 to 6 percent of net worth. This is satisfactory for a Government-owned
development finance company. CDB's debt service coverage would improve sub-
stantially from a narrow 1:1 in 1977 to a comfortable 1.4:1 in 1980. CDB's
existing debt/equity limit of 5:1 remains a prudent one and would be retained.
The projections show a sound overall financial situation for the next five
years.
The Loan
47.        Sub-loans financed with the proceeds of the Bank loan are expected
to be provided on terms of 5 to 12 years for medium-size manufacturing and



- 15 -
tourism projects, with an average life of about 8 years; SSI sub-loans would
have an average life of about 6 years. Grace periods of 1 to 4 years would
normally apply to both components. As mentioned earlier, all sub-borrowers
would bear an interest charge at the present maximum ceiling of 9 percent per
annum fixed by the Government. The foreign exchange risks will be borne by
the Government. For normal sub-projects, CDB assistance will be limited
to financing their foreign exchange costs. Given CDB's professional standards
and the general increase in import prices in the last 3 years, the free limit
is proposed to be increased from the $100,000 limit set under the first CDB
project, to $200,000. No aggregate free limit is considered necessary.
Small-Scale Industries (SSI)
48.       Present circumstances in Cyprus appear particularly suitable to
the promotion of small-scale industries. A long-standing tradition of small
family controlled enterprises of less than 10 people (about 90% of existing
manufacturing enterprises), combined with the many displaced small-scale
entrepreneurs and workers now resident in the area under Government's control,
point to the need to stimulate this segment of the industrial sector. The pro-
vision of financial capital could help in regenerating small-scale businesses
and create extensive job opportunities for the presently large number of un-
employed workers. This need has been reflected in the large number of SSI-
type applications received by the Ministries involved with SSI (Labor, and
Commerce and Industry). Faced with this need, which cannot be met by the
relatively conservative and still cautious commercial banking institutions in
Cyprus, the Government has concluded that CDB is the only institution with the
experience and ability to provide the necessary means for the regeneration of
SSI on a relatively efficient basis. Accordingly, the Government requested
that the SSI component be included in the project. The request was based on
a tentative definition of SSI as enterprises found primarily in manufacturing,
employing fewer than 10 persons and involving loans between CL 500 and CL
10,000 (i.e. higher than Special Assistance loans available to the refugees
under the Emergency Scheme and lower than loans normally granted by commercial
Banks or CDB). Specific institutional arrangements proposed include the
employment of additional staff, which will enable CDB to make a meaningful
effort in developing SSI, if backed by a broadly defined assistance package
which draws upon Government's staff and services both to screen SSI loan
applications before they reach CDB and to provide the SSI enterprises with
technical assistance to help them plan their projects, organize their work,
purchase their raw materials and sell their products. The SSI Scheme, also
provides for (i) interest-free financial assistance from the Government, in
equal amounts and on the same maturity terms as the Bank-financed loans,
(ii) Government guarantees for CDB on 75 percent of its SSI loans outstanding,
and (iii) the assurance that CDB will receive additional financial support,
if needed, to cover, on a break-even basis, all administrative expenses and
reasonable provisions on its SSI program. The CDB proposal also envisages
simplified procedures for appraisal, procurement, disbursement and supervision
of SSI loans, which will be in the hands of a specialized section of 3 newly
recruited professionals who will be concerned exclusively with SSI's.



- 16 -
49.       The proposed organizational and financial measures seem sufficiently
sound to warrant Bank support. However, the following aspects do require fur-
ther exploration:
(a) Definition and Organization of SSI Scheme. The broad defi-
nition outlined above has not yet been corroborated by a
detailed assessment of the needs and priorities of SSI sub-
groups in Cyprus. Therefore, while using the proposed defini-
tion as a reasonable starting point, the Bank has reserved its
position regarding an acceptable definition until completion of
a Government/CDB analysis which on the basis of existing data,
and taking into account staff and resource constraints in both
quarters, will assess the type and range of enterprises and
sub-loans which should be given priority for financing under
the SSI component of the Bank loan. Labor intensity would
be among the more important criteria to be used in defining
these priorities. Details of the organization scheme agreed
to during negotiations may have to be modified in light of the
finally agreed upon definition of SSI. Agreement by the Bank
on a suitable definition and organizational plan for the SSI
scheme and implementation of the plan, are conditions of dis-
bursement of the SSI portion of the proposed loan (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 2.05 and Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement).
(b) Resource Requirements. It is difficult to estimate what the
total resource requirements, manageable under the SSI Scheme,
will be. Rough estimates by the Government and CDB suggest
that CDB may be able to make loans of about $4 million to
finance SSI projects over the next 2 to 3 years. However,
in order not to overstrain its staffing capacity, the amount
of SSI business that CDB might do, is likely to be a lower
amount and will depend on the definition of SSI.
50.       Taking these factors into account, it was agreed that $750,000
would be initially allocated to CDB for SSI, with the possibility of an addi-
tional $750,000 for SSI from the $5.25 million allocated for normal CDB
operations should the SSI prove viable and in need. Since the Government
loans to CDB for the SSI component will carry no interest and be repaid over
a period of about 10 years, CDB has agreed to transfer to the Government any
profit generated in respect of that component.
Procurement and Disbursements
51.       CDB requires its borrowers to submit more than one tender for
machinery and equipment, except in very small projects or in special circum-
stances, and requires an architect's estimate of building costs. All cost
elements of a project are carefully checked by CDB's engineers. The proceeds
of the proposed loan would finance:



- 17 -
(a) 100 percent of the CIF cost of imported equipment;
(b) 80 percent of the cost of imported equipment purchased in
Cyprus;
(c) 45 percent or such other percentage as may be agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower of the cost of civil works construc-
tion, which is estimated to be its import component.
(d) 50 percent of the amount disbursed for SSI loans over the
period of their use.
Disbursements are expected to commence by the third quarter of 1976, with
possible retroactive financing of up to $500,000 (Section 2.03(d)(i) of the
Loan Agreement). The loan proceeds are expected to be committed by the end
of 1978 and fully drawn by June 30, 1981.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Bank, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution approving the loan are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. For normal CDB
operations, the draft loan documents conform to the standard pattern for
loans to development finance companies, with additional covenants having
been added to account for the SSI component of the project. The following
will constitute special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan:
the appointment of CDB's new Board, the receipt of final ratification by the
Cyprus Court of the Government takeover of CDB, and the signing and ratifica-
tion of an agreement providing CDB with $4 million of additional resources
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 11, 1976






ANNEX I
TABLE SAPae1o6
CYPRUS                   SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SMEETPae1o6
LAND AREA (THIOU KNa)                     *.................          .. ............
...............                          ~~~~~CYPRUS                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TITAL          9.3                                            MOST RECENT                             TRINIDAD &
ARABLE           ..1960                                 1970    ESTIMATE             LERAN0N            TOBAGO         ISRAEL*
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                            600         00.         16.07                     .0        000         210.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
2OPULATION (MID.YR, MILLION)                   0.6          0.6          0.6                  2.7           1.0          2,9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE Km.                             62.0         69.0         71,0                 268.0        201.0        100.0
PER SQUARE Km. ARABLE LAND                   S.*                                           53.0            .
VITAL STATTSTICS
CRUDE RIRTH PATE PER THOUSAND              25.0         23.3         21.7                  41.0         25.0         26.8
CRUDE DEATN RATE PER TMOUSAND               6.0          7.8           9.1                 13.0          7.0           7.0
INFANT MnRTALITY RATE (/THOU)              30.0         26.0         33.0                  82.0         34.0         22.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)             65.0         71.0          72.0                 58.0         67.0         72.0
GROSS REPRO)DUCTION RATE                    1.7           1.5          1.0                  1.9          1.9           1,8
POPULATInN GROWTH RATE (K)
TOTAL                                       I.5           1.1          0.9                  2.5          2.1           3.2
URBAN                                      40.2! 1a .9                 2 .5                 6.0            ..3.6
JRRAN PO'ULATION CZ JF TOTAL)                36.0          39.0         43.0                 58.0          12.0         R2.0
AGE StRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 10 YEARS                             37.0         31.8         3t.                   43.0         41.0         33.3 La
15 TO) 64 YEARS                            57.0         60.6         60.7                  52.0         553.0        60.2/Ia
65 YEARS AND OVER                           6.0          7.6           7.6                  5,0          0.0          6.5s 7a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                           08           0.6          0.6                  0Q0.                       0 7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                      1.0! b       lo,:Q9/      1.0 /a                1.8,        0'.3          1.2 Ia,b
FA4ILY PLANNING.
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)                 .             ..                              87.0
USERS CZ OF MARRIED WOMEN)                    ...                        ,10.0
EMPLOY ME NT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)                235.0        265.0        278.3                 570.0        350.0       1000.0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (2                00.0          36.0         30.0                 19.0         22.0           9,0 /a
JNEMPLOJYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)                  .           1.1          1.2                  6.0         12.5           0.0 L-A
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
IF~ PRIVATE INCOME RECIO BY.
HIGWEST    52 OF POPULATION                   .         1 2.1 ltb       ..260 I/a b                                  13,   LAc
HIGHEST 20% OIF POPULATION                    .         39.  7b         .                  55 0/a b                  38 6 Ic
LOWSET 20% OF POPULATION                      ..7 97b                   ...                                           I78
LOWEST 4IX OF POPULATION                                I 9.6T & 7                         11.0, tab                 20 S5
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
t OWNED BY SMALLEST lOX OWNERS                  I. ....                                                      .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                   1400.0 Ie    1280.0        1220.0               "I070.       2380.0        aoo.oId
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON               boo. 0       610.0        St10.0/b             105o0.0!!     200.0        210.OId
POPULATIMN PER HOSPITAL BED                 220.0 LAc     190.0        20 0 ,0              260.0        23 0 .0       17 0 .0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OFP
CALORtFS (0 nFl REQUIREMENTS)              99,0         99.0        108,0                  96.0         97,0        116.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                    78,0         780          86,0                  70.0         640          92.0
-OF WHTCH ANIMAL AND PULSE                 ..         33.0!!         I.                    .          340.0!!      09.0
)EATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1.4                    1.7            ..                               8.0          1.8          1.0
EDUCATION
AOJUSTFD ENRDLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                            1 0 0.0       83, 0 Id                          1141,0 Ie     96:0         9
SECONDARY SCHOOL                           4 B*0        5a870d                              0   o.o     26.0        956.00
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED _
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                   12.0         12.0/d       12,0 /A               12.0         15.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(2 tip SECONDARY)                           0.10        12.oL 1d 3.0 LA.                    1.0 LA      10.0         00.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                      81.0! 0d 5.0                 ..69.0 Li                       90.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                     1.3           .           1.0                   2.1t.                     1.5 
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
DIPEJA HATER (%)                           72.0             .        23.0                  30.0         68.0 LI,,A     3. 0  e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I OP ALL DWELLIN5S)                       43,0                      99 qq0 d              98.0         66.0 Lib     94,0 Le
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
Tn ELECTRICITY (2)                         22.0                                                                       Sg.  ,   .5.0  /e
C04SUMPT TON
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              153.0        260.0         265.0                21.0         276.0         223.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                48,0          89,0        117.0                 58,0          73.0         52.0
ELECTRICITY    (KWH/YR PER CAP)             012,0        962.0        1186,0                000.0       1123.0       2350.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                      1,8          2.7          3.9                   1.7          5.5         11.7
........................................................
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITTNS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
Nor's
Poles, otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, for 1970 to 1968-70, sod for most recent eartojats to 1971-73.
*eIaraa1 baa bean selected as an objective c ontry be...uas of ite ofro1laritiese in geographical situation, hiacan resoo.rces, and wa ter problena
to that of Cyprua .
CYPRUS               1960     Is  1946-60;    /b  Ratio of Population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;     Ic   1962,    /d  S-eve  years
and over, read end write.
1970     /s  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to total labor force'       lb   1966, urbau'hcu-cbcds   65 Ic   1964-66;
Id Not including T-ckish schools.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:     /s  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;     lb  In.oncplet. data;
/c  Including Turkish schoolo;     /d  Orbon only.
LEBANON              1970     /n  Personal disposable income of houaeho1do;    lb  Beirut and outskirts;     /c  1966,     /d  Including auciotact nuraen
and niduivec,     /   fcudn     26pretopivte schools;              /f  10 yearo and ovr, red and write..
TRINIDAD 6 TOBAGO    1970     Ia  1964-66;    /b  1966;     /c  Piped water inside.
ISRAEL              1970      Is  Includes data relating to certain territories under occu Pation by Iarsali nilitary forces oioce June 1967;
Wb  Ratio of population under 13 and 65 sod over to tocal labor force;      Ic   Jewinh wage eranera, h-snhelds (urban);
71' Registered, not all practicing in the country;     /e  1966.
R3 Jonuary 29. 1976
DEFCINITIOS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
land Area (thou ho )                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~Population pe scing person - Population divided by numnbr of practicing
m'tir'rATir'iiflao    oecopsngln           araadiadwtronoend fenlegradute nurses, 'trained" or 1c-rtifled"1 nuroes, and
XAranl - munt recent estinate of agricuitural area used teoporarily or par-             auxiliary personnel with training or exporienue.
""'nently for cropa, posturen, market & citchen gardens or to lie fajiow.            Poplain pe     hospital bed - Population divided by nunbor of hospital beds
avaial     in public and private general and specialiced hospital and
2!    p!Rs~M:.iY1) - ONP per capita estinates at nmrket priceso, colon-            rehabilitation ceniers; excludas nursing homes and establisbments for
laibiaeb  version nethod as World Bash Atlao (1972-74, basis).                 custodial and preventive core.
Per apia sppl ofcalrie   (%frqirements) - Cu.puted frun energy
ulattion an    itlstatistics                                                           equivalent ofnotffond0 suple     availab)le in country per capita per day;
Pu, laet      i-,nfion        - Asof Jly    irst; if nut available, average             available supplies coeprise donentic production, inports lens exports,
.  on-year as      s.                                                            and changes in stank; net supplIes eacludo animal feed, se.de, quanti-
ties used inf fed processin and loss.es in distrlbutiss; requlrenentu
PoultiTon dens.ity -   r 5sa rns -Mid-year population per square kiln-                  were ostinated'by FA0 basedgus phyniologinal1 needs for normnal activity
solr (00  en are) o  ttal Greo                                                  and health considering anvlronnental tetmperature, body weights, age and
f'opujatiin deansity - per Siquare usa of arable land - Conputed as above for           sex distributions of population, and allowing 10% for waste at household
arable land on1y,                                                                     level.
Pnr cspta suply ofsctein (groon per day) - Protein content of per
Vita saitccaiantsplof fodpr da;nt supply of food Is defined us
Crud bSirt  rte per thousand - Annual live birtlo per thousand of nid-                  above; requirescnts fur all countries established lB USDA Economic
Year poPulation; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                  Researh Services provide for a ninimum allowance of 60 grass of total
1975 for developing countries,                                                        protein per day, and 70 grams of animal and pulse protein, of wdhich 10
Cuedeath rte per thousand - Annual deaths par thousand of eid-d.ys                   gran  should 1* aninal protein; these standards -rellower that those of
population;unu.lly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    75 crane o f tutn1 Wutstn and 23 gr-n atf ani-i    protet,, noa     -avrge
for developing countries.                                                             for the world, proposed by FAO is the Third World Food Survey.
Infantmotly rate        /thou) - Annual deaths of infants un,der one year             Per capita, pcp1tein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
oif aGE per tho   nvedlrth-.drvs                                                                rt    snoals and pulses in grams per day.
Lfe_eapecta-cat birth(yro) - Average s,,onher of yearn of life renal,-rt                           ho      n1,-     Annua deaths per thousand in age group 1-1,
at brt  uuall  ye-ear  veraes edingIs 160,1970 and                  Years,tE.chil    erhhlth    age group; suggestod an an indicator of sal-
1975 for developing countrie.                                                         stiis
Gossr  rodotion rate - Average nunber of lice daughters a woman will
bkiFl  baFb#iiIreprodmtrive period if she experiences present age-              Edunation
specific fertility rates; usually five-year aveages anding in 1960,                 Ad.lunted enrollment rato-pir       shool - Enrollnent of oil ages as
1970tand 19.75.for developing countries,                                              percentage of prIc:tiary schoo-ag I population;oincludes children aged
Populaion growhrate (1) - total - Compound annual growth rates of old-                  6-il years but adjusted f or different lenths of primary education;
year population for 1950-60O, 1960-70, and 1960 to nast recent year.                  for countries with universal education, enrollnent nay exceed 100%
Population growth rate () -    rban - Conputed like growth rote of total                since sons pupils aro below or above thn official sebani age.
populotien; differ.ent deinitions of urban areas nay affect cosipara-               Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Conputed as above; se-nod-
bility of data aonng countries.                                                       ary education requires at least four years of approved primary inatruc-
Urbn ppultio   Nof total) - Ratio of urban to total populatiss; dinf-              tion; provides general, vccational ur teacher training instructions for
o. rest aef5  0io5 0f upn areas nay effect comparability of data                     pupils of 17 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generoily
a.Mog con.tries.                                                                      exclnded.
estructure (ercent) - Children (0-11, years), working-age (15-64, years),           Years .of  obaling.provded(first and second levls       - Total years of
and retired  65years and over) as percentages of mid-year populotion.                 schoolng   a   secndry lv,voaInlntrtin nay be partinlly
Ag   e,d~ ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to                or cenpletuly excluded.
those of age  1   through 64,.                                                      Vocational enrollmnet 1% of seconday    -Vocational instituti',ns include
Ecoomi  deendncvratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over               technical, industril orohe       rgracts which operate independently or
to the la=r    orcein age group of 15-64, years.                                      as departoucts of secondary institutions.
Family planng- aceptors (ciumulative, thou) - Cumeulative snber of                    Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adualts (able to rend and write) ao per-
a.cceptors of bIrth-control devices under auspices of national fanily                 centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
Planning program snice inception.
Family plaing~ - users (5 of narried women) - Percentages of narriedhonc
wonen of Childa-bearing age (15-44 years) who use btrth-montrol de-                 Pesos      r roots (average) - Average nunber of persons per roots in occupied
vices to all married wonen in sane age grous,                                         conventional delligs in urban areas; dwellings exclude noc-penmanent
ntruct-re and unoccupied parts.
an0- t                                                                            Occoupied duellingo without ped water (6) - Occupied conventional dwell-
llabor force fthousad) - Econonically active persons, including                      ings in urban and rur altapriean without ir'ide or outside piped water
fmd orces and unn    ayed but excluding honoewives, students, etc.;                facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions is vorious countries are not comparable.                                Access to el-ectrcty   5   f al delings)      Conventional dwellings with
lbor force in acriculture (5   - Agricultural labor force (in fanning;                 eletricityinlvgquresaprctofoald                          ligsnubn
forestry, hunting and fsi     G)oa percentage of total labor force,                   and rural areas.
UnmlydNof labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined ao por-                Rural delnscnetdt            electricity()- Cooputed as above for rural
soswoare ohle and willing to take a Job, out of a job on a givendeing                       oly
day, resained out of a job, an,d seeking work for a specified sinimno
period not exceeding one week; nay sot be comparable betwoen noun-                  Cn     tions
trien due to different definitions of mnenployed and source of data,                fliddrtweivers ogrMthiou eoP)t- All types of receivers for radio broad-
e.g. , employmtent office statistics, sample sur,veys, compulsory unem-               casts to generalp     i perhousand of population; excludes unlicensed
ployenet insurance,                                                                   receivers in countries and tn years when registration of radio sets was
inieffect; dat-a f or recent years nay not be conparable since cost noun-
Income distribution - Percentage of private ions..   (both in cash end                  tries abolished licensing.
kind) received by richest 55, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                 Passe   or caors  eprthou POP) - Passenger cars compr-ise nator cars seating
1,0% of population.                                                                                   persos; excludes ambulances, hearses and nilitary
vehicles.
Distribution of land owersip-Percontages of land owned ity wealthiest                 El-tflicity jpk1h/vr   5yo) - Annual consunption of industrial, conmer-
10% and poorest I0   oflnd    wtero.                                                  cal, publc and p     vsc e  lectricity in kilowatt hours per capita; gen-
erally based on production data, without allowance for losses in grids
Healt   nd Nutritio                                                                     but allowing for importo und exports of electricity.
prp c.1- Population divided by number of practicing                 Nesrn        k/rD,caD)_-Per c.pita annual coouctption in kilograna
pyiisqualifiea fros a nedical school at university level.                        esimttdab fromjdonestl1  production plus nst inports of newsprint.



L
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMeNT DATA                                      ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
Actual            Eat.         Proiected                       Growth Rates               1975
19O21975-   1977-           Share
1970    1973   1974     1975     1976    1977    1980            1973    197iL2  1980            of OrDP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
$   million at 1975 prices)
GDP (m.p.)                                       746.9  1099.0  871.9    577 5    705.6   735.3  792.3              7.3     4.Z     2.5           ]00.0
Gains from Terms of Trade                          ..     ..      ..       -        1.5     3.1    6.4
Gross Domestic Income                              ..      ..     ..     677.5    707.2   738.4  798.7                      4.4     2.7          ,O0.0
Exports (g + nfs)                                274.0   439.2  320.8    270.9    195.9  323.3   421.0             10.4     9.2     9.2           40.0
Imports (g + nfs)                                340.3   578.9  413.9    404.2    4 19.1  433.9  463.1             12.6     3.9     2.2           59.7
Resource Balance                                 -66.3  -139.7   -93.1  -133.3   -123.2  -110.6  -42.1             20.9     9.7   -37.9           19.7
Consupption                                      648.0  1026.5   866.3   692.9    710.4   729.1  720.8              9.9     2.6   -0.4            102.3
Investment                                       165.2   213.0    98.6   117.9    120.0   120.0  120.0              2.6     0.9    -              17.4
Domestic Savings                                  46.0    46.1    -9.4   -15.4     -3.2     9.4    77.9               -   -26.0   102.4           -2.3
National Savings                                  56.2    58.8     3.2    73.3     58.8    35.6   73.0              1.5   -43.4    27.1           10.8
GDP (at current m.p.)                            544.8   960.8   819.8   677.5   .740.9   818.4  1085.3               .      .       .            100.0
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                                      Share of GDP (fc) at 1975 prices (7l                              Sector Growth Rates
Agriculture                                       19.9    13.5    19.9    18.0     17.8    17.6   17.3             -7.1     3.0     2.0            18.0
Industry                                          27.1    29.3   25.1     25.0     25.3    25.6  26.8               9.0     5.5     4.0            25.0
Services                                          53.0    57.2   55.0     57.0     56.9    56.8   55.9              9.1     4.0     2.0            57.0
C. PRICES (1975-100)
Export Price Index/                               66.1    92.3   101.3   100.0    107.2   119.4  146.9             11.8     9.3     7.1
Import Price Index                                55.9   77.6   103.7    100.0    107.2   117.7  144.2             11.6     8.5     7.0
Terms of Trade Indext                            118.2   118.9    97.7   100.0    100.0   101.4  101.9              0.2     0.7     0.2
GDP (m.p.) Deflator                               72.9    87.4    94.0   100.0    115.0   111.3  137.0              6.2     5.5     7.2
Average Exchange Rate (Ch   $)                   2.400   2.861   2.745   2.710    2.500   2.500  2.500
D. SELECTED INDICATORS                             1968-73 1975-77 1977-80             E. LABOR FORCE                  1970    1973    1975
Incremental Capital/Output Ratio                   3.1     4.1    6.3                  Labor Force ('000)         269.3   279.7   212.4
Import Elasticity                                  1.6     0.9    0.9                 Unemployment ('000)           2.8     3.3    34.5
Average National Savings Rate                     17.3     6.7    6.8                  (x)                         (1.0)   (1.2)  (16.2)
Marginal National Savings Rate                     9.9   -59.4   80.8                  Employment ('000)          266.5   276.4   177.9
Imports/GDP                                       46.3   59.2    58.6                   (7 share)
Investment/GDP                                    23.4    17,4   15.9                   Agriculture                36.1    34.0    29.2
Resource Gap/GDP                                   8.1    17.0    8.8                   Industry                   25.2    26.1    23.2
Services                   38.7   39.9    47.6
P. PUBLIC FINANCE
(as % of GDP at current m.p.)                            1970    1973    1974    1975
Current revenue                                           39.3   46.2    47.3    51.5
Tax revenue                                               28.9   37.5    32.5    28.0
Current expenditure                                       27.9   41.7    50.1    58.5
Government savings                                        11.5    4.5    -2.7    -7.0
Capital expenditures                                       8.7   12.4     9.6    12.1
Public sector fixed capital formation                     12.7   14.2
/I    Data up to July 1974 refer to the whole of Cyprus3  data thereafter refer to south Cyprus only and are therefore
not directly comparable with those for earlier years.
/2    All amounts in constant Cyprus pounds
/3     Merchandise trade
March 31, 1976



ANNEX I
IMPORT DETAIL                                           Page 4 of 6
Actual           Est.       Projected                           Growth  Rates
1970    1973    1974    1975     1976    1977    1980            1970-73    1975-77  _197780
A.  Constant 1975 Prices (Million $)
Food                                                                      76.5    77.2    77.9    77.6                          0.9      -0.1
Other consumer goods                                                      14.8    15.2    15.7    15.5                          3.0      -0.4
Petroleum and products                                                    50.9    53.0    55.2    59.5                          4.1       2.5
Other intermediate goods                                                 133.4   140.7   148.5   167.0                          5-5       4.0
Capital goods                                                             44.2    45.0    44.9    44.8                          0.8      -0.1
Total goods (f.o.b.)                                                     319.8   331.1   342.2   364.4                          3.5       2.1
Non-factor services (nfs)                                                 84.4    88.0    91.6    98.8                          4.2       2.6
Total goods and nfs                                                      404.2   419.1   433.9   463.2                          3.6       2.2
B. Price Indices(1975 = 100)
Food                                                                     100.0   100.8   115.8   134.7                          2.9       5.2
Other consumer goods                                                     100.0   109.4   118.6   147.3                          8.9       7.5
Petroleum and products                                                   100.0   108.2   116.9   144.5                          8.1       7.3
Other intermediate goods                                                 100.0   109.4   118.6   147.3                          8.9       7.5
Capital goods                                                            100.0   109.4   118.6   147.3                          8.9       7.5
Total goods                                                              100.0   107.2   117.7   144.2                          8.5       7.0
Non-factor services                                                      100.0   109.3   118.7   147.3                          9.0       7.5
Total goods and nfs                                                      100.0   107.7   117.9   144.8                          8.6       7.1
C. Current Values (Million $)
Food                                             29.7    84.4     59.7    76.5    77.8    90.2   104.5             41.7         8.6       5.0
Other consumer goods                             34.4     41.0    38.2    14.8    i6.7    18.7    22.8              6;0        12.5       6.8
Petroleum and products                           15.1    22.7     47.1    50.9    57.4    64.6    86.0             14.6        12.7      10.0
Other intermediate goods                         83.2   182.4    169.1   133.4   154.0   176.1   246.1             29.9        14.9      11.8
Capital goods                                    44.0    71.5     65.0    44.2    49.2    53.2    65.9             17.6         9.7       7.4
Total goods  (f.o.b)                            206.4   402.0    379.1   319.8   355.0   402.8   525.4             24.9        12.3       9.3
Non-factor services                              50.0    96.1     98.2    E4.4    96.2   108.7   145.5             24.3        13.5      10.2
Total goods and nfs                             256,4   498.1    477.3   404.2   451.2   511.5   670.8             24.8        12.5      -9.4
/1  uata up to July 1974 refer to the whole of Cyprus; data thereafter refer to south Cyprus only
and are therefore not directly comparable with those for earlier years.
March 31, 1976



ANNEX I
L                                 Page 5 of 6
EXPORT DETAIL
Actual              Est.            Prolected                           Growth   Rates
1970     1973     1974      1975     1976     1977      19801            l970773   1975-77    1977-80
A.   Constant 1975 Prices (Million $)
Agricultural                                                            62.3     67.3     72.7      91.5                           8.0       8.0
Mineral                                                                 20,3     20,9     21.5      23.5                           3.0       3.0
Manufactures                                                            58.3     67.0     77.1     117.3                          15.0      15.0
Total goods   (f.o.b.)                                                 140.9    155.2    171.3    232.3                           10.2      10.7
Non-factor services (nfs)                                              130.0    139.1    148.8     182.3                           7.0       7.0
Total goods and nfs                                                    270.9    294.3    320.1     414.7                           8.7       9.0
B.   Price   Indices (1975 = 100)
Agricultural                                                           100.0    103.4     118.8    142.7                           9.0       6.4
Mineral                                                                100.0    112.2     124,4    161.0                          11.5       9.0
Manufactures                                                           100.0    109.4     118.6    147.3                           8.9       7.5
Total goods                                                            100.0    107.2     119.4    146.9                           9.3       7.1
Non-factor services (nfs)                                              100.0    109.4     118.6    147.3                           8.9       7.5
Total goods and nfs                                                    100.0    108.3     119.1    147.1                           9.2       7.3
C.   Current Values (Million $)
Agricultural                                46.1     92.4      63.1     62.3      69.6     86.3    130.6                 26.1     17.7       14.8
Mineral                                     33.6     28.0      26.1     20.3     23.4      26.8     37.9                 -6.3     14.9       12.2
Manufactures                                19.4     43.2      53.2     58.3      73.3     91.4    172.8                 30.6     25.2      23.7
Total goods (f.o.b.)                        99.1     163.6    142.4    140.9     166.4    204.6    341.2                 18.2     20.5       18.6
Non-factor services (nfs)                  113.7    223.8     180.5    130.0     152.2    176.5    268.6                 25.3     16.6       15.0
Total goods and nfs                        A12.8     387.4    322.9    270.9     318.6    381.1    609.9                 22.1     18.6       17.0
Ll Data up to July 1974 refer to the whole of Cyprus; data thereafter refer to south Cyprus only
and are therefore not directly corparable with those for earlier years.                                          March 31, 1976



ANNEXI
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENIS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(In US$ Millions)
Actual                  Est.                Projected                           Growth Rate p.s. (1)
1970       1973        1974                  1976       1977       1980                   1970-73    1975-77  197740O
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (goods) (f.o.b.)                           99.1       163.6      142.4      140.9.      166.4      204.6      341.2                     18.2       20.5     18.6
Imports ( goods) (f.o.b.)                         206.4      402.0       379.1      319.8       355.0      402.8      525.4                     24.9      12.3       9.3
Non-factor services, net                           63.7       127.7       82.3       45.6        56.0       67.8      123.1                     26.1       22.0     22.0
Resource balance                                  -43.6     -110.7      -154.4     -133.3      -132.7     -130.4      -61.0                     36.4       -0.7    -28.7
Interest & investment income, net                   2.7        5.1         5.2        2.0       -1.2        -3.5      -23.7                     23.6         .      89.2
Workers remittances                                 0.9         1.5        8 7        10.7       15.0       20.0       25.0                     18.6       36.5      7.7
Other factor service income                          5.6        8.5        4 7      -16.1       -17.2      -18.4      -22.5                     14.9        6.9      6.9
Total net factor income                             9.2        15.1       18.6       -3.4        -3.4       -1.9      -21.2                                33.7    126.2
Net transfers                                       17.1       14.9       63.1       92.1        71.3       33.0       14.0                     _7.9      -59.8    -33.1
Balance on current account                        -17.3      -80.7       -72.7      -44.4       -64.8      -99.2      -68.2                     67.1       49.5    -13.3
Direct foreign investment                           14.6       37.2       32.4         7.8        8.6        9.4       13.7                     36.6        9.8     13.4
Public M + LT loans - disbursements                 6.7        15.6       10.5         7.3       12.3       19.8       31.9                     32.5       64.7     17.2
- amortization                 -1.1       -3.4       -2.7        -5.5       -6.9       -6.6      -10.3                      45.3       9.5     16.0
- net                           5.6       12.2        7.8         1.b        5.4       13.2        21.6                     29.6     185.3     17.8
Other M + LT loans, net                                          -          -          -         -1.7       -1.7        -                         -         -        -
Commercial loans, net                              -1.3         4.5        8.2       -22.9        -          -         39.1                      51.3       -
Other                                               30.5       14.0      -14.0         4.4       27.2       18.0       31.0                    -29.6      102.3     19.9
Change in reserves (-increase)                    -32.1        12.8       38.3        53.3       25.3       60.3       -9.3
B.  LO   lAN COMMITMENTS
Actual
Total public M + LT loans                            5.9        5.4       22.8         9.3                                                  1972      1973      1974
a. IBRD                                               -         5. 4      14.0         -       DEBT & DEBT SERVICE
b. OLher international organizations                  -          -          -          5.4     Public Debt Outstanding &
c. IMF                                                -          _         7.8         1.9       Disbursed (Do & D) /3                       40.8      57.4      74.8
d. Governments                                       5.9         -         1.0         2.0
Interest on Public Debt                        2.4       3.0       3.7
Total commercial loans                               0.7       11.2        5.8         1.0     Payments on Public Debt                        4.6       5.3       4.8
e. Suppliers                                         0.7        8.3        4.3         1.0     Total Public Debt Service                      7.0       8.2       8.6
f. Financial institutions                           -           2.9        1.0         -
g. Bonds                                                        -          -                   Burden on Export Earnings                      2.1       2.1       2.6
Interest as S Prior Year Do & D                5.8        7.3       6.4
New borrowingp                                            -           -                - ,  _   Amortizatione s a a of Prior Year Do & D      1.1        1.2       0.8
C.  MEMORANDUM ITEMS                                                                               IBRD Debt Outstanding & Disbursed             21.5       30.3      37.9
7 Grant element (all loans)                          .   .      ..         ..         15.0     IBRD as % Public Debt 0 & D                    5.2       5.3       5.1
Average interest (%)                                 ..         ..         ..          7-5     IBRD as % Public Debt Service                  3.1       3.4       4.4
Average maturity (years)                             ..         ..         ..         12.2
/t   Data up to July 1974 refer to the whole of Cyprus; data thereafter refer to south Cyprus only
and are therefore not directly comparable with those for earlier years.                                                                    March 31, 1976
/2   Yearly information on private debt service is not available
/3   End of the period



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 1976)
US$ Millions
Loan                                                             Amount
Number  Year  Borrower            Purpose          (less cancellations)  Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed       Electric
Power                    22.6
628    1969  Republic of
Cyprus             Ports                     11.5               .1
729    1971  Sewage Board       Sewerage
of Nicosia         System                     2.7               .8
730    1971  Sewage Board       Sewerage and
of Famagusta       Drainage System            1.9               .6
830    1972  Cyprus Develop-     Industry and
ment Bank          Tourism                    2.9               .0*
831    1972  Electricity Auth-  Electric Power
ority of Cyprus                               9.0              1.0
904    1973  Republic of        Highway
Cyprus                                        5.4              4.8
960    1974  Republic of        Paphos Irrigation
Cyprus                                       14.0             13.9
Total                                       70.0
of which has been repaid                   9.5
Total now outstanding                       60.5
Amount sold                     2.3
of which has been repaid      2.3
Total now held by Bank /a                   60.5
Total undisbursed                                            21.2
*Undisbursed balance of $12,242.11.
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1976)
Amount of US$
Year           Obligor              Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1972    Cyprus Cement Company           Cement           2.3     0.6     2.9
Less cancellations, sales
terminations and repayments                    0.6      -      0.6
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                         1.7     0.6     2.3
Total Undisbursed                               -      0.0     0.0*
* Undisbursed balance of $15,662.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 628 Cyprus Ports Project: US$11.5 million loan of June 30, 1969.
Effective Date: October 1, 1969. Closing Date: (original) March 31, 1974;
(current) December 31, 1976.
Construction of Limassol port has been satisfactorily completed
and it is successfully operating and handling most.traffic generated in
southern Cyprus. However, to enable the government to complete actions
on some of the remaining institution building objectives, (the key one of
establishing a Cypus Port Organization has been accomplished) the closing
date has been extended by nine months to December 31, 1976.
Loan No. 729 Nicosia Sewerage Project: US$2.7 million loan of April 5, 1971.
Effective Date: July 16, 1971. Closing Date: -(original) March 31, 1975;
(current) Mlarch 31, 1977.
The project was about 90 percent complete by July 1974, when
construction was interrupted. The practically completed treatment plant is
located in the area not under the control of the Government. Following
unsuccessful efforts to reach a mutually satisfactory solution with the
Turkish Cypriot administration on this matter, the Nicosia Sewerage Board
has decided, and is now taking steps, to complete the project by constructing
a smaller low cost treatment plant with some assistance to be provided by the
Government, so that the system can be put into operation in 1977.
Loan No. 730 Famagusta Sewerage Project: US$1.9 million loan of April 5, 1971.
Effective Date: July 16, 1971. Closing Date: (original) March 31, 1975;
(current) March 31, 1977.
The project was about 90 percent complete by July 1974, when con-
struction was interrupted. The project site lies completely in Famagusta,
which is not under the control of the Government. Completion of this proj-
ect therefore depends upon a political settlement.
Loan No. 831 Fourth Power Project: US$9.0 million loan of June 19, 1972.
Effective Date: September 7, 1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
This project was in its last stages of completion when it was
interrupted in July 1974. Parts and pieces of equipment needed to complete
the project had arrived in Famagusta port at the time. Following the year's
discussions by the Government and the Borrower with the Turkish Cypriot
administration, arrangements were made to have the equipment released from
Famagusta port. As a result of this, and actions since taken by the Borrower
to reorder some of the missing items, the generating unit is expected to be
commissioned before June 1976, the transmission line is now nearing comple-
tion and the distribution works which are 65 percent complete, should be



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
finished within less than a year. An extension of the Closing Date will
therefore be required. Despite some increase of electricity consumption
in 1975 from its low level in the second half of 1974, and a 15 percent
tariff increase, the Borrower was unable to meet the financial targets
agreed upon with the Bank, chiefly because it has continued to supply
power to north Cyprus without receiving payment. This is, however, a mat-
ter the resolution of which also depends on a political settlement.
Loan No. 904 First Highway Project: US$5.4 million loan of June 12, 1973.
Effective Date: September 12, 1973. Closing Date: (original) December 31,
1976; (current) December 31, 1978.
The alignment of the Nicosia-Mtorphou road included in the project
virtually coincides with the present de facto line between the two bi-communal
zones; as a result, construction works which had commenced thereon, have had
to be suspended. However, the consultant studies, including those for the
proposed Nicosia-Limassol road, are progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 960 Paphos Irrigation Project: US$14.0 million loan of January 30,
1974. Effective Date: October 10, 1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The effective date on this project was delayed due to unsettled
political conditions. Following the changes in the condition of effectiveness
which the Executive Directors approved in September 1975, project implementa-
tion was started. Consultants have been appointed for the dam and the irriga-
tion system, and construction is expected to start during the second half of
1976.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
CYPRUS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                            The Cyprus Development Bank Limited (CDB).
Guarantor:                           Republic of Cyprus.
Amount:                              US$6 million in various currencies.
Terms and Conditions:                Repayable substantially in conformity with
the aggregate of the amortization schedules
for sub-loans and investments for which
withdrawals from the loan account are
approved or requested. Sub-loans should be
repaid over a maximum period oE 15 years.
Interest at 8.5 percent per year, with a
commitment charge of 3/4 of one percent on
the principal amount of the loan not with-
drawn from time to time.
Relending Terms:                     The Borrower will on-lend at an interest
rate of 9 percent per annum; amortization
depends on individual sub-projects, and is
expected to range from 5 (except for SSI
sub-loans which may have shorter maturities)
to 15 years. The Guarantor will bear the
foreign exchange risk in respect of the
Bank loan.
The Project:                         The objective of the proposed project is to
further strengthen CDB's capacity and ability
to stimulate viable investments in the manu-
facturing, tourist and services sectors, as
well as small-scale industries, and to assist
CDB in financing the foreign exchange cost
of its sub-projects in those sectors. The
proposed loan would provide about 40 percent
of the projected financial resources, and
60 percent of foreign exchange, needed over
approximately the next 30 months.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
FINANCING PLAN* (1976 - 1978 in CL '000)
1976     1977        1978    1979
Commitments
Normal CDB                                 1,095    1,575       1,910   2,257
SSI                                           70      243         280      90
Total                                        1,165    1,818       2,190   2,347
Financed by:
Opening Balance of Uncommitted Funds          35       -           -       -
Internal Cash Generation                     280      (16)         52     170
Share Capital Increase                        -        -           -      150
IBRD II - Normal CDB                         300      850         950      -
SSI                         35       121        140      45
Foreign Funds for SSI                         35      121         140      45
KfW II (or similar sources)                  480      742         378      -
Supplemental Financing:
Other External Sources                      -        -          530   1,937
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS* (in CL '000)
1976     1977        1978    1979
Liabilities
Current Liabilities                        280      261         250     301
Foreign Currency Loans                   1,825    2,640       3,935   5,321
Domestic Loans                           1,075      680         350     145
Issued Debenture Stock                   1,500    1,500       1,500   1,500
Equity                                   1,161    1,193       1,250   1,475
Earnings
Gross Income                               469      478         550     655
Financial Expenses                         318      295         324     397
Administrative Expenses                     72       79          85      90
Provisions                                  22       32          37      42
Net Profits as % of Net Worth              3.1      3.4         5.1     5.5
Debt/Equity Ratio                          3.6      3.9         4.1     4.6
DISBURSEMENTS (Bank's Financial Year, US$ '000)
FY77      FY78       FY79      FY80
996     1,983      2,172      849



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement:                         Through normal commercial channels, but
with comparison of offers from more than
one supplier.
Consultants:                         None
Appraisal Report:                    No. 1079 a-CY, dated May 10, 1976, issued
by the IC/DFC Division, EMIENA Region.






TURKEY
5E.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
X s D   r P . 0(0/   s r   n~ E  , '                                          P   - g  
fo  ,_,~V~ ,,.z-\tRM E D I T R R A N   E  A N  5 E 4S
LIBYA  d t f   l '$~ ~35'5' c>gg g <       a                                  0
A  I                                                                  0
.,,.,F=o .ry
K~   ~     ~    Mzpc Bo  /     \           ;.4fmouocBl
/       S        _   _ 
Bay             ~~~~CYPRUS
t-e  b,-- -doO . -, 0000
UKL  - WerM  b-a  00*Idsr
Maop50 ..    rAfeo- lw
R-t         Citu
- a kes ond reserocir,  V ,-f ,
9C7>t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COOr ,n .00 t O fiCrolO 5'  1000700
*  I   *~~~~~~  A   t,'  0  6~~~~oo  I.   0  0  0 ...
A~~~~~~~~~~~               0  '



