CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1278 CY
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Cyprus Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Dated June 3, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dLted June 3, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and THE CYPRUS IEVELOPWNT BANK LIMITED (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a company established and operating under the laws of
Cyprus.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gener-
al Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Invest-
ment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 (c) of this
Agreement.
(b)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.


﻿-3-
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development project
to be carried cut by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds
of a sub-loan or investment.
(e) "Small Scale Industry" means an enterprise in Cyprus to
be defined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 (a) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(f) "SSI Scheme" means the scheme of assistance to Small Scale
Industries in Cyprus undertaken by the Borrower with resources to be
obtained from the Bank under Part B of the Project and from the
Guarantor referred to in Section 2.02 (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement.
(g) "SSI loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made to a
Small Scale Industry by the Borrower utilizing the proceeds of the
Loan under the SSI Scheme;
(h) "SSI Project" means a specific project to be carried out
by a Small Scale Industry utilizing the proceeds of the Loan under
the SSI Scheme.
(i) "Cyprus Pound" and "C" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(j) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the cur-
rency of the Guarantor.


﻿i4-
(k) "Memorandum and Articles" mean the Memorandum and Articles
of Association of the Borrower dated May 30, 1963, as amended to the
date of this Agreerent.
(1)   "Statement of Policy" means the Strtement of Policies
and Procedures approved by the Board of Directors of the Borrower
on February 26, 1976, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(m) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement dated
June 19, 1972 (Loan No. 830-CY) between the Bank and the Borrower
and "Prior Loan" means the loan provided for therein.
(n)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned
or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more
subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more of
its subsidiaries.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million
dollars (6,000,,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower may withdraw from the Loan Account:
(a) for Part A of the Project - up to the equivalent of five
million two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($5,250,000) for amounts
expended (or, if the Bank shall so agree, required to meet expendi-
tures to be made) by the Borrower under a sub-loan or investment to
finance the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Investment Project, in respect of which the withdrawal is requested;
and
(b) for Part B of the Project - up to the equivalent of seven
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000) to finance the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for SSI Projects under the SSI
Scheme, provided that the foregoing amount may be increased by an
additional amount of up to the equivalent of seven hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($750,000) if the Bank at the request of the
Guarantor and the Borrower shall have determined that the SSI Scheme
utilizing the foregoing amount has been in progress satisfactorily
and that such increase in the amount allocated for Part B of the
Project shall be necessary for the successful implementation of such
Part of the Project: the decision of the Bank on the foregoing


﻿- 6 -
request shall be communicated to the Borrower in writing within a
reasonable time. The foregoing additional amount, if any, shall be
made available from the amount initially allocated to Part A of
the Project in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.03. (a) Notwithstending the provisions of Section 2.02
(a) of this Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a
sub-loan or investment to an Investment Enterprise unless:
(i) the sub-loan or investment shall have been approved
by the Bank; or
(ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for
which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account.
(b)   Withdrawals from the Loan Account may be made in re-
spect of:
(i) the equivalent of one hundred per cent (100%) of
expenditures for CIF cost of equipment (except
equipment described in sub-paragraph (ii) of this
paragraph (b)) produced outside Cyprus;
(ii) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) of expendi-
tures for equipment produced outside Cyprus which
are purchased from suppliers in Cyprus and invoiced
and paid for in Cyprus Pbunds; and


﻿-7-
(iii) the equivalent of forty-five per cent (45%), or
such other percentage as may be agreed upon be-
tween the Bank and the Borrower, of expenditures
for civil works carried out by local contractors.
(c) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $200,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of the Prior
Loan for such Investment Project, the foregoing amount being sub-
ject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's
approval, or in respect of an investment, if such expenditures
shall have been made:
(i) before the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made on account of expendi-
tures made after March 1, 1976, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000;
or
(ii) more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received in respect of such
sub-loan or investment the application and infor-
mation required by Section 2.04 (a) of this Agree-
ment or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than


﻿- 8 -
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such free-limit
sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.04 (b).
Section 2.04. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project
(including a description of the expenditures proposed to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan) and the proposed terms
and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the sched-
ule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank
of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project (including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of Part B of the
Project, which shall be submitted to the Bank every other month,
shall accompany a statement specifying: (i) name of investor and
sub-sector; (ii) type of project and total amount; (iii) summary


﻿-9-
list of purchases; (iv) amount and terms and conditions of SSI
loan; and (v) amount disbursed over the period covered and the
total amount disbursed to date.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1978.
Section 2.05. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for any
purpose under Part B of the Project unless:
(i) the organization plan referred to in Schedule 4
to this Agreement shall have been received by
the Bank, and the proposal jointly furnished by
the Guarantor and the Borrower shall have been
agreed upon by the Bank after review and modifi-
cation if necessary; and
(ii) the Borrower and the Guarantor, as the case may
be, shall have implemented the conclusions and
recommendations of the organization plan.
(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment and paragraph (a) of this Section, withdrawals may be made
under Part B of the Project for an amount equivalent to fifty per
cent (50%) of the amount disbursed for SSI loans over the period
covered by the statement referred to in Section 2.04 (c) of this
Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 2.06. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as shall be determined by the Bank.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.09. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.10. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; and (ii)
take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.11 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on January 1 and July 1 in each year. Such
amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the table
of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each in-
vestment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall
not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-
limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide
for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the Bor-
rower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.11. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the
Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment
or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or other-
wise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall
promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next
following interest payment date, together with the premiums speci-
fied in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof
under Section 2.10 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn
from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or investment
or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.


﻿- 12 -
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturity
or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the outstand-
ing amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan so re-
paid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an investment, pro
rata, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts
to be repaid on account of such investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources in
Cyprus as will contribute to the economic and social development
of the country. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.   The financing of specific development projects
(except exclusively mining projects) in the
manufacturing, tourism or services sectors through
loans to and investment in productive enter-
prises in Cyprus.
Part B.   The financing of the Scheme of financial assis-
tance to Small Scale Industries in Cyprus.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards
and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in
accordance with the Memorandum and Articles and the Statement of
Policy.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of Part A of the Project:
(a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby
the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to


﻿- 14 -I
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, in
the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appro-
priate in the case of any investment, the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities
and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; and (2)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with
sound business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably x1equest relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of


﻿- 15 -
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its ob-
ligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall take full responsibility for the promotion, financ-
ing, disbursement and collection of SSI loans, in accordance with
the following modus operandi:
(a)   the Borrower shall receive applications for SSI loans
either directly or through the team of professionals referred to
in paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower shall appraise SSI Projects under a simpli-
fied procedure acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower;
(c)   SSI loans shall be approved by a committee composed of
two Directors of the Borrower (including the Chairman of the Board)
and the General Manager (or an officer of the Borrower acting on
his behalf); and


﻿- 16 -
(d) disbursement of SSI loans shall normally be made
by the Borrower directly to the approved supplier(s) of goods spe-
cified in the SSI loan agreement after certification to the satis-
faction of the Borrower that the goods so purchased are in accor-
dance with such agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the sub-loans,
investments, the Small Scale Industries, the SSI Projects and
the SSI loans.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under agreements under which funds have been lent or other-
wise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would
have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiv-
ing any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.06. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the ex-
tent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto,
as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary on its'part to implement the proposed Scheme
of Arrangement of the Borrower, dated March 1976.


﻿- 17 -
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take all such action as shall be necessary on its part to,
reorganize its Board of Directors in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall othirwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a)   before commiting itself to finance any project requir-
ing the Borrower's financing of $200,000 equivalent or more, cal-
culate the economic rate of return on such project by a method
acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)   charge interest at an annual rate of nine per cent (9%),
or more if permissible under the laws of the Guarantor, on all its
new loans.
Section 3.09. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower undertakes to secure
additional funds under an agreement in an amount of approximately
four million dollars ($4,000,000) equivalent on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Proj-
ect (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified cop-
ies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bai%k shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b) For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower,
shall: (i) maintain separate records on its SSI operations in such
form and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(ii) have such records for each fiscal year audited; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank at its request such records so audited.


﻿- 19 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as provided by Section 17 of the Public
Loans Law (Cap. 208), and the Borrower hereby covenants and agrees
that, notwithstanding the provisions of the said Public Loans Law
or any other law of the Guarantor or any law in effect in its
territories, no debt of the Borrower shall have preference over
the debt contracted by the Borrower to the Bank under this Agree-
ment.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsid-
iary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and irterest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien cre-
ated on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as se-
curity for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 20 -
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/
equity ratio within the limit provided in Section 4.06 of this
Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reason-
able action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such
ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any of its outstanding debt
which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially affect the
Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidi-
aries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than five
times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section and Sections
4.04 and 4.05 of this Agreement:
(a) "Debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date


﻿- 21 -
and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and out-
standing pursuant to such loan or agreement, and (ii) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Cyprus Pound debt payable in for-
eign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing law-
ful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt.
(d) "Consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and sub-
sidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any subsid-
iary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other subsid-
iary.
(e) "Consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capi-
tal, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and subsidiaries
after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary
in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between


﻿- 22 -
the currencies (including Cyprus Pounds) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its subsid-
idaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such in-
formation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the ad-
ministration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower
and subsidiaries.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in ad-
vance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instru-
ments, or any security for any such loan shall have become en-
forceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Memorandum and
Articles or in the Statement of Policy without the Bank's consent
which will materially and adversely affect the financial conditi'n
or operations of the Borrower;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower;
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been cre-
ated or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation or
the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project;


﻿- 24 -I
(e) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
obligation on the part of the Borrower under the Prior Loan Agree-
ment; and
(f) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
obligation on the part of the Guarantor under the Guarantee Agree-
ment for the Prior Loan dated June 19, 1972 between the Guarantor
and the Bank.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (c)
of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) or paragraph (d)
or naragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor.


﻿- 25 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) all the new Directors of the Borrower shall have been
appointed by the Guarantor in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement;
(b) evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the District
Court of Nicosia has sanctioned the proposed Scheme of Arrange-
ment referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement; and
(c) the execution and delivery of the agreement referred to
in Section 3.09 of this Agreement shall have been duly authorized
or ratified on behalf of all the parties thereto by all necessary
corporate action.
Section 6.02. The date of September 1, 1976, is hereby spe-
cified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 26 -
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D. C.
For the Borrower:
The Cyprus Development Bank Limited
2D10 Evagoras 1 Avenue
Nicosia, Cyprus
Cable address:
DEVBANK
Nicosia


﻿- 27 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
THE CYPRUS DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
By /s/ N. G. Dimitriou
Authorized Representative


﻿- 28-
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)"
July 1, 1978                                       22,000
January 1, 1979                                    22,000
July 1, 1979                                        86,ooo
January 1, 1980                                     86,000
July 1, 1980                                       165,000
January 1, 1981                                   165,000
July 1, 1981                                      259,000
January 1, 1982                                   259,000
July 1, 1982                                       309,000
January 1, 1983                                    309,000
July 1, 1983                                       333,000
January 1, 1984                                    333,000
July 1, 1984                                       353,000
January 1, 1985                                    353,000
July 1, 1985                                       299,000
January 1, 1986                                    300,000
July 1, 1986                                      265,000
January 1, 1987                                   265,000
July 1, 1987                                      246,000
January 1, 1988                                   246,000
July 1, 1988                                      216,000
January 1, 1989                                   216,000
July 1, 1989                                      190,000
January 1, 1990                                   191,000
July 1, 1990                                      159,000
January 1, 1991                                    159,000
July 1, 1991                                       97,000
January 1, 1992                                    97,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement.
*4* To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 29 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.11 (a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                    1-1/2%
before maturity
More than three years but                    2-3/4%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                  5-3/4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                        T%
not more than fourteen years
before maturity
More than fourteen years                     8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects or SSI Projects" are
substituted for the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days,
or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (d) of Section
2.04 of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests


﻿- 31 -
permitted under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph
(c) of such Section shall have been received by the Bank
in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been
so received, shall have been denied, or (c) aftei the
Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn
from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have received
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to
submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect
to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving
of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall
be cancelled."


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 3
New Composition and Procedures of
the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors of the Borrower shall be reorganized
in the following manner:
1.   There shall be seven Directors, of which three shall be ap-
pointed from among members of the civil service and/or Government-
controlled corporations and four shall be appointed from among
qualified and experienced members of the business, industrial
and professional communities in the private sector.
2.   The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be one of the
four Directors from the private sector.
3.   The quorum for any meeting of the Board of Directors shall
consist of three Directors, of which two shall be Directors from
the private sector and one shall be a Director from the civil
service or a Government-controlled corporation.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 4
SSI Scheme - Organization Plan
1.   For the purpose of Part B of the Project, the Guarantor and
the Borrower intend to finalize a plan of organization (the Plan)
which will be submitted to the Bank for review and approval before
withdrawals may be made under Part B of the Project. The Borrower
and the Guarantor will jointly submit to the Bank a proposal based
on an analysis, detailed below in paragraph 2, of the data avail-
able from the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry on the financial assistance required by small scale
industries in Cyprus.
2.   The analysis referred to above shall be based upon applica-
tions since mid-1974 for financing received by the Ministry of
Labour and Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Such analysis should
provide detailed statistics on such applications by:
(i) purpose and sub-sector;
(ii) investor (status);
(iii) enterprise (size, employment);
(iv) project (cost including import component); and
(v) financing required, terms and conditions.


﻿-34-
3.   The Borrower and the Guarantor will include in their proposal
to the Bank a detailed program to support the Borrower's financial
assistance to Small Scale Industries.
4.   The main points in the Plan should include, in light of the
analysis referrod to above, the following:
(a) A definition of "Small Scale Industry" for the purpose
of Part B of the Project;
(b) A definition of the range and size of SSI loans taking
account of: (i) the findings of the analysis referred to above in
paragraph 1; (ii) the Borrower's staff capabilities to process
such loans; and (iii) availability of funds under the SSI Scheme;
(c) The Ministry of Labour will provide the Borrower with
the assistance required to identify, screen and process applica-
tions for SSI loans; will provide technical assistance to Small
Scale Industries financed by the Borrower; and will monitor in
conjunction with the Borrower such SSI loans and any other pro-
grams of assistance needed to implement the Loan. The Borrower
and the Guarantor will also provide in their proposal a schedule
of implementation of its various components;
(d) The staff arrangements to be provided internally by
the Borrower to appraise and supervise SSI loans and to coordinate
assistance from other sources; and
(e) The Borrower and the Guarantor will agree to enable the
Borrower to operate the SSI Scheme without incurring operational


﻿- 35 -
losses. Specifically, the Guarantor will protect the Borrower
against such loss by providing, if necessary, grants to allow the
Borrower to cover its administrative and financial expenses and
reasonable provisions on SSI bad debts, which are in excess of
the Borrower's income on its SST loans.
5.   Initially, the Guarantor and the Borrower will jointly agree
to make arrangements for and implement a minimum scheme of organi-
zation as follows:
(a) the Guarantor will cause its Ministry of Labour to
assign at least four qualified civil servants employed by such
Ministry to work full time as professionals for the SSI Scheme
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
Such professionals or their replacements will be selected on the
basis of job descriptions satisfactory to the Bank and the Bor-
rower, and will stay on the job under the supervision of the Bor-
rower for at least the period of disbursement of SSI loans;
(b) the Borrower will employ for or assign to the SSI Scheme
three qualified operations officers, one of whom will be experienced
in the Borrower's operations- and
(c) the Guarantor will cause its Ministry of Labour to enter
into an arrangement with the Cyprus Productivity Center to provide
assistance to Small Scale Industries under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.


