Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFrCAL USE ONLY
Re"po No. 7806
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(KEAIRPUR II)
(CREDIT 648-PAK)
JUNE 2, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
EMENA Region
Ths document bas a restricted distibution and may be usd by redpiens only in the performance of
thdir ofikca duties. its contents may no othenrwie be didosed without World Banik authoriztd



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADA          -    Assistant Director (Agriculture)
CCA          -    Cultivable Con_and Area
Cusec        -    Cubic feet per second (=28.3 litres per second)
DCA          -    Development Credit Agreement
DDA          -    Deputy Director (Agriculture)
DRIP         -    Drainage and Reclamation Institute of Pakistan
EEC          -    European Economic Community
ERR          -    Economic Rate of Return
ERTS         -    Earth Resources Technology Satellites
FA           -    Field Assistant
FGW          -    Fresh Ground Water
Ha           -    Hectare (=2.471 acres)
GOP          -    Government of Pakistan
GOSind       -    Government of Sind
ICR          -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -    International Development Association
Kharif       -    The hot season (mid April to mid October)
1/s/ha       -    Liters per aecond per hectare
m            -    Meter
mm           -    Millimeter
Maund        -    37.3 kg.
Maund/acre   -    0.92 ton/ha
M&E          -    Monitoring and Evaluation
O&M          -    Operation and Maintenance
PA           -    Project Agreement
2CR          -    Project Cou'pletion Report.
PE           -    Polyethylene
PVC          -    Polyvinlchloride
Rabi         -    The cool season (mid October to mid April)
Rs           -    Pakistan Rupees
SAR          -    Staff Appraisal Report
SCARP        -    Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SGW          -    Saline Groundwater
SDIP         -    Sind Department of Irrigation and Power
t            -    Ton
T&V          -    Training and Visit
TWs          -    Tubewells
WAPDA        -    Water and Power Development Authority
WUA          -    Water User Association
$            -    United States Dollar.



Kal O711ICL Un ONL
THE WORLD SANK
Washngton. D.C. 20433
US.A.
June 2, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs   Project Completion Report on Pakistan Rhairpur
Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Proiect (Khairlur II) (Credit 648-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report on Pakistan Rhairpur Tile Drainage and
Irrigated Farming Development Project (Rhairpur II) (Credit 648-PAK)"
prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
IThi documten has a stuted dtbudoe and may be usd by rxcists only in the pedonmam
of tho olc dutesL Its coameni may not obovd be dbekd wout Wodd 11k alidwtbn.



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
(KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(KHAIWPUR II)
Credit 648-PAK
(Table of Contents)
Page No.
PREFACE                                                               (i)
BASIC DATA iHEET                                                     (ii)
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                   (iv)
I.   INTRODUCTION ........               . .............. ......    I
II.  PROJECT FORMULATION ............................................    2
Identification and Preparation               .        .           2
Appraisal ................................................. .    3
The Appraised Project .....................                       3
Negototiations ........................................ .....    4
III. IMPLEMENTATION ......................................... . .......    4
Start-Up .....     ..........................................*...    4
Planning and Design              .        .      .. # ... ......  5
Revisions to the Project .............................. ...       5
Construction ... ............................ # ...............    7
Procurement .    ......... * .....................................    8
Agricultural Extension                  .... *  8
Quality and Performance of Project Works ...................      8
Costs ...... ..................................                   9
Project Financing and Credit Allocation ............. ......   10
IV.  PROJECT IMPACT .........     .      .....................................    .. 10
Monitoring & Evaluation                 ......  10
Agricultural Impact                       ..  12
Crops and Farm Models            .    ...............    13
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION                   ...                   ....... .   16
Economic Analysis .....       ..     ... .....    ............... .   16
Sensitivity Tests       ...      ... .  ...              .       16
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE                 .. .....                   17
WAJPDA ........................................................... 17
SCARP Agricultural Wing     .       .... . ...  .............   17
Sind Department of Irrigation and Power (SDIP) .............       17
Drainage and Reclamation Institute of Pakistan (DRIP) ......   18
Consultants ................. ....   . ...........................   18
Training .      ..................................................   18
Operation and Maintenance .          ...                          ...............................   18
Compliance with Covenants ..................................     19
Environment ............................................ ....   10
Performance of IDA                .      ......... .   21
i VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS               .............................. .....   21
TABLES
FIGURE
MAP - IBRD No. 11528R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diseosed without World Bank authorization.



PAKISTAN
KRAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(KRAIRPUR II)
CR. 648-PAK
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Khairpur Tile
Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development Project (Khairpur II) for which a
credit of US$14.0 million (CR. 648-PAK) was extended to the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan in July 1976. The project was cofinanced with a grant from the
European  Economic Community  (EEC)  in the amount of 'US$3.75 million.  The
credit closing date was extended once, by three years, to July 31, 1985. The
final disbursement was made on January 28, 1986 and the undisbursed credit
balance of US$1.11 million (7.92 of the credit) was cancelled on January 28,
1986.
The report is based on the PCR prepared by an FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program mission that visited Pakistan in December 1986 as well as a PCR
prepared by Water and Power Development Authority (Wapda) and ILACO
(consultants) in December 1985. In addition an IDA mission, visiting Pakistan
in May/June 1988 on other matters, met with WAPDA and Sind Department of
IrrigaLion and Power (SDIP) officials and reviewed the records of these
agencies in an effort to update FAO/CP prepared PCR by gaining further insight
on this "pilot" project and experiences learned.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on February 1, for comments by March 22,
1989, but none were received.



( ii)
PAKISTAN
IHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 648-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Appraisal    Actual       Actual as X
Estimate     Current      of Appraisal
Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million) 1/           28.3          30.0           106
Credit Amount (US$ million)                   14.0          12.9            92
Date Physical Components Completed         June 1981    July 1985
Economic Rate of Return %                     17             8              47
Benefited Area ha                             17,800        17,800         100
Number of Direct Beneficiaries                 6,300 families
Cumulative Disbursements   1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 19b5 1986
Appraisal Estimate           0.9  4.6  8.7 11.5 13.4 14.0
(US$ million)
Actual (US$ million)           0  0.9  1.8  5.2  6.6  7.1  7.7  9.1 11.0 12.9
Actual as 2 of Appraisal       0   20   21   45   49   51   55   65   79   92
Date of Final Disbursements   January 28, 1986
Proiect Dates                 Original Plan             Actual
Identification Report             1966                  1966
Preparation Report                1971                  1971
Negotiations                  24 May 1976               25-28 May 1976
Board Approval                24 June 1976              24 June 1976
Credit Signing                22 Jily 1976              22 July 1976
Effectiveness Date            20 October 1976           14 March 1977
Closing Date                  31 July 1982              31 July 1985
1/ Excluding duties and taxes.



( iii )
Mission Data
Monthl        No. of  Man-daey  Speciali-      Performance  Trend 3/ Type of
Year          Persons in field  zations        Ratins 2/              Problem 4.
Represented 1/
Appraisal     Nov 1974          6
Aug 1975         2
Supervision 1 May 1977          1       6           F             1           2        M
2 Mharch 1978      1        6           F             1           2        M
3 Nov/Dec 1978     3       22           FAE          2            2        M
4 July 1979        1       11           E             2           2        0
5 Dec 1980         2       10           EF            2           2        T
6 Aug 1981         3       17           EFE           2           2        T
7 May/June 1982    3       12           EEE          2            1        T
8 May 1983         4       16           EPEE          2           1        T
9 Nov 1984         2       12           EE            2           1        M
10 May 1985         2       10           EA           2            2        0
11 October 1985     1        2           E
Completion    Dec 1986          3      30           EAF
Other Proiect Data
Borrower                   Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Fiscal Year of Borrower   1 July to 30 June
Executing Agency          Water and Power Development Authority of
Pakistan (WAPDA)
Preceding Project         Fhairpur Tubewell Drainage Project (Khairpur I,
Cr.22-PAK)
Follow on Projects        SCARP Mardan (Cr.877-PAK), Fourth Drainage
(Cr.1375-PAK) and Left Bank of Outfall Drain
(Cr. 1532-PAK)
1/   E = Engineer, F=Economist, A a Agriculturist
2/   I -Problem Free or Minor Problems, 2-Moderate Problems
3/   1=Improving, 2=Stationary
4/ M=Management, T=Technical, OOther
Currency Equivalents
Appraisal year, FY76    US$1.00 - Rs 9.90
FY77-85            =   11.29
Completion year, FY86            =   16.13



( iv )
PAKISTAN
KEA'-RPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(ERAIRPUR II)
(Credit 648-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.       Irrigation began in the Indus Plain, in what is now Pakistan, about
3,000 years ago and today about 14.5 million ha are served by the Indus
irrigation system. With th: -,version of up to 125.0 billion m' annually
from the Indus river and tri' sariea, the hydrologic balance in the Indus
plain is in a state of dynamic change, which has resulted in a rising
groundwater table. A 1981 soil salanity survey by WAPDA reported that 222
(about 3.2 million ha) of the cultivable coTmanded area (cca) of the Indus
irrigation system had a water table within 2.0 m of ground surface and an
additional 20% (about 2.9 million ha) within 30 m of the surface. About 50%
of the groundwater is brackish, located in saline groundwater (SGW) zones.
Soils with a high water table become problematic because of salinisation and
crop yields are reduced significantly by such waterlogging aid salinity. In
the final stages of this sequence, irrigated farming becomes uneconomic and
large blocks of land go out of production.
ii.      The Comprehensive Development Plan for Sind (1966 Lower Indus Report)
recommended a series of interrelated water sector projects, including
subsurface drainage projects. Priority was given to the development of fresh
groundwater (FGW) resources followed by tubewell (TW) drainage iu s,  %e
groundwater (SGW) areas and lastly horizontal (pipe) drainage where aquifer
conditions did not permit TWs. Khairpur II was identified as one area
requiring horizontal (pipe) subsurface drainage because of the relatively
shallow soils. The project area, which is com_anded by the Khairpur East
Feeder Canal, began receiving irrigation water supplies in 1932. By 1971,
over 90% of the 17,800 ha project area had SGW within 2.4 m of the land
surface.
Project Desian and Objectives
iii.     The Government of Pakistan (GOP) decided that a pilot subsurface
(pipe) drainage project should be undertaken at an early date so that
experience gained would be valuable in the efficient implementation of
subsequent pipe drainage projects. The Khairpur II area was selected for this
pilot because of shallow soil conditions and its location adjacent to the
Khairpur I Tubewell Project (Cr. 22-PAK). A project planning report was
prepared in 1971 and was appraised by an IDA mission in November 1974. The IDA
credit (NO. 648-PAK, US$14.0 million) was approved in June 1976, signed in
July 1976 and became effective in March 1977. The credit was to finance all
foreign exchange costs of the project. EEC cofinanced a portion of project
costs with a US$3.75 million grant.



( v )
iv.      Project objectives were not specified in the SAR, however by
inference they included:
- (a) increasing crop production by
-    mitigating the constraining effects of waterlogging and
soil salinity on about 14,600 ha through installation of
subsurface tile drainage;
-    increasinI annual irrigation water supplies from about 175
million m to 333 million m3 on about 17,800 ha through
canal remodelling and allocating additional supplies and
on-farm water management practices; and
-    improving agricultural extension services.
(b) serving as a pilot to determine appropriate procedures for
installing subsurface (pipe) drainage technology and to
develop capabilicies within Pakistan in the planning,
design, construction and operation and maintenance (O&M) of
such technology.
In addition to the subsurface (pipe) drainage and canal remodelling
components, the project provided for: construction of 320 km of new
watercourses and rehabilitation of 110 km of existing watercourses;
construction of improved carrigeways and bridges on 32 km of minor roads;
upgrading agricultural extension; equipment; technical assistance and
training; and, aerial photography for the entire Indus Basin (about 170,000
knm2).
V.       The project was envisaged as a five-year project to be completed by
July 1981 with a total estimated project cost of US$28.3 million (plus about
US$ 0.8 million in duties and taxes). WAPDA was designated as the
implementing agency with its General Manager (Southern Zone) having executive
responsibility for constructing all civil works. One year following
completion of the froject, it was to be turned over to Sind Department of
Irrigation and Power (SDIP) for O&M. The extension program was to be carried
out by WAPDA's SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing with personnel seconded from
Sind Department of Agriculture. Most civil works were to be carried out under
force account by WADPA with a limited amount of work (mainly watercourse
improvement and land leveling) to be done by small local contractors.
Implementation Experience
vi.      As should be expected with a pilot project, many implementation
delays were experienced -- some were bureaucratic; however most were
associated with the "learning process" of applying a new technology. The



( vi )
project became effective five-months late (March 1977) as a result of delays
in  ppointitg consultants, and a further four-months delay in start up
resulted from political disturbances. Delivery of equipment was late because
tender documents for much of the construction equipment were not opened untIl
July 1978. Available togographic maps proved inadequate for detailed design
and the required surveys were not completed until September 1979. The StR
provided for staff housing but because of the isolated project area, it was
found desireable to upgrade such housing into a colony.
vii.     The completed area receiving subsurface pipe drainage remained
unchanged (14,600 ha) from that in the SAR.1'  Although there were no
significant changes in the overall project concept, there were substantial
changes in quantities completed for certain items, mainly as a result of more
detailed design. The precision land leveling program was dropped and the road
improvement component was reduced. Detailed investigation made it possible to
reduce the 130 small pumping stations to 37 larger stations. The numbers of
manholes installed along the collector drains was significantly reduced when
it was found that such numbers were not required. Also detailed design made
it possible to reduce the length of collector drains by about one-third,
disposal drains and remodeled canals by about one-balf and lateral drains by
two-thirds.
viii     Most all subsurface drainage designs were made in ILACO's
headquarters in the Netherland.  WAPDA personnel did not participate even
though project funds were availab t_ for this purpose. Rence transfer of
design expertise to WAPDA personneL wos not accomplished. The design calls for
a minimum groundwater table of 1.5 m over lateral pipe and 1.0 m between pipes.
ix).     The initial construction procedure (i.e. dewatering, trenching with
back hoes, and manual labor) employed for installing the 300 mm to 380 mm
diameter (12 to 15 inches) concrete collector drains to a maximum depth of
about 3 m proved cumbersome and extremely slow in the unstable soil conditions
of the project area. Because of extremely slow progress, an IDA supervision
mission was organized in June 1982 to review installation procedures. This
mission recommended that a new technology, successfully operating in Western
U.S., be adopted to speed installation of collector drains. This technology
involved a pipe laying machine capable of installing -he 300 mm polyethyline
(PE) perforated drain pipe in a gravel envelope in a single operation without
dewater'ng.  The required machine was ordered by WAPDA and it became
operational in mid 1984. The speed up in installing collector drains was
dramatic, i.e. 87 km were installed in 15 months as compared to 66 km during
11  800 ha of this was transferred to the Drainage and Reclamation Institude
of Pakistan for research related to horizontal (pipe).



( vii )
the first 54 months using the initial technology. Because of implementation
delays associated with subsutface drainage component, it was necessary to
extend the project closing date by three years. All project works were
completed about eleven months following credit closing.
x.       WAPDA proceeded with its schedule for canal remodelling and finished
this improvement in 1977. Additional water supplies made possible by this
remodelling exacerbated the waterlogging problem and added to the complexity
of installing the collector drains.
xi.      Provincial agricultural extension staff were seconded to the SCARP
Khairpur Agricultural Wing in July 1977. There were "teething problems",
(i.e. compensation, equipment, etc). associated with these transfers.
Eventually these problems were overcome and the T&V extension program became
fully operational by mid 1979. Aerial photography of the Indus Basin was
completed in early 1978 and the benchmark socio-economic survey was completed
during FY80. It took three years to implement the watercourse improvement
program wbich was completed during FY86. This watercourse improvement program
was undertaken by WAPDA using small contractors. This is not the normal
procedure for renovating watercourses in Pakistan, where the On-Farm Water
Management Directorates in the Provincial Departments of Agriculture involve
formal Water Users Associations (WUAs) and farmer me-bers in supplying all
labor requirements for such improvements, as well as sharing in the cost of
materials. However, WAPDA did organize formal WUAs to assure O&M of
watercourse improvements by the farmers.
xii.     Considering the "pilot" nature of the project, the quality of civil
works constructed under the project appears to be acceptable. Because of the
initial difficulty in laying the collector drains (para ix), two of these
collectors have ceased to operate despite major remedial efforts and seven
other became plugged, but have since been cleared. SPID O&M staffs reported
that PE pipe has been easier for them to maintain than the concrete collector
pipe.
xiii.         The total project cost, excluding taxes and duties, was Rs 358.2
million (US$30.0 million). This represents an increase of about 26S in
domestic currency and 62 in US dollar terms as compared to the SAR estimates.
A comparison of SAR estimated and costs are provided in Table 2. The cost of
the subsurface drainage component of about Rs 20,000 (US$1,650) per ha is
considerably higher than the ICB cost of approximately US$750 per ha for a
comparable subsurfp-r pipe drainage installation in the Fourth Drainage
Project (Cr. 1375-PAK). This higher cost per ha for Khairpur II is
understandable because of the pilot nature of this project and the associated
delays. IDA disbursements lagged substantially behind-appraisal estimates.
By July 31, 1982, the original closing date, US$7.1 (about 50X of the SAR
target) had been disbursed. However, the disbursement schedule for this



( viii )
project is very comparable to the disbursement profile for other water sector
projects assisted by the Bank Group.
Results
xiv.     The project demonstrated the validity of horizontal (pipe) drainage
technology, which wuay be applicable in areas other than those where aquifer
condition makes vertical (TW) drainage impractical. Additional experience, as
well as further monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is required to evaluate the
technical and economic comparative advantage of vertical and horizontal
subsurface drainage in aveas where aquifer conditions permit effective
deployment of either technology. Because of the relative high cost/ha
(US$1,650.0) of pipe drainage in Khairpur II, as compared to estimated cost/ha
for Fourth Drainage (US$750.0) and the limited experience on O&M matters for
the horizontal westeLe, it is impossible to make a definitive evaluation at
this time on the relative merits of the two subsurface technologies in areas
where both can be applied. Also, additional analysis and evaluation is
required on the downstream effects of drainage effluent from these two
technologies because TW effluent, on average, may be 10 times higher than that
of pipe systems.
Xv.      Because of the design criteria (para viii), the minimum depth to
groundwater in the pre and post project periods are almost identical (para
4.03, Table 5). Monitoring shows an overall marginal improvement in the
quality of effluent coming from the pipe outlets (Table 7 - data from sumps 7
and 16).
xvi.         The project demonstrated the efficiency of trenching machines
installing large collector polyethylene (PE) pipe in a gravel envelope. For
example, it has been reported by WAPDA officials that in a stngle day they
were able to install the same amount of collector pipe (about one km) with the
trencher as earlier they were able to install in a month using the earlier
installation techniques. This demonstrated pipe laying technique has been a
factor in the lower ICB bids that have been forthcoming on subsequent
horizontal (pipe) subsurface drainage projects in Pakistan. PE collector
drains have proven easier to maintain than concrete collectors.
xvii.    Project improvement to the irrigation network has made possible
extending perennial irrigation from 4,000 ha to the full 17,800 ha project
area. Additional monitoring of groundwater levels is required to determine
the effectiveuess of the installed system in maintaining groundwater at levels
that will not result.in damage to crops and/or soils. It is reported that
1,600 ha of previously abandoned land has been reclaimed and is back in
production. In addition in a survey of 40 farmers, 871 reported improved
cropping conditions due to drainage on about  401 of their lands.



( ix )
xviii.   For agricultural impact, the project assumed that under "future
without project'" condition, crop yield would be gradually reduced or
stagnated. More land would have waterlogging problem and become salinized and
sodic, and eventually would go out of production. The cropping intensity
would decrease from around 110% to 90%. With a'l the physical improvements in
the project area, yield, cropping intensity and production would all go up
under "future with project" condition. Particularly the two major crops, i.e.
cotton and wheat would have substantial increases in production (Tables 10 and
11). On the available information from the project area, three farm models
have been developed, i.e. 3.5 ha, 7.0 ha and 14.0 ha. Analyses indicate a
significant net increase in per ha income for all three models from without to
with project conditions (Tables 13-15).
xix.     The economic rate of return (ERR) is 7.6%.  This rate is
substantially lower than estimated at appraisal (17%) but still acceptable
considering the "pilot" nature of the project and the problems associated with
the learning process. The main reasons for the difference between appraisal
and PCR estimates of the project's ERR are the extended implementation period
- ten instead of five years - and the significantly lower conmmodity prices
that are now projected.
Sustainability and Environmental Impact
,x.      Sustainability of agriculture production in irrigated areas is a
major factor in the justification of subsurface drainage projects. Without
such improvements, economic irrigated agriculture can not be sustained on an
enduring basis because of decreased yields and the development of problematic
soils resulting from waterlogging and salinisation. Efficient O&M is a key to
sustaining the benefits accruing from project improvements. Even though only
about 25% of the estimated O&M requirements for this project area are
currently being provided (para 6.08), it is encouraging that during the last
five years the Government of Sind (GOSind) has increased O&M funding about 15%
annually to SDIP. Although O&M allocations are up substantially, individual
projects such as Khairpur-II are still not receiving required 0&M funding and
SDIP must appropriately reallocate available funds. In covenants associated
with Bank Group assisted projects, such as the Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Projects (Cr.1239 and 1888-PAK), GOSind has agreed to maintain
full funding of required O&M for such projects as Khairpur II.
xxi.     Subsurface drainage projects provide for sustaining benefits from "in
place" infrastructure. Khairpur-II construction scars have all but
disappeared as most project infrastructure is buried excert for manholes, 37
sumps and 33 km of disposal drains. Water borne diseases should decrease and
the area should become more aesthetically pleasing as land is reclaimed and
additional vegetative cover returns to the area. The overall environmental
impact of the project is expected to be positive.



Compliance with Existing Covenants
xxii.    GOSind was unable to meet the provision of section 3.01 of the
Project Agreement (PA) calling for recovery, through water charges from
beneficiaries of the full O&T cost and a reasonable share of the capital costs
of water sector projects by June 30, 1988. According to data supplied by
GOSind in March 1987, recoveries through water charges during FY86 met less
than 50S of OSM allocation to SDIP. A mdjor factor in GOSind inability to
fulfill this covenant has been the rapidly escalating allocations (152
annually during last 5 years) required to efficiently operate and maintain
water sector facilities. During negotiations (January and March 1988) for the
Second Irrigation System Rehabilitation Pro!    (Cr. 1888-PAK) and tute
proposed Agriculture Sector Loan,l/ a new apI..oach was agreed to by GOP and
GOSind fot resolving this issue. This approach envisages: (i) lowering 0&M
allocatioi t'-iv.ugh privatization of public TWs in FGW areas; and (ii)
increasi.  v:.rr charges collection by strengthening the assessment and
collectioc -tgram.  Any shortfalls in recoveries meeting O&M allocations
following f'dll implementation (1992) of the program to improve water recovery
assessments and recoveries, would be met through appropriate adjustments in
water rates by Sind Province.
3xiii.   Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) required that
each year fiscal accounts were to be audited and furnished to IDA within 6
months after the end of the reporting period.  WAPDA preaudits accounts on a
continuing basis and detailed "after the fact" audits were not made for this
project. One page audit summaries for some years were submitted to IDA;
however they did not cover the complete project period and they were not
responsive to the provisions of the covenant.
Findings and Lessons
xxiv.    Lessons learned and experience gained from this project have been
helpful in guiding the implementation of SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK), Fourth
Drainage (Cr. 1375-PAK) and LBOD (Cr. 1532-PAK) projects. Specifically, these
relate to:
(a)   viability of horizontal (pipe) drainage in alleviating waterlogging;
(b)   efficiency of trenching machines in installing large collector drains
(300 mm); and
(c)   need for a well designed and implemented monitoring and evaluation
program.
1/  Approved by the Board on August 2, 1988.



( xi )
On the subject of monitoring and evaluation, good data and analysis is not
available to adequately evaluate this project. This points out the need for a
strong M&E during the project period, which should continue for at least 5 to
10 years following completion of the projects in order to fully assess the
impact of project improvements. Consequently, a strong M&E program is in
place for the Fourth Drainage (Cr.1375-PAK) and LBOD (Cr.1532-PAK). Secondly,
monitoring must continue throughout the life of the project as an aid to
efficient O&M.
xxv.     Additional investigation and study is required to determine the
relative site specific merits of horizontal and vertical subsurface drainage
technologies, however projects such as Khairpur-II are providing significant
insights.
xxvi.    There is a need for follow up on the issues related to full cost
recovery of O&M allocations and adequacy of WAPDA's audit procedure.
xxvii.   Experience has shown the necessity of a strong O&M program for
subsurface drainage system. Trained personnel and appropriate equipment is
required. All project equipment was transferred from WAPDA to SPID, which may
be in excess of O&M requirements. This is particularly true of the large
trencher for laying collector pipe, which requires highly specialised
operators. Currently, SPID receives about RS 2.0 million annually for O&M of
Khairpur II. This appears to be about 25% of what is required.
xxviii. Water management practices are important in delaying subsurface
drainage requirements in non waterlogged areas and reduces somewhat the
drainable  surplus to be handled by subsurface drainage systems.  Watercource
improvement in Khairpur II was implemented by WAPDA using small contractors
rather than involving farmers through formal WUAs. Experience in the On-Farm
Water Management Projects (Cr. 1163 and 1603-PAK) has demonstrated the
desireability of farmer involvement in reducing project costs and improving
0&M of watercourse improvement by farmers.  Hence, all subsequent IDA assisted
subsurface drainage projects provide for on-farm water management (OFWM)
practices to be executed by OFWM Directorates in the Provincial Departments of
Agriculture with farmers, through WUAs, providing all labor, sharing in the
costs of civil works materials and assuming O&M of such watercourse.



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(KRAIRPUR II)
(Credit 648-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01         Irrigation began in the Indus plain in Pakistan about 3,000 years
ago. Today about 14.5 million ha are irrigated in the Indus plain in
Pakistan. About 90Z of the value of the nations agricultural production is
raised on irrigated lands. Most of the larger infrastructural works of the
Indus irrigation system have been installed during the last 50 years. About
125 billion m3 of surface water is diverted annually from the Indus river and
its tributaries to irrigate Indus land. This has resulted in dynamic changes
in the hydrologic balance throughout the Indus plain with a general rise in
the groundwater table. Whereas 30 to 40 years ago the depth to groundwater
was 16 m or more over most of the area, a 1981 soil salinity survey by WAPDA
reported that about 22S of the cultivable commanded area (cca) of the Indus
Irrigation system had a water table within 2.0 m of ground surface (aoout 3.2
million ha) and an additional 207 (about 2.9 million ha) within about 3 m of
the surface. About 501 of the groundwater of the Indus plan is brackish (SGW)
and unsuitable for direct application as irrigation water to field crops.
Soils with a highwater table become problematic because of salinization and
crop yield are significantly reduced. Ultimately irrigated agriculture on
such land becomes uneconomic and large blocks of land go out of production.
Hence, salinity control and reclamation project (SCARPs) have been a high
investment priority of GOP since the 1960s. The Water and Power development
Authority (WAPDA) was assigned the responsibility for implementing such
projects.
1.02         The Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project (Khairpur II) was the second IDA credit' to the Government of
Pakistan (GOP) for the control of waterlogging and salinity in irrigated
areas. It was the first IDA credit in Pakistan for installing horizontal
(pipe) subsurface drainage.
1.03         The Khairpur II Project was estimated at appraisal to cost about
US$29.1 million of which US$14 million, representing the foreign exchange
compoiaent, was to be financed by an IDA credit. An additional grant of
US$3.75 million was provided by the European Economic Community (EEC). The
project, which was to benefit some 6,300 families, was designed to provide
1/   The first IDA credit (US$18.0 million) for drainage was the SCARP
Khairpur I (Cr. 22-PAK) a five-year project in Sind Province, which was
completed in 1970. This TW drainage project (217 TWs in FGW and 323 TWs
in SGW) covered about 155,000 ha in the Khairpur Feeder Canal command.



-2-
subsurface horizontal (pipe) drainage for 14,600 ha and improved water service
from irrigation canals and structures serving 17,800 ha (3,200 ha received
drainage treatment under Khairpur I). WAPDA was responsible for
implementation.
1.04     This project completion report (PCR) is based on a review of the
Staff Appraisal Report No.1062a-PAK dated June 14, 1976 (SAR), the Development
Credit and Project Agreements dated July 22, 1976 and the draft PCRs prepared
by FAO/CP in December 1986 and WAPDA's consultants in December 1985. An IDA
mission, visiting Pakistan in May/June 1988, held discussions with Government
of Pakistan (GOP), Government of Sind (GOSind) and WAPD^ officials for the
purpose of finalizing this PCR.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Identification and Preparation
2.01     The Comprehensive Development Plan for Sind presented in the "Lower
Indus Report" (1966) envisaged a series of interrelated projects covering
about 5 million hectares to be phased in over 25 years. Priority was given to
the development of fresh groundwater (FGW) resources followed by tubewell (TW)
drainage projects in the saline groundwater (SGW) areas and lastly horizontal
(pipe) drainage in those areas where aquifer are not suitable for TW
operation. An exception to this order of priorities was made for the Khairpur
II project because GOP officials determined a pilot horizontal (pipe) drainage
project should be undertaken at an early date to develop procedures and
capability within Pakistan for applying this technology.
2.02     A 1971 project planning report analyzed the technical and economic
feasibility of the project. Generally, project objectives would be to
increase crop production through improved irrigation supplies and subsurface
drainage which would: (a) demonstrate the effectiveness of horizontal (pipe)
drainage; (b) provide for an assessment and evaluation of the costs and
construction techniques; and, (c) develop within Pakistan the capability to
implement horizontal (pipe) subsurface drainage in areas unsuitable for TW
drainage. The report drew special attention to the need for monitcring and
evaluation (M&E) of the horizontal drainage techniques, as well as design
parameters, and to facilitate future work in Pakistan on pipe drainage
systems. It was emphasized that M&E should be carried out during and after
construction.
2.03     The proposed subsurface drainage site lies in a narrow belt between
the western boundary of the Khairpur 1 SCARP and the limestone outcrops of the
Rohri Hills to the east. The project is comnanded by the Khairpur East Feeder
Canal, which takes off from the Sukkur Barrage. The soils in the area are
alluvial deposits overlaying a limestone base, which outcrops on the eastern
boundary of the project. The limited depth of the aquifer made vertical
drainage by tubewells impracticable/'.
1J   Depth to limestone bedrock is less than 5 m over 20S of the project area
and the remaining area has an average depth to bedrock of about 12 m.



-3-
2.04     Since 1932, when the project area was brought under
barrage-controlled irrigation, there had been a significant rise £n the
watertable occurred with rises of about 150 mm annually reported. In 1971,
the SGW watertable was less than 2.4 m throughout 94% of the project area.
The entire project area was at considerable risk of severe soil salinization.
To prevent further soil deterioration and to ensure better crop production, it
became necessary to install some form of subsurface drainage. The other major
constraint to increasing agricultural production was an inadequate supply of
water for irrigation during the dry season.
Appraisal
2.05     The project was appraised by an IDA mission in November 1974 and
post-appraised by another mission in August 1975. The issues discussed
following the 1974 mission included .he need for a guarantee that GOSind would
allocate additional water to the project area from its share of releases from
Chashma and Tarbela reservoirs. It was decided that a 14,000 ha project would
be about the minimum area on which machine-laid pipe drains could be installed
on a scale which would be representative of larger projects.
2.06     Since the project's drainage component would merely restore a
previously existing situation and would not produce an improvement for which
the farmers should be charged, the appraisal mission recommended that no
explicit drainage charges be levied in the project area.
The Appraised Proiect
2.07     The "Stafr Appraisal Report" (SAR) Report No. 1062a (June 14, 1976)
provided for installing horizontal (pipe) drainage as a means of watertable
and soil salinity control covering an area of 14,600 ha "" referred to as
Area A in th'e project map. Canals supplying both Area A and an additional
3,200 ha d? kined by SCARP Khairpur-I tubewells (Area B) would be enlarged to
provide water for peak kharif irrigation requirements and for land reclamation
by leaching.
2.08     During the five years (FY 77-81) project period, the following
activities were to be undertaken:
(a)   Installation of subsurface horizontal drainage system and surface
disposal drains throughout Area A (about 14,600 ha), consisting of
about 2,600 km of buried lateral and collector drains, 130 small pump
stations and 73 km of surface drains;
(b)   Enlargement and remodelling of irrigation canals and structures
(areas A&B), and the reconstruction of irrigation outlets serving
17,800 ha, including about 15 km of distributary canals, 80 km of
minor canals and 170 irrigation outlets;
1/   800 ha was handed over to the Drainage and Reclamation Institute of
Pakistan (DRIP) for purpose of experimentation and research; however
subsurface (pipe) drainage was installed only on 500 ha (para 3.06).



-4-
(c)   Construction of about 320 km of new watercourses and the
rehabilitation of some 110 km of existing watercourses and associated
structures;
(d)   Construction of wider and improved carriageway surfaces, and the
strengthening of bridges on 32 km of minor roads in Area A;
(e)   On-farm development work through long-term agricultural credit to
farmers for land levelling and to contractors for purchase of land
levelling equipment;
(f)   Upgrading agricultural extension services;
(g)   Provision of equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies necessary
for the construction and O&M cf project works, for land levelling and
for agriculture supporting services, and spare parts for tubewell
installations in Area B and in the remainder of SCARP Khairpur-I;
(h)   Engagement of consultants to assist WAPDA in detailed design of
project works, supervising construction and preparing O&M manuals;
and to assist the SCARP Khairpur Agriculture Wing in developing
extension services and in monitoring benefits in the project area; and
(i)   Preparation of aerial photographs for the whole Indus Basin (about
170,000 kmi) for use in planning water resources development in the
basin. Specialized maps based on data transmitted from Earth
Resources Technc ogy Satellines (ERTS) of certain areas within the
Indus Basin were to be produced as a pilot study for assessing and
measuring areas affected by varying degrees of soil salinization and
waterlogging.
Negotiations
2.09    Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. on May 25-28, 1976.  The
major point discussed was the wording of the covenant in the Project Agreement
(PA) concerning water charges. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and PA
were signed on July 22, 1976.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Start-up
3.01    The credit became effective on March 14, 1977, which was five months
late due to delays by WAPDA in appointing consultants to assist with design
and implementation of the project. Political disturbances caused a further
delay of about four months. Tenders for a large part of the construction
equipment were invited in May 1978 and were opened in July 1978. For the most
part project equipment was delivered on site about two years following start
up to the project.



-5-
Planning and Desi8n
3.02     Available topographic maps were not of required quality for detailed
design of the subsurface drainage system. Therefore, WAPDA had to carry out a
topographical survey between May 1978 and September 1979, which resulted in
maps at a scale of 1:7,920 (8 inches: 1 mile) and contours at 30 cm (one foot)
vertical interval.
3,03     Subsurface drainage was designed by the foreign consultants in their
home office in the Netherlands. This design called for a minimum water table
of 1.5 m over laterals and 1.0 m between laterals. WAPDA personnel were not,
involved in this design exercise even though project funds were available to
finance travel expenses. Hence, little if any drainage design experience was
transferred to Pakistani technical staff during this project. WAPDA and their
consultants designed the improvements to the irrigation system in conjunction
with the SDIP, which called for increase in a surface water deliveries from
56.5m3/sec to 98.5m3/sec. Roads and watercourses (30% masonry lining)
were designed by WAPDA.
3.04     Aerial photography for the whole Indus Basin was completed by early
1978 and the interpretation of data from ERTS was completed with the help of
consultants in 1981. The Indus photos were extensively utilized in the UNDP
financed, Bank executed, Indus Basin Planning Study (PAK/74/004-1976 to 1979).
Revisions to the Project
3.05     There were several minor changes to the project (para 3.06) and a
fundamen,al change in the construction technique for installing collector
drains (para 3.07). The SAR provided limited funding for housing, which was
converted into a colony at GOP expenses. This upgrading in facilities was
considered essential because of the isolated location of this project.
3.06     Khairpur II project was designed as a prototype pilot area to assess
construction techniques, installation costs, O&M costs and effectiveness of
horizontal (pipe) subsurface drainage. There were some minor changes in the
location of pipe drains during implementation but the total area improved
remained unchanged at 14,600 ha. except for the 300 ha DRIP area that did not
receive treatment.
3.07     From the start of this project, great difficulties were encountered
in laying the concrete collector pipe. This was due to very unstable soil
conditions, which was exacerbated by excessive seepage from canals.
Dewatering operations were slow since smaller diameter perforated corrugated
plastic pipe had to be installed to draw down water table along the line where
collector drains were to be installed. Near the sump, where the large
dewatering machine could not lay the plastic pipe, vertical well points were
installed for dewatering. Installation of the heavy concrete collector drains
was only averaging about 1 km per month and a few collector drain lines were
even abandoned following repeated trench cave-ins.  In areias of extremely
unstable soils, there was excessive settlement of the heavy concrete collector
pipes which resulted in two of these drains (Nos 19 and 20) becoming
permanently inoperable.



-6
3.08     The slow and difficult progress precipitated a detailed review of
drain pipe installation procedures and techniques by an IDA supervision
mission in June of 1982. This mission, which included a highly experienced
drainage consultant, recommended that a new "state of the art" technology be
adopted for installing collector drains using perforated corrugated
polyethylene (PE) drain pipe within a gravel envelope. Recent improvements in
drainage installation equipment and materials were brought to the attention of
WAPDA by this mission.  The newly developed equipme-u  successfully operating
in the USA, could install large diameter (300 mm o:      inch) perforated
corrugated PE or PVC pipe with gravel envelope encasement in one operation
without the need for dewatering. Adoption of this new system involved the
purchase of a trenching machine capable of laying large collector drains at
speeds upto 100 m per hour. After adopting the new technology, daily
collector drain pipe installation rates of one km or more were achieved. This
was the average monthly installation rate using the initial dewatering and
concrete pipe system. Even so, additional problems emerged i.e. delay in
plastic pipe delivery, equipment breakdown, unanticipated and excessive
custom duties, and a lack of experience by WAPDA staff and consultants with
these operations.
3.09     This dramatic departure from the original project plan reflects the
experimental nature of the subsurface drainage portion of the project.
Although there were no substantial changes in the overall concept of the
project, there were some substantial changes in the stated quantities for
certain items. some of which were made to reduce the scope and cost overruns
due to delay. The project works are summarized below:
Prolect Works
SAR /a         Actual    Remarks
Sump Pumping Station        130 no.        37 no.  Para 3.07
Collector Drains            218 km        153 km   Para 3.07
Lateral Drains            2,408 km        823 km   Average spacing
increased from 60m
to 160m.
Disposal Drain               73 km         33 km   16 km of Kot Diji
main drain also
remodelled.
Remodelling of              102 km         45 km
Irrigation System
Roads                       161 km         27 km   Only essential
improvements were
constructed.
/a  Text and Annex 11 of SAR differ in places.



-7-
3.10     The precision land levelling component was deleted from the project
as the methodology suggested in the SAR did not work because of difficulties
in organizing credit and the absence of contractors to do the work. Detailed
investigation and design enabled the number of drainage pump stations to be
reduced from 130 small stations to 37 larger stations, which also resulted in
a reduced total length of collector drains. The areas commanded by each of
these sumps became. in effect, a drainage subproject. The provision of
manholes on collector drains was reduced during implementation after it was
found that fewer were required. Early manhole design called for them to be
buried. Following heavy rains in 1981, the farmers opened the buried manholes
for drainage and as a result, collector drains became clogged with sediment.
This problem has been averted in later design where the top of the manhole is
elevated about 1.0 m above ground level.
Construction
3.11     Construction began in 1977 on the office, workshop and housing in the
Khairpur colony. Remodelling of irrigati3n works was carried out during the
months of January (1979, 1980 and 1985) wuen canals were closed for
maintenance. A disruptive sequence of implementation, which arose from delays
in subsurface drainage construction, resulted in the completion of canal
remodelling ahead of drainage works. Additional water supplies aggravated the
waterlogging situation and further complicated the working conditions for
subsurface drain construction. Improvement of watercourses was carried out
(1984, 1985 and 1986) after completion of individual drainage units.
3.12     The schedule for drainage construction was first to construct the
pump sumps so that they could be used for dewatering during construction of
collector and lateral drains. Collector drains were then laid and left to
drain the area for about two weeks before lateral drains were laid.
Construction of pump sumps began in June 1979 and of collectors in December
1979. Collector drain laying proceeded very slowly mainly due to difficulties
in dewatering and laying concrete pipes at depths of 1.8 to 3 m in unstable
ground (para 3.07). Subsurface drainage for the first block (about 300 ha)
was not completed until 1980, which was over three years after credit
effectiveness.
3.13     Frequent mechanical breakdowns of construction equipment caused
additional delay and in December 1980 a foreign mechanical expert was
employed. By mid-1982, when after 2-1/2 years' work only 38 km of collector
drain had been laid out of 150 km required, it was decided to adopt a new pipe
laying technology (para 3.08). The speed-up in laying collector drains with
this new technology was dramatic, i.e. 87 km in 15 months compared to 66 km in
54 months with the earlier system. All collector drains were installed by
February 1986. This enabled laterals to be completed in March 1986 and
watercourse improvements in June 1986. Apart from about 300 ha of drainage in
the DRIP area, all project works were completed by the end of June 1986, some
five years later than forecast in the SAR.



Procurement
3.14     Construction equipment was generally procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), although the collector drain trencher, ordered in
1982, was procured directly from the same manufacturer as the trenching
machines ordered for installing the lateral drains. The PVC and PE pipes were
procured by ICB; the 100 mm dia PVC pipe was mostly manufactured in Pakistan
but all the 250 mm and 300 mm PE pipe's were imported from Canada.
Construction of subsurface drains was generally carried out by WAPDA force
account with small contractors providing labor fo  some individual components
such as manhole construction. Roads, canal remodelling, open drains and
watercourse construction was carried out by local contractors selected through
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures.
3.15     It should be noted that WAPDA's procedures for watercourse renovation
(1984-86) did not follow the general practice successfully employed by On-farm
Water Management (OFWM) Directorates in the Provincial Department of
Agriculture.  TL_e OFWM Directorates, in such projects as OFWM I and II (Cr.
1163 and 1603-PAK), organize formal Water User Associations (WUA), whose
farmer members contribute all labor, share in cost of materials and guarantee
0&M under provisions of provincial ordinances. Following such procedures
WAPDA would have reduced project cost. However, WAPDA did organize formal
WUAs for purpose of facilitating required O&M. WAPDA had these WUAs
registered with the Sind OFWM Directorate.
Agricultural Extension
3.16    Agricultural extension staff from the Department of Agriculture were
seconded to the SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing in July 1977 and by July 1978
extension activities had begun.  Problems of declining morale among the
transferred staff soon emerged due to disparities between their salaries and
those of the staff of SDIP, as well as problems of transferring vehicles and
equipment from the Agriculture Department. By the middle of 1979, however,
these "teething" problems had been largely overcome and an e,'tension program
based on the Training and Visits (T&V) system was initiated in the project
area. GOSind sanctioned 27 extension posts for the project. These included
the Deputy Director of Agriculture and one Assistant Director of Agriculture
.(ADA) mainly for the tile drainage areas. Under the ADA were 3 Agricultural
Officers, each supervising 6 Field Assistants (FA) and Subject Matter
Specialists for the whole Khairpur area. Each E. covered 2,500 acres
representing about 8-20 watercourses with 2 to 3 contact farmers per
watercourse.
Quality and Performance of Project Works
3.17     GenArally, the construction quality of civil works was acceptable
considering the pilot nature of the project. Initially there was considerable
difficulty in laying the concrete collector drains (para 3.07) which has
resulted in serious operational problems. Several of these collector drains,
associated with sumps 19 and 20 are not functioning despite major effort by
SDIP to rectify. Seven other collector drains have required cleaning by
hydraulic nozzles to clear sediment plugs and several of these are not



-9-
performing properly. The performance of the project works is discussed in
Chapt.r 4.
Costs
3.18     Investment costs are shown in Table I and sumarized below:
SM             Actual
Rs       US$    Rs          U
-----(million)          -
Khairpur Project Base Cost    186.2   18.6    346.7       28.7
Physical Contingencies          20.0    2.0       -        -
Price Contingencies             67.0    6.7       -        -
Khairpu- Total Costs           273.2   27.3    346.7      28.7
Aerial Photography & ERTS       10.2    1.0      11.5      1.3
Total                     283.4   28.3    358.2      30.0
Customs Duties & Taxes           8.0    0.8      61.4      5.1
Total Cost                291.4   29.1    419.6      35.1
The total project cost (excluding customs duties and taxes) amounted to about
Rs 360.0 M (US$30.0 M). This represents an increase of about 27S in rupees
and 6S in dollar terms from SAR estimates. The cost of the subsurface
drainage component was about Rs 20,000 or US$1,670 per ha. This high unit
rate was partly due to: (a) the pilot nature of the project, which led to
several changes and work interruptions; and, (b) inefficiencies associated
with force account operations. The cost of drainage components dropped
significantly after new installation materials and equipment were used. No
attempt has been made to quantity such savings because of numerous variables,
e.g. equipment sunk and depreciated costs, overheads and administrative costs,
etc. However, there are clear indications that the unit cost of subsurface
(pipe) drainage using this "new" technology has decreased and it is estimated
to comparable to the drainage cost in Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-PAK)
of about US$750 per ha.
3.19     In 1979, the Government imposed an excesive custom's duty on resin
and PE pipes, amounting to Rs 13 per kilogram PVC plus 10% of the cif cost.
During early project years, the cif cost of resin ranged between Rs. 4-6 (US$
400-600 per ton). The purpose of imposing this duty (about 250S of the cost
of resin) was to protect local public sector production of resin, using an
outdated method (carbide). While these costs were met from GOP resources,
this excessive tax rate has unnecessarily contributed to high project costs.
3.20     It was possible to substantially reduce the SAR estimated quantities
of several items, which helped keep the cost increase comparatively low
despite the implementation period extending from 5 years to 10 years (para
3.10-3.12). The cost of most civil works doubled, however, there were savings



- 10 -
on equipment, land acquisition and land levelling, which was dropped from the
project. The cost of buildings increasee significantly because of costs
associated with construction of Khairpuw  3lony.  Comparison of SAR and actual
costs are detailed in Table 2.
Proiect Financina and Credit Allocation
3.21     The IDA credit of U3$14 million, covering about 502 of the project
costs (net of taxes and customs duties) was expected to cover the full foreign
exchange cost. Actual disbursements of US$12.89 million covered approximately
43% of the total costs. US$1.11 million of the cred4. was cancelled. Table 3
compares the actual disbursement and SAR estimates. In addition to the IDA
credit, a grant of US$3.75 million, which was given by EEC for civil works
construction was fully disbursed. The remaining project costs were met by GOP
and GOSind through their annual development program (ADP).
IV. PROJECT IMPACT
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.01     The project demonstrated that subsurface (pipe) drainage system can
be successfully implemented in Pakistan. Valuable experience and training was
gained through implementation of the project. Important lessons were learned
relating to new piping material, in particular corrugated plastic drainage
pipes, and use of new equipment capable of installing large diameter
corrugated plastic collector pipe in a gravel envelope. Also, SDIP is gaining
significant experience in the O&M of subsurface (pipe) drainage systems.
Additional information and experience was gained by °akistani officials, which
has proven valuable in planning future subsurface (pipe) projects in Pakistan
and as a guide to selecting proper locations for horizontal pipe and tubewell
drainage systems. To make a proper selection between these two technologies
mniy factors must be taken into consideration, i.e., capital costs, O&M and
replacement costs, quality of groundwater and irrigation waters as well as the
potential use of drainage discharges, and aquifer characteristics. In other
words, there are other factors than just aquifer condition that must be
considered in determining whether a vertical or horizontal subsurface system
is to be installed. This contrasts to the pre Khairpur-II philosophs that
would limit horizontal (pipe) drainage to sites where aquifer conditions do
not permit TW operation (para 2.01).
4.02     Improvements to the irrigation network have enabled perennial
irrigation to be extended from about 4,000 ha to the entire project area
(17,800 ha) by increasing the irrigation water supply from about 5,665 1/sec
(corresponding to 200 cusecs at the head of Patni distributary) to 9,775 1/sec
(345 cusecs). However, post project releases into Patni distributary have
been as much 10,500 1/sec or 385 cusecs (Table 4).
4.03     In order for the project to achieve its stated objectives, adequate
supply of irrigation water coupled with efficient operation of the subsurface
drainage system is required. The additional water supply is especially
critical for leaching in this project because of the design criteria calling
for maintaining minimum groundwater table at 1.0 a (para 3.03) Because of



- 11 -
this subsurface drainage design criteria, the groundwater tables in the pre
and post construction period have generally remained unchanged. For example,
data from WAPDA's SCARP Monitoring Unit shows that in April 1985, 10  of the
project area had a watertable depth of 1.0 m and 857 of 1.5 m; whereas in
April 1987, 202 of the project area had a watertable of 1.0 m and 65S of 1.5 m
(Table 5). The same groundwater condition prevails in the DRIP area
(Table 6). It is reported that over 1,600 ha of previously abandoned land has
been reclaimed during the post project period. In a survey of 70 farmers in
1985, 872 reported improved t:onditions on about 402 of their land due to
drainage.
4.04     WAPDA's Scarp Monitoring Unit (South) also measures the chemical
composition of effluent water from sumps and the salts in soils in six
selected plots. The results are not conclusive, but the highly saline
effluent from the sumps (2,600 to 54,000 micromhos/cm, average 10,000) is an
indication that salts are being removed from the soil and the quality of this
effluent is slowly improving (Table 7). It is estimated that about ten times
as much salt is now being removed as is being brought in by irrigation water.
The sodium absorption ratio and the electroconductivity measured in six
selected plots have shown some improvement for those which have been
cultivated but some deterioration for those which have remained fallow.
Overtime, it is anticipated that the quality of the saline drainage effluent
will improve gradually until an equilibrum develops between salt inflows in
the irrigation water and outflow in the drainage water. This is substantiated
by 1988 DRIP report that indicates in their research area, the quality of
useable upper groundwater has increased from 8% (December 1982) to 287 in
December 1986 (Table 8).
4.05     No special provision was included under the project for
hydrogeological monitoring. However, assurances were given by GOP, that WAPDA
through its central Monitoring Organization (now SCARP Monitoring Organization
(SMO), would carry out benchmark and subsequent follow-up surveys to monitor
agricultural, social and economic changes brought about by the project.
Subsequently, SMO included limited project hydrogeological monitoring of
watertable depth and soil salinity data under its national grid observation
point (density on observation per 10 square miles) program. This data has
been analysed by SMO to produce contour maps for watertable depths 1.5 m and
3.0 m. Such maps (and pertinant data) may be adequate for evaluating the
performance of SCARP tubewells, but it is inadequate for monitoring a
subsurface (pipe) drainage system. A deficiency in SMO's hydrogeological
monitoring for this project is its breakdown into water depth criteria of
0-1.5 m for its highest zone. Since, the subsurface design criteria for this
project is based on maintaining watertable depths between the lateral drains
at 1.0 m, most of the project area would, understandably, fall into the
highest watertable zone category during both the pre- and post-project
conditions, which makes the existing groundwater monitoring program of little
value. WAPDA SMO has realized the need for installing additional observation
points in khairpur-II pipe drainage area, which would enable more precise
monitoring in the future. However, installing this system is being delayed
because of financial constraints.



- 12 -
4.06     SDIP is monitoring a record of the following:
-    sump discharge (monthly)
-    water quality of sumps (monthly)
The records from 1985 to date, although not conclusive, shows a slight
improvement in the quality of sump water. The high saline effluent 2600 to
56,000 micromhos/cm (average 10,000) indicates that the salts are being
removed from the soil. This data also shows that sump discharge has generally
been far below the design discharge, and in several cases, the collectors have
ceased to function (Table 9). In absence of reliable depth to groundwater
data, it is not possible to identify the cause of the problem. Among reasons
cited for these continuing problems by SDIP project staff are:
(a) breakage (and blockage) in the collector line, particularly in
concrete lines;
(b) farmers digging the pipe drains in areas under paddy. Although
paddy cultivation has been prohibited in the pipe drained areas,
statistics still show that paddy cultivation has been continued;
(c) inadequate flushing of the pipe drains and general inadequate
0&t of the network (paras 6.08 and 6.09);
(d) clogging of gravel envelope.
4.07     Th1 case study monitoring approach used by DRIP to monitor each unit
(collector catchment) separately and intensively, based on annual water and
salt balance provides a better diagnosis of problems. Given the experience of
the DRIP and SMO staffs, they are capable of carrying out the M&E to a
satisfactory standard in collaboration with the SDIP staff.
Agricultural Impact
4.08     General  Although it is too early to evaluate fully the project
impact on crops production and farmers' income, there are preliminary
indications that show positive project impact:
(1)  WAPDA's Scarp Monitoring Unit (South) has measured the chemical
composition of effluent water from nine sumps and salt in soils in
six selected plots. These results available are not conclusive but
there appears to be some marginal improvement in the quality of
effluent (Table 7, sumps 7 and 16 only). Overtime it is anticipated
that the quality of the saline effluent will improve to a point where
an equilibrum develops between salt inflow rate in irrigation water
and salt outflow in the drainage effluent. The highly saline
effluent from the sumps (.,600 to 54,000 micromhos/cm, average
10,000) is an indication that salt are being removed from the soil.
It is estimated that about ten times as much salt is being removed as
is being brought in by irrigation water but this should be checked
regularly using accurate estimates of quantities pumped and salinity
content. The sodium absorption ratio and the electroconductivity



- 13 -
measured in six selected plots have shown some improvement for those
which have been cultivated but some deterioration for those which
have remained fallow.
(2) A 1985 WAPDA survey indicated that 61 out of 70 farmers were of the
opinion that farming conditions had improved due to drainage work;
(3) By July 1985, it waa reported that 1,600 ha of previously abandoned
land had been reclaimed in the project area.
(4)  Even though groundwater levels remain relatively high (para 4.03),
they are stabilized at a depth in the lower root zone, or even lower
(Tables 5 and 6), for most areas and with the additional water
supplies (para 4.02) for increased cropping intensities and leaching,
this contributed to the improved farming conditions mentioned in (2)
above.
Crops and Farm Models
4.09     Cropping Intensitr:  The Benchmark Survey conducted by WAPDA in 1979
indicated that the cropping intensity in the project area was about 110X. Due
to the rise in groundwater table, build-up of soil salinity and short supply
of irrigation water, it is estimated that cropping intensity would reduce in
the future without project condition (90X). Cotton would be the most affected
crop with a significant decrease in acreage. It is assumed that a part of
cotton acreage would be substituted by paddy. However, a large increase of
paddy may not be possible due to a limited irrigation supply and increased
soil salinity. In addition, rabi wheat acreage would also be reduced due to
poor drainage and shortage of irrigation. Perennial date crop, which is
somewhat tolerant to salinity, may increase its acreage. With the project,
water-consuming rice is expected to disappear altogether. Cotton and wheat
areas would expand significantly and the area of dates would increase.
Production of sugarcane, negligible at present, is expected to increase with
improved road infrastructure, higher prices, as well as extension and other
services provided by the sugar mills. Cropping intensity would increase to
about 1562 for the with-project situation (Table 10).
4.10     Crop yields:  Reduction or stagnation of crop yields is expected
under future without project condition due mainly to worsening soil
conditions, poor drainage and salinity. However, yields would increase
through the physical .improvements adopted by the project such as improved
drainage, reduced soil salinity and additional irrigation supply, the
strengthened extension services, as well as the enhanced farmers' enthusiasm
in farming under future with project condition. Estimated yield increases
from future without project to with project conditions are (mt/ha): cotton
lint 0.7-1.4, wheat 0.9-2.5, oilseed 0.4-0.8, kharif fodder 12.0-17.0 and rabi
fodder 12.8-20.8. Detailed estimation of yield increase is given in Table 10.
4.11     Crop Production:  Increased yield combined with higher i-opping
intensity would result in a substantial incremental production at full
development. Estimated incremental production of major crops is detailed in
Table 11 and summarized below:



- 14 -
Without proiect    With project    Incremental
Cotton lint ('000 mt)           0.51              8.82            8.31
Wheat       ('000 mt)           5.58             25.00           19.42
Fodder      ('000 mt)          40.40             79.40           39.00
Dates       (Rs '000)       5,088.00         16,000.00      10,912.00
4.12.    Farm-Size Distribution:  According to the WAPDA Benchmark Survey, the
distribution of farm sizes and areas covered by various categories of farm
sizes are summarized in the table below. Of the total area, about 29.3S is
rented and some 5.4% is leased. Over 692 in Zone A (about 14,600 ha) and over
612 in Zone B (about 3,200 ha), were subdivided in more than one parcel. This
leads to the assumption that the very small farms are part of larger holdings
since it is generally agreed that a 1.6 ha unit would be too small to maintain
a family.
Farm-Size Distribution
Percentage of  Size of                   Percentage of
Category              Farms          Farm    Area Covered       Area
Very Small              452         1.58 ha     4,300 ha          24%
Smail                   312         3.56 ha     5,300 ha          302
Medium                   172        7.04 ha      5,000 ha         28%
Large                     72       14.49 ha     3,200 ha          182
4.13     Farm Models:  Based on the above data and assumptions, three farm
models have been prepared (a) a farm of 3.5 ha of which about half is owned by
the farmer and the other half rented, (b) a medium-sized farm of 7.0 ha farmed
by the owner. and (c) a large farm with 14.0 ha farmed by the owner. With the
assumed yields and cropping patterns for each farm model and the per hectare
input (Table 12), the financial net return for each farm model through the
project development years are detailed in Tables 13-15 and those at the full
development are summarized below:
Model A               Model B         Model C
3.5 ha Owner             7.0 ha         14.0 ha
cum-tenant Farmer     Owner Farmer   Owner Farmer
~~---- - (Rupees) ---------
Net Income                         -
Future Without Project      2,387.4             4,534.3         9,017.0
Future With Project        15,287.0            30,587.8        60,541.1
Incremental               12,899.6             26,053.5        51,524.1
Income Per Rectare
Future Without Project        682.1               647.8           644.1
Future With Project        4,367.7              4,369.7         4,324.4
Return per Mn/day
of Family Labor 1/
Future Without Project          3.5                 6.7            13.4
Future With Project            22.6                45.3            89.7
1/ Assume 2.7 full time labor per family and 250 working days per year.



- 15 -
The above information shows that the project would have a positive impact on
increasing income in all the three farm models. The data also indicates that:
(1) the larger the farm size, the higher the net farm income would be; (2) per
hectare income would be generally the same for all farm sizes; and (3) the
smallest farm would have the lowest per man-day income.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Economic Analysis
5.01     Project costs and benefits in constant 1985-86 (completion year)
terms are given in Table 16. The resulting economic rate of return (ERR) is
7.6%. This rate is substantially lower than estimated at appraisal (17%) but
still acceptable considering the "pilot" character of the project -
introducing design, construction, and O&M of pipe drainage systems into
Pakistan. The main reasons for the differences between appraisal and PCR
estimates of the project's ERR are the extended implementation period - ten
instead of five years - and the significantly lower commodity prices that are
now projected.
5.02     As at appraisal, the economic reevaluation takes into account only
the benefits from incremental crop production in the project area (17,800 ha),
disregarding indirect benefits. Outputs and crop production inputs are shown
in Tables 10-12. To maintain comparability with the appraisal report, which
used an analysis period of 30 years, including five years implementation,
project life has been assumed to be 35 years (including ten years
implementation). All farms are assumed to reach full development in ten years
(by 1990-91, project year 15). Farmgate prices for internationally traded
goods are based on the most recent IBRD commodity price forecasts (January
1988), while those for non-traded goods are based on domestic prices
(Table 17). Domestic prices have been translated into border prices using a
standard conversion factor of 0.9.
5.03     Al   nvestment costs, except aerial photography and ERTS survey, and
required O&M coLts have been included in the calculations.  The cost of land
acquisition has been used as a proxy for benefits foregone. Actual
expenditures have been restated in 1985-86 prices using the wholesale price
index (Table 18), and economic prices have been obtained by applying
conversion factors of 0.8 for civil works and 0.9 for all other costs.
Sensitivity Tests
5.04     Sensitivity tests show that (i) with future costs down by 201 or
future benefits up by 102 the project's rate of return would be close to 9%,
while (ii) with future costs down by 10% and future benefits up by 102 it
wot-td be 9.4%, and (iii) with future benefits up by 20% it would be 9.91,
nearly equal to the assumed opportunity cost of capital in Pakistan (10). On
the other hand, with future costs up by 101 and future benefits down by 101
the rate of return would drop to 5.41.



- 16 -
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
6.01     WAPDA entrusted overall responsibility for the Khairpur-II project to
General Manager (South) with the Project Director responsible for on site
activities. WAPDA's SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing was responsible for the
agricultural extension services. The National Bank of Pakistan was originally
responsible for credit but this component was cancelled. A Project
Coordination Committee was established in 1977 to coordinate activities of the
agencies involved.
6.02     Generally, WAPDA performed satisfactorily, both technically and
administratively. Its officials and personnel proved dedicated and interested
in developing required skills. Foreign consultants were employed to assist
with design of drainage and other aspects of implementation. However, WAPDA
failed to take advantage of funds provided for staff training in subsurface
(pipe) design (para 3.03). Problems that were encountered included delays in
appointing consultants and in procurement. Some delays in the early part of
the project were attributed to lack of experienced staff.  However, the major
delays in collector drain laying may be considered to have been beyond the
immediate control of WAPDA.  There have been no reports of inadequate budget
allocations.
SCARP Agricultural Wing
6.03     The extension service is reported to have been fairly effective
particularly in demonstrations on leaching salts and improved cultural
practices. The main problems encountered by the extension service were those
relating to the Province as a whole and included inadequate budgetary
allocation, low salaries of extension staff, insufficient travel allowances
and shortage of inputs particularly for demonstrations (this last being
related to budgetary constraints). At the beginning, the project purchased
inputs for farmers with demonstration plots. The wing recovered 501 of the
costs in cash after harvest. This system was dropped following an audit query
in 1982 and this led to the abandoning of demonstration plots in the project
area. A weekness of the extension 3ystem was that tenant farmers had little
access to extension staff as medium and large sized farmers were chosen to be
contact farmers.
Sind Department of Irrigation and Power (SDIP)
6.04     SDIP responsibility is limited to the O&M of project improvements,
which WAPDA turned over to them on July 1, 1987. It is too early to fully
assess SDIP's ability to efficiently handle the required O&M. However, SDIP
has been unable to reestablish operation of several collector drains
(para 3.17) and GOSind's O&M allocation to this project area is inadequate
(paras 6.08 and 6.11). However, these conditions suggest that: (a) additional
O&M training need to be provided to SDIP staff related to OUM of subsurface
(pipe) drainage systems; and, (b) SDIP should allocate additional O&M funds
from its budget for the Khairpur-II area.



- 17 -
Drainage and Reclamation Institute of Pakistan (DRIP)
6.05     Out of the project area, 800 ha in the pipe drainage area were handed
over to the Drainage Research Institute of Pakistan (DRIP) to construct and
monitor, for the purpose of experimentation, various design criteria for pipe
drains. Due to financial constraints, only 500 ha were provided with pipe
drains and the remaining 300 ha remain undrained. Design criteria similar to
those referred to in para 3.03 were used, which resulted in a generally
stable, but relatively high watertable (Table 6). Nevertheless significant
improvement in crop production has been noted. This is due to the substantial
increase in irrigation supplies to the DRIP area (cropping intensity increased
to 190X). Because of the limitation of the Indus Irrigation Sys..em and the
general constraint on Pakistan's water resources, such conditions cannot be
generally replicated. WAPDA transferred Rs 2.67 million to DRIP in 1978, as
cost sharing for civil works.
Consultants
6.06     Foreign consultants, engaged by WAPDA for the design and
implementation of the drainage component, provided 220 man-months of services
between 1977 and 1985. The disciplines provided included planning and design
engineers, drainage specialist, agricultural extension specialist,
construction supervisor and a mechanical engineer. The subsurface design
(para 3.03) may prove satisfactory for Khairpur II because of increase surface
allocations (para 4.02). However, such design criteria is questionable since
it is not replicable throughout Pakistan because of limited water supplies
(para 6.05). The consultants are reported to have carried out their duties
diligently and maintained a good relationship with WAPDA.
Training
6.07     In addition to the training given in Pakistan by the consultants and
equipment manufacturers, the SAR provided for overseas training for project
staff (US$0.3 million), which was not used. This was particularly unfortunate
because of the foregone opportunity to train WAPDA staff in horizontal (pipe)
drainage design (para 3.03). Significant experience and confidence was gained
by WAPDA staff through on-the-job training in subsurface (pipe) drainage using
modern material and equipment. This training should be extremely valuable on
future subsurface drainage projects involving horizontal piping throughout
Pakistan.
Operation and Maintenance
6.08     SDIP has responsibility for the O&M of the canal and subsurface
drainage systems (para 6.4). O&M of the drairage system was transferred on
July 1, 1986 to WAPDA's O&M division which maintained it for one year at the
expense of GOSind before handing it over to SDIP on July 1, 1987. The
estimated O&M cost for project works is shown below.



- 18 -
Benefited      Annual O&M
Rs/ha/year     area (ha)       cost(Rs 0o0)
O&M cost of water supplied       247            17,800          4,396
O&M cost of canals               180            17,800          3,203
0&M cost of drainage             308            14,500          4,460
Total                        735  a/                       12,060 a/
al Amounts to about US$39.0/ha, or about US$16.00 per cropped ac at 1602
intensity.
6.09     The US$39.00 O&M cost per cropped ha is high by Pakistani standards,
but it is relatively inexpensive considering the high water duty (para 3.03)
alongwith envisaged long-term control of water logging and salinity. GOP and
the farmers should expect sustainability of project benefits through a strong
and efficient OM program by SDIP. SDIP should not have accepted full O&M
responsibility until the drainage system was operating satisfactorily 
including collectors 19 and 20 (para 3.07) that are not functioning. These
should have been placed right by WAPDA as a project cost. In addition,
effluent from most collectors is only 25 to 502 of that planned - the reason
for this shortfall, requires additional analysis, as well as a determination
of the reasons for pockets of extremely high watertable. Even though WAPDA
has transferred all project equipment, al.ongwith some experienced staff to
SDIP, there remains need for: (a) intensive and specialized training of SDIP
staff if O&M techniques associated with pipe drainage; and, (b) increased
allocation of O&M funds (para 5.04).  Watercourse O&M is the responsibility of
farmers in Pakistan and hence the need for formal WUAs (para 3.15).
Compliance with Covenants
6.10     The covenants of the Development Credit and Project Agreements were
generally complied with except the following:
6.11     Cost Recovery.  Section 3.01 of the PA required GOSind, not later
than 1978, 1983 and 1988, to review the level of its water charges with a view
to increasing them in three stages so that by 1988 water charges in Sind would
cover the full cost of O&M of irrigation and drainage facilities, including
the project area, as well as a reasonable portion of the project's investment
cost. The present water charges would average about Rs 102/ha/year in the
project area at full development. GOSind levies an additional drainage cess
of about Rs 79/ba/year on areas served by government drainage schemes. At
present this is levied on the area covered by SCARP Khairpur tubewell
drainage. It is proposed that this drainage cess would be extended in the
future to cover the entire project area, in which case the total charges will
be about Rs 181/ha. The present level of charges cover only about 252 of the
O&M cost of the irrigation and drainage network in the project area.



- 19 -
6.12     Data supplied by GOP and GOSind in March 1987 indicated that GOSind
would not be meeting its cost recovery agreement in Section 3.01 of the PA.
This data showed that cost recovery through water charges in Sind Province
during FY86 would meet less than 50S of the O&M allocations to SDIP.  A major
reason for GOSind's inability to meet this cost recovery covenant is the
rapidly increasing allocations (over 15% annually during last 5 years)
required to meet SDIP's requirements for O&M of the irrigation and related
drainage infrastructure. This increase in O&M allocation is most commendable
and indicates importance GOSind officials places on this matter. Estimated
O&M allocation targets were included in several recent agreements for Bank
Group assisted projects in Pakistan including the Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project ,-,1239-PAK). During negotiations for the Second
Irrigation System Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1888-PAK), a new approach was
sgreed by GOP, GOSind (also the other three Provinces in Pakistan) on a new
approach to achieve full recovery of O&M costs for irrigation and related
subsurface drainage facilities. This approach calls for:
(a) reduction in O&M costs through privatization of public opera-ed TWs
in FGW areas;
(b) improving recoveries through a strengthened water assessment and
collection program; and
(c) meeting any shortfalls in recoveries, meeting O&M allocation
following implementation (1992) of the improved assessment and
collection program through appropriate adjustments in water rates,
which could include drainage cesses.
6.13     Section 4.01 of the DCA requires that accounts for each fiscal year
be audited and that financial statements and audit reports be furnished to IDA
not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year. Despite repeated
requests by supervision missions, no such statements and reports were
furnished until 1985 when reports for 1977/78 to 1981/82 were received. One
page audit summaries for 1982/83 and 1983/84 certified by the Branch Audit
Officer were provided to the October 1985 supervision mission. These
abbreviated audit forms were the only audit reports provided to IDA. It was
understood that no formal annual audit report is made since all accounts are
preaudited on a continuing basis by WAPDA before any project expenditures are
authorized. Detailed "after the fact" audits are not made. This audit
procedure did not fully comply with the provision of this covenant.
Envir¶rmment
6.14     Environmental conditions have improved as a result of this project.
Since the project covered an existing irrigated area, that was deteriorating
due to water-table rise and soil salinization, environmental and social
conditions were getting worse prior to the project implementation.
Projections indicated that without project improvements, a sustainable long
term agricultural system could not be expected due to excessive waterlogging
and salinization. Additional land for canal expansion was not required, but
some new open drain locations were required. The new open drains should
provide additional wildlife habital and facilitate proper disposal of drainage



- 20 -
discharges. Subsurface pipe drainage will mitigate the anticipated "without
project" degradation of the social and physical environment of the area.
Without drainage, waterlogging would eventually take most cropland out of
production and increase vector problems.
Performance of IDA
6.15     The appraisal report foresaw the extent of required works but
underestimated the difficulties of laying the concrete collector drains, which
should not be considered unusual for what was considered to be pilot project.
6.16     Eleven full supervision missions visited the Khairpur-It project over
a period of about 10 years, which averages out to about once yearly. This
appears inadequate for such a complex and experimental project. Even so,
through 1981, these mission underreported the seriousness of the management
and technical problems plaguing the project. With hindsight, it was obvious
by 1981 that laying of collector drains was delaying the project and, had the
decision to purchase a new drain-laying machine been made earlier, time and
money could have been saved. The possibility of machine-laying 300 mm PVC
pipe (PE was actually used) was first mentioned during the 1978 supervision
mission but was ruled out at that time because of the cost. However, the June
1982 IDA supervision mission forthrightly recommended an appropriate
technology for installing the PE collector drains (para 3.7). Subsequent IDA
supervision missions diligently followed up on this approach, which was
instrumental in the successful completion of the project.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
7.01     The Comprehensive Development Plan for Sind identified the Khairpur
II area as having a comparatively low economic priority for development but
considered a pilot horizontal (pipe) drainage project necessary. The project
has shown that horizontal (pipe) drainage can be successfully installed in
Pakistan. However, the estimated economic returns for Khairpur II based on
so-far unverifiable assumptions concerning benefits are less than were
estimated at appraisal. The comparatively high overall cost of US$1,670.0 per
ha reflects costs associated with the "learning process" of this pilot project
and are not reflective of the cost of applying this technology in the latter
stages of the project when a large trenching/pipe laying machine was used in
installing the large PE (300 mm) collector drains. Experience gained in
Khairpur II has been valuable to WAPDA in applying this now proven technique
in Pakistan on such subsequent IDA assisted projects as Fourth Drainage
(Cr. 1375-PAK) where the installation of comparable horizontal (pile)
subsurface system is costing about US$750.0 per ha.
7.02     It is now envisaged that horizontal (pipe) subsurface drainage
technology will be increasingly applied in Pakistan in areas requiring
drainage and it will not be limited to areas where aquifer conditions
prohibits successful operation of vertical (TW) subsurface drainage systems.
The relative merits of horizontal or vertical subsurface drainage systems will
vary from place to place depending on many factors including capital,
operating and replacement costs, quality of groundwater and irrigation water,
depth of aquifer and conditions for reuse or disposal of effluent. GOP sill



- 21 -
must undertake further investigations and analyses to make proper evaluation
to determine guidelines of the -met appropriate technique for individual
situations. Some generalizaiton can be made but detailed planning guideline
should be developed to evaluate items such as:
(a)    Water quality     - horizontal pipe systems tend to skim better
quality water from the upper levels of a
high watertable area.
- if water quality is poor deeper in a ground
water body the tubevell drains will provide
poorer drainage effluent quality.
(b)    Energy Requirement- Power for pumping must be considered over
the life of project. If gravity outlets can
be developed for the horizontal pipe system
a significant advantage can be given to
these systems.
(c)    Cost Factors      - items such as initial cost, operating and
maintenance all require consideration.
Operation and maintenance complexity is also
worthy of consideration.
7.03     The limited monitoring of the performance of the drainage system
has so far been inconclusive and more attention should have given to this
activity to ensure maintenance of the watertable at the design level.
The effectiveness of the drainage subsystem has been difficult to
quantify. There are indications that soil salinity is improving.
Published measurements of depth of watertable indicates that watertable
has remained almost constant (about l.Om) with the preproject condition
(para 4.03 and Table 5). This is not surprising and reflects the design
criteria (para 3.03). Discussions with farmers and others familiar with
the area indicate that despite increased irrigation water the
waterlogging situation has improved somewhat. About 1,600 ha of formerly
abandoned land have been reclaimed and much of this land is now being
cropped. It would appear, except for several collector not working, the
subsurface system is generally maintaining the ground water depth at
design levels.
7.04     The subsurface design criteria for Khairpur II for maintaining
minimum groundwater level in the project area about 1.0 m may prove
satisfactory because of the large water duty provided the project (about
.54 1/sec/ha compared to planned deliveries in the Indus irrigation
system of only about .25 1/sec/ha) and if an adequate O&M and water
management program is carried out in the project area during the post
project period. However, this design is not appropriate in water
constrained arid irrigation systems, which makes this design not
replicable in subsequent subsurface drainage project in Pakistan. It is
for the reason that the design criteria in SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK) and
Fourth Drainage (Cr. 1375-PAK) calls for installing lateral pipe drains
at a depth to maintain groundwater levels at a minimum depth of about
1.3 m between drains.



- 22 -
7.05     The capacity of distributaries and minors serving the project
area has been raised by 72S to provide .84 1/sec/ha at critical periods.
Actual flows in August 1987 in Patni distributory amounted to .73
1/sec/ha (Table 4). This increase in flows should be matched with
intensive training of farmer through extension programs to ensure
efficient utilization and optimum crop production.
7.06     The future agricultural impact ig difficult to forecast because
of a paucity of quality data coming from inadequate M&E program. Based
on the asiumptions that there will be no major new crops introduced into
the project area, and that conservative estimates of agricultural
improvements will be realized, the economic rate of return is estimated
to be about 7.62. The rate of return would have been higher had the
latest drain-laying technology been available at the beginning of the
project.
7.07     A strong post praject O&M program is required to sustain project
benefits. Hence, a strong O&M related training program must be provided
to SDIP staff such as that envisaged in the Fourth Drainage Project
(Cr. 1375-PAK) and an adequate level of O&M funding must be provided
(para 6.04 and 6.09).
7.08     Sound on-farm water management practices are essential
components to a subsurface drainage program because among other things it
reduces somewhat the drainable surplus (para 3.15) and thereby the size
and cost of subsurface drainage infrastructure. Also, water management
practices will delay the time for installing subsurface drainage systems
in areas not yet waterlogged. In Khairpur II, WAPDA successfully
completed its watercourse renovation program in three years. It did not
however, follow the successful approach employed by OFWM Directorates in
Pakistan of involving farmers, through formal WUAs, in the construction
of OFWM facilities.  Experience in such projects as OFWM I and II (Cr.
1163 and 1603-PAK) has indicated that such farmer involvement reduces
project costs and improves farmers' O&M of watercourses. It is these
reasons in subsequent Bank Group assisted WAPDA implemented subsurface
drainage projects, i.e. SCARP VI (Credit 754-PAK), SCARP Mardan
(Cr. 877-PAK), Fourth Drainage (Cr. 1375-PAK) and LBOD (Cr. 1375-PAK), an
OFWM component has been provided with implementation of this component by
the Provincial OFWM Directorates. However, WAPDA continues to follow the
Khairpur-II model in such non Bank Group assisted schemes, as the Ghotki
and South Rohri FGW projects in Sind Province.
7.09     An appropriate M&E program must be designed and carried out in
all water sector project and this is particularly true of subsurface
drainage projects. M&E is essential in determining project results and a
monitoring program is essential in determining adequacy of design and
installed system and as an aid in effeciently operating and maintaining
the completed project.



- 23 -
List of Tables
Table  l:    Investment Cost
2:    Project Cost Estimates
3:    Disbursement by Category
4:    Maximum Discharge of Patni Distributory
5:    Depth to Watertable
6:    Pre- and Post-Project Groundwater Depth
7:    Water Quality of Swmp discharge
8:    Pre- and Post-Project Groundwater Quality
9:    Monthly Progress Report of Sumps and Pumps
10:    Crop Area, Yield and Production
11*    Estimated Incremental Crop Production
12:    Per Hectar Input Requirement
13:    Farm Model, 3.5 ha
14:    Farm Model, 7.0 ha
15:    Farm Model, 14.0 ha
16:    Economic Benefits and Costs
17:    Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
18:    Wholesale Price Index and Adjustment Factor for Investment Costs



em
KHAPUR TtLE DIUII          R AT IIU  MVELOH  Cn1 E                tKXUI III
(Credit 648-PAK
PROt,, eft&n aXYR
!nvatnst¢ Coet.a 5 g m114oe
JOU7 171             98" 1272128   1920/Xa   INI/B2  1282fik  .938                    98U    13
I.     Ln  Acautsittan                               L9                   L.A        LA        Li        Li    l,              Li                 Li
11.   Civil Wbks
Drainage System                                       2.9       6.8      14.7       14.7      11.9       16.7      37.2      42.5    147.4
Canl Remdelling                                       1.2       5.2        1.9       2.0       0.7       0.1        1.7       4.4      17.2
Watercourse Reconstructton                            0.7       0.7        1.6       8.0       2.5       0          0.1       -        13.6
Road Improvement                           3.1        3.9       3.7       0.3                       - t                  -             11.0
Sub-Iatal 11                                                t. L        .L       2L2 1/1             il        39. IA    8J    lSea
fI1. On-farm usrks
Land Levelling                   -
SV.    ,OUimmAt. VAhicls
Materials to be limerted
For Drainage System, Canals,
Watercourses & Roads          0.1       0.5       23.1       7.0       6.6        6.7       1.5      21.8        1.3       1.3      69.9
For O05 & SCARP Khairpur
Spare Parts                   -         -          1.1       0.1       0.6        -         -         -          -         -         1.8
SubTlotal                     Li        QL       34          z14       2.         i         1,       31.         14        la     21. 
V.    Aericultural goui.nmnt A
Vehicles tn he xmorted
for Land Levelling               -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -
For Extension Service            -         -          I.S       0.6       0          -         -         -          -         -         2.1
Sub-j0ail                     -                   1-A        Li        a          -         -         -          -         -        Li
VI.   Calultants A Trinina                 -          Li        LA        Li         Li        Li        Li         Li        L          LI      IL
VIz.   Ensineerina A Administration
Staffing & Nousing               0.1       0.8        1.8       4.1       4.2        3.8       5.1       5.3        6.4       7.1      38.7
Crop Compensation                -         -          -         -         -          -         1.0       0.8        0.4       3.4       5.6
Buildings                        1.2       7.8        3.0       1.5       0          -         -          -         -         -        13.S
Subtal                         4        LA                   AIA   LA    AA                 Li    Li    la    1QA    A
flasic Proiect Cost                 1.4      14.6       42.2      $3.7      34.6       37.9      22.9      4-.0       47.9      62.5    346.7
VIlI. Aertal Photooraahv A ERTS
VIII. Arial  ,hoSparaphy   ERTS     -         5.1        2.7       0.5        1.5       1.0       0         0.4        -         0.3      11.:
ITct                         1A                 Ila 4L4               AIl      ALA 38.    24                   A4L       62-    3lIL
IX.    Custom Duties and Taxes             -          -                  17.5        9.1       2.4       0.8       13.0       0.1       18.5     61.4
I/  Excludes equpnt2                                                                   41.3                62.4        .o 



- 25 -                    Table 2
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIPPUR II)
(Credit 648-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cost Estimates (Rs million)
SAR
Zxcl.  Incl. Cont. &           PCR/SAR &
Cont.  Price Increase   PCR      Coat.
I.     Land Acquisition                    2.0        2.6          2.3      0.88
II.    Civil Works
Drainage System                44.0        75.8       147.4       1.94
Canal Remodelling               5.5         8.6        17.2       2.00
Watercourse Reconstruction      7.2        11.4        13.6       1.19
Road Improvement                3.5         5.6        11.0       1.96
Sub-Total                   60.2      101.4        189.2       1.87
III.   On-Farm Works
Land Levelling                 25.0        38.0         0         0
IV.    Eauipment, Vehicles and
Materials
Drainage system, Canals,
Watercourses, Roads         59.0        78.2        69.9       0.89
O&M and Spare Parts             4.1         5.4         1.8       0.33
Sub-Total                   63.1       83.6         71.7      0.86
V.     Agricultural Equipment
and Vehicles
For Land Levelling              9.1        12.1         -         0
For Extension Service           1.4         1.8         2.1       1.17
Sub-Total                   10.5       13.9          2.1      0.15
VI.    Consultants and Training           15.0       19.9         23.6      1.19
VII.   Engineering and Administration
Staffing and Housing            7.5        9.9         38.7       3.91
Crop Compensation               1.5         2.0         5.6       2.80
Buildings                       1.4         1.9        13.5       7.11
Sub-Total                   10.4       13.8         57.8      4.19
Basic Project Cost               186.2       273.2       346.7       1.27
Physical Contingencies            20.0         -           -
Expected Price Increases          67.0         -           -
Total                      273.2      273.2        346.7       1.27
Aerial Photography and
ERTS Survey                    10.2        10.2        11.5       1.13
Total                      283.4      283.4        358.2       1.27
Customs Duties and Taxes           8.0         8.0        61.4       7.67
Total                      291.4      291.4        419.6       1.44



- 26 -
Table 3
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
(Credit 648-PAK)
Disbursements by Category
Development Credit ARreement
Amount of the            2 of
Credit Allocated      Expenditures   Actual
Category                          (Expressed in US$ M)   to be Financed   US$ M
1.  Civil Works                             1.50                 252        3.28
2.  Agricultural Credits through
Participating Banks Under Part B
of the Project
(a) to farmers for land                 1.00           502 of        Nil
levelling work                               amounts disbursed
(b) to contractors for purchase        0.40            701 of        Nil
of land levelling equipment                  amounts disbursed
3. Equipment and materials other                          1001 of
than for land levelling                       foreign expenditures
or 100% of local
expenditures
(a) Sind                               0.60    (ex-factory) for        0.20
locally manufactured
goods, or
(b) WAPDA                               6.00              701          7.56
of expenditures for
other locally procured
goods
4. Technical Assistance                     1.00             1001           1.25
of foreign expenditures
or 70% of local
expenditures
Overseas Training                       0.30             1002
of foreign expenditures
Aerial photogr.phy and surveys          1.00             1001          0.61
of foreign expenditures
Unallocated                             2.20
12.89
Cancelled                                                               1.11
Total                              14.00                           14.00



- 27 -
Table 4
PAKISTAN
KRAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (RHAIRPUR II)
(Credit 648-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Maximum Discharse of Patni Distributory (1980-1987)
Year          Julv           August
1980          205              215           cusecs
1981          225              220
1982          230              230
1983          253              250
1984          243              255
1985          370              370
1986          360              320
1987          385              380
Source: Sind Dept of Irrigation and Power



- 28 -
Table 5
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
(Credit 648-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Depth to Watertable a/
Area in Thousand hectares
G.A. with depth to watertable ranges from:
Month/Year             0 - 90 Cm               91 - 150 Cm
April 1985                1.79                    15.21
Oct. 1985                 4.14                    11.86
April 1986                1.17                    12.87
Oct. 1986                 4.00                    10.00
April 1987                3.70                    11.64
Oct. 1987                 1.50                    13.90
a/  Gross Area = 18.00 Thousand hectares
Source: WAPDA SMO



_ 29 -
Table 6
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KRAIRPUR II)
(Cr. 648-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Pre and Post Project Groundwater Depth (X) '
Groundwater Depth              Pre Project         Post Project
(cm)                    (Dec. 1982           Dec 1985   Dec 1986
0 -  50                      52                  33          11
50 - 100                     39                   42          73
100 - 200                       9                  25          15
DRIP area only
Source: Paper by M. Shaikh, R. Ahmad and A. Sipra, International Seminar on
Hydrologic Aspects of Drainage in Irrigated Aras, Tando Jan Pakistan
(March 28 - 30, 1988).



- 30 -
Table 7
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMIRIG DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KRAIRPUR II)
(Cr. 648 - PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Water Quality of Sumps Discharge (Sumps 7 & 16 only)
Sump 7                                      Sump 16
Conductivity                            Conductivity
Date                micromhoslcm               Date         in micromhos/cm
§gMRled               at 25& C              Sampled           at 25s C
18.11.85                  6500                 19.11.85           11000   1/
21. 5.86                  6500                21. 5.86            13000
23. 5.86                  6400                24. 5.86            13000
25. 7.86                  3750                25. 7.86             56no
24. 8.86                  5800                24. 8.86             7500
25. 9.86                  5200                25. 9.86            32000
.10.86                 5200                   .10.86            11000
30.11.86                  5000                30.11.86            13000
10.12.86                  5000                22.12.86            12700
31. 1.87                  5400                31. 1.87            12000
2.87                     -                   . 2.87               -
4. 3.87                  5600                 4. 3.87            11000
30. 4.87                  5400                30. 4.87            14500
30. 5.87                 4780                 30. 5.87            14000
6. 6.87                  4560                30. 6.87            12000
15. 7.87                 4500                 15. 7.87            11000
17. 8.87                 4600                 17. 8.87            12000
29. 9.87                 4950                 29. 9.87            12000
17.10.87                 4800                 17.10.87            11000
11.87                    -                   .11.87
28.12.87                 4800                 28.12.87             7500
27. 1.88                 4700                 27. 1.88             8500
Source: WAPDA SMO
V  (Initial)



- 31 -
Table 8
PAKISTAN
KRAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR IT)
(Credit 648-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preprolect and Postproiect Analysis for Groundwater Quality (2)
Salinity           Ec               Preproject                Postproject
Class          mmhos/cm            Dec. 1982         Dec. 1985       Dec. 1986
Usable            0  -  1.5              8                 16             28
Marginal        1.5  -  3.0             29                 40             23
Hazardous       Over    3.0             53                 44             49
Source: DRIP



- 32 -
Table 9
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
(Credit 648-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Monthly Progress Report of Sumps and Pumps for the Month of Feb. 1988
Total       Energy
Working    Hours    Discharge    A. Ft.  Discharge   Consumption
Sump No.  7.5 H.P.  5 H.P  in 7.5 H.P.  5 H.P.   in A. Ft.            KWH
1            164       18        24.11       1.76      25.87.          287
2            400       50        58.8        4.9       63.7          1,210
3            931        -       136.85       -        136.85         4,170
4/5          237        -        34.84       -         34.84         1,533
6            378       98        55.56       9.5       65.06         3,447
7             93        -        13.67       -         13.67           432
8/14         310        -        45.57       -         45.57         1,437
9            346        -        50.86       -         50.86         2,145
10            30        -         4.41       -          4.41           162
11             -      104         -         10.19      10.19           530
12           146        -        21.46       -         21.46           579
13/15        103      300        15.14      29.40      44.54         1,365
16            45        -         6.62       -          6.62           186
17           108        -        15.87       -         15.87          432
i8           130      345        19.11      33.81      52.92         1,506
19             -        -         -          -          -                _
20             -        -         -          -          -                _
21           037        -         5.44       -          5.44           146
22            06      052         0.88       5.0        5.88           176
23           381        -        56.00       -         56.00         1,968
24             -      248         -         24.30      24.30          845
25           197        -        28.96       -         28.96          879
26           145      152        21.31       -         14.89         1,146
27           137        -        20.14       -         20.14           567
28           247        -        36.31       -         36.31          891
29            31      116         4.56      11.37      15.93           531
30             -      385         -         37.73      37.73        1,407
31             -      697         -         68.30      68.30        2,309
32             -      116         -         11.37      11.37           387
33           296       08        43.51       0.78      44.29        1,455
34            88        -        12.94       -         12.94          582
35           249        -        36.00       -         36.60        1,248
36           308      229        45.27      22.44      67.71        1,860
37           214      105        31.46      10.29      41.75        1,342
38           536        -        78.79       -         78.79        2,487
39           981        -       144.20       -        144.20        5,886
40           133        -        19.55       -         19.55           754
Source: WAPDA S1O



- 33 -
Table 10
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
(Credit 6L -PAK)
Crop Area, Yield and Production
Area. ha.             Yield, kg/ha         Production, '000 mt
Base                    Base                     Base
Year     W       W      Year      W         W    Year      W      W
Kharif
Cotton (lint)  3,640      730   6,300    700       700    1,400      2.5      0.5    8.8
Rice           1,530   2,430        -  1,120    1,340          -     1.7      3.3    -
Sorghum        1,650   1,420   1,500    630        630    1,100      1.0     0.9    1.6
Fodder           750      750   1,000 14,000   12,000   17,000    10.5        9.0   17.0
Sugarcane          -        -     500       -        -         -     -        -      -
Dates            760      800   2,000       -        -         -     -        -      -
Sub-Total      8,330   6,130  11,300
Rabi
Wheat          7,760   6,200  10,000  1,000        900    2,500      7.8      5.6   25.0
Oilseed          290      320   1,000    420       420      840      0.1     0.1    0.8
Fodder         2.580   2,450   3,000 16,000   12,800   20,800    41.3    31.4   62.4
Sugarcane          -        -     500       -        -   42,000      -       -      21.0
Dates            760      800   2,000  5,300 1/ 6,360    8.000       4.0 2/  5.1   16.0
Sub-Total     11,390   9,770  16,500
Total         19,720  15,900  27,800
Cropping
Intensity X      111       89     156
1/ Rs/ha
2/ Rs million



- 34 -
Table 11
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
(Credit 648-PAK)
Estimated Incremental Crop Production (Thousand Metric T.)
Appraisal                             PCR
With     Without                   With     Without
Project   Proiect   Incremental   Proiect   Proiect   Incremental
Paddy          -         3.4          -3.4        -         3.3          -3.3
Cotton        12.3       4.5           7.8        &.8       0.5           8.3
Wheat         23.7        7.6         16.1       25.0-      5.6          19.4
Sorghum        3.1       2.7           5.8        1.6       0.9           0.7
Fodder         -         -             -         79.4      40.4          39.0
Sugarcane    138.6      35.3         103.3       21.0       -            21.0
Dates         22.6      11.1          11.5       16.0 1/    5.1 1/       10.9
Oilseeds       2.5       0.4           2.1        0.8       0.1           0.7
Pulses         0.4       1.1          -0.7        -         -             _
U Million Rupees



K1AI0PL3 TILE DRAINAE MD0 I          648-P  Jt  PM.ECT EnAIR     ItK
(Credit 64848AK)
Pfr  ectar   ut 1An rmt
cattbft           nice      5 ° rmhup             K. feddw1ae r    oilt 1seeds                       AFodr            SuqSma              p ttes
p    L    k  ~-8ia              -- --  i     L    p ars-M-  A-     b    -f-     L - -  p A                           -M   E   L-k         --         M
Seeds/kg       15   1S   15    20   20    -     15   15   15    fa   So   50   100  100  100    10   10   10    IS   15 iS             -   - 8.000   120  120  120 1/
Fertilizer/kg
S0o              0   0      50  50    -    20   20   30    20   20   30    50  50  70    30   30   40    20   20   20              -    -100    605 0   100
Pao$       25  25   30    2    25. -    10  10  1S    10   10  1S    25   25   30    1S  15   20    20   20  30                     -    - S0    40  40    0
KIO                                                                                                                                 -    -   20    10   10   20
Pesticides
peraPpl.   I    1    1.5   0.5  0.5  -         -    -    -      -    -    -      -    -    -      -    -    -      -    -    -      -    -    1.5   1    1    1.5
Labor, ma-
day        78   78   88    78   80    -    20   20   25    50   50   SS    45   45   55    20   20   25    SS   55   60             -        120    40   40   40
Bullock, pair-
day        20   20   20    20   20    -    10   10   12    IS   IS   IS    IS   15   18    IS   IS   15    1S   1S   IS             -    -   20    1S   1S   IS
Water charge
ft.        90   9090          5  85    -    38   38   38    38   38   38    50S0   0     72  7272                 38   38   38      -        174   27   272 272
1/ NUser of seedlings
. ~ ~ S.



- 36 -                            ~~~~Table 13
PAKISTAN
KKAIIPUU TILE GRAINAGA AN10 IRRIGATEDt FAUNING UROIW PRNIU  PUOJCT (IUAIRPUA Ill. CR. 548-PM
3.5 II.ctare Farm Ihdel. finamial Budget
flin Constnt F185 0~e)
1ost   ISO2   1283   tM    toe    IoSSI   t98?   tOM    1989   19910   log,
Hamn Production. Kith PrOJect /a
paddy                             823.2  823.2  740.9  8GM.0  123.2  10. 7  482.2  381.8  197.0   6s.7I 
cat to"                           2531.2 2531.2 2784.3 2847.6  3005.8 3480.4 3986.64 4740.8 6035.09 7609.9 9492. 0
Wheat                             3200.0 374. 0 4176.0 4576. 0 4984.0 5944. 0 6200.0 7143.4  8157.86 9446. 8 tIOOO.0
Sorghum                            328.09  328. 9  326.9  360.2  360.2  380.2  398. 7  398.71  494.1  4S4. 1  574.2
Fodder                            1804.0  1804.0  1804.0 2373.9S 2373.5 2492.0 2810.9 2743.?  2917.0 2217.0 330. 0
as [seed"                         t57.5  157.5S  172.5S  172.5  187.1S  221.0  309.4  411.8  M2. 6  657. 0  045.0
totsl                             884. 8 94211. t000M6. 110111.81 t1134.3 12704.3 14075.8 1IS0. 8 IS29. 2 21150.4 25391.2
Main Production. Mitbout Project
Paddy                              823.2  I4269  t481. 8  1149.6 606.S,0  1690.1  1881. 6  1969. 8 2191.8 2315.3 2828.4
cot tan                           2531.2 2531.2 2373.0 2056.6  1740.2  1423.8  1107.4  791.0  474.8    S 158.
Uhat                              3200.0 3180.0 3180.0 3120.0  3080.0 2888.0 2812.0 2738.0 284. 0 2148.  2340.0
Sorghuma                           328.9  328. 9  328.0  317.9  317.9  308.9  3O&08.9    L 298.0 060  219.2  219.2
Fodder                            1804. 0  1804.0  1804.0  1710.0  168. 4  I68. 4  1582. I IM. 1 1499.5  1337.9  1272.0
Om Iseede                          157.5s  157.s  197.53 I? 157  IS.9 157.9 975   157.5s   17. 9   157. 9   117.1s  157.5
Total                             8844.8 9428.4 930.1  6 911.6 8586.  815. 1 7847.1  71I32.4 7268.3 67331 6611.I
Incremntal Produt ion
Paddy                                   - -03.7  -740.9  -811t63.6 M 617 -1087.8 -139.4 -I808.2 -1994.8 -2249. 8 -228.t4
Cot ton                                -      -  411.3  791.0  1281.16 20566 281M.2 3049.8 6982.3 7451.1 949. 0
Wheat                                  -   04.0  1018.0  1498.0  1904.0 2868. 0 3478.0  4407.4 95166  8900.  886.0
Scorgiin                                      -       -   42.3   42.3   13.2   89.8  100.7 I1I8.2  234.9  358.
Fodder                                -       -          683.9  666.L2  804.7  1026.8S  1181.6  1417.9  1SM59.  2108.0
Osaisede                                      -   19. 0    I5. 0   30.0   87.9S  151.9  2914.3  370.1  499.1  78.1
Total                                       0.3  701.4 2104.2  3045.3 4510.2 62283 8286.4 11029.9 1441L. 18778.1
Production Costs. WIth Project
Sao"                     ~~~~~~927.3  982.1  970.1  I00. I1068.9  1065.1  1101.4  1122.2  1174.0  1210.9  1212.3
Vittoe                             928.0  972.6  1003.9  1049.) 1091.0  1139.7  1260.0*  1291.7  1421.7  t578.8  1786. 4
Plisphete                          369.8  382.7  390.2  422.8  430.4  452.   489.4  503.3  534.1  576.2  051.91
Pesticides                         703.0  703.0  711.1  758.   791.8  891.0  913.9  1014.5  16.  1408.4  16M. 0
Annuet Draft Powor                1562.5  1807.9  1940.0  1771. 9  I8039  1824.4  1927.1  1909.3 209. 3 2240.6 2392.5
ulater Charges                     228.1S  232.9  238.2  247.6  212.3  259.8  263.5  273.3  287.3  302.4  323.8
Hitrd Labor.                       983.0  1002.8  1032.9  1041.3  1069.8  1184.0  1222.8 I13086  1119.2  1700.1 2013.0
Total                             5680. 1 SM8. 1 6028. 4 6348. 0 6493.4  879. 7 7107.4 7503. 0 8214.3 9012.3 10104.2
Production Costs. Ws%hout Project
Seeds                              027.3  239.3  935. 1  924.2  908.4  898.9  87968  863.3  846.1  776.5  787. 6
Nitroge                            9281.0  988.9  977.3  944.2  914.1  688.8  898.7  823.60  791.7  742.4  730.6
Phosphate                          369.8  392.4  388,.1  375.8I  384.2  354.1  342.9S  330.2  316. 4  206.7  29. 4
Pesticides                         703.0  764.4  754.8  684.91  817.9  155.0  499.8  432.9  373.7  314.1   205.
Animal Draft Pmoer                1582.5  1868.1  1850. 0  1959. 0  1943. &  498. 8  140. 0  1397.5  1348.8  1212.1  1237.9S
water Charges                      228.5  244.7  241.4  231.9    223.2  219.4  207.4  I98.6  190.1  176. 7   114.4
Hired Labor                        963.0  1032.3  1014.6  496.3  927.3   M 88.   848.8  801.3  786.0  744.6  729.0
total                             9880.1I 601.7  9961.2 9724.9 14988 9SM.1 9 077.9  4847.4 4097.1 4309.7 4227.7
Incremental Productton Costs
Seeds                                  -   22.7   39.1t  128.4  150.1 I1I8.3  222.8  2961.9  327.0  432.4  104.7I
Nitrogen                               -  -I6.1   28.6  105.0  176.9  252.9  392.3  468.1  630.0  834.4  1099. 6
Phosphate                                  -0.7    2.2   47.0   86.2   28. 6   126.9  1I3.1  219.7  276.9  358.1
Pesticides          -  -81.4   -3.7   74.0   IM 9  296. 0  418,.1  581.6  814.40 1091. 9  1369.0
Animal Graft Power                     -  -61.3  -10.0  180.9  280.1  321.6  477.9  991. 8  741.5S  988. 0  1I199. 0
Water Charges                          -  -12.2   -3.3   19. 7   22.1   40.4   S8.1   74.8   96.9  129.8  149.2
Hired Labor                            .  -29.7   16.3   72.0  138.3  275. 4  378. 2  907.3  731.3  $99. 7  1284.0
total                                  -187.8   85. 1  621.0  994.6  I4S5.2 2029.0 2569.8  3997.2 4708.8 5876.9
Not Incremntal Retuirn                    IV,879   638.3  1483.2 209.8I 30991.0 4198.4 96000.8 '472.6 9710.) 128919.86
la All entries for fiscal peers ending in calender yeers eboMa
Muy 22. 1988 19z06



- 37                                             Table 14
KH"AIIIO1a 1111 69413*0  no1 16914671  18931KG 0151169435  flO.jlC  aiU8BP   Ill. Co. 048-PMt
7 Mactars Pus NOalt. F inancial Siadgs
tin Cwista,t FT66 0.eas*
19811   108    198    1984   19   85         too?198    sle    tie    1is0    liii
Rain prtO,SICE. Muith Project /4
Paddr                   ~~~~~1646,4  1648.4  1509 2  13M9.4  1416.3  1175.3  934.2  123.2  394.0  131.3
Cal to                            4425.6 4439. 6 451.1I 4717. 6 5130.8 5812.3 6644. 4 1201.0 1081. S *2643 tIS1520. 0
me..                              600. 0 72M8.  1984 0  8738.0 9520.0 10505.2 12002.0 13651.0 15573.6 18034.4 21000.0
sopeov-                    M  I~548.   548.1  948.1  6003  178. 3  5I8.3  6341   6 21.5  711.5  60.5  1t.8a
FQWJW                   ~~~~~3310.0  3310.0 3310.0  3512. 4 3572.4 3149.9  3M4.1  4140S.  4311.4 4171.4 54010.0
Supreans                               -      -                                 Ift680  1612.8  25411S 3848.0 504. 0
Date                              1590.0  1520 0  1590. 0  168.0;  1663. 0  1152.0  1668.8 2094.4  2422.4  MI,1.6  310. 0
0115Isom"                          315. 0  315.0  345. 0  345.04  375.0  393.8  453.8  549.0  703.5  816.0  1280.0
Total                            11839. 1 19055, It19021. 4 2 1098.8a 22158. 8 24054.6 21255. 0 31302.7 38171 9. 43111. 8 52 I5. 6
Hamn produictn  without ProJet
Padvy                             16481.4  1783.6  1838.5  1244. 1 300. 4   113. I 2322.6  2489.6 2718.86 2870.0  3283.0
WtOR                    ~~~~~~4420.8  4113.2  3198.8  3480.4  2164.  2847. 6 2214.8  IS82. 0  049.2  318.4
W."t                     8~~~~~~000.0 S90. 0 5920. 0 544.0 560.G0 5415.0 526. 0 5111.0  4959.0 4188.0C 4320.0
SorvliW 54t  548.1  948. 1  S42.1 I548. 1  54& 1  148. :  U4S.I  548.1  548.1  548.1
Fodder                            3310.0  3310.0 3310.0  3142.5 3142.5  342. 5 2910.  2990.0 2837.5 2837.5S 2100.0
Oates                             150. 0  1580. 0150. 0  1620.0  160. 0  1701.0  1101.0  1101.0  17A5. 0  1780   190M8.0
Otilseeas                          315.0  315.0  315.0  315.0  315.0  315.0  315. 0  315.0  .315.0  315.0  315.0
TotlaIt  1783.  119.0 17318.4 INK0. I65M0.0 108. 3 ISM5. 5 14711L.7 14110.4 13460.9 13074.1
lncrutalt Produt ton
Paddr                                      131.~2  -M0.3  -S44.8  -18. I -31.0 213W4.- 114,.4 1322. 6 91230.S  283.0-
Cotten                                 -  3164  854.3  1291.2  1886.8 2966.7 4429.6 6319.0  9112.3 12388.7 f820. 0
10106%                      ~~~~~~- 1255.02048.0 2898.  318. 0 St". 2 873.0 8540.a10014.8 13248.lo 1600
SOrQtA=                                     9~~~~~* .    2. 2    M8.2   281.2   88.1   73.4  1834   5t. 4   211.5
lod$r                                                    420.9  421.0  601. 3  950. I1I159. 8  1533.9  1533. 9 2310. 0
Supreans                                                                         I  .1O.  1812.8  2041.6 3548.0  5010.0
l3ataml                                                    4.    48.0   51.0  161.8  393.4  637.   968. 6  129.0
Oulaseda                -       -   30.0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~30.0   60.0   78.8  1388  23406  3SL8   581.0  245.0
total                                  -1435.2  280. 0  4204.72 580M& 11. 3 11200.5 t8586.0 2268K S208109 39081.5
ProductIon Closts. stilt Project
Seeds                             2394.8 247L.0 2481.9  2523.0 2535.5  2048. 4 288. 3  3001.0  3254.0 3495.8  3779.0
*Itroge                           1858. 0  1958.2  19194.3 20"39.7 2101.3  2185.5 2343.8  25397  2818.7 3149.0  3590.2
phosphate,                         731.0  l6t. I1  71.6  805.1  815.0  851.5  692.2  988. I038.2  1131.2  1290.0
Potash                               5.4    S. 4    5.4    5.02   5.9    6. 5    9. 1    12.6   11.1   22.0   281.8
Ptstcud.a                         1460.0  1480.0  1513.3  1539.2  1583.80S  I68.  I884.I 2131.1 255.4AMt 305 M7.343.
mnImI Draft Foew                  3000.0  3105.0 3130.0 3247.1 3218.0 3201.8 3498. 3  3833.6  3829.0 4123.3 4435.0
obter coros              ~~409.0  S13.0  S17.1  520.8  52O.  528.   551.0  S90.0  630.   612.2  725. 8
Ntf                              1778.IM0  1866.4  18a4.S  1911.3  144. 9 2118.6 2285.1 2515.8  2948.  337S..0 4058. 0
Total                            11742.2 12165.1 112310.0 1252.2 12198. 0 13225.2 14234.5S 15394.7? 11108.4 12027. 6 2 Mt81.
Production Costit. Muthout Project
see"                    ~~~~~~2394 8 2381.0 237.1.   2381.5S 2345.8  2334.5 2303.2  2212.6  2241. 3 2201.8 2172.4
Nit-12110                         148. 0   83.7 I1864.7  1771.9  1731.1  1711.0  1641.4  1514.1  1505.1  1438.5S  1392.0
PhosPhate                          731.0  T23.S  112.?  690.   888.0  617.3  661.5  828,7  600,9   55.1  559.
Potash                               5.4    5.4    S. 4    S.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    S. 4    5.4
Peaticidda                        148006  1424.5  1357. 0  1201.3  1224.7  116.6.  1032.3  902.6  789.8  640.1  5i2. 
Ania.l Oraft P.mr                 3000.0 2967.5 2920.0 286.6.  2818.0 2788.8 2658. 8  255.8  2443.4  2335.0' 2219.0
Mater Charges                      499.0  493.3  465.0  415.7?  448.4  459.3  440.1  422.9  404.3  388.1  371.0
Hired I~                          11786.0  1743.0  1701.9  1853.3  1804.7  3588.L0  1488.8  1374.9  1317.3  1222.4  1161.0
Total                            11742.2 11500.7 11388.7 11123.8 10811.0 I088?.6 10201.9 9133.7  1247.7  8807.3  85329.
Incremental Preduct ion Costs
Sdse                                   -   8.0  110.6  161.5S  189. 6  211.9  483.1  7261.4  1012.7  1242.6  I608.7
Nitroge                                    120.5  181. 6  267.8  310.2  418.5  702.4  985.0  1313.6  1114.4  2198.2
Phosphtate                             - 31.8   54.8  105. 3   128. 1   174.2  240.8  341.3  431.3  558.0  131.0
Potash                                         -D-    -      .     0.5    1.1    3.1    1.2   M1.1   15.6   23.4
Pestlcidas                                 5.5  155.4  241.9  358.92  520.8  832.5  1234.3  1781.2 2417.8  3011.0
8rnns1 Draft Powe                          131.5  210.0  382.1  48. 0  520. 0   637.5  1079. 9  1385.3  11883 2160.0
vater Cawrgs                                is.8a  32.1   45. I    9.5   69. 7   116.3  168.0  228.6  288.1  348.8
Hired istr124.5  192.6  258. 0  300.2  552.8  168. 3  1140.2  ISM2.4  2153.6 288.06
Total                                     58.4  043.2  1468. 3  1915.  2153.  4032.6 1865.0  7820.7 10220.3 130281. I
Not Incremetal dbturn                  -  858.08  1850.1  2140.4  3693. 8 5434.7I 1651.9S 10921.0 14448.8 19450.5 26053.
/a All entries for fiscal Mers enidinig in calendar years; Shout
duty 32. I988 15046



- 38-                                            Table 15
miAIIPUa fILl OR*1680  &NO 18810*1(0 F*831N5 OIVILOJIINI PODJCI M8NPUIl  CO. 648-PAR
14 Mactarefa NOodel011. iFteMiCI 6sdPI
tIn Constant neeg Ruwee,
toot   iou2   1243   1064   lO        t to   toyI"   Isem   toa    too       loot
lain Production. with. Projct is
PaddY                             3618.2 3167 2 1251.4 30181. 4 3073.a  MOa.% 12040. 2  IS36.  0620. 6  262. 6
Colton    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ est. 2 Uso.~ 2302 2 01115.3 too29.9 1 180.2 13210.68 t1e43.1 19162 7 25366.2  31640. 0
Nh"t                     1~~~~~~~2400. 0 13126. 0 IS1I8. 0 15640. 0tatOd. 0 2020. 6 2264. 0 26030. 4 21664. 0 34311. 0 4000. 0
SorgiumatS  1425 12.)t 141. 1  I16.6 180G. 6  1160.68 1lO.1 ItIl$.$ 1061.0S 1906.0  244. 2
ladder                            1692.0  1802.0 1802.0 6422.1  6422.1  5612.2 1t01.6  1166l 79fl. I 1172.1  o2se.o
SUQSCate                                                                        1112. 1 2410.1  $612.4  "142.0  211op00
Oates                             3180. 0  3160.0 3330.04 3802.0 4620.4 1123.2 6540.4  2330.41 8420.6 0235.6  1t200. 0
0Gilsedat                          422.1S  472.1S  I 111    11.6  162.1  621.0  021. 1  1231. 3  11812.0 9101. 0  2631.0
Iota,                   ~~~~~~~~~~~31706.0 32 124. 0 360001. 1 41561.1 441 16. 4 09121.2 1164.8 63660.0 2 4002.15S M10.15 10407. 2
Rain Productucn. Without Project
paddy                             3562. 2  3167.2  3162.2  3662.8  3662.16 383t.8 4204.2 4410.0 4008.3 511181.2  5000.4
Cotton                            86102  6416.2 82160  28461.7 1001.2  8326.0  6601.2 4221.4  3221.3 3182.6  1182. 0
Mlihat                           12400 0 12300.0 12240.0 1108. 0 11020,.0 11122.0 10681.0 16664.0 126. 0 086. 0  W000.
Sorgt..a                 ~~~~~~~~~~1431.1  1403.1  1403.1 1120.3  1320.3  1311.4  1311.4  1311. 4  1311.4  1315.4  13IS. 4
fodder                   1802~~~~~~~~s. 0  18m. 0 sm020  118. 0 1S83.0 118.0 130.0 1304.0 101.  1021.0  4126. 0
Oat..                    3180~~~~~~~~~V4.0  3180.0  3160.0 3240.0 3240.0 3402.0  3402.0 3402.0  3110. 0 311.6.0 i 3860
OfIigaCds                         422.1  412.1  472.1  4722.   472.1  412.6  412.1S  422.1  412.1  422.1   422.1
Total                            31206. 0 35231. 1 31012.9 34211.2 33304.2 32104.1 31261. 3 20130.3 2811&6.626011.09 2121. 3
tnermanta I Producti'on
Pad"Y                                            '-301.6  -644.3  -M8. 0 -1220.3 -2111. 0 -26113. 1 -4081.6 -4023.1S -10004
cotton                                 -4430.0  l044.I 110 66204. 2 1261. 1  11116 11112.1 161604 226034  3&066.
*Mut                                      1426.0  2026.  4160.0  6224.0 0032.6 110160.0 11486.4 10404. 0 24412.0  31000.0
Sorghum                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21.0   21.09  100. 1 '0.1  241.3  403. 1  403.1  652.1  612.1  1112.8
add -w                                                    604.1  804.1  1220.2  18t1.6  22022  Mt1.I 2912. I  4486.0
sugarcaif                                                                    - 1112.01 2410.2  2812.4 1413.0  1160. 0
Oates                                             fig. 0  ON2. 01420. 4 2321.2  3136.8  30284  4600.6  OtI16.6  2304.0
0Oiset.da-                                    - 40 -       41.0   10.0  202.11  411.6  180   1110.4  1406.1 236. 6
Total                                     1802.0  31808.2  2488.3 11214.6 1202. 4 24422.1S 38*2.41  4314. 0 "M6.6  26101.9
Product ion Costs. With Project
Seeds                             4810.4  482. 0  4011.2 1164.4 1126.2  W8611 6126.0SM 861.  1412.1  0662  86133.6
Nutrogai                          3110.0  3612.8  3002.1S 4026.1  4228.8  4416.1  4601.0 5110.6 11\S  6416.4  220. 6
Phosoisate                        143.1S  142.6  11I04.68  1101.1  1831. 0  134.61  1821.0  I0M.8  21.3.0  2312.4  282.1S
Potaah                              10.8a  10.6a   it.3   13.0   16.6   21. 2   22.4   34.6   41.0   S6.3    72.0
Pasticuda.                           t  2111.0 900.0  306.1t 31851.  3311.0  3660.6 4101.6 4818.  1 424. 6 6511. 0   1120.0
Animal Diraft P..                 6012.1  6022.1S  608.8 6346. I646.6 6180.  6006.0  1264.0  160.3I 824.3  881.1I
Mater Charoen                     I001.1  tool.15  I02.0  1010.1  I008.8I  1141.12  1224.1  1201.4  1386.6  1462.8  1121. 0
fluted labo                       3611. 0  3664.2  3713.1 3143.4  2806. 44146.6 4426.6 4441.4  1660.6I 644.6  2110.0
Total                   ~~~~~~~~~~~23740.2 23634.1S 24232. 253123.1 26111. 4 26104.6 29036.1 3220.09 31404.3 3942t. 1 44438. I
Production Coats. Wtithout PrJojet
Seed                              410. 4 4787.6 4726.2 4244.0  4208.2 4811.0  4622.1  4116.6 4406.1  4431.3  4368.2
Nitrogen                          3270.0  37112. 6 36809 4 3621.0 3120.3  3411. 0 3366.09 3210.3  300. 3 3001.1S  2686.4
Phosphate                         1483.51t462. 2  1413.6  1420.8  1304.3  1361.3  1334. 1 1226.0  1233.0  1106.6  1116. I
P*tash                              10.6   10.8   10.68   10.6   10.6a   16.6a  10.6   10.6a   10.6a   10.8a    10.8a
pesticides                        2900. 0 260. 4  2856. 4 2760.2 2111S.2 2421.2  2301.   1008. 0  1161.1  I68. 0   1480.0
Animal craf t ADM          .       012.1  1016. 1862M.1  1280.0 1621.0 1402.1  1322.1 1122.1  4042.1  4602.1  4632.1.
Water Chakrgin                    t01. S  080. 6  083 6  06.8.  040.3  016.6&  606.   616.L2  806.2  8040    111.2
Hired Lao*r                       3651 0 3121. 1 3148.6  3483.6  3332.4  322. 2  31 11.1  2606.6t 2666.2  2688.2  2131.0
total                            23740.1 23310.?7 23101. 3 22781. 3 221 11.1 2IS14.2 21026.2 IMI2. 2 II0111.0 1860.8A  1214.3I
Increinntel Production Coatat
Seed.                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~34.4  141 0  410.4  618.0  1210.1  001. 4 24 10.1  2024 0  3130.09  4164.2
Muroga                                     1.2 2.1 4116711011431. 0  IM8.3 2626.2  3414.0  4402.2
Phosphate                      ~~~~~21.6   11.2  161.2  242.1  361.   401.6  208.   680. 0  1 1t3.6  1422.6
Potash                                 -             .1    3.1    1.6a   10.4   it.6   24.0o  14.1   41.1    61. 2
Pestciedma                             -  1036  221.1  421.1 S 00.1  1272.4  1208.2I 261L8.  3631.1  4814.0  62 00
Animal Draft Prm                           I0L.2  201.3j  168.1  642.6  w102.1  162&.S 2t*I.S 2666.8 3434.6  4211.0
Motor Charges                               t 12 0 30.3   63.3  ISI8.S  228.4  32.09  441.2  142.4  667.0   103.6
nited LaboW                                68.1  168. 3  270.6  424.0  011.4  1311.3  1900.6   644. 2  311. 6  1164. 0
total                                  .483.0  10410. 4 2342.2 4030.0  6079.0  80$10.3 12342.5 ISM0. 3 201I. 3 26183.8I
... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . .   . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .
Om  1.cr~ts R44uw-                     - 1400.0 2as5.o  51084.0  714. I104. 6 15112.2 21128. 20108.7 38281.3 11124.1
/a  All entries for fiscal years e4ndin  in Calen~   mrs sImI
............................................
July 22. IOU 11: 06



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING IEVELOPNENT PROJECT lKHAIRPUR I1). CR. 648-PAK
Economic Benefits and Costs
___________________________
(In Million Re. Constant FY86 TertA)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    t384    1985    1986    1987    1988
Increeantal Benefits /a                    -        -       -        -       -     3.4      6.5    12.3    18.5    24.4    29.0    39.3
paddy--                                          -       -       -        -    -0.2    -0.7    -1.3    -1.2    -1.6    -2.2    -2.8
-  Cotton                                  -        -       -        -       -     1.0      1.8     3.7      6.1     7.8    11.0    18.4
-  Wheat                                   -        -       -        -       -     2.4      4.6     7.3    10.2    13.1    12.8    14.5
-  Sorghum                                                  -        -       -     0.0      0.0     0.3      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2
-  Fodder                                  -        -       -        -       -        -       -     0.8      0.9     1.3      2.1     2.5
-  Sugarcane                                                -                         -       -       -        -       -      0.0     0.3
-  DateS                                   -                                       0.2      0.7     1.3      2.3     3.4      4.5     5.4
-  Ollseeds                                -        -       -        -       -        -     0.0     0.0      0.1     0.2      0.5     0.8
Investment Costs                         2.4    23.0    61.3    43.0    38.7    38.9    22.7    45.8    41.4    51.6            -       -
-  Land Acquisition /b                     -     0.2        -      1.1     0.6     0.3      0.1     0.2      0.3       -        -        -
-  Civil Works                             -     4.4    11.7    19.7    19.5    24.3    14.4    14.5    33.1    37.5            -        -
-  Vehicles and Equipment                0.2     0.8    38.9    10.4       8.6     7.4      1.6    21.2      1.2     1.2        -       -
-  Consultants and Training                -     3.7      4.5     4.3      5.0     2.7      0.1     4.0      0.5     3.4        -        -
-  Engineering and Administration        2.3    13.9      6.2     7.6      5.0     4.2      6.5     5.9      6.4     9.S        -       -
Incremental O&S  Costs                     -        -       -       -        -     3.2      3.8     4.5      B.1     5.8      7.0     7.0   W
Incremental Production Costs               -        -       -       -        -     1.1      2.1     4.5      7.9    11.0    15.6    21.6
-See"s                                     -       -        -       -        -     0.1      0.4     0.7      1.3     1.8      2.5     3.0
-  Agrochemicals                           -        -       -       -        -     0.4      0.6     1.4      2.5     3.4      4.4     6.3
-  Animal Draft Power                                                        -     0 1    0.2       0.6     0.8      1.1      1.7     2.3
-  Labor                                   -       -        -       -        -     0.4      0.8     1.8      3.3     4.8      7.0    10.0
Net Incremental Benefits                -2.4   -23.0   -61.3   -43.0   -38.7   -39.8   -22.2   -42.6   -36.0   -43.9          6.4    10.7
Internal Rate of Return - 7.6%
I-.6
a-X
a-



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PRODECT (KHAIRPUR II). CR. 648-PAK
------------------------------------------------_-------------_--__----------__----_-------
EconomIc Benefits and Costs
(In N;lion Rs. Constant FY86 Terms)
1989    1990    1991    1992    10993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
--------------------_----------------------------------__-----_---__----_---___---------------------------------------------------
Incremental Benefits /a                   53.3    70.2    95.3    99.9   104.7   109.8    15.2   118.0   117.8   117.0   117.7   117.5
-  Paddy                                  -3.6    -4.2    -5.2    -5.5    -5.8    -6.1    -6.4    -6.6    -6.6    -6.6    -6.7    -6.7
-  Cotton                                 25.3    34.7    49.0    51.9    55.0    58.3    61.8    63.4    62.9    62.5    62.1    61.6
-  Wheat                                  19.5    24.4    30.5    32.1    33.8    35.5    37.3    38.4    36.8    39.2    39.6    39.9
-  Sorghum                                 0.3      0.3      0.5      0.6      0.7      0.8      0.9      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.9       0.9
-  Fodder                                  3.3      3.4      6.1      5.1      5.1      5.1      5.1      5.1      5.1      5.1     5.1       5.1
-  Sugarcane                               0.9      1.8      3.2      3.4      3.7      4.0      4.3      4.5      4.4      4.4      4.4      4.4
-  Dates                                   6.7      8.3      9.8      9.8      9.8      9.8      9.8      9.8      9.8      9.8      9.8      9.8
-  Oilseeds                                1.1      1.5      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.4
Investment Costs                             -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
-  Land Acquisition /b                       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
-  Civil Corks                                    -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -             -        -
-  Vehicles and Equipment                    -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
-  Consultants and Training                  -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        _
-  Engineering and Administration            -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        _        _
tncremental 08h Costs                      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0   c
Incremental Production Costs              28.6    36.9    47.5    47.8    48.2    48.5    48.9    49.1    49.2    49.3    49.4    49.6    1
-  Seeds                                   3.6      4.2      4.8      4.9      5.0      5.0      5.1      5.2      5.2      5.2     S.2       5.2
Agrochemicals                           8.8    12.2    16.4    16.7    17.0    17.2    17.5    17.7    17.8    17.9    18.0    18.1
-  Animal Draft Power                      2.9      3.8      4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6      4.e      4.6
-  Labor                                  13.2    16.8    21.7    21.7    21.7    21.7    21.7    21.7    21.7    21.7    21.7    21.7
______   -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
Net Incremental Benefits                  17.8    26.3    40.9    45.1    49.6    54.4    59.4    61.9    61.6    61,5    61.3    61.0
8~



PAKISTAN
KHIAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR tl). CR. 648-PAK
----------------------------------------------------_------------__----------__-----_ -----
Economic Senefits and Costs
___________________________
(In Million Rs, Constant FY66 Terms)
2001-2011
---------------_-.-----.-_---------------------------__----------------------__------------
Incremental 8         ta /a                     117.5
-  Paddy                                          -6.7
-  Cotton                                         61.4
-  Wheat                                          40.1
-  Sorghum                                         0.9
-  Fodder                                          5.1
-  Sugarcane                                       4.4
-  Dates                                           9.8
-  O0lseeds                                        2.4
Investment Costs                                      -
- Land Acquisition lb
-  Civil Works
-  Vehicles and Equipment
-  Consultants and Training
-  Engineering and Administration                     -
Incremental OSM Costs                              7.0
Incremental Production Costs                      49.6
-  Seeds                                           5.2
-  Agrochemicals                                  t8.2                         2
-  Animal Draft Power                              4.6
-  Labor                                          21.7
Net Incremental Benefits                          60.9
---------------------------------------------------------------__
/a All entries for fitsal years ending In calendar years shown.
/b Used as proxy for benefIts foregone.
------------------------------_-----_-----_-------_----------_---__----------__-----__-----
July 26. 1988 20:27
WI5-
0%



- 42 -
Table 17
PAKISTAN
KRAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPENT PROJECT (KRAIRPUR II)
Credit 648-PAK
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
(in Rupees)
Financial            Economic   Prices
Unit     Prices      85/86    89/90      94/95    99/00
Outputs
Paddy                        t       2,450      1,853     1,549    1,960    2,060
Cotton                       t       4,520      5,531     5,469    7,438    7,413
Wheat                        t       2,000      2,327     1,596    1,922    2,056
Sorghum                      t       1,740      1,133       663    1,132    1,238
Kbarif fodder                t         130        117       117       117       117
Rabi Fodder                  t         150        135       135       135       135
Surgarcane                   t         300        - 4       118       204      211
Dates                        t       1,260      1,134     1,134    1,134    1,134
Oilseeds                     t       3,750      3,375     3,375    3,375    3,375
Inputs
Seeds
-  Paddy                     t       3,400      2,780     2,324    2,940    3,090
-  Cotton                    t       3,600      4,405     4,356    5,924    5,904
-  Wheat                     t       2,900      3,490     2,394    2,883    3,084
-  Sorghum                   t       2,300      1,700       995    1,698    1,857
-  Kharif Fodder             t       2,500      2,250     2,250    2,250    2,250
-  Rabi Fodder               t      40,000    36,000    36,000   36,000   36,000
-  Oilseeds                  t       4,300      3,870     3,870    3,870    3,870
Sugarcane Cuttings           t         200        180       180       180      180
Seedlings (dates)           No.         20         18        18        18       18
Fertilizer
-  Nitrogen                  t       5,800     6,178      6,660    8,049    8,574
-  Phosphate                 t       4,300      5,449     5,554    6,873    7,147
-  Potash                    t       1,800      3,527     3,298    3,791    4,089
Pesticides              Appl./ha       740        666       666       666      666
Bullock                   Pairday       25         22.5      22.5      22.5     22.5
Labor                       Day         30         27        27        27       27
Note:  Economic prices of internationally traded commodities are based on World
Bank comuodity price forecasts (January 1988) while those of non-traded goods
are based on domestic financial prices observed in 1985/86.



- 43 -
Table 18
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
(Credit 648-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Wholesale Price Index & Adiustment Factor for Investment Costs
Wholesale Price Index           Adjustment Factor 1/
1975/76=100
1976/77                        111.92                             1.96
1977/78                        120.81                             1.81
1978/79                        128.85                             1.70
1979/80                        144.73                             1.51
1980/81                        163.69                             1.34
1981182                        176.16                             1.24
1982183                        182.27                             1.20
1983/84                        201.38                             1.09
1984/85                        213.07                             1.03
1985/86                        218.88                             1.00
1/  Multiplicative adjustment factor for restating costs in 1985/86 prices.
Source:  Pakistan Ecomomic Survey 1984/85, Finance Division, GOP Pakistan's
Key Economic Indicators, Vol. 20, Numbers 6 and 9, June/September
1986.



P"KtSTMI
KIMWRM TILE I33I  ND INIUGEI) SEWLM OR    JECT OGtAfRR 11)
(Credit 68-O
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
._____ __ ._,1976               197 7    6978     *99       6900     6980    1 902      1983      *904     1 905     6986
Cultants - Selection 8  oirtmnt        *
- tq,st                                            ** 
E%sipmnt-Scification 8iig    *i*k** * 0  0   *  * 0      0
DeLivery
Disposal brains  Spss                                        **
Codlectors 8 LateraLs                            *  t *     *-  *  e e - -  * e        _.
CaiLsdlling                                 0000   0000>  0000-   0005000 
iat Remsses irs   s es                                               - * .g.  s                        _                       _ 
Rcad Iuprtvs  :ts                          eeoc   **                                                                              * *  __
SOR~-                                                  -    -                               _
Octual
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MAP SECTION



IBRD 11528Rl
PAKISTAN         ~,.
Khairpur Tile Droinage and                   .
Irrigated Forming Development Project
Khairpur 11 Project
--Project area boundary
Main canals
- Main drains                                            &
-  Brnch/other canals
Branch drains
Main roads(metalled)
Unmetalied roads
--+-.Railway
d0 urbatn areas
.* ..District bounary  l
- -- - Tluka boundary
*  Khairpur I (SCARP) tubewelis
Area  ® ),1o be tile dratned '-
Area IS Xdrained by         K
IRPUAHANIRSTA 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      PAKISTANSvX
I        > RoA        I    )    '<z\> ZI       . 
/   |  \     W, }//X+**   °t. !~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  2   3
<    <      J   DW/<7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Shahid.ML
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S|_. s.s  
TA LUKA                                           1986
/  t                || S t^~~~~~~~FGHANISTAN  { f
so>   =  Sa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f:



