Report No. 1062a-PAK                                                          1li
Pakistan: Appraisal of the Khairpur Tile
Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project (Khairpur 11)
June 14, 1976
Irrigation and Area Development Division
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Pakistani Rupee is officially valued
at 9.9 to the US Dollar. The rate below
is used throughout this report, except
where stated to the contrary:
US$1      -   Rs 10.00
Rs 1      -   US$0.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                                    Metric Units
1 foot (ft)                    =               30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                    '               0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                    '               1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                    '               0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)          -               259 ha
1 cubic ft (cu ft)             -               0.028 cubic meters (m3)
1 cubic yd (cu yd)             -               0.765 m3
1 acre-foot (ac-ft)            =               1,233 m3
1 cu ft/sec (cusec)            -               0.028 m3/sec
i pound (lb)                   '               0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg ton)            -               1,016 kg (1.016 metric tons)
Pakistani Units             English Units            Metric Units
1 maund                82.3 lb (.0367 lg ton)  -  37.3 kg (.0373 m tons)
26.8 mds         -    2,205 lbs                 -  1.0 m ton
27.2 mds         -    1.0 lg ton (2,240 lbs)  =  1,016 kg



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AA        -    Agricultural Assistant
ADBP      -    Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
Cs        -    Commercial Bank
CCA       -    Cultivable Commanded Area
EADA      -    Extra-Assistant Director of Agriculture
ERTS      -    Earth Resources Technology Satellite
GOP       -    Government of Pakistan
GOSind    -    Government of Sind
KEFC      -    Khairpur East Feeder Canal
IRDP      -    Integrated Rural Development Program
LIP       -    Lower Indus Project
NBP       -    National Bank of Pakistan
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
PCC       -    Project Coordinating Committee
PLLP      -    Precision Land Leveling Project
PIU       -    Produce Index Unit (reflects the agricultural value
of the land)
SASO      -    Sind Agricultural Supply Organization
SBP       -    State Bank of Pakistan
SCARP     -    Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SDA       -    Sind Department of Agriculture
SI & PD   -    Sind Irrigation and Power Department
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
WAPDA(SZ) -    Water and Power Development Authority (Southern Zone)
GLOSSARY
Atta      -    Wholemeal wheat flour
Brassicas -    Oilseed crops of the Brassica family
Chak      -    Area served by a water course from an irrigation outlet
300 ac (average)
Deh       -    Villages and village areas
Ghani     -    Village pestle and mortar crushers that work mainly
on Brassica oilseeds
Hari      -    Tenant (sharecropper)
Kharif    -    The hot (summer) season (April to September)
Patwari   -    Local official in charge of the water courses;
employed by the SI & PD
Markhaz   -    An administrative entity for the IRDP
corresponding in the Sind to a taluka
Paddy     -    Threshed unmilled rice
Rabi      -    The cool (winter) season (October to March)
Taluka    -    The first subdivision of an administrative
District in the Sind. There are usually
five or six talukas in a District.      -
Warabandi -    Schedule for each water course farmers' irrigation periods
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
T7his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiall duties. Its contents may not otherwis, be diaclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
Water   Supply,   Demand   and   Quality                          ....           ............          14
Implementation   Schedule   ..........................                                                 14
Cost   Estimates    ..........                         .........................                       15
Financing . ........................................  17
Procurement   and   Contracts    ........................                                              17
Disbursements    ..........                          ..........................                        18
Accounts   and  Audits    ..............................                                               19
V.       ORGANIZATION  AND  MiANAGEMENT   ...........................                                                     19
Project   Management   ...............................                                                 19
Agricultural  Supporting  Services  ....                                        .............    20
Technical Assistance and Training  ....                                           ............    21
Operation  and   Maintenance   ........................                                                22
Cost   Recovery   .........                          ...........................                       23
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND
FARM INCOME . .........................................  25
General  .               .........................................    25
Crop Calendars  and Cropping Patterns  ....                                           .........    25
Expected   Yields   and   Production   ...................                                             26
Market   Prospects    .................................                                                27
Prices . ...........................................  28
Farm   Incomes    .........                       ............................                         28
VII.         BENEFITS   AND   JUSTIFICATION   ............................                                                    29
Anticipated   Overall   Effects   .......                                 ...............              29
Crop Production  ..................................    30
Employment   Opportunities   ........                                 .................                30
Household   Incomes   Effects   ............                             I   ............              30
Economic   Rate  of   Return   .........                             .................                 31
Environmental   Impact   ...........                              ..................                   32
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ....                                                      ...........    32



-3-
A&NEXES
1.   SCARP Khairpur (Khairpur I Project)
2.   Climatic Data
3.   Soils and the Need for Drainage
4.   Agricultural Labor Supply and Demand
5.  Agricultural Development
6.   Pruject Works
,. quipr,eiit I.isC
.~.  Agri-luur.;l Credit for Land Leveling
i).  Waler Supply, Demnand and Quality
10.   Construction Schedule
11.   Detailed COSL Estimates
12.   Schedule of Expenditures, Proposed Credit Allocation and
Schedule of Disbursements
13.   Agricultural Supporting Services
14.   C3snsull ing Services
15.  'Net Farm Incomes
16.   Present and Future Cropping Patterns and Production
17.   Marketing and Prices
18.   Economic Analysis
MAPS
11526     --   Project Location
11527     --   Khairpur East West Feeder Canal Commands
11528     --   Project Area






PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
THE KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGXTED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Irrigated agriculture dominates the economy of Pakistan.  It
accounts for about one-third of the GDP, employs nearly two-thirds of the
labor force and is practiced on some 30 million ac. Although it accounts
for over 90% of total agricultural production, aided in the recent past by
(a) the introduction of high yielding crop varieties; (b) rise in fertilizer
use, and (c) increases in the number of private tubewells installed, future
growth is threatened by increasing waterlogging and salinity of the soils.
ii.       The proposed project would explore modes of development in drainage
and irrigated agriculture which have not, as yet, been applied in Pakistan.
Within the next three years, the project area expects to receive additional
irrigation supplies from reservoir sources, and could receive a larger part
of present kharif season flows in the Indus River; yet less than one-fifth
of the area is served by adequate drainage installations. The proposed
project would provide a comprehensive package for 44,000 ac (net) consisting
of tile drainage for 36,000 ac; increased capacities of canals and water-
courses serving the entire 44,000 ac; road and bridge improvements; technical
and financial support to farmers for land leveling, and development of an
effective agricultural extension service employing contact farmers as part-
time extension workers in addition to permanent staff. The project would
provide aerial photography (costing about US$1.0 million) of the whole Indus
Basin (about 65,000 sq mi) for planning irrigation, reclamation and agricul-
tural development. It would also provide earth satellite imagery interpret-
ation and mapping of saline areas on an experimental basis (costing US$100,000)
which, if successful, could be an important tool for land reclamation and
water resources planning for Pakistan.
iii.      The Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), Southern Zone, a Federal
Government agency, would be responsible for construction of the civil works,
procurement of construction equipment and the preparation of aerial photographs
and use of the earth satellite inagery, project implementation other than
land leveling, farm planning and agricultural supporting services. The SCARP
Khiairour Agriculture Wing of the Sind Irrigation and Power Department would
provide improved agricultural supportinig services including technical assist-
ance for land leveling and farm planning.  The GOP would provide funds
through the State Bank of Pakistan for on-lending through commercial banks
to farmers for land leveling work and to farmer-contractors for purchasing
land leveling tractors and equipment. A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
would include representatives from all the agencies responsible for the
various aspects of project implementation, provision of agricultural
supporting services and farm credit and subsequent operation of project
works. The WAPDA would engage consultants to assist in engineering design,
procurement, construction supervision, and agricultural extension services.



- ii -
iv.       Tne project cost, net of taxes and duties and including the costs
oL air photography and ERTS surveys, would be about US$28 million equivalent,
including US$14 million in foreign exchange and US$14 million equivalent in
local currency. Contracts for supply of vehicles, equipment, and imported
materials amounting to about US$9.0 million (including contingency) would be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines. Civil works with an estimated total cost of about US$10.0 mil-
lion (including contingencies) would be carried out by WAPDA force account
because tne drain construction would pass through farmers' fields and must be
phased with the farmers' cropping schedules; alternative construction methods
would be tested, and tile design spacings and depths would be subject to
cnange during construction. Project implementation would take five years
including one year of final design, mobilization and equipment procurement.
v.        The main project benefit would come from threefold increases in
annual production of grain, cotton, and dates, and a six-fold increase in
annual sugar production over the ensuing ten-year development period. Of the
7,400 families in the project area, about 6,300 would benefit. Taking account
of projected improvements in relative prices of agricultural products and
inputs, the incomes of the 5,000 farm and tenant families would increase five
to six times and employment opportunities, largely for the 1,300 landless
families in the area, would double. About 70% of the projected increase in
farm incomes would result from production increases due to the project. At
IBRD World Market price projections, GOP would eventually realize additional
combined net annual foreign exchange earnings and savings of about US$5.8
million; the project's economic rate of return would be about 17%. Moreover,
the technical advances gained in this effort would have a far reaching impact
in that they could be replicated over one million ac in Sind and over several
million ac in the whole of Pakistan where drainage by tubewells is not
practical.
vi.       The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$14 million;
wnich would contribute about 50% of the total project costs. The credit
would finance all foreign exchange costs. The Borrower would be the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF
IAHE KsAIRPUR TilE DiAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENiT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
I.  I&'TRODUCTION
I.J1      ine Government of Pakistan (COP) has requested an IDA credit of
US$16 million to assist financing the construction of the Khairpur Tile
Drainage aad Irrigated Farming Development Project (Khairpur II), in the
Province of bind (.ap 11526).  Tihis would be the second IDA credit assist-
in, tne GOP's program for control of waterlogging and salinity in irrigated
areas and tne first IDA credit in Pakistan for norizontal sub-surface drain-
ale. In addition to the Indus Basin and Tarbela projects, the bank Group
inas previously assisted in financin6 two irrigation, drainage and flood
protection projects in Pakistan, as well as four other agricultural sector
projects.
1.02      Thiis project forms part of plans presented in the 1966 Lower Indus
Report and in the 1967 Indus Special Study Report.  The project planning
report was prepared in 1971 for the Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) by a joint venture of consulting engineers -- Hunting
Technical Services and Sir M. MacDonald and Partners of the United Kingdom.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission com-
prising ivMessrs. C.M. Bolt, L.D. Hunting, A. Seager, M. Fireman and C.P.R.
Nottidge (IDA), and J.C. Cavelaars (Consultant), who visited Pakistan in
November 1974, and R. Floto and H. Vieilhescaze (Consultants) who visited
Pakistan in August, 1975.
[I. BACKGROUND
General
2.1      Pakistan covers about 197 million ac, of which about 47 million
ac (24%) are cultivated. Of tne cultivated area, about 30 million ac (64%)
are irrigated annually. The population, which was about 70 million in 1974,
is expanding at the rate of 3.3%' a year. National income, after averaging
more than 6b  annual growth between 1960 and 1970, increased by only 3.3%
annually auring the past four years. As a result, growth in per capita
income is almost static at the current level of about US$120.
The _      conomy
2.02      The GOP's program for development over the next five years aims
to acriieve an ambitious rate of economic growth by increasing crop production



-2 -
and exports and mobilizing domestic resources. 1/ The targeted growth in
agricultural production would furnish about half of the requisite increase
in exports and eliminate the need for wheat imports. In the past few years,
regulated agricultural procurement and support prices provided low producer
incentives, limited purchases of crop inputs such as fertilizers, and dis-
torted commodity supply/demand relationships. Projected growth would require
a significant increase in producer prices and improvements in crop-input
price ratios as well as increases in water supply and drainage investments.
During the past year, the Government has already taken steps to reduce sub-
sidies and pass higher commodity prices on to the consumer. Nevertheless,
in view of the current economic and political circumstances, the development
targets for 1981 appear ambitious.
2.03      In 1973/74, the agriculture sector accounted for 36% of the
national income, 58% of the population employment, and 56,' of the nation's
foreign exchange earnings. Cotton and cotton manufactures account for about
35% of exports; rice for about 20%. The country is nearly self-sufficient
in sugar, and is aiming to become self-sufficient in wheat.   In recent
years, however, Pakistan has imported annually close to half a million tons
of foodgrain net of rice exports, or between 4% and 8% of total annual
consumption.
Agriculture in the Indus Basin
2.04      Beginning in the 1870s, barrages were constructed on the major Indus
tributaries in the Punjab, and more recently on the Indus itself, enabling
diversion of water throughout the year. The Indus Basin now is irrigated by
a canal system with one of the largest culturable commanded areas (CCA) in
the world. In 1973/74 the cropped areas, yields, and production of major
crops in the Basin were as follows:
wheat   rice (milled)   cotton (lint)   sugarcane
cropped area (M ac)        15.1          3.7              4.6             1.5
production (M lg tons)    7.5            2.4                .63         22.7
yield (lg tons/ac)           .50          .65               .14          14.3
2.05      With the commissioning of Tarbela Dam, 9.3 M ac-ft of water storage
capacity will be available to augment the roughly 28 M ac-ft already diverted
in the rabi season into the canal system. Moreover, additional portions of
the Indus flows during the kharif season which are now discharged wastefully
into the sea can be utilized by means of canal capacity enlargement.
2.06      The construction of the barrages and canal distribution systems was
not accompanied by the installation of adequate drainage systems. Over the
1/   IBRD.  Economic Report for Pakistan, Recent Trends and Development
Prospects, Februarv 28, 1976.  Report No. 1023-PAK.



- 3 -
last 100 years of irrigation, the groundwater table has persistently risen
causing waterlogging. Where it has risen within six feet of the ground
level, saline moisture is being drawn by capillary action into the topsoil,
evaporating and depositing soluble salts in the crop root zone. Since with
present supplies only about half the land can be irrigated in a
season, salinity has become pronounced in fields where farmers have applied
insufficient water for leaching to increase their irrigated area. Salinity
has also increased in adjacent fields, left fallow for prolonged periods.
Based on groundwater surveys, the extent of waterlogging and salinity in
the canal irrigated areas in the Indus Basin are estimated as follows:
Puijab               Sind
M ac  % of CCA      M ac  % of CCA
Waterlogging
Severe (Water Table 0 to 5 ft)              2.6     10          3.9       30
Moderate (Water Table 5 to 10 ft)           5.2     20          5.2       40
Total affected by water-logging7.8       30          9.1       70
Salinitv
Severe                                      2.6     10          6.5       50
Slight to moderate                          7.8     30          2.6       20
Total affected by salinity           10.4      40          9.1      70
2.07      Under GOP's large-scale Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects
(SCARPs), WAPDA has installed 7,500 tubewells in over three million acres.
Individual farmers have installed over 100,000 smaller irrigation tubewells
which also contribute to controlling the water table. This method of water
table control serves a dual purpose in exploiting the fresh groundwater
resource for reclamation of saline soils and as a supplement to surface
water irrigation. In saline groundwater areas, however, where the wells
must discharge into disposal drains, benefits are limited to the stabilization
of soil productivity unless additional canal water is provided for reclamation
of tLie salinized soils and to increase the supply for cultivation. Moreover,
tubewell drainage is limited to areas where the subsurface soil formations
permit installation and efficient operation of the wells.
Project Formulation
2.08      Over large areas in Pakistan, including more than one million
acres in Sind, the groundwater aquifers Aave poor discharge or other
adverse characteristics which make then~ unsuitable for tubewell opera-
tion. The Khairpur II project is located in such an area, where the
aquifer is underlain by bedrock at such a shallow depth that no tube-
wells could be installed. The most appropriate method of drainage avail-
able for these areas is with buried tile drains.  The alternative-of deep
open drains would be less appropriate because they would take up large



- 4 -
acrea6es of farm land ana would cut across establishied road and tertiary
canal systems.
dn 1`)bS, tne Kilairpur 11 project, adjacent to the SCARP Khairpur
tA~ir.x 1 au Mip ~1 527), was selec.ei by *%PDA as a prototype Lo assess the
construction tecnniques, installation and operatinig costs and effectivenless
of tile drainage.  In 1969/70, the Bank's Indus Basin Review Mllission recom-
mendad that the project should have aigh priority.  Thle project was also
:ecomniended in tie Federal Plannin6 Commission's "Proposals for an Accelera-
Led Program of v4aterlo6ging and Salinity Control" published in 1973. Part
0f t,ie project area is already severely waterlogged and critically in need
of draina6e. In audition, within the next three years the area expects to
receive additional irrigation supplies from Tarbela and Chasma reservoir
sources which would accelerate waterlogging in the remaining area and prevent
full utilization of t.1e irri6ation supplies. In view of the importance in
tae uevelopment Plan GOP rightly accords to tne SCARP program, this project
deserves high priority.
2.10      Canal capacities in the project   area were designed to serve
und:ained areas. If they are remodeled, they could usefully convey a greater
proportion of the kharif flows from the Indus, which are now wasted. There-
fore.canal capacity enlargement, along with drainage, would enable the poten-
tial of the project area to be more fully exploited. The portion of the
SCARP Khairpur Tubewell area served by the distributary to be remodeled for
the tile drained area would be included in the project.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
GCeneral
3.01      The project area is about 44,000 ac, about 2S mi in length, and
about 3 mi wide. It extends from Rohri town to Kot Diji, and from the
boundary of SCARP Khairpur eastward to the limit of the canal command area
near the limestone Rohri Hills (Map 11528). Of the total area, 36,000 ac
(Area A) are currently not drained. The remaining 8,000 ac (Area B) are
drained by tubewells of SCARP Khairpur (Annex 1), and are irrigated by minor
canals supplied by the Patni Distributary which would be remodeled. Of
Area A to be drained, about 10,000 ac are already severely waterlogged and
are critically in need of drainage, and 26,000 ac would require drainage
to be installed within three years after canal supplies to the project area
are increased. The project area is divided into two administrative Districts,
3 sub-districts (talukas) and 23 village areas (dehs).
Climate
3.02      The extremely arid, hot, continental desert climate of the project
area is characterized by two main seasons, rabi and kharif (Annex 2). The



- 5 -
cool rabi season between October and March, is characterized by light north-
east winds, cloudless skies, low humidity (average 54%), low evaporation (3
to 6 inches per month), and no rain. The average monthly temperatures range
from about 75°F in October to 68°F in December through January, when night
temperatures may drop below the freezing point. Wheat, the season's main crop,
must be sown by the end of November to prevent yields from being depressed
by the high April temperatures. The hot kharif season, between April and
September, is characterized by an average humidity of 77%, evaporation from
8 to 10 inches per month, and rainfall averaging 2.5 inches (falling mainly
in July and August). Average temperatures range between 90°F and 110°F. The
highest shade temperature in an inhabited area of the subcontinent, 1270F,
has been recorded within 60 mi of the project area. The high temperatures
cause the delay in flowering of cotton until September which in turn delays
the completion of picking until early December, making it too late in most
cases to follow with wheat.
Topography and Soils
3.03      The land surface is gently undulating with average slopes to the
west and south of about 1:5,000 (Annex 3). Since the land has been under
irrigation for over 40 years, a considerable amount of coarse leveling has
been done. However, fine leveling is needed in much of the area to enable
efficient use of water and to control salinity. Soils are mainly derived
from river alluvium and are suitable for growing almost any crop. In some
4,500 ac adjacent to the limestone hills, the soils are mostly shallow,
and consist of gravelly colluvium. All the soils are calcareous, and are
slightly-to-moderately alkaline, and some contain gypsum. Organic matter
and nitrogen contents are low, phosphate is moderate and potash is adequate.
Infiltration and permeability rates are generally satisfactory for both
irrigation and drainage.
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.04      The project area is supplied with water from the Sukkur Barrage
by the perennial Khairpur East Feeder Canal (KEFC) and its distributary
canals 1/ (Maps 11527 and 11528).  The northern part of the project area
(34,000 ac) is served by the Patni Distributary Canal which originates about
2 mi from the KEFC headworks.  The southern part (10,000 ac) is supplied
by the lower reaches of the Sathio Wah and the Mir Wah distributaries
which are extensions of the KEFC.  The designed discharge of the KEFC was
originally 2,000 cusecs, but now carries about 3,400 cusecs for short
periods. 2/ The Patni Distributary, which is nominally non-perennial, has
1/   A perennial canal has priority for year-round supplies and is usually
closed for maintenance only.
2/   Canals in the Khairpur area were originally designed for a water duty
of about 3 cusecs per 1,000 ac Cultivable Commanded Area (CCA). The
KEFC carrying capacity has been increased by scouring of the canal bed.
The canal can now carry 3,400 cusecs but only for short periods in
order not to cause more scouring.



- 6 -
a capacity of 200 cusecs. 1/ This canal has nevertheless been receiving
supplies fairly regularly into December, which has encouraged rabi plantings,
but supplies in the Indus River are not adequate throughout the season to
achieve normal yield levels. The Mir Wah and Sathio W1ah are fully perennial.
All the canals are unlined.
3.05      Watercourses distribute water from canal offtakes to groups of
holdings totalling on the average about 300 ac (about 30 farmers). The
Irrigation Department manages the fixed discharge outlet which supplies
the watercourse. The Department is responsible for the annual water alloca-
tion and employs a local official, the patwari, at each watercourse, to
oversee individual allocations. Each holding has a water right based on
acreage, and every year individual landholders apply for water allocation,
giving their cultivation plans for authorized crops. The farmers on each
watercourse, usually led by the largest or most senior landholder, provide
adequate maintenance by periodic clearing of siltation and choking by weeds.
Waterlogging and Salinity
3.06      In the project area, the saline groundwater table has been rising
about six inches per year since the Sukkur Barrage was completed in 1932
(Annex 3). In much of the southern part of the project area, where water
is supplied throughout the year, the water table is already within about
four feet of tne surface and soil salinity is visible in many fields. In
the northern part, in the Patni Canal command which is usually short of
water in rabi, the rise has been less rapid.  Nevertheless, salinization
has also been severe as a result of continuous under-irrigation (para 2.06).
Fortunately, complete reclamation of most of the salinized soil is possible,
simply by an initial water application sufficient to leach down the salts,
given leveled land, adequate water supply, and the means to remove the
saline effluent. However, signficant increases in crop yields can be
sustained only if water is regularly available for adequate, timely irrigation
and periodic leaching of incoming salts. Provision of additional supplies
under the project would include an allowance for periodic leaching (para 4.17).
Population
3.07      The rural population of the project area is about 45,000 (Annex 4).
Since towns are adjacent but exterior to the project area, 85% of this popu-
lation comprise farm owners (49%), tenants (19%) and landless farm workers
(17%), as shown below:
1/   A non-perennial canal usually receives supplies only in the kharif
season; it is closed in rabi except when occasional rises in river
flow enable deliveries of water to be made.



-7-
Agricultural Population                    38,400
No. of Families
Landowners                              3,600
Tenants                                  1,400
Landless                                 1,300
Total                            6,300
Average Family Size                          6.1
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.08      The average size holding in the project area is about 10 ac, but
farms range from under 5 ac to over 500 ac. Records show the following
distribution of landholdings:
Number of           Area of
doldings            Holdings
(As % of Total)-------
Less than 7 ac                45                 18
7 to 25 ac                    49                 52
Over 25 ac                     6                 30
Nearly half are less than 7 ac which is generally the smallest unit capable
of supporting a family without substantial additional earnings from off-farm
employment.
3.09      The greater parts of the large farms are sharecropped by tenants
(haris), usually in units of 10 to 15 ac each, determined by the number of
bullocks owned. The land reforms of 1958 and 1972 have achieved only limited
land redistribution, since land titles were often simply redistributed
among members of the same family. Nevertheless, legislation formalizing
landlord and tenant arrangements and preserving some tenant rights between 1948
and 1972 have introduced a degree of balance into the relationship. At present,
the tenant's share is one-half to two-thirds of the crop, for which he provides
all production labor and seed, pays half the cost of fertilizers, pays any
tractor rental charges, and contributes his labor to the upkeep of watercourses.
The landlord pays taxes and water charges, pays half the costs of fertilizers,
and provides housing. He often finances his tenants until harvest, markets
their cash crops, and may also provide the tenants' children with basic edu-
cation. The landlord's leadership role is considered to have been an important
factor in the rapid spread of the "green revolution". He provided credit where
institutional credit was not available because of tenants' lack of fixed assets
and he frequently instructed tenants in the use of inputs and technology
and choice of crops. However, by controlling the marketing of tenants' cash
crops by purchasing at harvest or on advance pledge and selling in a more
favorable market, he has usually retained a large part of the margin on his
tenants' produce and many tenants have remained in a state of indebtedness.



-8-
Agricultural Development
3.10      The project lies within one of Pakistan's important areas for cotton
and grain production. 1/ In addition, Khairpur is rapidly overtaking the
Mekhran Coast as Pakistan's most important area for producing high quality
dates. Since 1962, five sugar mills have begun operations in Sind and two
more are planned, one near the project area where there is none at present.
Production of Brassica oilseeds, a traditional crop of potential importance
to Pakistan, has, however, not grown in relation to demand because in years
of pest attack yields go down dramatically due to the lack of a good pest
control service (Annex 5).
3.11      During kharif, cotton, rice, sorghum, fodder and pulses cover about
19,900 ac or 45% of the project area, while in rabi, wheat, fodder, oilseeds
and pulses are grown on about 15,600 ac or about 35% of the project area.
Perennial date orchards (1,540 ac) and sugarcane (126 ac) cover about 4%. The
rice area which in 1930 was only 4% has increased to 12% at present because
where the soil has become salinized farmers have replaced cotton with paddy
which is more adaptable to the soil conditions.
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.12      The SCARP Khairpur area (about 410,000 ac) has 69 cooperative
credit societies, with a total membership of about 6,000 farmers. The
societies are short of capital as the central cooperative bank no longer
exists, and credit from the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP)
is limited by repayments and internal capital generation. Only about
Rs 200,000 in short-term, and less than Rs 100,000 in long-term credit were
available to project area farmers in 1973/74. Nevertheless, fertilizer sales
have been increasing until that year at above average rates for the last
several years, indicating that seasonal financing is available from other
than institutional sources.
3.13      Project area production is being marketed in the adjoining towns
of Kot Diji (population 10,000), Khairpur (15,000), Rohri (30,000) and Sukkur
(150,000). Sukkur is an important road and rail junction for trade between
Baluchistan, northern Sind and southern Punjab and, therefore is an active
center for wholesale and commission agents for all regional market commodities.
Commercial storage facilities would be able to handle the future increase
in production from the project area. Cotton gins in Khairpur and Sukkur serve
a large area and are able to take in the extra production from the project
area. At present, textile mills in Sukkur and Khairpur import lint from
other area3. There are many village flour mills and in Sukkur one large
roller mill.
3.14      Since 1972, extension support for the northern part of the project
area (in Rohri Taluka) has been administered by the Extra-Assistant Director
1/   In 1973/74, out of national production the Sind contributed 50% of the
rice, 18% of the cotton, 15% of the wheat and 13% of the sugarcane.



- 9 -
of Agriculture (EADA) in Sukkur and for the southern part by SCARP Khairpur
Agricultural Wing. Research support and the demonstration of good crop
husbandry practices are more evident in the southern part of the area. Staff
have the necessary knowledge to increase yields in areas not affected by
waterlogging and salinity. Lack of effective methods and work schedules and
shortage of reliable transport, however, limit their effectiveness.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Description
4.01      The proposed project would install tile drainage as a means of
water table and soil salinity control in Area A (para 3.01 and Map 11528).
Canals supplying both Areas A and B would be enlarged to provide water for
peak kharif irrigation requirements and for reclamation by leaching. Local
roads would be improved and credit facilities for land leveling would be
provided. The agricultural extension service in the project area would be
improved. The project also would provide earth satellite imagery inter-
pretation and mapping on an experimental basis for possible application to a
salinity survey of the Indus Basin.
Project Works
4.02      The main components of the project would be as follows:
(a) Installation of a subsurface tile drainage system and
surface disposal drains throughout 36,000 ac of Area A;
this would include about 1,600 mi of buried tile and
collector drains, 130 small pump stations and 45 mi of
surface drains;
(b) The enlargement and remodeling of irrigation canals
and structures, and the reconstruction of irrigation
outlets serving 44,000 ac; this would include about 9 mi
of distributary canals, 50 mi of minor canals, and
170 irrigation outlets;
(c) The construction of about 200 mi of new watercourses
and the rehabilitation of some 70 mi of existing water-
courses and associated structures;
(d) The construction of wider and improved carriageway
surfaces, and the strengthening of bridges on 20 mi
of minor roads in Area A;
(e) On-farm development work comprising provision of long-term
agricultural credit to farmers for land leveling and to
contractors for purchase of land leveling equipment for
use in the project area;



- 10 -
(f) Reorganized and intensified agricultural extension
services;
(g) The provision of equipment, vehicles, materials and
supplies necessary for the construction and O&M of
project works, for land leveling, and for agriculture
supporting services, and spare parts for tubewell
installations in Area B and in the remainder of
SCARP Khairpur;
(h) The engagement of consultants to assist WAPDA in detailed
design of project works, supervising construction, and
preparing 0 & M manuals; and to assist the Irrigation
Department's SCARP Khairpur Agriculture Wing in
developing extension services and in monitoring
benefits in the project area;
(i) The preparation of aerial photographs for the
whole Indus Basin (about 65,000 sq mi) for use
in planning water resources development in the
basin and specialized maps based on data transmit-
ted from Earth Resources Technology Satellites
(ERTS) of certain areas within the Indus Basin,
as a pilot study for assessing and measuring areas
affected by varying degrees of soil salinization
and waterlogging.
Details of the major works are outlined below and described in Annex 6.
4.03      Tile Drainage System.  Subsurface drainage for the 36,000 ac of
area A would comprise buried pipes discharging into collector drains and
sumps from where the effluent would be pumped into open disposal channels. The
system would be designed so that within 2 to 3 days after each irrigation
the water table would be drawn down below the crop root zone. Parallel
lateral drains spaced 150 to 300 ft apart and laid at depths of 5 to 6.5
feet would discharge into collector drains laid 7 to 9.5 feet deep. The
collector drains would discharge into 10 ft deep sumps, each serving a
drainage unit of about 270 ac. About 130 drainage units, each with a small
pump station, about 1,450 mi of lateral drains and 130 mi of collectors would
be installed. A total of about 60 mi of power transmission lines would sup-
ply the pump station.  The open disposal channels, in total about 45 mi,
would discharge into a major drain of the adjacent SCARP Khairpur system,
which has ample capacity to carry the additional effluent from the project
into the Rohri canal for dilution and re-use downstream.
4.04      Preliminary designs for such a system were prepared in 1971 by
WAPDA's consultants in sufficient detail to estimate the quantities of work.
Tne preliminary layout was based, however, on a reconnaissance soil survey.
Further field work and mapping to detailed grade (one boring in 40 ac or less)
would be needed before final designs could be made. It has been agreed that



- 11 -
a condition of credit effectiveness would be the appointment of consultants
with experience in tile drainage, irrigation, agricultural extension, and
satellite imagery interpretation, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (paras 5.13-5.14).
4.05      Various methods of construction would be used to determine their
effectiveness, cost and speed under local conditions. Disturbance of farm-
ing activities would be minimized. Where site conditions permit, labor-
intensive methods and costs would be compared with much faster machine-
intensive alternatives on an appropriate scale. Preliminary field surveys
indicate that most of the drains would have to be laid below the existing
water table and that, in much of the area, the saturated soil tends to
slough severely when excavated. Where these adverse conditions occur, the
installation of lateral and collector drains by manual labor would require
that the water table be lowered temporarily along the drain alignment, using
wellpoint equipment, before excavating the trench and laying the pipes.
This procedure would be slow and, because of the simultaneous operation of
well-point equipment, would be relatively costly and without advantage over
a fully mechanical method. For the most part, therefore, the subsurface
drainage works would be constructed without dewatering by machines which
have been developed for this purpose and successfully used under similar
conditions in Europe and the USA. Laterals installed by this method would
consist of continuous 4-inch corrugated, perforated plastic pipe, locally
made, providing advantages in reduced transportation,
weight, breakages and installation time. Other lateral drains could be
constructed with 4-inch diameter concrete pipes using entirely local ma-
terials, and which would be used under the project for the first time in
Pakistan. The collector drains would consist of 12-inch and larger concrete
pipe, installed in sections manually using a heavy-duty machine excavating
the trench below water table, with a protective steel box attached and lowered
to drain depth for the pipe layer.
4.06      The project would procure all necessary equipment and vehicles for
installing the drainage system (Annex 7). Large quantities of fine aggregate
for filter material and concrete pipes would be produced by WAPDA (SZ) from
local gravel and limestone deposits. Suitable plastic and concrete pipes are
produced in existing Pakistani plants. Sulfate-resistant cement is produced
locally in Government-controlled plants at Rohri. It has been agreed by GOP that
sulfate-resistant cement, to improve durability of concrete pipes in gypsiferous
soils, would be made available to WAPDA in sufficient quantities, as and when
required, to meet project requirements.
4.07      The construction of drainage works and power transmission lines,
and the procurement of pumps would be phased so that the disposal channels
and pump station serving each drainage catchment unit would be operational
before starting construction of the unit's collector drains and laterals.
It has been agreed by GOP that the power supply for each pump station would
be supplied in phase with project construction schedule and requirements.



- 12 -
4.08      Canal Remodeling.  The canal capacities within the project area
would be raised to about 10 cusecs per 1,000 ac CCA to deliver peak kharif
water requirements. The capacity of the Patni Distributary would be
increased from 200 cusecs to 380 cusecs. About 50 mi of minor canals would
be enlarged, and the size and location of many of the irrigation outlets
would be resurveyed and modified to improve the distribution of supplies.
4.09      In 1971, WAPDA's consultants prepared preliminary designs for
increasing the capacity and efficiency of the canal system, and these are
adequate for cost estimation purposes. After updating the field survey
data, the final designs would be made by WAPDA (SZ) in collaboration with
Sind Irrigation and Power Department (SI&PD) assisted by consultants.
-4.l0     The canal systems would be remodeled and control structures
rebuilt so that the range of flows required by seasonal variations in water
demnand could be carried without causing scour or siltation. The reraodeling
of the Patni Distributary to a dual canal system would require a combination
of manual labor and mechanical earth-moving and compaction equipment.  The
construction of new minor canals and the enlargement of existing minors
would be carried out by manual labor and small, imported equipment. Existing
irrigation supplies would be maintained during the construction period.
4.11      Simultaneously with canal remodeling, the layout and capacity of
watercourses would be modified where necessary, to provide water at a rate
tnat farmers can control efficiently: no more than about 1.5 cusecs. To
achieve this, WAPDA (SZ) would adjust the area commanded by each watercourse.
This would entail relocating irrigation outlets and constructing about 200
new watercourses. Minor adjustments in some field boundaries would be desirable
to enable construction or realignment of watercourses to minimum length, so
as to reduce seepage losses and maintenance costs. The WAPDA (SZ) would
provide improved field outlets to each holding. Construction would be by
manual labor under WAPDA (SZ) force account.
Other Project Components
4.12      On-Farm Development.  Leveling has been shown to increase yields
under normal soil conditions and to improve the conditions for leaching of
salts and prevention of partial salinization due to uneven irrigation.
Farmers have been gradually working towards creating level fields. Progress,
however, has been slow; much time and energy have been lost by working on
a trial-and-error basis, and field layout planning has been minimal. To
maximize early benefits from this project, farmers would be encouraged to
level their holdings during the implementation period by hiring equipment
from local contractors and the SDA and obtaining technical assistance from
SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing staff. In addition to land leveling,
farmers where necessary would reclaim land with special leaching applications
and adjust field boundaries. Most of the farm land in the project area needs
fine leveling and about 8,000 ac of culturable waste needs considerable
earth moving requiring relatively heavy equipment (Annex 8). At present
prices, the total cost of this work, excluding farmers' own work, is
estimated to be Rs 34 million, including about Rs 6 million for leveling



- 13 -
equipment for contractors and Rs 3 million for the heavier equipment to be
operated by the SDA Engineering Wing at Khairpur. The project would provide
funds for importing the heavy equipment (US$0.3 million) and for assisting
provision of agricultural loans to local contractors and to farmers (para
4.14).
4.13      The GOP recently introduced a Precision Land Leveling Project (PLLP),
operated by a special section of the Sind Department of Agriculture (SDA),
under which the GOSind provides farmers with technical assistance and a grant
of 50X0 of the standard cost of leveling for up to 10 ac of an individual's
aolding. Authorized technicians assist farmers in field layout, set leveling
stakes, and certify completion of the work, enabling farmers to apply for the
grant. At present, PLLP is training technicians for assignment in Sind and
this training would be available for agricultural extension staff in the
project area. In the near future, PLLP is expected to provide primarily
technical service and the subsidy component may become negligible.
4.14      Credit for Land Leveling.  To assist farmers in financing leveling
work for which PLLP grants are not available (para 4.13), the project would
provide funds through the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) for on-lending through
commercial banks (CBs) (Annex 8). Farmers holding up to 64 ac would be ex-
pected to make a downpayment contribution in cash or kind of 10% of the total
costs of land leveling as estimated by qualified PLLP staff. Larger farmers
would be required to provide a minimum downpayment of 15%. Farmers would
need loans amounting to about Rs 20 million. Of this, the IDA credit would
contribute half, covering most of the farmers' hired labor and operating
costs. Where fine leveling only is required, loans would be for a maximum
of five years with a one-year grace period. In cases where heavy earthmoving
and reclamation are required, loans would be for a maximum of eight years
with a two year grace period. The CBs would also provide adequate seasonal
credit to maximize the return on farm investment. In addition, the project
would encourage the development of small contracting firms by providing funds
through the SBP for CB credits to large farmers experienced with farm
nachinery and to other private contractors in the locality for purchase of
additional farm tractors now in extremely short supply in the area. Long-
term loans to contractors would cover the costs of leveling equipment and
would amount to Rs 6 million. Credit terms and conditions, covering on-
lending from GOP through SBP and CBs to farmers and contractors are set out
in Annex 8. Any of the CBs approved by SBP for these purposes would be
acceptable to IDA.
4.15      Miscellaneous Works and Equipment.  The WAPDA (SZ) would strengthen
canal bridges and culverts and improve some roads to provide for project
construction traffic and later for farm traffic, and would build offices,
stores and housing for the project's agricultural and engineering 0 & M
staff. The SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing under SI & PD would import
vehicles and equipment for extension activities and tubewell spare parts
costing about US$0.2 million to fill a backlog accumulated over the past
few years due to a shortage of foreign exchange. This shortage has resulted
in a reduction in routine well maintenance and failure of about 25 wells,
some in the project area (Annex 1).



- 14 -
4.16      Air Photography and ERTS Imagery.  The UNDP has provided financial
assistance for the master planning and revised action program for water
resources development in the Indus Basin. To provide a reliable data base
for this work, GOP has requested assistance in providing air photo coverage
of the whole basin and Baluchistan (about 65,000 sq mi). The aerial photo-
graphs would also be of great use for planning other future Bank Group
projects such as highways, transmission lines, gas lines and rural development
as well as for the preparation of topographic maps. The project would also
provide for the analysis and interpretation of imageries taken from Earth
Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS) of an area of 10,000 sq mi to identify
and assess the varying degrees of soil salinity.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.17      The project area would continue to be served by the KEFC, the pre-
sent maximum discharge of which would be increased for short periods by about
200 cusecs to 3,600 cusecs sufficient to meet the kharif cropping requirements
including allowance for annual leaching. The volume of water supplied
annually in the project area would rise from the present 140,000 ac-ft to
about 270,000 ac-ft at full development. Of the 130,000 ac-ft annual in-
crease, 60,000 ac-ft would be required in the kharif, when plentiful supplies
are available in the Indus. Most of the incremental rabi demand of 70,000
ac-ft would have to be supplied from Sind's share of releases from Chasma
and Tarbela. An assurance has been obtained from GOSind that the above mentioned
water supply increases for the project area would be allotted upon completion of canal
remodelling and that the Patni Distributary would be redesignated as a perennial canal
so as to carry water supplies in the rabi as well as in the kharif (Annex 9).
4.18      At Sukkur, Indus water quality is good throughout the year.  River
water can be used for continuous irrigation without detriment to the soil if
drainage is provided. The quality of tile drainage effluent would gradually
improve and would be monitored to determine wnen it can be reused for irri-
gation.
Implementation Schedule
4.19      Project implementation would be completed in five years.  Drainage
construction and canal remodeling would take four years (Annex 10). Water-
course improvement and land leveling would be substantially completed in that
period. The drain-laying machines and project equipment would be delivered
about 12 months after the start of the project. During this time, consultants
would be appointed, surveys and detailed designs carried out, roads improved,
lands and rights-of-way acquired. An agreement has been obtained from GOSind
that it would undertake to complete in phase with the implementation schedule
the acquisition of the construction rights-of-way for the drainage system
and canal remodeling.
4.20      Remodeling of the Kalhori minor canal serving most of Area B which
is already drained would be given priority and phased so that enhanced sup-
plies would be delivered to new or improved watercourses in its command as
soon as possible. In Area A increased irrigation deliveries in each drainage
catchment unit would follow as soon as possible after the installation of



- 15 -
lateral drains and completion of the new or improved watercourses. In each
area, after additional irrigation supplies are delivered the agricultural
extension service would begin intensive activity.
4.21      Comprehensive schedules for construction, implementation activities,
and budget requirements would need to be prepared annually by all concerned
agencies for review and coordination by WAPDA (SZ). Assurances have been
obtained from GOP that the WAPDA (SZ) General Manager would prepare an annual
implementation schedule for the project, supported by maps and descriptions
of activities, together with budgetary estimates required for the upcoming
financial year, for dispatch to IDA by December 31 of each year.
Cost Estimates
4.22      Total project costs (including aerial photography and ERTS surveys)
are about US$28 million equivalent (net of duties and taxes), of which the
foreign exchange component would be US$14 million or 50% of the total. The
aerial photography and ERTS surveys would cost US$1.0 million, all in foreign
exchange. The tile drainage machinery and installation cost estimates are
based on recent costs for similar works in Egypt, Europe and North America,
since there is no local precedent. Physical contingencies amount to 11% of
the basic project cost. These allow for design changes, delays and logistical
difficulties which may occur before completion but which cannot be more
accurately assessed until field experience has been obtained under the actual
conditions found in Pakistan. The costs are estimated using price levels
prevailing in December 1975. They are detailed in Annex 11. Expected
price increases for equipment and consultants costs fall from 9% in the
first year to 7% in the fifth year and for civil works and local costs from
13% in the first year to 10% in the fifth year (Annex 12, Table 4). The
estimates are summarized below:



- 16
Cost Estimates
Item                     Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  % of
     Rs million ----    ------US$ million----  Total
I. Land Aguisition         2.0      0.0      2.0      0.2     0.0      0.2
II. Civil Works:
Drainage system        33.0    11.0    44.0       3.3      1.1      4.4
Canal remodeling        4.1      1.4      5.5     0.4      0.1      0.5
Watercourse re-
construction           5.4      1.8     7.2      0.5      0.2      0.7
Road improvement        2.6      0.9      3.5     0.3      0.1      0.4
Subtotal*          45.1     15.1    60.2       4.5      1.5      6.0    21
III. On-farm Works:
Land leveling*         25.0      0.0    25.0      2.5      0.0      2.5      9
IV. Equipment, Vehicles
and Materials to be
imported:
For drainage system   1.5    48.9    50.4         0.2      4.9      5.1
For canals and
watercourses           0.1      6.6      6.7     0.0      0.7      0.7
For road improve-
ments                  0.1      1.8      1.9     0.0      0.2      0.2
For 0&M and SCARP
Khairpur Spare Parts 0.1        4.0     4.1      0.0      0.4      0.4
Subtotal             1.8    61.3    63.1       0.2      6.2      6.4    23
V. Agricultural Equip-
ment and Vehicles
to be imported:
For land leveling       0.2      8.9      9.1     0.0      0.9      0.9
For extension
service                0.1      1.3      1.4     0.0      0.1      0.1
Subtotal            0.3    10.2    10.5        0.0      1.0      1.0      4
VI. Consultants and
Training:               2.0    13.0    15.0       0.2       1.3     1.5      5
VII. Engineering and
Administration:
Staffing and housing  7.5        0.0      7.5     0.7      0.0      0.7
Crop compensation       1.5      0.0      1.5     0.2      0.0      0.2
Buildings               1.4      0.0      1.4     0.1      0.0      0.1
Subtotal            10.4     0.0    10.4       1.0      0.0      1.0      4
Basic Project Cost   86.6    99.6   186.2          8.6    10.0    18.6
VIII. Physical Con-
tingencies:            15.0      5.0    20.0       1.5     0.5      2.0      7
IX. Expected Price
Increases:             42.0    25.0    67.0        4.2     2.5      6.7    24
X. Aerial Photography
and ERTS Surveys:       0.2    10.0    10.2        0.0      1.0      1.0     3
Total              143.8   139.6   283.4    14.3    14.0    28.3   100
XI. Customs Duties
and Taxes:              8.0      0.0      8.0      0.8      0.0     0.8
Total              151.8   139.6   291.4    15.1       14.0    29.1
*Excluding equipment costs.



- 17 -
Financing
4.23      The proposed IDA Credit of US$14 million (covering 50% of the
total project cost net of customs duties and taxes) would contribute the
full foreign exchange cost. The balance of US$14 million equivalent would
be contributed by GOP and GOSind through their annual budgetary appropriations
and by the SBP and participating commercial banks. Assurances have been
obtained that GOP and GOSind would make adequate and timely budgetary pro-
visions in amounts in line with the project implementation estimates to be prepared
by WAPDA (SZ) and transmitted annually to IDA to cover their shares of the
project construction, land leveling and agriculture implementation costs
(para 4.21).
4.24      The IDA Credit would be on standard terms to GOP, and US$0.6 million
would be made available to GOSind and US$1.4 million equivalent to participating
local banks through the SBP (Annex 6). The unallocated portion (US$2.2 mil-
lion) would be for contingencies. The funds would finance WAPDA's foreign
exchange costs for equipment, civil works, consultants' services, aerial
photography and ERTS surveys; SI&PD's (SCARP Khairpur's) foreign costs for
extension equipment and tubewell spare parts; SDA's foreign costs for heavy
leveling equipment; and portions of disbursements by participating local
banks for agricultural loans for project land leveling. Assurances have been
obtained from GOP that the goods and services to be imported out of the pro-
ceeds of the credit would be used exclusively for this project during the
construction phase and that after construction is completed WAPDA (SZ) would
give to SI & PD such equipment as needed and agreed by IDA for the 0 & M of
project works.
Procurement and Contracts
4.25      Vehicles, equipment and materials with an estimated total cost of
US$9.0 million (including contingencies, Annex 7) would be procured by WAPDA
(SZ) and the Sind Department of Agriculture after international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or pre-
vailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
evaluation of bids. Land leveling equipment for local contractors with an
estimated total cost of US$0.6 million would be procured from local stock im-
ported on the basis of farmers' preferences from suppliers prequalified by the
Tractor Review Committee which is responsible for all tractor procurement and
distribution in Pakistan. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000
each, which are not practical for international tendering, would be purchased
through normal Government procurement procedures which are satisfactory to
IDA. Such purchases would be limited to a total of US$300,000.
4.26      Civil works with an estimated total cost of US$10.0 million equivalent
(including contingencies) and land leveling (US$3.5 million equivalent including
contingencies) would not be suitable for international competitive bidding and
would be carried out by WAPDA (SZ) force account and by local contractors
respectively. These works would have to be phased with seasonal agricultural
activities so as to minimize crop damage. Although GOP would have to acquire
access for tile and collector drains from farmers ahead of time so as to avoid



- 18 -
delay, there would be cases where such delays would be unavoidable. Also,
there may be changes in design of tile spacing and depth to suit field
conditions and to achieve economies. The WAPDA forces would adjust to these
situations with more flexibility and at lower cost than contractors, who would
either have to raise their prices to cover risks for these uncertainties or
could be expected to file many contractual claims against WAPDA.
Disbursements
4.27      Disbursements from the proposed credit would cover the following
portions of the project expenditures:
(a)  100% of the foreign costs of directly imported project
equipment (other than land leveling equipment to be
sold to contractors with local bank financing), vehicles,
materials, and spare parts, procured in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines;
(b)  either 100% of the foreign exchange costs, or 70% of the
total costs of approved consultant services and overseas
staff training;
(c)  100% of the ex-factory costs of goods manufactured locally
and procured according to the Bank's Guidelines;
(d)  70% of the off-the-shelf cost of imported goods procured
locally;
(e)  100% of the foreign exchange cost of aerial photographs
and ERTS surveys;
(f)  25% of civil works;
(g)  50% of disbursements under sub-loans to project farmers
by approved participating banks for land leveling labor
and operating costs; and
(h)  70% of disbursements under sub-loans to contractors
by approved participating banks for land leveling equipment
purchases.
Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account and for sub-loans
to farmers and farmer contractors by approved participating banks for land
leveling and equipment would be made against certified statements of expend-
itures, the documentation for which would be retained by the Borrower for
review by supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made against
full documentation. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by
December 31, 1982. A schedule of estimated disbursements and proposed credit
allocation are given in Annex 12. Any amounts not used for the project would
be cancelled.



- 19 -
Accounts and Audits
4.28      Assurances have been obtained from GOP that:  (i) separate accounts
would be established and maintained for the project expenditures by the Project
Directorate; (ii) these accounts would be audited annually by an independent
auditor; (iii) accounts of commercial bank loans to farmers and farmer-con-
tractors in the project area would be identifiable and audited annually and
(iv) copies of both the audit reports would be sent to IDA within six months
of the close of each fiscal year.
4.29      Part of the monitoring process of the project would be the deter-
mination of relevant unit costs of constructing the works under alternative
methods to provide reference for estimating costs of future projects. As-
surances have been obtained that an appropriate cost accounting system accept-
able to IDA for this purpose would be established within six months after
the credit is signed.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
5.01      Implementation.  In this project,as in the other SCARPs, WAPDA
would be the agency responsible for project implementation. The General
Manager of WAPDA (SZ) would have executive responsibility for construction
of all project civil works.
5.02      The Director (Planning), WAPDA (SZ), in Hyderabad,  would be
responsible for detailed investigations, planning, final design and speci-
fications for the drainage and canal remodeling works and road improvements.
The Director (Construction) of WAPDA (SZ), based in Sukkur, has been appointed
to be responsible for the force account construction by WAPDA field divisions.
5.03      Agricultural extension services in the project area would be brought
under one administration. The SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing staffed by
officers seconded from GOSind Department of Agriculture but forming part
of the Sind Irrigation and Power Department has extensive experience in
developing agriculture in drained areas (Annex 1). Assurances have been
obtained from GOSind that agricultural extension activities and existing
establishment, transport, and equipment in Rohri taluka would come under
the authority of the SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing before March 31, 1977.
The service would advise farmers on reclamation of saline lands, farm water
management and planning, land leveling, improved plant protection, crop
husbandry and effective use of inputs under changing crop conditions.
5.04      Coordination.  The project management would be considerably
strengthened by the formation of a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) on
which all the agencies responsible for the different aspects of project



- 20 -
implementation would be represented. The General Manager, WAPDA (SZ), would
be Chairman and members would include but not be confined to the Project
Director Planning and Project Director Khairpur II (member/secretary) of
WAPDA (SZ); the Superintending Engineer, Khairpur Irrigation Circle, of the
Sind Irrigation and Power Department (SI & PD); the Project Director of SCARP
Khairpur; and representatives from the Department of Agriculture (including
PLLP), and the National Bank of Pakistan. It would meet regularly and deal
with problems and difficulties arising from project coordination and implement-
ation. It has been agreed that a condition of credit effectiveness would be
that the PCC had been formed and was operating under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.05      Extension service would work through selected contact farmers on
each watercourse, to be visited by a Field Assistant at regular, pre-determined
intervals (Annex 13). Improved agricultural techniques and practices would be
demonstrated on the contact farmers' lands. The project area services would
be organized into three extension circles under the control of the Extra-
Assistant Director of Agriculture, SCARP Khairpur, and they would provide
technical support through three Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs).
5.06      Land Leveling and Leaching.  The PLLP, which trains the technicians
for certification of land leveling work eligible for a grant, would also
provide training to the SCARP Khairpur agricultural extension staff in field
layout, setting leveling stakes and leveling techniques. The extension staff
would assist the farmers in planning and carrying out leveling and field
boundary adjustment and in certifying completion of work for obtaining
financial assistance. Reclamation by leaching would be supervised by SCARP's
agricultural chemist who would receive regular soil samples as the operation
proceeds.
5.07      The SDA Agricultural Engineering Wing at Khairpur would hire out
bulldozers and equipment, of which some would be purchased under the project,
for the heavy land leveling work (para 4.12). For the medium and light level-
ing, big farmers experienced with farm machinery and local contractors would
hire out to other farmers their own tractors and implements. With com-
mercial bank loans financed in part with project funds, they could purchase
the necessary additional equipment through local dealers with the express
understanding that each would give priority to work on project area farms at
no more than prevailing rates (paras 4.12 and 4.14). Since IDA would reimburse
GOP for the foreign exchange costs of this equipment, the Tractor Review
Committee could authorize special priority for purchases by contractors in
the area so that they would not face a lengthy wait. Assurances have been
obtained from GOP that up to forty 60 to 65 hp tractors with suitable land
leveling implements would be made available within the shortest practicable
time and special priority for their purchase would be given to local applicants
certified by the Project Director for work primarily in the project area.
5.08      Fertilizer supplies have been adequate in meeting the demand in
the area for many years. Urea is at present manufactured by Esso Pakistan
Fertilizer Co., Ltd. (EPFCL) some 80 mi from the project area and is sold



- 21 -
through their dealers. Two, much larger plants are planned for the same
general areas. Potash and phosphates are available from Sind Agricultural
Supply Organizations (SASO) who sell them through dealers.
1J.U9     Pesticides are available through the Department of Agriculture.  In
tY'e past, supplies have been adequate but the demand has been low because of
inadequate application technology and consequent limited effectiveness. The
extension service would gradually increase the demand. Assurances have been
obtained from GOSind that pesticide supplies in suitable formulations would be
made available to project area farmers to meet future increases in demand in
the project area.
5.10      Plant protection would be intensified by the addition of 110 motor-
ized knapsack sprayers and an assured supply of pesticides. The manufacturer
of the sprayers would be required to provide a mechanic to train local staff
in the operation, maintenance and repair of equipment. Enthomological support
would be provided by the SMS.
5.11      Seed is traditionally retained by the farmers.  They normally purchase
seed supplies only when a variety change is involved. This habit may change
only when the proposed IDA-financed Seed ?roject becomes popular.
5.12      Farmers have had access to short-term institutional credit from
private commercial banks, some of which were set up especially for that
purpose. Cooperative societies have also provided some such credit. Prior
to 1972, the sole source of medium-term institutional credit was the ADBP.
It has received three IDA credits, totalling US$67 million. A fourth, how-
ever, has been held up pending financial, managerial and organizational im-
provements. Therefore, for the time being, ADBP is not an acceptable channel
for providing farm credit in which IDA would participate. Since 1972 however,
the nationalized commercial banks (CBs), lead by the National Bank of Pakistan
(NBP) have entered the field and by mid-1974 have been responsible for about
40% of the total credit provided for agriculture.  The terms and conditions
proposed for CB loans to farmers and land leveling contractors are given in
Annex 8. Farmers eligible for land leveling loans would also qualify, and be
granted, production, i.e. short-term loans, to enable them to exploit the
benefits of fine land leveling rapidly. Agreement has been reached that GOP
will ensure that the participating commercial banks would provide land leveling
credit to project area farmers, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
which would include a satisfactory administrative support organization.
Technical Assistance and Training
5.13      Drainage Works -- The WAPDA in consultation with the SDA would
appoint consultants, acceptable to IDA, to advise and assist in training
project staff in the areas of engineering and agricultural extension. The
WAPDA (SZ) would require technical assistance in the overall planning, final
design, and construction of the drainage system, and in the procurement of



- 22 -
tile drain laying equipment. The consultants would also assist and advise
in the logistic planning for the supply of drainage pipes and filter materials
and in field management of construction works. The credit would provide for
the full requirement, including agricultural consultant (below), of about
170 man-months (Annex 14). In addition, provisions have been made for over-
seas training for project staff (US$0.3 million). The equipment suppliers
would provide about 20 man-months of suppliers' technicians' time for
training WAPDA personnel in operation and maintenance of the drain-laying
machines and other project excavation equipment.
5.14      Extension and Farm Planning -- The consultants appointed by WAPDA
would include an agricultural consultant, acceptable to IDA, to help the
SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing in devising appropriate training courses and
in preparing detailed work programs and schedules for extension service field
staff. In consultation with the Sind Agricultural Research Institute, the
consultant would assist in identifying production constraints as focal points
of enhanced ongoing training programs for field staff. Approximately one year
after his arrival, he would be primarily concerned with assisting the SCARP
staff in building up an intensive farm management advisory service aimed at
improving farm use of the increased water supplies. His assignment is
expected to last for about 36 months. The successful tenderer for the 110
motorized knapsack sprayers would be required to provide a mechanic for about
three months to train in repair, maintenance and operation of sprayers
(Annex 13).
Operation and Maintenance
5.15      For two years following the completion of the entire project
drainage system, WAPDA (SZ) would be responsible for its operation and
maintenance (O & M) and for correction of any construction defects. The
works would then be taken over by SI & PD which would have a drainage
subdivision under the Project Director, SCARP Khairpur, responsible for
subsequent 0 & M. Vehicles and drain flushing equipment would be provided
under the project. The annual cost of drainage 0 & M has been estimated
at Rs 25/ac.
5.16      The SI & PD would be responsible for 0 & M of the existing canal
system throughout the remodeling period, and would have full responsibility
for remodeled canals on completion of the works. Maintenance of watercourses
would continue to be the responsibility of all farmers in each watercourse
command under the direction of SI & PD. The cost of adequate maintenance
of canals is estimated at Rs 25/ac, making a total of Rs 50/ac for 0 & M of
project drainage and irrigation works. Assurances have been obtained that
the GOSind would make adequate and timely 0 & M budgetary provisions to keep
the project irrigation and drainage facilities in good working order and that
it would furnish to IDA each year an annual report giving the current and
projected 0 & M costs and budgetary provisions.
5.17      Although some data on the agricultural status of farming areas are
collected by the Sind Revenue Department and SI & PD, there is a dearth of
reliable basic information required for agricultural planning. Benchmark



- 23 -
data required for subsequent monitoring of benefits are not available in
sufficient detail to differentiate benefits from areas with different soil
and water conditions. Therefore, assurances have been obtained from GOP
that WAPDA through its Central Project   Monitoring Organization, would carry
out benchmark and subsequent follow-up surveys with the assistance of the
SCARP khairpur Agricultural Wing to monitor agricultural, social and economic
changes to be brought about by this project. The group would record, inter
alia, changes in cropping patterns and yields, and progress in reclamation
of salinized areas.
Cost Recovery
5.18      Following the principle of the SCARP Khairpur Agreement, a major
portion of capital repayment for the Khairpur II project drainage installations
would be spread over all irrigation users. A portion of capital repayment for
irrigation improvements and the full payment of 0 & M costs, however, should
be borne by the project beneficiaries.
5.19      The capital costs of the Khairpur II project investments, excluding
the costs of land leveling and equipment to be financed directly by farmers
themselves, would amount to, for irrigation, about Rs 430 per ac of the
project and, for drainage, about Rs  t.0 per ac spread over the entire irri-
gated area of the Indus Basin (about 30 million ac). Annual charges to
recover the irrigation component over 30 years with 10% interest per annum
would be about Rs 45 per ac of the project area while the charges to
recover the drainage component would be Rs 0.32 per ac over the Indus Basin.
Annual 0 & M costs for all proposed facilities and services would average
about Rs 50 per ac.
5.20      In the Sind, since 1973, landowners pay water rharges together with
land revenue as a "flat rate" per acre. The water and land revenue components
are calculated as the product of farm area and a Produce Index Unit (PIU) and
local rates per ac, one for water and one for land revenue. One PIU applies
throughout each administrative unit (taluka); it reflects the general land



- 24 -
production capability and the type of irrigation (flow, lift or combined).
The water and land revenue rates vary from village (deh) to village. 1/ At
present the water charge component in the project area averages Rs 10.50 per
ac per year. After reclamation and after irrigation supplies would have in-
creased by about 50%, project farm lands would have a production potential
equal to the best in Sind. By providing additional water supplies in the
area, GOSind would have an appropriate occasion to reclassify project land
and adjust water charges within the present rate structure. Accordingly,
GOP could reasonably increase the water component in the project area by a
maximum of 140% to an average of Rs 26 per ac (Annex 15), equivalent to about
one-half the estimated annual cost of 0 & M. The introduction of yet higher
water charges could be accomplished only through the reassessment of the
PIlUs and/or revision of the water rate structure throughout the Sind so that
imposition of additional water charges in the project area would not be
unfairly discriminatory.
5.21      Pakistan has not changed the PIU assessments since they were
introduced in 1948. In 1969, for the first time since 1947, it increased
water rates by about 30% throughout the then West Pakistan. In 1972, GOSind
introduced the flat rates. By existing law, GOSind may not change either
the PIUs or the water rates until 1978.
5.22      An increase in Pakistan's water rate structure for cost recovery
purposes is further complicated by the circumstances that the existing fiscal
structure, including regulated procurement prices and subsidization of urban
consumer prices, have placed a severe burden on farmers (para 2.02), and that
actual water use is not directly related to water charges, as supplies are
not individually metered. The recovery of project costs is the subject for
discussions between the Bank and Pakistan in the context of GOP's agri-
cultural pricing policies and the need for a substantial increase in domestic
resource mobilization.
5.23      The first supplies of additional water and reclamation of project
land would be completed after 1978 when new productivity assessments and
water rates can first be introduced. Subsequent increases in water charges,
which should occur gradually on the basis of recorded increases in farm
production and consequent net incomes at prevailing prices (para 5.17), could
be achieved in stages by periodic changes in land productivity classifications.
Water rates should be adjusted periodically in line with changes in water
availability and with prevailing agricultural prices. Assurances have been
obtained from GOSind that within one year after the project area receives
additional water supplies and, where necessary, is reclaimed, it would be
placed in the category carrying the highest permissible level of water charges
taking into account the increase in water availability (at present estimated
1/   Before the flat rate system, rates were fixed according to the crops
grown, the water rate reflecting the crop water requirement and the
land revenue rate reflecting the land value. The cturrent rates are
based on the average rates over the 5 years prior to the conversion
to flat rate system in 1972/73.



- 25 -
to be Rs 26 per ac). It was further agreed that in 1978, 1983 and 1988 when
present legislation permits changes to be made in the rate schedules, the
level of water charges throughout Sind would be raised so that by 1988 the
water charges would cover in full the annual costs of 0 & M of the irrigation
drainage system and in the project area, a reasonable portion of the pro-
ject irrigation works investment (at present estimated at Rs 45 per ac).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
General
6.01      The main effect of adequate drainage would be on the amount of land
cultivated under profitable crops rather than on the yield levels. Within
the next few years, cropped areas and yields will increase to some extent
when additional water supplies reach the project area from Tarbela and
Chasma storage releases. Beyond 1980, however, without drainage, additional
land would become waterlogged or saline, eventually causing the cropped
area (and in some cases yields) to decline below the present levels (Annex
18). Provision of drainage, on the other hand, would permit farmers to
realize the full potential under irrigation.
Crop Calendars and Cropping Patterns
6.02      The overall cropping intensity would reach an estimated 145% compared
with 86% at present, while crop calendars, crop rotations, and the proportionate
areas under major crops would remain essentially as at present, except for
rice, sugarcane and dates (Annex 16). The growing of rice on land that is
tile drained is impracticable because of high infiltration losses. Therefore,
after reclamation by leaching, rice would be replaced by cotton, sugarcane
and grain sorghum. A sugar mill will soon be built at Kot Diji with a capacity
of 1,500 lg tons of cane per day. Based on results elsewhere in the Sind,
this would have the effect of increasing the area under sugarcane in the
project area to 1,350 ac without the project, and to about 5,300 ac under
project conditions with more effective extension support. With respect to
dates, experience in SCARP Khairpur suggests that where drainage is provided,
the area under date orchards increases, and this trend has been assumed for
the project area.
6.03      Without the project, in the undrained areas an increasing proportion
of the land would not be cultivated, the area double cropped would increase,
and the proportion of less profitable crops such as pulses, sorghum and
fodders would iacrease in relation to cotton, wheat and sugarcane. In 10,000
ac which at present receives nearly full rabi water supplies, a substantial
increase in the waterlogged and saline land area and consequent reduction
in wheat and cotton acreages would occur before 1990. In the remaining
26,000 ac at present undrained, where the first rabi water supplies will be
available after commissioning of Tarbela Dam, the main reduction in wheat



- 26 -
and cotton acreage would occur after 1990. Changes in cropped area in the
three different parts of the project area, up through 1990, are estimated as
follows (Annex 16):
Area Under Crops ('000 ac)
Land Not Yet Drained            Land Already Drained
(10,000 ac)        (26,000 ac)          (8,000 ac)
Rabi Water         Rabi Water           Rabi Water
Supplied         to be Supplied    to be Supplied
At Present        in Near Future    in Near Future
P     W       W     P      W      W     P          WW
Cotton                    1.9   1.1    2.6   5.5   1.9   7.8   2.8   2.6    2.8
Wheat                     2.2   1.5    4.3   4.0   6.0  11.5   1.4   1.7    2.3
Sugarcane                 0.0   0.3    1.2   0.0   0.1   3.1   0.0   1.0    1.0
Pulses                    1.2   1.7    0.3   0.1   2.8   0.7   0.3   0.3    0.3
Others                    5.4   5.0    4.2   8.0  11.0   9.5   3.8   2.6    2.9
Total                    10.7   9.6   12.6  17.6  21.8  32.6   8.3   8.2    9.3
As % of CCA /a           115%  106%   147%   69%   86%  146%  108%  121%   138%
Note:  P - Present; W - 1990 without the project; W - 1990 with the project.
/a  Perennial crop areas are counted twice in computing the cropping
intensity (%).
Expected Yields and Production
6.04      Modern technologies are already being adopted by the better farmers,
asnd suitable new varieties have been established in the area. Higher yield-
ing grain sorghum, however, would probably replace the present dual-purpose
grain-fodder variety. The projected yields of various crops (averaged for
the project area) are estimated as follows:
Crop Yields (md/ac)
Increment
Present   Without Project    With Project  ("with"-"without")
Cotton             12              21                25                  4
Wheat               15             22                35                 13
Sorghum             6              21                35                 14
Paddy              15              15                 15                 0
Sugarcane         200             700               700                  0
Dates              90             175               175                  0
Oilseeds             6             14                 20                 6
Pulses               6              6                  8                 2



- 27 -
6.05      Past experience in Pakistan suggests that the attainment of the
full yield increase would take about ten years, with one-third attained
five years after project completion. In view of the proposed change in
the approach to agricultural extension, this is probably conservative. On
this basis, it is estimated that fertilizer use in the project area would
increase from 535 nutrient lg tons to about 3,860 nutrient lg tons per year
at full development. Use of pesticides is projected to increase to about
400 lg tons per year.
6.06      Annual production of major crops under the project would increase
as follows:
Crop Production ('000 lg tons)
Increment
Present    Without Project    With Project  ("with"-"without")
Cotton            4.5           4.4                12.1               7.7
Wheat             4.3            7.5               23.3              15.8
Sorghum           0.9           2.7                 3.1              0.4
Paddy             2.8            3.3                0                -3.3
Sugarcane         0.7          34.7               136.4             101.7
Dates             5.2          10.9                22.2              11.3
Oilseeds          0.1           0.4                 2.5               2.1
Pulses            0.3            1.1                0.4              -0.7
Production at full development would yield a surplus of cereals and oilseeds.
The additional cotton produced would be ginned locally, yielding about 2,500
lg tons additional lint. Roughly 30% of the future sugarcane production in
the project area is expected to be sold at the mill and would yield about
2,700 lg tons of refined sugar.
Market Prospects
6.07      Prospects for the major commodities are linked to international
markets. Cotton lint, yarn, and cloth, in part, would be exported, and sur-
plus grains, refined sugar, oilseeds and dates would help offset imports.
Pakistan is expected to increase domestic fertilizer production. By the time
this project is completed, it is expected to be about self sufficienct in
nitrogenous fertilizers, however, some 55% of its requirements for phosphorus,
and the entire requirement for potassium fertilizers will continue to be
imported. The analyses of future markets and prices for these and domestically
traded commodities are given in Annex 17.
6.08      The marketing system in the area is well developed.  The annual
volume of grain sales in nearby markets exceeds 500,000 lg tons. The ten existing
ginneries in Khairpur have sufficient capacity to handle the increase from
the project area without difficulty. Road and rail communications are ade-
quate.



- 28 -
Prices
b.09      For internationally traded items (cotton, cereals, sugar, vegetable
oils, and crop chemicals), future price trends are based on the Bank's 1985
world market projections. For other crops future prices are based on present
levels and historic trends of local prices. All are expressed in terms of
constant currency, using December 1975 prices as the base. Prices for the
farm budget analyses take into account prevailing taxes, subsidies, and
other Government controls discussed below. Prices for the economic analysis
reflect the opportunities for potential export earnings and import savings
which could be realized at projected world market prices using the shadow
exchange rate of US$1 = Rs 11 (Annex 17).
6.10      The Government currently regulates domestic prices of major com-
modities through import/export restrictions, procurement and fixed release
prices which insulate the domestic market from international price increases
and in some cases stimulate shifts in farm output. In 1974, the Government
maintained a procurement price for wheat at Rs 25.50 per maund, which was
about 70% less than the farmer could have received through the world market.
Duty on cotton exports averaged about 35%. Sugar mills purchased cane at an
average of about Rs 4.40 per maund, 65% less than the farm gate equivalent
of the current world market price. At the same time, the Government subsidized
crop inputs by about 30% and regulated retail prices of flour, sugar and
vegetable oils.
6.11      The anticipated declines in World Market prices and further relax-
ation of some Government controls before 1980 would bring international and
domestic price levels closer. In view of the Government's development ob-
jectives and recent price changes needed to stimulate farm production increases
(para 2.02), in the financial analysis future regulated prices for wheat and
vegetable oils are about 30% below the levels derived from projected World
Market prices. For cotton and refined sugar, future financial prices are
at levels derived from World Market prices using future export tax rates which
are somewhat lower than at present.
Farm Incomes
6.12      Most farms in the project area are subsistence oriented, consuming
most of their own grain, pulse and vegetable produce, and marketing for cash
a little cotton, wheat, oilseeds, and, in some cases, livestock products.
Generally, only owners of more than 15 ac have date orchards, which are
grown under contract for cash. A few big land owners have tractors which
they hire out to others. Livestock is raised primarily for farm work.
Present average net farm income in the project area is about Rs 350 per ac,
well below the national average.
6.13      Net income from subsistence and cash crops would increase at about
the same rate under the project, and small and large farms, therefore, would
benefit in roughly the same proportion (Annex 15). For three farm models,
one (sub-marginal) oriented towards subsistence crops (5 ac), the average



- 29 -
farm (10 ac), and one oriented towards cash crops (25 ac), annual net farm
incomes, including the value of produce consumed on the farm, would increase
as follows:
Annual ,let I.ncome
(In Constant Currency, December 1975)
Farm Size              Present       Future          Increase
(ac)                (Rs)          (Rs)             (%)
5                 2,200          9,600             440
10                 3,400         19,300             570
25                12,900         73,600             570
Anout 70% of the increase in each case results from production increases
due to the project and about 30% from the projected changes in prices
(paras 2.02 and 6.11). Cash payments for hired labor and inputs and average
annual 0 & M and capital recovery costs for irrigation and drainage are
deducted.
6.14      Off-farm wage earnings are usually small since landless laborers
in the area are plentiful and the area labor supply exceeds the demand. A
family of six persons usually can provide the peak November cultivation re-
quirements for a farm as large as 12 ac. At full development, farm labor
requirements would be twice as great (Annex 4). The 5 ac farm household
would no longer have as much labor to spare for wage labor outside the farm
and would incur a net loss in yearly off-farm wage earnings of about Rs 500,
after taking into account the overall under-employment in the area. House-
holds with 10 ac or more would have to hire additional labor and net wage
costs would increase by about Rs 2,400 for the 10 ac farm and by about
Rs 6,000 for the 25 ac farm.
6.15      Excluding increases due to inflation and to relative price changes,
net incomes from farm production and field wages would increase about three
times for small, subsistence-oriented farms and about four times for large,
cash-oriented farms. Tenants' incomes would increase by the same factors
but remain at levels estimated at about 40% of land holders' incomes. Future
net farm income per ac, including GOP price policy effects and net of proj-
ect recovery costs, would be about Rs Rs 1,900, about 40% greater than the na-
tional average assuming overall growth in the agriculture sector at about
5% per year and therefore the proposed increase in water charges is well
within the farmers' capability to pay.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Anticipated Overall Effects
7.01      The proposed project would increase farm production and double
employment opportunities for landless families in the area. Moreover, the
experience and information gained from this project could be directly



- 30 -
transfered to other areas, covering several million acres in the Indus
Basin, where similar constraints on development exist.
Crop Production
7.02      Future incremental production would represent the following gross
annual foreign exchange savings and earnings (in constant dollars, December
1975):
Net Incremental      Projected       Foreign Exchange
Production        1985 Price      Savings/Earnings
('000 lg tons)       (cif/fob)        (US$ million)
Cereals                      12.3          $200/lg ton           2.5
Cotton lint                   2.5          $0.47/lb              2.6
Refined sugar                 2.7          $0.16/lb              1.0
Vegetable oil                 1.4          $230/lg ton            .3
Total                                                 6.4
After deducting the annual foreign exchange costs of fertilizers, pesticides,
equipment spares and replacements, the net annual foreign exchange savings/
earnings attributable to the project would amount to about US$5.8 M. The
total value added to Pakistan's economy, taking into account the annual
production of dates and other crops, less the costs of production inputs,
would amount to about Rs 110 M net equivalent annually.
Employment Opportunities
7.03      Under the project, annual field labor requirements would double
from about 1.1 million man-days at present to about 2.4 million man-days
at full development. This would mean an increase from 37% to 47% of
expected labor availability in the area (Annex 4). Without the project, the
level of employment would remain about the same but because of the popula-
tion growth the overall employment rate would fall gradually to about 22%.
The project, therefore, would result directly in a 100% increment in rural
employment opportunities. Landless families would be the prime beneficiaries,
since excess farm family labor would be largely taken up with the increased
farm work loads. Furthermore, production increases under the project would
stimulate additional wage-earning opportunities in the local cotton gins,
processing industries, mills, and market centers.
household Income Effects
7.04      Within the project area, farmer families earning enough to cover
subsistence requirements (at present about 30% of national average per capita
income) would increase from about 40% to about 65% of the total.   Other
families would remain largely dependent on wage earnings from work in the
ginneries, mills and nearby towns. Although the number of landless residents
will increase along with the population growth, by full development owners



- 31 -
and tenants will still comprise over 60% of project area families. Con-
sequently, the majority of the families would realize the anticipated
increases in farm income and taking into account the increase in landless wage
opportunities, the project would directly improve the earning capacities of
more than 85% of all project households.
Economic Rate of Return
7.05      The project's economic rate of return is estimated to be about 17%
(Annex 18) based on the following assumptions:
(a) a construction period of five years;
(b) full agricultural development reached ten years
after completion of construction;
(c) excluding the cost of technical assistance, which
would contribute also to long-term development in
other areas, and the residual value of construction
equipment;
(d) all farm labor (including family labor) costed at an
average rate of Rs 7 per man-day, 50% of the peak
market wage; construction labor valued at the market
wage (Annex 4);
(e) foreign exchange valued at the rate of US$1 = Rs 11
(para 6.09), and
(f) all costs and prices expressed in terms of constant
currency, excluding price increases due solely to
inflation.
Other important benefits, such as increases in trade and induced employment
in nearby cotton gins and mills due to production increases in the project
area, are not included in the analysis.
7.06      The sensitivity of the estimated rate of return to construction and
cultivation risks and to changes in prices and other assumptions is as fol-
lows:



- 32 -
Estimated
Rate of Return
(a)  that a sugar mill is not built at Kot Diji;                   15%
(b)  increase in construcLion costs of 15%o;                       15%0r
(c)  decrease in future prices of farm crops of 15%;               15%/.
(d)  increaste in costs of crop inputs of 15%;                     17%
se)  combination of (a) and (c);                                   13%
(f)  combination of (a), (c), and (d);                             11%
(g)  farm labor valued at the peak wage for
hired labor (Rs 10 per man-day -- Rs 14 in
1975 terms)                                                   16%
Environmental Impact
7.07      The proposed project would alleviate soil salinity in the area,
and would reduce waterlogged areas which are breeding grounds for mosquitoes.
Use of agricultural chemicals, and, in particular, pesticides at present lev-
els does not present a pollution hazard. The materials are distributed by
agents and used by farmers who are aware of the toxic risks. In the future,
suitable pesticides would be applied under close supervision of spraying
operations to eliminate hazards to operators. Under the guidance of the
extension services, the frequency and location of pest control operations
would be limited to areas that require it.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreement has been reached with GOP and GOSind on the following
poinuts:
(a)  they would make adequate and timely budgetary provisions
in amounts in line with the project implementation
estimates, which are to be prepared by WAPDA (SZ) and
transmitted annually to IDA, to cover their shares
of the project construction, land leveling, and
agriculture implementation costs (paras 4.21 & 4.23);
,Q . n ^ __ reemenet has 're.n .bt incd from GOP that:
(a)  sulfate-resistant cement would be made available to
WAPDA in sufficient quantities as and when required
to meet project requirements (para 4.06);



- 33 -
(b) the power to operate each new pump station would be
supplied upon completion of each station in phase
with the project construction schedule and require-
ments (para 4.07);
(c) the General Manager, WAPDA (SZ), would prepare an
annual implementation schedule for the project, sup-
ported by maps and descriptions of activities, together
with budgetary estimates required for the upcoming
financial year for dispatch to IDA by December 31 of
each year (para 4.21);
(d) the goods and services to be imported out of the proceeds
of the credit would be used exclusively for this project
during the construction phase and that after construction
is completed WAPDA (SZ) would give to SI & PD such equipment
as needed and agreed by IDA for the 0 & M of project works
(para 4.24);
(e) separate accounts would be established and maintained
for the project by the Project Directorate; these accounts
would be audited annually by an independent auditor;
accounts of commercial bank loans to fanrers and to farmer
contractors in the project area would be identifiable and
audited annually; and copies of both the audit reports
would be sent to IDA within six months of the close
of each fiscal year (para 4.28);
(f) an appropriate cost accounting system acceptable to
IDA for monitoring unit costs of alternative con-
struction methods would be established within six
months after the credit is signed (para 4.29);
(g) up to forty 60 to 65 hp tractors with suitable land leveling
implements would be made available within the shortest
practicable time and special priority for their purchases
would be given to local applicants certified by the Project
Director for work primarily in the project area (para 5.07);
(h) participating commercial banks would provide land leveling
credit to farmers under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA (para 5.12);
(i) the WAPDA through its central project monitoring organization
would carry out benchmark surveys, starting with the project
area, and, with the assistance of the SCARP Khairpur
Agricultural Wing, to monitor agricultural, social and
economic changes brought about by this project (para 5.17).



- 34 -
8.03      Agreement has been obtained from GOSind that:
(a) upon completion of canal remodelling, annual water
supply increases expected to be about 130,000 ac-ft
would be allotted for the project area and the Patni
Distributary would be redesignated as a perennial canal
so as to carry water supplies in the rabi as well as in
the kharif (para 4.17);
(b) in phase with the implementation schedule, the GOSind
would undertake to complete the acquisition of the
construction rights of way for the drainage system
and canal remodeling (para 4.19);
(c) agricultural extension activities and associated existing
establishment, transport, and equipment in Rohri taluka
would come under the authority of the SCARP Khairpur Agricul-
tural Wing before March 31, 1977 (para 5.03);
(d) pesticide supplies in suitable formulations would be
made available to project area farmers to meet future
increases in demand in the project area (para 5.09);
(e) the GOSind would make adequate and timely 0 & M budgetary
provisions to keep the project irrigation and drainage
facilities in good working order and that it would furnish
to IDA each year an annual report giving the current and
projected 0 & M costs and budgetary provisions (para 5.16);
(f) within one year after completion of the project, land
in the project area would be placed in the category
carrying the highest permissible level of water charges
under the prevailing conditions (para 5.23);
(g) in 1978, 1983 and 1988 the level of water charges in Sind
will be raised so that by 1988 the water charges would
cover the full annual costs of 0 & M for the irrigation
and drainage system and, in addition, would recover, in
the project area, a reasonable portion of project irrigation
works  investment,       at present estimated at Rs 45
per acre (para 5.23).
8.04      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) a consulting firm with experience in tile drainage,
irrigation, and agricultural extension had been
appointed on terms and conditionssatisfactory to IDA
(para 4.04);



- 35 -
(b) a Project Coordinating Committee composed of representatives
from all the agencies responsible for the different aspects
of project implementation had been formed and was operating
under terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para 5.04).
8.05      With the above agreements and conditions of effectiveness, the
proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$14 million under
standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
June 14, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUTR II)
SCARP - Khairpur (Khairpur I Project)
Location
1.        The first attempt in the Sind to lower the water table and to con-
trol the increase in soil salinization was carried out in parts of the two
Khairpur Feeder Canal Commands. The project, begun in 1965, comprised some
380,000 ac of cultivable command area (CCA), cost Rs 157 million (US$33 mil-
lion equivalent), and was assisted by IDA Credit No. 22-PAK for US$18 mil-
lion. The physical works were completed in 1970. The area of the project
and surrounding areas is shown on Map No. 11527.
2.        The site was chosen because of its need for drainage and the fact
that it could be done by tubewells. Thus, a strip of land approximately
3 mi wide and 20 mi long, along the Rohri Hills, had to be excluded because
aquifer conditions were unsuitable for tubewells. (This is now included in
the present proposed Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
project (Khairpur II).)
Project Components
3.        The physical works of the completed project consist of:
--   540 tubewells, of which 217 pump fresh water fit
for reuse;
--   342 mi of drains and disposal channels;
--   bridges, culverts, syphons, diversion structures,
etc.;
an electrical distribution system to service the
tubewells and the pumping stations,
three major pumping stations to dispose of saline
effluents into the Rohri canal.
1/   Salinity Control and Reclamation Project.                                 36



ANNEX 1
Page  2
The project included no component to improve water conveyance and field
irrigation efficiencies.  In contrast to the proposed Khairpur II project,
the 217 sweet-water wells provide the only irrigation supplies in addition
to the Indus River water supplies already conveyed into the area by the
Feeder Canals. The project has lowered the water table from an average
of less than 4 ft to around 10 ft, where it is now being maintained.
Agricultural Progress
4.        Cropped Area, Yields and Production.  Table 1 shows the area, yield
and production of the major crops in 1960-61, the situation expected by the
Appraisal Mission on project completion and the actual achievement in 1973/74.
The table shows that yield and cropped area expectations at Appraisal were
exceeded in most cases. Had the tubewells not lowered the water table
(para 3), the area would have lagged behind the rest of the country in in-
creasing yields. With drainage installations, on the other hand, the "green
revolution' and the general advance in crop husbandry technology enabled this
area to advance above the average. Although the cropping intensity, which
was expected to rise from 89% to 121%, only rose to 94%, overall production
exceeded the appraisal estimates.
5.        Reclamation.  Some 90,000 ac, of which about 50,000 ac previously
were cultivated were identified as being so waterlogged and saline that cul-
tivation was impossible; project implementation has confirmed that lowering
the water table and simple leaching enabled complete reclamation in about
three years, a relatively short time. This area needed special leaching
due to salts having accumulated in the crop root zones where it was affecting
yields. The part previously cultivated is now fully suitable for cropping
under irrigation with small annual allowance for periodic leaching. Of the
land previously uncultivated, by 1974 only about 2,000 ac had been reclaimed.
The total land area now cultivated is about 340,000 ac.
Economic Benefits
6.        Based on an appraised cost of Rs 149 million and the projected
yields and cropped areas shown in Table 1, the appraisal estimated an eco-
nomic benefit/cost ratio of 34% based on a three-year construction period
and a five-year development period. The project works were completed over
a four-year period at a cost about 5% over the appraisal estimates. The
first group of wells started operating in April 1967 and all 540 wells were
in operation from 1970. By 1974, production in the area had reached the
levels also shown in Table 1. For the major crops (wheat, cotton and
sorghum) the levels are from 65% to 90% over the appraisal estimates. For
rice and dates, the levels are as appraised, and only for sugarcane and oil-
seeds are production levels below expectations. In terms of constant cur-
rency, the economic rate of return of the completed project, taking into
account the cost overrun and delayed implementation as well as the increase
in agricultural production, is over 25%.
37



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Project Execution and Management
7.        The executing authority of the project was WAPDA (then working
as a single unit in the whole of West Pakistan) assisted by consultants who
had the function of Resident Engineers. On completion, management passed to
the Land and Water Development Board until the breaking up of One Unit 1/
and then to the Sind Irrigation and Power Department who are in charge of it
at present. The Resident Engineers maintained a small team of consultants
until 1971 which assisted in preparing an Operation Manual; the successor
team produced a supplement to this manual that incorporated experiences
and desirable modifications to operating procedures suggested by about two
years of actual operation. The manuals contain complete job descriptions
of all cadres of staff. They form the basis of the present project operation
and are being followed as closely as budgetary restraints allow. Civil,
mechanical, and electrical engineers and reclamation and crop husbandry
specialists worked closely with SI&PD counterparts providing training to
ensure the passing on of design, operating and maintenance know how for smooth
operation in the future.
8.        As part of the project, a housing, office and working complex
that supplies all the needs of the operating and administrative staff has
been built south of Khairpur Mir's town.
Staffing
9.        The day-to-day management of the project is the task of a Project
Director who reports to the Chief Engineer, Development Planning, in the
Sind Irrigation Department. His management organization is as follows:
1.   Project Director
2.   Executive Engineer --  Operations Division
3.   Four Sub-Divisional Officers
2.   Executive Engineer - Distribution Division
3.   Four Sub-Divisional Officers
2.   Executive Engineer -- Workshop Division
3.   Three Sub-Divisional Officers
1/   The name given to the unitary government of West Pakistan, abolished
in 1970.
38



ANNEX 1
Page 4
2.   Deputy Director of Agriculture
3.   Extra -- Assistant Director of Agriculture
4.   Two Sector Officers
5.   Eighteen Agricultural Assistants
3.   Agricultural Chemist
3.   Agronomist
3.   Assistant Information Officer
10.       Matters concerning canal operations within the SCARP area are in
the hands of the Superintendent Engineer, Khairpur Canals Division. The
SCARP management are consulted on operational matters but do not have execu-
tive authority. The agricultural staff at present carry out all normal ex-
tension service functions in parts of Kot Diji and Khairpur talukas east of
SCARP boundaries, within the proposed Khairpur II project.
11.       Khairpur II Coverage.  As the proposed project is barely one tenth
the size of SCARP Khairpur and because the SCARP organization contains every
discipline needed by the proposed project, it would be adequate to strengthen
the SCARP organization at the middle management level to enable it to cope
with the increased task devolving on it.
Operation and Maintenance
12.       The SCARP's 1973/74 annual budget amounted to about Rs 8 million,
or approximately Rs 24 per ac (net cultivated). This did not provide for
imported spare parts for tubewells and other facilities nor did it provide
adequately for the routine maintenance and inspection that was considered
necessary when the operation manuals were compiled (para 7). Following
project completion in 1971, during a period of serious foreign exchange
shortages in Pakistan, SCARP management was not able to replenish its
stock of essential tubewell spares. This resulted in having to gradually
abandon routine inspection and preventive maintenance of the wells. As of
November 1974, some 25 of them had been out of action for some time. Al-
though at present, partly assisted by 1974/75 being an exceptionally dry
year, the water table is under control, there is fear that it will soon
rise again unless the full complement of wells become operable. The pro-
posed project would provide US$200,000 to make up the foreign exchange
backlog and to provide the SCARP authorities with a working inventory of
spares.
13.       Some eight 60-hp agricultural tractors were purchased for SCARP
Khairpur in 1971, to be available on rent for farmers to do mainly land
development work. Through lack of local funds, these machines have never
been commissioned. Therefore, GOP has been requested to sell them to
farmers or contractors within SCARP Khairpur or Khairpur II area, so
39



ANNEX 1
Page 5
that, through them, they would make them available to small farmers on
hire for tillage and land leveling work.
14.       The cost of adequate operation and maintenance is roughly esti-
mated at Rs 10 million (Rs 30 per ac). This includes the annual costs of
imported spare parts used in repairing tubewells and for staff and oper-
ating costs for the full routine maintenance and inspection envisaged in
the operating manual.
Cost Recovery
15.       The Appraisal Report noted that GOP intended to undertake reclama-
tion of all saline-affected lands in the Indus Basin and that the costs of
such works would be spread uniformly over all irrigated lands. The GOP
regards drainage not as an improvement but simply as a measure to restore
land to its former productivity and, therefore, has never changed directly
benefitting farmers for drainage investments. In its view, unsuitable sub-
soil conditions causing high groundwater and salinity in any particular area
are beyond the farmers' control. Under the circumstances, such an arrange-
ment is in line with the Bank Group's policy that benefit taxes aim at
achieving a balance between encouraging efficient water use, securing a
degree of income redistribution and promoting public savings.
16.       Under Section 2.04 of the 1962 Project Agreement the Government
is committed to the following:
(a) making arrangements providing for all irrigation users
in Pakistan to repay the monies invested in the project
together with reasonable interest thereon; and
(b)  after the reclamation period, setting up and maintaining
rates at levels which would provide revenues sufficient
to cover all project operating and maintenance costs.
17.       In 1969, just prior to completion of the project works, Pakistan
increased water rates by about 30% throughout the then West Pakistan, more
than sufficient to recover the project costs within a 30 year period. In
1972, before project land reclamation was completed, GOSind changed the
basis for water rate payments from a variable rate related to crops grown
to a flat rate related to water allocation. By existing law, GOSind may
not change either the water rates or the land productivity classifications
(the Produce Index Units - PIUs), both of which determine the amount of
water charges for each holding, for another five years, i.e. until 1978.
The Produce Index Units for project lands have not been changed since they
were introduced in 1948, even thoug,h subsequent waterlogging and salinity
have caused their productivity tc decline. Under the present structure,
therefore, reclamation of project land would not change its classification.
18.       By 1978, when GOSind can next revise the rate structure, pro,ect
reclamation would be fully completed. The Project Agreement is not clear
40



ANNEX 1
Page 6
whether rates throughout the Province or only in the project area should
be set at levels sufficient to cover operation and maintenance (O & M)
costs or how soon after the reclamation period new rates should be set.
In 1978, however, GOSind could arrange to increase water charges to cover
the 0 & M costs (presently estimated at Rs 30 per ac over the project
area), which would be within the capacity of project farmers alone to pay.
The GOSind could accomplish the increase in water charges in the project area
in a non-discriminatory way by introducing new land classifications within
the structure, so that project lands could be appropriately reclassified,
and adjusting the PIUs and water rates throughout the Sind. Similar
arrangements would be required for the proposed Khairpur II project.
June 1976
41



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DE   OPMENT PROJECT (KHAItPUR II)
Fbrecasts and Achievemn.ts SCARP Kh a ur project
Forecast by
Actual., 1960-61            Appraisal Mission             Actual 1973-74
Area   Yield   Production   Area   Yield   Production   Area   Yield   Production
(,000 ac)(md/ac) (,OOO tons)(,000 ac)(md/ac) (,OOO tons)(,000 ac)(md/ac) (,000 tons)
Rice                           15.3    12          6.8      15.3    20         11.3       15.1   20.5        11.4
Cotton                         40.7      6         9.0      63.3    12         27.9       93.4   14.0        48.o
Sorghum                        35.4      9        11.7      31.5    12         13.9       44.7   13.8        22.7
Thtal kharif area         122.6     -            -     171.8     -            -     204.4       -
Oilseeds                       14.7      6         3.2      50.7      9        16.8        7.0    9.5         2.4
Wheat                          75.7    12         33.4      76.1    20         56.o       13.9   20.5        10.5
Total rabi area          171.5                        233.1                         227.8
Total cropped area            282.6                        384.3                         400.5
Project area CCA              318.0                        318.0                         376.0
Intensity of cultivation       89.0                        121.0                          94.0
1/  Double counting orchards and sugarcane                                                                               t -



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Khairpur II)
Project Area Climatic Data
1.  Temperature (°F)                                        4.  Cloud Cover (in tenth)
Mean Maximum   96  in June                                   Maximum    2.1  in July
Mean Minimum   58  in January                                Minimum    0.2  in January
Annual Mean    80                                            Mean        1.3
Extreme Ranges 82-120 in June
27-62 in January
2.  Relative Humidity (%)                                   5.  Sunshine (hours)
Maximum        77  in July-September                         Maximum   10.5  (May)
Minimum        54  in April                                  Minimum    8.6  (December)
Mean           65                                            Mean        9.4
3.  Dewpoint ( 0F)                                          6.  Rainfall (inches)
July           85                                            Average 1897-1964      2.56
January        45                                            Maximum recorded      11.93
Below 1"                 13   years
Months of rainfall   August, July
7. Wind Speed
Maximum  191    miles/day in June
Minimum   55       "     "  in December
Mean     103.6    "    "i
( p.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION
FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Project Area Evaporation Data in Inches
1/                                                 1/
Rabi                    Evaporation                Kharif                  Evaporation
Monthly  Daily Rate                                Monthly  Daily Rate
October               6.3        .203              April                 8.2        .273
November              3.6        .120              May                   9.5         .306
December              2.7        .087              June                  9.9        .330
January               2.8        .090              July                 10.0         .323
February              3.7        .132              August                9.6         .310
March                 6.9        .223              September              7.9        .263
Total Rabi      26.0  (33%)                      Total Kharif       55.1 (67%)
ANNUAL TOTAL, 81.1 inches
1/ Observation from U.S. Weather Bureau Class A Pan.
44



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKI STAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Soils and the Need for Drainage
Soils and Soil Surveys
1.        Soil characteristics and crop yields in the portions of the
project area not affected by waterlogging and salinity compared with soils
and yields elsewhere in the Sind indicate that the project area has an
equally high development potential. The soils range from sands and loamy
sands to clay loams and light clays. Medium textured soils predominate
and are suitable for a wide range of crops.
2.        Most of the soils are slightly-to-moderately calcareous and slightly
alkaline. The clays consist mainly of illitic (i.e. non-swelling) complexes
and amorphous material intermixed in places with some montmorrilonitic
(swelling) clays. The water holding capacities are moderate to high for
the textural class and water erosion is minimal. The finer soils have a
weak subangular structure; the coarser soils are structureless. Organic
matter and nitrogen contents are low, phosphate is moderate and potash
generally high. Cation exchange capacities are moderate. Calcium sulfate
(gypsum) occurs in some of the soils. Infiltration and permeability rates
are moderate-to-high, but the soils are poorly drained because of lack of
outlets for the groundwater. The proximity of the groundwater to the
soil surface and inadequate irrigation supplies have resulted in widespread
salinization. However, the soils are highly resistant to alkali hazards,
and an estimated 95% of the salt-affected lands are readily reclaimed by
simple leaching techniques, without additives.
3.        The soils have formed mostly from relatively homogeneous alluvium
deposited by the Indus River system. Changes in the course of the river,
floods and wind have created mixed patterns of deposition. About 10% of the
soils of the project area, namely those adjacent to limestone hills to the
east of the project, consist of shallow gravelly soils formed of piedmont
alluvium. As the soil forming factors -- temperature, rainfall, vegetation,
micro-organisms, relief, erosion and human activity -- have modified these
alluviums only slightly, most of the soils are immature and lack well-
defined profile characteristics.
4.        No detailed soil survey has been carried out.  The reconnaissance
survey of the Khairpur area, made in 1961, covered the project area. It
was mainly concerned with textural characteristics based on mode of deposi-
tion. However, these are not necessarily associated with productive
capacity, constraints such as salinity or waterlogging, or cost and benefit
45



ANNEX 3
Page 2
of development and/or reclamation. Hence, the available information needs
to be augmented. Information is needed on the location, extent and severity
of waterlogging, Boil salinity and sand layers or other anomalies which
might affect drainage, reclamation or productivity. Soil borings should be
made on a grid at one-quarter mile intervals (16 per sq mi, one per 40 ac)
to a depth of at least 2 meters (6.6 ft) with one sample per square mile
to a depth of 3 meters (10 ft). Samples should be analyzed for salinity.
One profile per square mile (preferably those bored to 3 m depth) should
be completely analyzed for: pH; salinity; cation exchange capacity; ex-
changeable sodium content, and any other important characteristics. Due
to the variable nature of the water table, note should be made of the dates
when groundwater observations were taken. Detailed notes of topography,
crop growth, management factors and other aspects which might affect crop
production or project development are essential.
Soil Salinity
5.        Salinity is everywhere in the project area, and is apparent in
localized irregular patches of a few square yards to several acres. The LIP,
on the basis of only 62 bore holes dug in 1961 on approximately 40,000
ac, (one per square mile) divided the soils into two broad groups: (1)
non-saline to modertately salt-affected (ECe less than 16), (2) severely
salt-affected (ECe is 16 or more), as follows:
Salinity Class       Surface Meter         Subsoil
(ECe in mmhos/cm)   (No)       (%)      (No)   (%)
0-4              17       27       26    42
4-8             24        39        18    29
8-16            14        23       11    18
16+               7        11        7    11
6.        On the basis of these data, they put 89% of the soils in Group 1
and 11% in Group 2. According to independent mission estimates made in
November 1974, no less than 30% of the project area is sufficiently saline
to affect crop growth and, of this, about half is so saline as to preclude
profitable crop production.
7.        A saline soil contains sufficient soluble salts on the soil
surface and in the root zone to affect germination and suppress plant
growth. According to the US Salinity Laboratory, a saline soil has an
ECe value of more than 4 millimhos. Their classification was derived from
field trials in a highly developed agricultural technology and in sample
areas where, as far as could be ascertained, only salinity was a constraint
to production. At existing levels of crop management practices in Sind,
an ECe of 8 to 10 would seem to be a better dividing line between non-
saline and salt-affected soils.
46



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        No useful data are available regarding the extent and severity of
alkali soils in the project area. Mission estimates are that less than 5%
of the area would be classified as alkali, and that the problem is not
serious.
9.        The saline soils can be reclaimed relatively easily by leaching
(i.e., bunding and flooding) with from one to perhaps three feet of water,
once drainage facilities are provided to collect and dispose of the saline
effluent. The alkali soils probably would require chemical amendment for
reclamation such as gypsum, in addition to leaching.
Topography and Land Use
10.       The land surface is gently undulating with average slopes to the
west and south of about 1:5,000; however the field grades vary appreciably.
Since the land has been under irrigation for over 40 years, a considerable
amount of coarse leveling has been done. However, fine leveling is needed
in much of the area to enable reasonably efficient use of water and control
of salinity. In some 4,500 ac adjacent to the limestone hills, the soils
are mostly shallow, and consist of gravelly colluvium. Soils of the majority
of the area are derived from river alluvium. Organic matter and nitrogen
contents are low, phosphate is moderate and potash is adequate. All the
soils are calcareous, and are slightly to moderately alkaline, and some
contain gypsum. Infiltration and permeability rates are generally satis-
factory for both irrigation and drainage.
11.       Land use in the project area is estimated to be as follows:
Cultivable Commanded Area (CCA);   44,000 ac (approx.)
Cropped area;                       37,090 ac,  86% of CCA.
Single cropped area;                25,840 ac, 56% of CCA.
Double cropped area;                11,250 ac,  30% of CCA.
Culturable waste;.                  17,350 ac, 40% of CCA.
Culturable waste, i.e. land which has not been cropped for three seasons or
more, is either too undulating or too severely salinized to be cultivated at
present.  Before the cropped area can be increased significantly, the
culturable waste will either have to be leveled, or desalinized, or both.
Medium-scale mechanized earthmoving by heavy duty equipment, followed by
fine leveling, would be required for some 15% to 20% of the CCA.
47



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Waterlogging
12.       Despite the inadequacy of irrigation supplies, 65% to 70% is lost
from the distribution system and in fields. A large part of this seeps
into the underlying aquifer. Since irrigation was introduced, seepage
has caused the water table to rise to the crop root zone, thereby adversely
affecting yields. In other places it has risen almost to the soil surface,
with the result that the land has to be abandoned. With the water table
close to the soil surface, capillary rise of groundwater is rapid (1 to 4 ft/
year) and upon its evaporation, the salts it contains are deposited in the
surface soil, giving rise to the salinity problem (paras 5-9).
June 1976
48



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAKISTAiN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Agricultural Labor Supply and Demand
Area Occupations
1.        Farms in the project area are all within a few hours walk or ride
from cotton gins, rice mills, major towns and trade centers, so the local
labor force is widely employed. An estimated 15% of the rural families are
involved entirely in non-farm occupations and more than 40% in addition,
primarily landless and small farm families, rely on non-farm employment for
a significant part of their annual incomes. Average wage rates for semi-
skilled and unskilled labor, therefore, are somewhat higher than wage rates
in most other rural areas, and seasonal wage fluctuations are at a minimum.
2.        The employment impact of this project on landless workers and
small farm wage earners can only be roughly assessed. Because of the proxi-
mity of transport routes and commercial centers, the rural and urban labor
forces are mobile and highly integrated. Employment levels in non-agricul-
tural activities and participation by landless and farm workers have not
been surveyed. In the absence of such information, the size of the agri-
cultural labor force is estimated from census figures for this area and
adjusted according to information from farm surveys in adjacent regions.
Prevailing wages paid to unskilled laborers in the local ginneries and mills
are taken into consideration in determining the marginal economic cost of
agricultural labor for the project because of the variety and number of
employment alternatives available to the agricultural population.
Agricultural Labor Supply
3.        Project Area Population.  According to the 1972 census preliminary
results, the project area population was about 42,300 persons, comprising
7,070 families with an average of 6.0 members each. The growth rate then
was an estimated 2.3% annually based on the national average growth rate
of 3.2% and an estimated urban growth rate of close to 6%. 1/ Present and
future population in the area is estimated using an average annual growth
1/   Census figures indicate the following population growth rates in the past.
Total               Urban
1931-41              1.8                  3.4
1941-51              1.8                  3.8
1951-61              2.3                  4.7
In 1961, urban population amounted to about 23% of the total.
49



ANNEX 4
Page 2
rate of 2.1% based on projected nation wide growth through 1990 averaging
3.i% annually. This projection assumes a decline in fertility of about 30%
between 1975 and 1985.
4.        Labor Force.  In 1972, 6,020 families in the project area were
involved in farming, including about 3,500 owners, 1,320 tenants, and 1,200
landless families. Aggregate statistics on the size of the agricultural
labor force in the area are not reliable, so estimates for this report are
based on the findings of farm surveys in other parts of the Sind and in the
Punjab. Married and single women generally participate in all farm field
activities except very heavy work such as cane harvesting. Based on the
farm surveys, about 2.9 adults (or their equivalent) are field workers out
of an average family of 6.0 members (para 12(c), Annex 15). The farm family
labor force in 1972, therefore, was about 14,000 adult workers or equivalent
and the landless labor force about 3,500 adult workers.
5.        Since the overall employment rate in the area is low and jobs
outside the area are numerous, nonresidents are assumed to participate to
a negligible extent in the project area labor force. However, in the rabi
season, nomadic herdsmen settle there temporarily and seek field work,
particularly during the wheat harvest. Information on the number of these
workers in the project area is not available, but for this analysis, it is
assumed they amount to an additional 5% of the labor force during peak months
in the rabi season.
6.        Monthly Labor Supply.  Monthly labor availability is assumed to
average about 20 days per adult during peak activity, based on the average
seven hour field day which is used in estimating the crop labor requirements.
The future size of the labor force and peak monthly labor supply are pro-
jected as follows:
Agricultural
Project Area    Labor Force       Peak Field Labor Supply
Population       (Permanent)    Rabi               Kharif
(persons)         (adults)       ('000 man-days/month)
1972        42,300             17,500         370               350
1975        45,000             18,600        390                370
1980        49,900             20,600         430               410
1985        55,400             22,900        480                460
1990        61,500             25,400         530               510
Agricultural Labor Demand
7.        Field Requirements.  Peak field activity occurs in the months of
October and November during cotton picking and land preparation for rabi
cultivation and again in April and May during the rabi wheat harvest. Under
50



ANNEX 4
Page 3
the project, field requirements in all months would about double. Estimates
of average monthly requirements over the project area are given in Table 1.
Annual demand with and without the project would be as follows:
Annual Field Labor Demand
('000 man-days)
Total     Family      Hired
Present                   1,100        840       260
Future without project   1,130         920       210
Future with project       2,400      1,470       930
Increment due to project 1,270         550       720
8.        Farmers and tenants in many cases exchange labor during periods
of peak activity. Only seldom is it on a cash basis. In addition, some
members of the farm labor force take non-farm employment which earns more
than the average cost of their hired labor replacements. These minor varia-
tions are assumed to have a negligible effect on the aggregate net increase
in field demand.
9.        Employment Alternatives.  Other than farm field work, the labor
force is involved in: (a) farm and home maintenance; (b) care of livestock
and processing of livestock products; (c) winnowing and processing of grain
and oilseeds, and (d) off-farm subsidiary employment in mills, ginneries,
transport, commerce and Government service. Of the women and children not
counted in the field labor force above, some are involved in the work in
categories (a) to (c). Thus, during the slack agricultural season, part of
the field labor force has alternative employment. Statistics on the number
and distribution of seasonal and permanent non-field employment opportunities,
however, is not available. For the purpose of this analysis, non-farm wage
levels are taken into consideration and the slack season field labor supply
is assumed to be about 25% less than the peak supply.
Project Employment Effects
10.       Farm employment opportunities would increase about 50% due to
the project. Without it, field labor demand would remain about the same
as the area becomes further waterlogged or saline, and, due to population
growth, future demand would amount to only about 22% of the expected labor
supply compared with 30% at present. After full development, annual field
labor demand would reach about 47% of the local supply. A large part of
the increase would be available to the landless workers as the farm field
requirements would double and compete with off-farm wage opportunities for
farm family members.
11.       Due to production increases amounting to about 15,000 lg tons of
grain and 3,000 lg tons of cotton lint under the project, peripheral employ-
ment in the processing industries and related marketing and transport would
51



ANNEX 4
Page 4
also increase. Fertilizer use in the area would increase from about 700 ig
tons to about 3,700 lg tons, reflecting greater manpower requirements in
the distribution of farm inputs.
12.       The fivefold increase in net farm incomes (Annex 15) would have
a significant multiplier effect on the local economy. Since after full
development most farm incomes would exceed subsistence requirements, much
of this increase would be in the form of disposable income. As a result,
employment opportunities in retail commerce and consumer services would
increase.
Prevailing Wage Rates
13.       Field labor wages in 1974 ranged between Rs 5 and Rs 11 per man-
day. Cotton pickers earned Rs 5 per md seed cotton, the equivalent of bet-
ween Rs 5 and Rs 8 per man-day, and hired workers at harvest time earned
about 1/20 of the wheat harvest or between Rs 7 and 11 per man-day. Semi-
permanent farm workers were hired for around Rs 300 per month, and permanent
workers at Rs 250 per month. The latter rate, equivalent roughly to Rs 10
per man-day (Rs 14 in 1975 terms), is used in valuing hired labor for the
farm budget analysis (Annex 15). Wage rates for unskilled labor in the local
cotton gins were less than Rs 10 per man-day, which was the ginnery rate
paid through labor contractors.
Marginal Economic Cost of Project Field Labor
14.       Most of the farm labor, particularly in the slack seasons, is
supplied without wages by family members. Wage labor at present is less
than 10% of farm field requirements (Table 3) and only about 60% of the pres-
ent total landless agricultural labor supply. Due to this overall under-
employment, therefore, the average opportunity cost of family labor is less
than the prevailing wage paid to workers hired during heavy field activity.
Nevertheless, because of the availability of some off-farm employment, their
average opportunity costs exceed the marginal value of their subsistence.
The overall economic cost of field labor comprises the sum of the labor costs
at various wage levels between these extremes. Total costs are estimated
on a monthly basis to reflect the seasonal variation in demand. However,
statistics on off-farm employment opportunities are not available, and the
scarcity of data on farm income levels and the labor force profile makes
the evaluation of economic shadow farm wage rates extremely subjective.
15.       The marginal economic cost of additional field labor required under
the project is determined in this analysis by comparing total labor costs
with and without the project on the basis of the hypothetical labor demand
curve, Figure 1, constructed using simplifying assumptions given below. The
curve is a plot of the estimated marginal economic wage as a function of
the labor demand/supply ratio and attempts to reflect the variation in wage
levels discussed above.
52



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(a) At minimum employment levels, the marginal economic wage
would be Rs 2.5 per man-day (Rs 3.6 in 1975 terms), 15%
of the maximum market rate, exceeding by Rs 2.0 the value
of additional consumption needed for a family member without
alternative employment to undertake field work (Annex 15);
(b) At a monthly employment level equivalent to maximum slack
season family labor requirements (30% of the full local
field labor supply), the marginal wage would be Rs 5 per
man-day (Rs 7 in 1975 terms), the minimum average market
rate taking into consideration available non-farm wages.
(c) At a monthly employment level corresponding to the present
peak employment level, 56% of the full local field labor
supply, the marginal wage would be equal to Rs 11 per man-
day (Rs 16 in 1975 terms), the maximum market rate.
16.       Based on the monthly demand estimates, sums of monthly labor costs
at all wage levels up to the marginal wage for with and without project con-
ditions are shown in Table 2. The incremental labor cost due to the project,
accordingly, amounts to Rs 4.7 million (Rs 6.7 million in 1975 terms), which
implies an overall shadow wage rate for additional project field labor of
Rs 4.70 per man-day (Rs 6.7 in 1975 terms).
June 1976
53



NMEX 4
Table 1
PAKKTSTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ({ARPp, T)
Agricultural Labor Supply and Demand
Average Field Labor Demand With and Without the Project 1/
llonth                 Field Demand                 Demand/Supgly Ratio
('000 man-days)               --------(%)2/
w           _                  w               _
January                 98           23                25                6
February               113           23                28               6
March                  109           25                27                6
April                  201           94                38               18
May                    229          116                45               23
June                    62           49                16               13
July                    62           18                16               5
August                  70           25                18                7
September               65           14                17               4
October                212          139                42               27
November               360          185                68              35
December               196           60                37              11
Annual Total         1,778          773
Increment in field labor requirements due to project:  1,005,000 man-days
Note:  W - After full project development.
W - In the future without the proposed project.
1/ On the basis of the cropping pattern with sugarcane.
2/ Assumes that supply in slack months (January-March,
June-September) is 75% of the peak supply as a result
of seasonal non-farm employment.
54



ANNEx 4
Table 2
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  (KHAIRPUR II)
Agricultural Labor SUpply and Demand
Marginal Economic Cost of Field Labor
With and  fLthout the Project
Sum of Labor Costs
Month          Marginal Economic Wage Level         at all Wage Levels
(Rs/man-day) 1/                  ('000 Rs)
w                   W             W               W
January             4.0                 2.6           235              40
February            4.5                 2.6           290              40
March               4.5                 2.6           290              40
April               6.5                 3.2           660             185
May                 7.7                 3.8           850             250
June                3.0                 2.9           115              90
July                3.0                 2.5           115              30
August              3.1                 2.6           135              40
September           2.9                 2.5           120              23
October             7.4                 4.4           775             352
November           13.2                 5.7         2,270             555
December            6.3                 2.0           625             100
Total annual labor cost:                            6,480           1,745
Annual economic cost of additional
field labor due to project development: Rs 4,735,000
Implicit average marginal economic wage: Rs 4.70/man-day
Note: W - After full project development.
W - In the future without the proposed project.
1/  Expressed in terms of 1974 Rupees.
55



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Agricultural Labor Supply and Demand
Estimate of Project Wage Labor Demand
Farm Size        Per Acre Annual Require-  Total Annual Rsquiroxaont
Distribution        ment For Wag e Labor            For Wage Labor
No. of       Area of  (See Annex 15, Table 4)          (44,000 ac)
Holdings      Holdings      P    W/O    W             P    W/O    W
(as % of total)          T an-day/acT             (000 man-dayi
(1) Under 7 ac
(use 5 ac model)             45            18          0     0      10           0     0    79.2
(2) 7 ac - 25 ac
(use 10 ac model)            49            52          4     4      20          91.5  91.5 457.6
(3) Over 25 ac
(use 1.3x25 ac model)         6            30         13     9      30         171.6 118.8 396.0
Total Annual Demand        263   210   933
Annual Supply           3,700 5,100 5,100
Demand/Supply (%)            7     4    18
ul                                                                                                                         w r
Fi 



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                            ANNEX
(KHAIRPUR II)                                   Figure 1
Agricultural Labor Supply and Demand
Marginal Economic Wage for Field Labor
16
15-
14-
1 3
1 2
1 0
Marginal    9
Economic
Wage         8
(Rs/man-day)
7
6
5
4
3
2
1      l
10   20    30    40    50    60    70   80    90   100
Field Labor Demand
As % of the Local Supply
VVordd Bank-9971 (R)
57



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Agricultural Development
Agriculture in Pakistan and in Sind Province
1.        Agriculture is the country's major industry, employing, directly
or indirectly, about 75% of its population. Some 46 M ac are cultivated, of
which 33.5 M ac are irrigated by canals originating from the five major rivers.
Some 13.5 N ac of canal commanded land is in the three barrage commands of
the Sind Province. Of this, the Sukkur Barrage Command, in which the project
area is situated, extends to about 7.5 M ac and is the largest single
irrigation unit in the world. Table 1 shows the relevant data pertaining
to area and production for Pakistan as a whole and for the Sind Province.
Agricultural Development in the Project Area
2.        The project area comprises some 36,000 ac of cultivable commanded
area (CCA) to the east of SCARP Khairpur (Annex 2) plus 8,000 ac of SCARP
Khairpur, that had to be included because it is commanded by the tail
reaches of canals that will be enlarged under the project. Present crop-
ping intensity is about 85% and crop yields are relatively low, due to
salinization, under-irrigation and yield limitations brought about by a high
water table.
The Crops Grown and Their Future Prospects
3.        Rabi Fodder.  The rabi fodder crop is almost entirely berseem,
the Egyptian clover. It is a cash as well as a fodder crop. North of the
Indus there is no rabi irrigation. Animals of the nearby towns get their
fresh fodder from the Khairpur canal commands. Berseem varieties are good,
the crop is largely disease free and there is no reason to believe that
in the future the area will decrease. Yields will increase in line with
better water supplies and culturable practices.
4.        Dates.  The Khairpur area is the main date growing locality of
the Indus Basin and one of two in Pakistan. Since the functioning of SCARP
Khairpur and in view of restriction of imports and consequent high prices,
the number of date groves planted in the last four years is impressive.
Similar increases are anticipated for the project area because of: the
expected continued profitability of the crop; the greater ease of establish-
ment under conditions of lower salinity, and intensified extension advice
that will concentrate on improved nursery and transplanting practices,
thereby lessening the risks and difficulties of establishing the groves.
58



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Yields are expected to increase considerably by proper plant spacing, and
irrigation and fertilization practices that would prevent fruit drop. While
not an outstanding need for the present project, the setting-up of modern
date washing, packing and storage facilities should not be delayed too long.
5.        Sugarcane.  The very small area grown at present suggests that
cane is sold for direct consumption. There are plans to build a sugar mill
at Kot Diji, just south of the project area. Once this takes place, gur
making (local, unrefined, domestically-produced sugar) will develop as a
means of combating price fluctuations and inconveniences of delivery
scheduling. The poor crops will find their way to the fodder markets. The
tops will become an important contribution to winter fodder supplies.
Several varieties have been developed that are known to give good yields
in the project area.
6.        Rice.  Rice at present is grown where the water table is high or
where reclamation by leaching is required. Yields are low. It is not
economical to grow rice with tile drainage as it is not feasible to shut
off the laterals under the rice fields and therefore water losses by perco-
lation would be very high. It is expected that once reclamation of saline
lands is complete, no rice will be grown.
7.        Cotton.  During the last few years, cotton area and yields have
increased considerably, the latter being due as much to the low incidence of
the pink bollworm as to increased fertilizer use. Pest control measures
are inadequate. Aerial spraying, covering the area one or one and a half
times in August and September, frequently the only spray treatment given,
cannot achieve more than, at best, a very marginal decrease of pink bollworm
attacks. Jassids are not controlled by it, causing in some years, serious
damage to the young crop. Resistance is said to be higher on a newly
released variety called Qualandri. The yield limit of 25 md per ac is
unlikely to be exceeded until new, non-branching cultivars are developed.
8.        In the project area, cotton is planted between mid-May and mid-June
and continues producing worthwhile pickings well into December. Wheat
should be planted by the end of November. Consequently, in the cropping
pattern only a very small area of wheat may follow cotton.
9.        Wheat.  The area of wheat is relatively low because of the rabi
water shortage in the Patni Command and the fact that water available
is more profitably used for berseem. The low yields compared to what is
possible is partly due to chronic rabi water shortages in most of the area
and consequent farmer reluctance to switch to the high yielding dwarf
varieties. With assured, year-round water supplies becoming available under
the project this situation is certain to change.
10.       Oilseeds.  The small area devoted to Brassicas in the face of
Pakistan's acute vegetable oil shortage is not due to the price, but to the
considerable risk factor of aphis attacks. A variety of brown sarson
(mustard), S9, has recently been released which is said to have some re-
sistance to aphids. Unfortunately, it occupies the land between October to
November and February to March. Toria (rape) matures more quickly but can
59



ANNEX 5
Page 3
only be grown successfully with adequate pest control. Its advantage over
sarson, besides earlier maturing and the possibility of earlier planting
(late September) is a much higher degree of cold and frost tolerance. Raya,
another species of mustard, is also cold resistant and can be planted until
the first week in December. The successful extension of the area under this
potentially very profitable crop hinges on adequate pest control and careful
attention to the details of seedbed preparation.
11.       Grain Sorghum and Kharif Fodder.  It is expected that in the future
it will be possible to separate the two crops. Both are and will continue
to be sorghum, but grain supplies will be produced from high yielding dwarf
varieties with a yield potential several times that of the present. The
varieties now grown will continue to provide fodder.
12.       Pulses.  There is no indication of a breakthrough in the yield of
the rabi pulse crops, which are mainly the chick pea. Therefore it is not
expected that the area will increase. The kharif pulse is mainly the cluster
bean (guara) which is an industrial raw material for gum production as well
as for a fodder crop. In this case, with good husbandry a modest increase
in area and yield is likely.
June 1976
60



ANNEX 5
Table 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Khairpur II)
Indus Basin, Pakistan and Sind Data
Cultivable Area                                     Pakistan      Sind
-- Million Ac --
Culturable commanded area (CCA)
of canal commands of the major
rivers (including culturable waste)                33.5        13.2
Irrigated from sources ot4er than
the major rivers                                     i.6        0.1
Rainfed lands                                        3.0        0.8
Riverine lands (often inundated by
floods in summer)                                   2.9         1.6
L6.o       15.7
Area and Production of Major Crops
Pakistan                Sind
Area      Production   Area   Production
(M acs,      (M tons)   (M ac)   (M tons)
h'heat                              10.9          6.6        1.9       1.0
Rice (milled)                        3.,°         2.2        1.7       1.2
Cotton                               )-9         2.1  1/    1.0        0.6  1/
Sugarcane                            1.3        19.6         0.2       2.9
Grain                                2.          0.5         0.5       0.1
Rape and mustard                     1.3         0.3         o.4       0.1
1/ Production in terms of seed cotton.                                  61



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Project Works
A. Tile Drainage System
I. Project Drainage Criteria
Drainage Method
1.        In general, two alternative methods provide effective control of
the water table:
(a) horizontal drainage, by means of either open channels or
subsurface tile drains (pipes), pumps, and open disposal
channels, and
(b) vertical drainage, by means of tubewells.
Both methods have been tested in Pakistan, the former on reclamation farms
totaling only about 500 ac and the latter about 1.5 million ac including
about 350,000 acs in SCARP Khairpur adjacent to the proposed project area.
Each method has proved effective in lowering and controlling the water table.
Where the subsoil conditions and aquifer are favorable, tubewell drainage
usually is somewhat lower in capital cost and easier to install than horizontal
drainage. In addition, where the groundwater remains relatively fresh, tube-
wells can be scheduled to operate so as to supplement irrigation. The O&M
costs are usually higher for tubewells than for horizontal drainage.
2.        Aquifer conditions in the proposed project area, however, were
found unsuited to tubewell drainage. The area which lies next to the Rohri
Hills is underlain with bedrock at a depth of only about 50 ft. In these
circumstances, horizontal drainage would be required to provide adequate
control of the groundwater table. In addition, since disposal of the efflu-
ent would be into the irrigation system, this type of drainage would have
the advantage that the effluent from horizontal drains over the years becomes
less saline and would eventually be suitable for mixing with irrigation water
for local use. Subsurface tile drains rather than open channels would be
installed for the laterals and collectors so that the system would not dis-
rupt the irrigation distribution system and occupy less land.
62



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Groundwater Table Depth Control
3.        Of the major crops in the project area, cotton is most susceptible
to damage from waterlogging as its tap root grows to depths up to 3 ft and
cannot survive saturation for periods longer than 2 to 3 days. The fibrous
root systems of sugarcane and wheat grow no deeper and can survive somewhat
longer periods of saturation.
4.        The tile drains, therefore, would be designed to bring down the
groundwater table within two days to 3 ft below ground level during peak
irrigation. Furthermore, to prevent re-salinization of the upper soil
profile from capillary rise from the water table when there is no irrigation,
tile depth would be a minimum of 6 ft.
5.        After canal remodeling and initial special leaching applications,
recurrent irrigation applications would make additional special applications
for leaching unnecessary. Drainage at the rate of normal field losses,
therefore, will be adequate to maintain the water table at tile depth. Peak
irrigation will occur in August when rainfall is less than one inch. The
peak rate of groundwater recharge from field losses at this time will be an
estimated 0.12 inch per ac per day (3.3 cusecs per sq mi).
Lateral Drain Design
6.        In view of the range of soil conditions in the area, spacing
between lateral drains would vary. It would be determined from soil
permeability measurements taken in the pre-construction field survey.
Using information in the Project Planning Report and collected in the field,
which is sufficiently accurate for use in making the project cost estimates,
the spacing between tile drain lines would vary between 150 ft and a
practical maximum of 400 ft. The estimated average spacing would be about
200 ft. 1/ To enable cleaning and flushing after installation, the length
of laterals would not exceed 1,000 ft. Thus, the average area drained per
lateral would be about 9.2 ac. Based on the peak drainage duty of 3.3 cusecs
per sq mi and installation on a 0.10% gradient, 5-inch diameter concrete
pipe or 4-inch diameter plastic pipe would be suitable and would provide an
adequate safety margin against blockage due to silting. While these
criteria are suitable for estimating average project requirements, final
design would take into account local variations such as greater than average
seepage near canals, and at that time tile diameters would be checked with
accepted design formulas for hydraulic efficiency.
Effluent Disposal System Design
7.        Based on a kharif cropping intensity of about 70%, collector (and
pump) drainage duty would amount to about 2.5 cusecs per sq mi. Collector
1/   Spacing same as determined in the Project Planning report, but drainage
duty is less than assumed in the report.
63



ANNEX 6
Page 3
lines would be about 2,500 to 3,000 ft long (5,500 ft per pair) and would
drain about 125 ac each. Assuming a 0.05 to 0.01% gradient, 10-inch to
14-inch diameter concrete pipes would be adequate, including contingency
for soil deposits. Collectors, laid perpendicularly to the laterals, would
be installed at depths from 7 ft to 9.5 ft. Pumping stations would each
serve two collectors or about 250 ac, and would have a discharge capacity
totaling 0.9 cusecs.
Drain Construction and Materials
8.        Pipes.  Materials which have been used successfully for tile drains
include baked clay, concrete, smooth plastic in straight lengths, and con-
tinuous corrugated plastic delivered in rolls. Of these, locally manufactured
corrugated plastic pipe would be the most economical for the lateral drains
throughout most of this project considering cost of materials, transport and
installation. Moreover corrugated plastic pipe would provide more reliable
installations in the part of the project with unstable soil conditions.
The main characteristics and considerations in each case are as follows:
(a) Baked Clay. Clay pipes have been satisfactorily used in other
countries for over 100 years. However, manufacturing pipes
of this material in sufficient quantity and quality for a
large installation requires a specialized and highly developed
industry which is not available in Pakistan at present.
(b) Concrete. Although manufacturing experience in Pakistan is
limited, concrete pipes of adequate quality could be
manufactured for this project without major problems. In view
of relative material prices, concrete is preferable to plastic
for the large collector pipes since the price of plastic pipe
rises sharply with increasing diameters. Labor-intensive
installation of concrete pipe is generally more difficult and
costly because dewatering and trench shoring would be required
to enable joining pipe sections and placing of the gravel
filter. In the project area, installation of concrete
collectors would be at depths greater than 7 ft which in
nearly all cases would require dewatering before installation
by labor-intensive methods. Under these circumstances, their
installation would be carried out by means of heavy-duty drain-
laying machines.
(c) Smooth Plastic. In other countries, smooth plastic pipe gene-
rally has been made obsolete by corrugated pipe, since for
equal strength, smooth pipes require considerably greater wall
thickness and are therefore considerably more expensive.
(d) Corrugated Plastic. This type of pipe offers the best security
for achieving good quality drain installation in unstable sands.
Continuous lengths with pre-wrapped filter would minimize the
64



ANNEX 6
Page 4
risk of failure due to improper placing of pipe and of
filter materials during installation. Pakistan has an
established plastic industry. In Pakistan, a large
plastics manufacturer, Pakistan PVC Ltd., has installed
the equipment necessary for making the corrugated plastic
pipe and by mid-year will have developed sufficient
production capacity to undertake the production for
this project at competitive prices and satisfactory
standards. The raw materials are being made in Pakistan
from calcium carbide. Both polyvinyl chloride (pvc) and
polyethylene (pe) are being used, pvc is used predominantly
in Europe, while pe is preferred in the USA. The possible
effects of light and heat should be given careful attention
in determining whether pvc or pe would be most appropriate.
Perforated plastic pipes would be used for the laterals only.
9.        Filters.  Because extremely low soil stability is found intermit-
tently throughout the project area, drains would require a complete envelope
of filter material to prevent entry of soil particles. The project would use
two types of filters, as described below:
(a) Gravel. Graded sand and gravel, which provide a reliable and
durable filter under most conditions, would be used with the
concrete pipe collectors and most of the laterals. Installation
requires careful working and close supervision and cannot be
done in unstable soils or below the groundwater table without
prior dewatering. If suitable deposits of sand and gravel are
not available in sufficient quantities near the project area,
they would have to be produced in nearby quarries in the
Rohri Hills.
(b) Organic Material in Bulk. Materials, such as peat, wheat,
barley straw, and brushwood, etc., have been used successfully in
Europe and North America in place of gravel for many years, but
would not appear to have a place under Pakistani conditions.
The use of rice husks, however, would deserve further study.
Also, Pakistan will require an inventory of other locally avail-
able materials and long experience in each locale to establish
their suitability under different soil conditions.
(c)  Materials in Sheets or Mats.  This type of filter would be used
in trial lengths in the project, in areas with unstable soils
where corrugated plastic pipe is installed. Organic and in-
organic materials in this form, which would have to be imported,
are applied in two ways:
65



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(1) on a roll placed on the drainage machine, from which
the sheet is unrolled and applied during pipe instal-
lation; and
(2) as a pre-wrapped envelope surrounding corrugated plastic
pipes. Installation of pre-wrapped plastic pipe in con-
tinuous rolls is nearest to being fail-safe of all possible
installation methods, since the filter is mated with the
pipe above ground and section joints are not exposed
during installation. Of the possible wrapping materials,
peat and copra are believed the most suitable. Model tests,
which can be done in a rather simple way but which need
expert supervision, would be required prior to construction
to establish which material is most suitable for use in
the project area.
II. Drainage Works
Tile Drainage System
10.       The project drainage works would include:
(a) installation of horizontal subsurface drains throughout
36,000 ac of the project area, including about 7.6 million
ft of lateral pipes.1/ About 0.3 million ft would be of
concrete and about 7.3 million would be of perforated
corrugated plastic pipe; about 700,000 ft of concrete
collector pipes would be installed; and
(b) construction of 130 pump stations required to lift the
drainage effluent from the collector outfalls, and about
250,000 ft of disposal channels for carrying the effluent
into the existing main drain system of SCARP.
Lateral Tile Drain Installation
11.       Based on the preliminary investigations, lateral drain pipes
would be installed on parallel alignments between 150 and 300 ft apart, with
an average spacing of about 200 ft and at a depth of about 5 to 6.5 ft, which
would be adequate to bring down the groundwater table within two days to 3 ft
below ground level. The length of laterals would not exceed 1,000 ft and
they would be installed on approximately a 0.10% gradient. Concrete pipe
1/   Of the 36,000 ac in Area A, 1,000 ac near the hills would require no
drainage facilities, only additional irrigation supplies.
66



ANNEX 6
Page 6
of 4-inch diameter, or plastic with a diameter of 4 inches, would provide
adequate capacity for the average drained area of about 5 to 9 ac per lateraL,
12.       In at least one quarter of the area, the subsoil is sandy and very
unstable and the depth of lateral drains would be below the existing ground-
water table. Under these conditions, corrugated plastic pipes surrounded
by a fine gravel filter (or, in trial lengths, pre-wrapped with a synthetic
filter sheet) and laid by machine in continuous lengths would be required to
achieve reliable drain installation without dewatering. In this case, drains
would be immediately covered with soil to prevent floatin&. In the remaining
area, both plastic and concrete pipes with gravel filter would be installed.
About 20% of the lateral drains would have to be installed below the ground-
water table but in stable soils, and another about 20% would be installed
above the existing water table in sandy soils. The remainder would be
installed in more stable soils. In the interests of rapid progress, ease of
handling, and lower cost, most of the laterals would be laid with plastic
corrugated pipe manufactured at a plant imported for the purpose and set up
at an appropriate central location such as Khairpur Mirs town.
13.       To introduce current mechanized methods of rapid, accurate and
lower cost drain-laying into Pakistan, and to test their suitability under
local conditions, two sel -propelled combination trenching and tile laying
machines would be used to install the lateral drains.  Each machine would
be capable of laying an average of about 4,000 ft of 4-inch plastic pipe
or 1,500 ft of 5-inch concrete pipe in an eight-hour day. Theae machines
would be capable of surrounding the pipe with fine gravel filter during
placement, or laying pre-wrapped corrugated plastic pipe. Trench excavation,
10 inches wide and down to 6.5 ft deep, would be by means of either bucket
chain or bucket wheel (which will require less maintenance). In addition,
a towed mole-type t,enchless drain instaliation machine would be used to
test the suitability of this type of machine for laying plastic pipe with
gravel filter under project conditions. If the inexpensive towed machine
is satisfactory in the sandy sub-soils, a self-propelled mole-type trenchless
machine would also be used to lay plastic pipe at a reduced depth and spacing,
though at the faster average rate of about 6,000 ft per day. Alternatively,
a third trenching and tile laying machine would be used, enabling over 7 M ft
of mostly plastic lateral pipe to be laid in about three years. In addition
to the characteristics of faster completion of work and less disturbance to
farming operations, mechanized installation of drains would have the follow-
ing advantages over manual labor:
(a) the grade would be set without deviations;
(b) laying of concrete pipe sections and placing of gravel
filter envelope would be more uniform;
(c) pipes would be laid simultaneously as the trench is
excavated, which would eliminate the need for shoring
and dewatering and minimize risk of damage from trench
collapse, particularly in unstable soils and in high
groundwater conditions;                                            67



ANNEX 6
Page 7
(d) continuation of work would be ensured during periods of
seasonal labor shortage, but sufficient spare parts must
be on hand to avoid prolonged delays due to breakdowns; and
(e; construction costs would be equal to or less than those for
hand labor at the required installation depth of about 6 ft.
Collector Installation
14.       Concrete collector drain pipes would be installed at depths of
between 7 and 10 ft. Each line would extend about 3,000 ft on a gradient
of .01 to .05%. Pipes of 12 to 14 inches diameter would provide adequate
capacity for the average drained area of about 135 ac per collector line.
15.       Installation of collector drains would have to be carried out
below the water table by machines developed specifically for that purpose
in the USA. It is envisaged that one bucket-wheel machine (with relatively
low maintenance requirements) would be used, capable of trenching down to
9 ft, with one chain-bucket machine for deeper work. Both machines would
carry a protective steel box about 2 ft wide and 9 to 10 ft high mounted
at the rear, which would be lowered into the trench behind the trenching
mechanism. An operator would work inside the box, fitting the concrete
pipes lowered down to him by derrick, and actuating a hydraulic or roller
mechanism which joins each pipe under pressure to the drains already laid
on a bed of fine gravel.  As the machine advances, it simultaneously
transfers backfill into the trench. In this way, floatation forces are
balanced and the alignment and grade of the drain are maintained. The
machines would be capable of laying about 400 ft to 800 ft per day, depend-
ing on depth and groundwater conditions.
16.       Installation of trial lengths of collectors by labor-intensive
methods would require wider trenches than with mechanized construction and
would require dewatering by the well-point system. Excavation of trenches
would be carried out by manual labor (and donkeys) down to about 3 to 4 ft
and by mechanical back-hoe for the remainder. Construction would be at the
rate of about 1,000 ft per day to keep pace with the lateral installation,
and would be carried out by two crews of about 600 men each and a back-hoe.
17.       Manholes would be constructed at intervals of about 150 to 400 ft
at junctions with the laterals to allow inspection and maintenance. Man-
holes would be buried to prevent damage. Protruding manholes, because they
are more accessible, are more likely to interfere with local cultivating
practices and to be abused. Each manhole would have a silt trap of suffi-
cient depth. The inside diameter of the manhole would be adequate for a man
to work in, and the cover diameter would be considerably larger to prevent
excessive soil faliing into the pit.
68



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Pump Station and Open Disposal Channel Construction
18.       About 130 pumping stations would be constructed at collector
outlets. Each would serve two collectors, about 270 ac, and would have a
discharge capacity of about 0.9 cusecs. These stations would lift the
drainage effluent from the collectors and discharge into open disposal
channels which would empty into the existing SCARP drainage system. Channel
sections would average about 10 ft in width and about 2.5 ft in depth.
Based on the preliminary estimates, about 250,000 ft of open drainage
channels would be needed.
B. Canal Remodeling
19.       The existing discharge capacity of the canal system restricts the
delivery of water to farms at the time Qf highest demand in mid-summer, so
that crops are under-watered by about 40% of their maximum irrigation require-
ment. During the kharif season, the river discharge exceeds the canal diver-
sion demand of the system, and considerable quantities of water flow to the
sea. Thie project canals would be enlarged so as to make more use of avail-
able river lows, meet the high kharif crop water requirements and, when pos-
sible, provide for leaching supplies to reclaim severely salinized areas.
20.       Preliminary designs for increasing the capacity and improving
canal operations were drawn up by WAPDA's consultants in 1971. These in-
cluded outline plans for additional canal capacity and control structures
to enable distribution of a greater range of flows to be carried out
effectively.
21.       Operation of minor canals on a rotation basis would be according
to a planned schedule so as to match crop water requirements and demand for
saline soil reclamation. The capacity of the Patni Distributary would be
increased from 200 cusec at its head to 380 cusec in the first 6 mi by the
addition of a parallel or dual canal, so as to accommodate the lower flows
in either channel and the higher flows in both. The seasonal variation in
flow could then be carried without causing either scour in the rabi season
or siltation in kharif. Discharge and distribution to minor canals would
be controlled at a common pond at each cross-regulator. The enlargement
of the remainder of the Patni Distributary and other canals would be carried
out by widening on one side only. Additional control structures would be
constructed throughout the area to enable supplies from minor canals and water-
courses to be rotated among users efficiently. Final design would be prepared
by WAPDA(SZ) in collaboration with Sind Irrigation and Power Department,
assisted by consultants.
22.       Remodeling of the Kalori minor canal in Area B, serving the
tubewell-drainage area of the project, would be carried out first. Work
would be phased so that improved water supplies were delivered to new or
improved watercourses as soon as possible after their completion. Increased
irrigation deliveries would be phased to follow the installation of drainage
in other areas.                                                                  69



ANNEX 6
Page 9
C. Watercourses
23.       Watercourse reconstruction under the project would have the
following objectives:
(a) to equalize so far as possible the discharge through each
irrigation outlet into watercourses at a level of flow which
each farmer can control satisfactorily, i.e. about 1.5 cusecs;
(b) to have sufficient distribution capacity per unit of area to
provide for maximum kharif irrigation requirements;
(c) to equalize water distribution to all farm holdings on each
watercourse by:
(i) improving the hydraulic characteristics (section and
slope);
(ii) reducing seepage losses, and
(iii) reducing surface losses
so that the discharge at the tail approximates that at the
head, enabling each farmer to receive his fair share of the
supply, and
(iv) to reduce maintenance requirements.
24.       These objectives would be achieved by the following means:
(a) the area served by each watercourse would be equalized as
far as possible, by subdividing large chaks;
(b) new irrigation outlets would be located on minor canals,
to serve the revised chak areas;
(c) watercourses to be retained would be reconstructed
so as to reduce seepage losses and improve operating
characteristics, including straightening of alignments
where appropriate, and providing fixed individual farm
outlets;
(d) new watercourses would be constructed where necessary; and
(e) up to 15 of the new watercourses would be lined with
different locally available materials to ascertain the
difference in costs and seepage losses,comparing lined
and unlined channels as well as lining materials.
70



ANNEX 6
Page 10
25.       The method of implementation would be on the following lines:
(a) WAPDA(SZ), in collaboration with SDA and with the use of
available air photography, would survey and define the
optimum chak areas, in relation to flow, irrigation
requirements and farm boundaries;
(b) The SDA and Revenue Department staff would obtain the
agreement of the majority of farmers to the revised
watercourse arrangements and flows, and acquire the
necessary rights of way;
(c) WAPDA(SZ) would prepare the detailed designs of channel
sections and structures, based mainly on earth embankments
stabilized with lime or cement, compacted to recognized
specifications, or other tested arrangements for reduction
of losses, and individual permanent farm outlets; and
(d) Local contractors, using small-scale soil stabilizing
and compaction equipment provided under the credit,
would be supervised and paid by WAPDA(SZ) in collaboration
with IRDP authorities.
June 1976
71



ANIEX 7
PAKISTAN                 Page 1 of  8
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND  IRRIGATED  FARMING  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
List of Equipment and Materials to be Imported1/
Estimated
Item Ref. No.              Description                  Quantity      Price, ciT Karachi
Unit         Total
1.            Concrete aggregate and gravel filter
production equipment:
(a)     Air compressors, diesel-engined, approx.
100 hp                                      2-No.       15,000       30,000
(b)      Mobile crushing plant, electrically
powered with diesel generators,
including receiving screens, crushers,
vibrating screens dust extractors,
elevators and delivery bins, 30 tons
per hour stone crushing capacity            1-No.    200,000        200,000
(c)      Mobile screening plants, electrically
powered with diesel generators, for
river and pit gravel, with elevators
and delivery bins, 15 tons per hour
capacity                                   2-No.       40,000        80,ooo
(d)     Front-end loaders, tracked, approx.
110 hp                                     2-No.        70,000      140,000
(e)      Tipper trucks, 5-ton capacity              8-No.        18,000      144,000
(f)      Pneumatic rock drills & bits              10-No.         1,500       15,000
(g)      Drill bit sharpening machines              2-No.         2,500         5,000
(h)     Miscellaneous equipmelnt & tools                         Sum           25,000
(i)      Spare parts and maintenance supplies        (25)        Sum         161,000
Subtotal                  800,000
2.            Concrete pipe production equipment:
(a)      Concrete pipe manufacturing plants,
electrlxally operated, for 5-inch and
12 to 18-inch pipes, including aggregate
elevator, weigh batcher, paddle mixer,
moulds, packer heads, and pipe rings       2-No.       120,000       240,000
(b)      Semi-manual 5-inch pipe packer head
machines, electrically driven             30-No.         2,000       60,000
(c)     Small concrete batching and mixing
plants for (b)                              2-No.        15,000       3 ojoo
1/ This is not a firm list. The list should be
reviewed in detail  after final design criteria                                72
and methods of construction have been decided.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 8
Estimated
Item Ref. No.             Description               Quantity    Price, cif Karachi
2. (contd.)                                                      Unit        Total
US$          UsT
(d)  Sprinkler equipment and pump for curing
pipes                                       4 sets    2,500        10,000
(e)  Fork-lift pipe-stacking trucks                 2-No.    30,000       30,000
(f)  Flat-bed trucks, 5-ton                         5-No.    14,000       70,000
(g)  Tractor (wheeled) 50 hp                        5-No.    10,000       50,000
(h)  Trailer - 3 ton for use with above tractorsl0-No.        2,000       20,000
(i)  Manhole casting machine                        2-No.    10,000       20,000
(j)  Miscellaneous equipment and tools                        Sum
(k)  Spare parts and maintenance supplies          (25%)      Sum        178,000
Subtotal               870,000
3.       Supporting equipment for corrugated plastic pipe manufacturer (Pakistan
PVC Ltd).2
(a)  Fork lift truck                                1-No.    30,000       30,000
(b)  Flat-top trucks, 5-ton                         3-No.    14,000       42,000
(c)  Miscellaneous equipment and tools                         Sum        50,000
(d)  Spare parts and maintenance supplies                      Sum        78,000
Subtotal          200,000
4.   Tile Drainage Installation Equipment:
(a)  Self-propelled, bucket-wheel type excava-
tion and drain-laying machines capable
of installing 5-inch dia. concrete pipes
and 4-inch dia. continuous corrugated
plastic pipe in shallow watertable con-
ditions, at controlled depths down to
8 ft.                                          2-Mo.   180,000      360,000
1/ Pakistan PVC Ltd. is the Government owned company wh-ch will make and supply
corrugated plastic pipe for the project. Equipment required by the
company will be barter traded with certainl length of pipes to be supplied,
calculated at the agreed unit price of pipes.
73



A 72x 7
Page 3 of C
Estimated
Item Ref. No.               Descriptioon             Quantity    Price, cif Karachi
Unit          Total
4. (contd.)                                                       US$
(b)  Self-propelled, bucket-wheel type
excavation and drain-laying machirle
for installing concrete collector
drainpipes of 12-in to 18-in dia.
on gravel bedding in shallow water
table conditions, at controlled depths
down to 10-ft in caving soil.                 1-No.    200,000       200,000
(c)  Self-propelled, bucket chain-type
trenching and drain-laying machine,
capable of installing 12-in to 18-
in concrete pipes and gravel bed-
ding at controlled depths down to
10 ft in caving soils with shallow
water tables.                                  1-No.    180,000      180,000
(d)  Side-tipping, wheeled front-end
loader,/back-hoes for filling trencher
gravel hoppers and miscellaneous
shallow excavation.                           4-No.      40,000      16o,000
(e)  Farm tractor, tracked, 70/80 hp for
clearing drain alignment and back-
filling with trench backfiller
attachment.                                   3-iio.     25,000       75,000
(f)  Back-hoes, M cu yd, for exc'n to 10 ft.    2-No.          75,000      150,000
(g)  Mobile craIne 4-5 ton                          2-N-o.     50,000      100,000
(h)  Mobile workshop                                1-No.      30,000       30,000
(i)  Trailers for transporting drain-
laying machines                             2-No.      30,000       6c,ooc
(j)  Flat bed truck, 5-ton                          6-.No.     14,000      84,000
(k)  Tractor, wheeled, 50 hp                        6-No.      10,000       60,000
(l)  Trailer, 3 ton, for use with above
tractors                                   12-i,c.      2,000       214,000
(m)  Fick-up trucks, with light main-
tenarce ecuipmert                           2-N%To.     8,000       16,000
74



AIT EX 7
Page 4 of 8
Item Ref. No.                Description          Quantity    Price, cif Karachi
Unit         Total
4. (contd.)                                                    7gT           TSX
(n)  Well-point equipment                         1 set                  40,000
(o)  Miscellaneous equipment and tools                       Sum          60,000
(p)  Spare parts and maintenance supplies        (av.30%)   SCum        4h5,oOO
Subtotal    1,900,000
5.     Canal Enlargement Equipment:
(a)  Back-acting, tracked excavators (back
hoes), 5/8 cu yd capacity, or
equivalent                                   1-No.       80,000      80,000
(b)  Dragline, 1½! cu yd                          2-No.      100,000    200,000
(c)  Vibrating compactors, towed, 5-ton
or ecuivalent                                2-No.       10,000      20,000
(d) Farm tractor, tracked, 70/80 hp
for drawing (c)                              2-No.       20,000      40,000
(e)  Flat bed truck, 5 ton                        2-No.       14,000      28,000
(f)  Miscellaneous equipment and tools                        Sum         22,000
(g)  Spare parts and equipment main-
tenance supplies                                         Sum         80,000
Subtotal              470,000
Watercourse Reconstruction Equipment:
(a)  Rotary cultivators, 6 ft-wide, p.t.o.
driven for soil stabilization                2-No.        2,500       5,000
(b)  Farm tractor, tracked, 70/80 hp with
ditching attachment                          2-No.       25,000      50,000
(c)  Rotary cultivators, 2 ft-wide, motorized
hand-drawn, for soil stabilization          10-NIo.         500       5,000
(d)  Flat bed truck, 5 ton                        2-No.       14,000      28,000
(e)  Vibrating plate compactors, for ditto       20-No.          500      10,000
(f)  Miscellaneous ecuipment and tools                        Sum         10,000
(g)  Spare parts                                              Sum         20,000
Subtotal              128,000  7



r st.,^:iate(i
* - .                      Desc-ioit oi          Quanti ty    Frice. cif iiarachi
TTri-t       Total
R ,,-~ Ccnstr_cti.on Equi;n.'e-!t:
:, ' act-r  rubber-tired, 30-tons loaded    -Noo.    20,000      20,000
hta;r';' cultivators, 6 ft-wide,
F +.>.  dr veh for soil stabilization       L-No.        2,500       10,000
X f' )   T-looer-truck - 5-ton                     2-No.      l8,000       36,000
(d)  h.-oed graders, 120 hp                        1-No.       80,000       80,000
(e)   Snare parts & miscellaneous equipment                      SunT       3h,000
& tools                                        Subtotal              180,000
;ermanent Drainage System Equipment:
a)    Sets of twin submersible electric,        130 sets       2,300      300,000
pumps, including switchgear, for
drainage surips, 15 ft gross head,
2 x 0.75 cusec capacity per sump
-Dj    1i ?."'V transmission line equipment                      Sum       80,000
(c)    Suepdown transforrmers, 11 kv/4bO v                       Sur.      100,000
o)    Vaintenance supplies and spare parts                      Su-,       70,000
Sl'ubtotal       550,000
Pro.§ect Adr.inistration, Operation and
"aintenance Equipment:
[a)    Drain desilting trucks, fitted with         2-No.       25,000       50,000
hose, flushing equip.,water tank and pump
(b)     ick--uo trucks, 1-ton                      2-`o.        7,000       l,000
(c)   ij-eneral purpose vehicle, Ih-wheel          L-lo.        6,000       24,000
drive, long wheel base
iKd)   e-neral purpose vehicles, .4-wheel          6-'io.       i i50       27,000
drive, short wheel base
(e)    Proj ect monitorinr, equinmeot                            Sum        20,0C'0
includlioi flow meters and recorders
76



ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 8
9. (Contd.)
Estimated
Item Ref. No.                 Description                Quantity    Price, cif Karachi
Tnit          Total
(f)   Spare drainage pumps and motors,                            Sum       65,000
vehicle and equipment spare parts
and maintenance materials
Subtotal          200,000
10.          Equipment and Vehicles for Project
Agricultural Supporting Services
Staff:          _   _  _
(a)   General purpose vehicles, 4-wheel            6-No.        4,500       27,000
drive, short wheel base
(b)   Pick-up trucks                                2-No.       7,000       14,000
(c)   Demonstration van                             1-No.       8,000        8,000
(d)   Motor scooters and bicycles (for sale                        Sum      20,000
to project agricultural extension
staff)
(e)   Pesticide sprayers                                                    20,000
(f)   Laboratory equipment and materials                          Sum        5,000
(g)   Audio-visual aid equipment                                  Sum        2,000
(h)   Miscellaneous equipment & tools                             sum       12,000
(i)   Spare parts and maintenance materials                                 23,000
Subtotal          131,000
11.          Land Leveling and Associated Tractor-
drawn equipment for Sind Department of
Agriculture (SDA):
(a)    Wheeled tractors, 60/65 hp                    5-No.        9,000      45,000
(b)    Tracked angle-dozers, 120 hp                  2-No.      75,000      150,000
(c)    Scrapers, towed, 2/2½ cu yd, hydrau-          3-No.        4,000      12,000
lically controlled
(d)    Land smoothing planes, 30 ft                  3-No.        3,700      11,000
(e)    Rear-mounted leveling, blades subsoiling   5 sets                     13,000
and cultivation equipment
(f)    Pick-up trucks                                3-No.        7,000      21,000
(g)    Survey equipment                                            Sur-        5,000
(i)    Special tools and spare parts                 (25P)         sum       63,000
Subtotal          320,000
77



ANNEX 7
Page? Of 8
Estimated
Item Ref. No.                  Description              Quantity      Price-, 7cifarachi
Unit        Total
12.           Land leveling and associated tractor-
drawn equipment: (For purchase by contractors)
(a)      Wheeled tractors, 60/65 hp                 35-tNo.       9,000     315,000
(b)      Scrapers,  towed, 2/2½ cu yd,
hydraulically controlled                    7-No.       h,000       28,000
(c)      Land smoothing planes, 30 ft.               7-No.        3,700       25,900
(d)      Rear-mounted leveling blades for
wheeled tractors, 10 ft.                   28-No.        1,h00      39,200
(e)      Subsoilers, tractor-mounted                14-No.          h50        6,300
(f)      Field cultivators                           7-No.          500        3,500
(g)      Ditching/border ploughs                     7-No.          800        5,600
(h)      Pick-up trucks                              7-No.        7,000       44,000
(i)      Special tools and spare parts                            SW0m500
Subtotal          574,000
13.           Yaterials and supplies to be imported:
(a)      Quarrying materials and suppies:
(i)    Special steel drilling rods                       Smn         7,500
(ii)   Tungsten carbide drill bits for (i)              Sum          2,500
(iii)  Explosives, detonators and fuse                   Sum        10,000
(iv)   Pneumatic and water hose                         Sum          5,000
(v)    Other supplies                                   Sum          5,000
Subtotal           30,000
(b)      Tile drainage materials:
(i)    Synthetic filter materials for
pre-wrapped plastic pipe                         Sum         75,000
(ii)   Other supplies                                               15,000
Subtotal           90,000
78



PANiEX 7
Page 8 of 8
Estimated
Item Ref. No.            Description                    Quantity    Price, cif Karachi
Unit         Total
UTJ
13. Continued)
(c) Canal enlar ement works:
(i) Structural steel sections and
sheet                                                  Sum          50,000
(ii)  Other supplies                                        Sum          10,000
Subtotal             60,000
(d) Permanent installation materials for
drainage system
(i)   Transmission line conductor cable                     Sum         350,000
(ii)  Structural steel sections                             Sum          50,000
(iii) Other supplies                                        Sum         _5o000
Subtotal            450,000
Grand Total       6,953,000
-79



ANNEX 8
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Agricultural Credit for Land Leveling
Commercial Banks
1.        Prior to 1972, the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP)
was the sole source of institutional agricultural credit (seasonal, medium
and long-term). Commercial banks (CBs) made same advances for marketing and
processing crops, and for fertilizer supply. The CBs were nationalized in
the beginning of 1973, and under a scheme drawn up by the State Bank of
Pakistan (SBP) (the central bank), every CB was given a target for agricul-
tural loans covering seasonal inputs, cattle, tractors, tubewells and land
improvement. To implement the scheme, the five major CBs 1/ set up agricultural
credit departments, staffed with agriculturalists administratively responsible
to branch managers empowered to approve loans up to a given limit. The depart-
ments were adequately supplied with transport.
2.        In addition, the National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) started a Special
Agricultural Credit Scheme, to cater for the credit requirements of small
farmers (less than 64 ac in Sind). The Scheme's headquarters are in Lahore;
NBP's head office in Karachi formulates policy and coordinates operations.
The Scheme has Basic Credit Units, each adequately staffed, serving 10 to 15
villages. About 2,000 villages, and 20,000 farmers, whose average holdings
are 8 to 10 ac, are currently in the Scheme.
3.        The CB lending criteria are basically sound:  (a) close and frequent
contact with borrowers; (b) appraisal based on farm plan; (c) assessment of
adequate security, and (d) evaluation of credit worthiness. The NBP's
criteria under its Scheme include some features of supervised lending,
including advice on credit utilization and farming problems, while its field
officers endeavor to obtain the farmers' confidence. Lending procedures
(particularly under the NBP Scheme) are satisfactory, and from application
to grant of loans reportedly takes under three weeks on the average.
4.        A Pass Book system was legalized in May 1973.  Each Pass Book gives
full particulars of the farmer's land, and records any mortgage or other
charges thereon. Duplicates are kept in the local Revenue Department office.
When loans are made against an entry in the Pass Book, disbursement takes
1/   National Bank of Pakistan (NBP), Habib Bank Ltd. (HBL), United Bank
Ltd. (UBL), Allied Bank Ltd. (ABL) and Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB).
80



ANNEX 8
Page 2
place after the charge has been duly endorsed and certified by the Revenue
Officer. Other securities include: (a) a demand promissory note signed by
the borrower and endorsed (if required) by two guarantors; (b) hypothecation
of the goods (usually for tractors and tubewells), and (c) a lien on standing
crops (mainly for seasonal loans and sometimes as additional security for
longer term loans). Wherever possible, loans are made in kind. Interest
rates for all loans are usually 2% above the SBP rate, and are currently 11% pa.
5.        At the end of FY1972 (June 30, 1972), CB agricultural loans out-
standing were Rs 253 M (23% of the total for agriculture), or 2% of their
total portfolio, Corresponding figures at the end of FY1974 were Rs 927
M (42% of the total for agriculture) or 5% of their total portfolio. About
four fifths of CB agricultural loans made are seasonal. The CB share of
agricultural lending has increased as ADBP's has declined. The CB loan
recoveries are relatively good. The NBP's current figures are 96% in Punjab,
98% in NWFP and 75% in Sind, compared with ADBP's 40% to 50%.
6.        All five CBs have satisfactory financial positions.  All are subject
annually to administrative, technical and financial inspection by SBP's
Inspection Department, and each is audited by a private firm of accountants
of international standing. All CBs submit monthly and quarterly returns for
analysis by SBP's Banking Control Division.
Project Credit Requirements
7.        Long-term credit is required in the project area:  (a) to enable
farmers to meet the cost of land leveling, particularly for reclamation of
culturable waste, and (b) to enable contractors, farmers and Government
agencies to borrow for financing tractors and land leveling equipment to
carry out (a) above. All 44,000 ac need fine leveling; in addition, 8,000 ac
of culturable waste needs considerable earthmoving requiring bulldozers.
Total costs including equipment costs and excluding the work carried out by
the farmers would be about Rs 34 million. Long-term credit requirements
would amount to about Rs 20 million. Equipment to enable the leveling to be
done rapidly within the implementation period would include two bulldozers
and 40 tractors of 60 to 65 hp with land leveling and cultivation equipment
at a total cost of about Rs 9.0 million, of which Rs 6.0 million would be
for purchases by local contractors and Rs 3.0 million would be for purchases
by SDA for the heavier equipment.
8.        Short-term production credit is necessary in the project area by
participating farmers to enable them to obtain the maximum advantage from
their longer term land leveling investments. It would cover mainly seed,
fertilizer and pesticides, and it is estimated to reach a maximum of Rs 7
million by the seventh project year, assuming it covers three-fourths of the
farmers' total cost of inputs.
81



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Proposed Credit Channels
9.        The ADBP has received three IDA Credits totaling US$67 million.
Appraisal of a fourth credit has been held up pending certain actions,
covering financial, managerial and organizational changes necessary before IDA
could consider it. In the meantime, ADBP is not an acceptable channel for
the projects' agricultural credit requirements. The alternative is the CBs.
They would administer the loans for land leveling, under an agreement with
SBP the terms of which would be acceptable to IDA.These would include a
clause to the effect that farmers receiving loans for land leveling would
be eligible for production loans to enable them to maximize their return
on investments. Any CB approved by SBP could be a channel for credit to
contractors, provided it entered an Agreement with SBP under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA.
Credit Terms and Conditions
10.       Terms and conditions for loans to farmers and contractors are set
out in detail in Table 1.
June 1976
82



ANNEX 8
Table 1
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
THE KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Schedule of Principal Terms and Conditions
under which Funds would be made available
1.   Participating Banks to Farmers for Land Leveling.
(a) For leveling of cultivable commanded areas, loans not
exceeding five years, minimum interest rate 11%;
(b) For leveling of culturable waste, loans not exceeding
eight years, minimum interest rate 11%:
(c) Down payments by farmers with holdings up to 64 ac,
minimum 10% of total cost (including on-farm manual
labor and bullock work);
(d) Down payments by farmers with holdings exceeding 64 ac,
minimum 15%;
(e) Security to be provided in accordance with approved
NBP's normal requirements (minimum, Pass Book mortgage);
(f) Repayment period for loans for leveling cultivable land not to
exceed five years, including a maximum of one year's grace in
which interest only would be paid;
(g) Repayment period for loans for leveling culturable waste land,
not to exceed eight years including a maximum of two years'
grace in which interest only would be paid.
2.   Participating Banks to Land Leveling Contractors.
(a) Annual interest rate of 11% minimum;
(b)  Down payment by contractor of a minimum of 15% of delivered cost
of equipment and vehicles;
(c) Security in accordance with normal requirements of Banks approved
by State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), usually hypothecation of equipment
and vehicles;
83



ANNEX 8
Table I
Page 2 of 3
(d) Repayment period not to exceed five years including a maximum
of one year's grace in which interest only would be paid;
(e) NBP and other approved Banks to assist contractors with legal,
technical and managerial advice, in collaboration with PLLP
staff.
3.   State Bank of Pakistan to Approved Participating Banks
(a) For on-lending by NBP to farmers for land leveling:
(i)  SBP to finance 90% of NBP loans to farmers;
(ii) Annual interest rate of 6% minimum;
(iii) Installment repayments to coincide approximately with
repayment schedules from farmers, with total repayment
within one year of completion of loan terms.
(b) For on-lending to land leveling contractors by NBP, or by other
Banks approved by SBP, for equipment and vehicles;
(i)  SBP to finance 90% of loans by participating Banks
to contractors;
(ii) Annual interest rate of 6% minimum;
(iii) Installment repayments to coincide approximately with
repayment schedules from contractors, with total repay-
ment within one year of completion of loan term.
4.   GOP to SBP
(a) Annual interest rate of 5% minimum;
(b) Installment repayments to be phased approximately as repay-
ments are received by SBP from participating on-lending Banks.
5.        IDA to GOP
(a) Interest and repayment on standard IDA terms;
(b) GOP to bear exchange risk.
84



ANNEx 8
Table 1
Page 3 of 3
6.   Interest Rates and Marginal Spread
Minimum
Interest
Lending Agencies:                        Rate:       Spread:
Participating Banks to ultimate
borrowers                            11%       5% to Participating Banks
SBP to participating Banks               6%       1% to SBP
GOP to SBP                               5%       4-1/4% to GOP
IDA to GOP                               3/4%
June 1976
85



ANNEX 9
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply                                                 J
1.        The source of water for the project area is the Indus River, from
which the Sukkur Barrage diverts it into seven canals. The Khairpur East
Feeder, one of four canals taking off on the left bank, supplies the project
area. Supplies in the river are usually far in excess of all demands of
the Sukkur and the downstream (Kotri) barrages between mid-May and mid-
October, the kharif season, when the limiting factor is canal carrying
capacities. Rabi supplies (mid-October to mid-May) are much more limited
and shortages have made it necessary to operate the perennial canals in
rotation and the virtual closing of a branch canal, the Patni Distributary,
commanding over three quarters of the project area. However, starting in
1976-77, 9.3 M ac-ft of rabi supplies will be available from Tarbela storage,
of which the share for the Khairpur East Feeder Command would be enough to
allow the Patni Distributary to become a perennial canal and to meet the
full requirements of the proposed cropping pattern. Table 1 shows the
average monthly availabilities in the project area between 1969 to 1974.
Water Demand
2.        Crop water requirements were developed on the modified Penman
method. The crop factors used (Table 2) have been adapted to the total area
of the crop according to its span of growing season (Annex 16, Figs. 1 and 2).
Actual water requirements have been assessed with regard to the fact that
under practical conditions it is not possible to put less than 4 inches
of water onto a field and that at least one pre-irrigation must be given
for land preparation. The crop factors in Table 2 and the foregoing con-
siderations have gone into compiling Table 3 which gives the half-monthly
water requirement of each crop, in acre-inches, according to the cropping
calendar shown in Annex 16, Fig. 1.
3.        Computing the water requirements of the present cropping pattern,
and assuming an overall irrigation efficiency of 35% to 40% between canal head
and the crop, under-irrigation of the order of 25% would appear to be taking
place in the Patni command, while water requirements in the Sathio and Mir
Wah commAnd are just about met. This explains the salinization of the root
zone and the deeper water table in the former and the higher water table
and already existing salinity and drainage problems in the latter area.
These conditions are typical of much of the Sind and indeed the whole Indus
Basin.
86



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        It is expected that irrigation efficiencies will be increased to
60% as a result of project works. The consumptive use requirements of the
cropping pattern shown in Annex 16, Fig. 2, the canal head requirements,
quantities and flow rates in each of the two main canals of the project area
are shown in Table 4. As the Sathio Wah and the Mir Wah serve large tracts
of land, outside the project area, the additional flow in these, and the
major Khairpur East Feeder Canal can be accommodated by comparatively minor
strengthening and other earth works. However, the design capacity of the
Patni is 208 cusecs; the table shows it must carry signficantly more than
this in almost every month. Therefore this canal, and the minors originating
from it, will require major remodeling works.               I
Water Quality
5.        Table 5 shows the month-wise chemical composition of the irrigation
water. The water is of excellent quality and capable of absorbing substantial
quantities of drainage effluent without affecting even the most sensitive
crop that is expected to be grown under project conditions.
June 1976
87



ANNEX 9
Table 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Water Availabilities, 1969-74 (1,000 ac-ft)
Month                 Average Days       Sathio          Mir Wah              Total               Total         Total for
Flowing          Command        Command        Sathio & Mir Wah    Patni Command   Project Area
April                      28              3.0              .B                 3.8                  6.5            10.3
May                        31              3.5              .9                 4.4                  7.9            12.3
June                       30              4.2              .8                 5.1                  9.7            14.8
July                       31              4.3              .9                 5.2                11.9             17.1
August                     30              4.4              .8                 5.2                12.2             17.5
September                  29              4.4              .8                 5.2                12.0            17.2
Kharif                      -             23.8             5.0                28.9                60.2             89.2
October                    27              3.7              .8                 4.5                10.0             14.5
November                   25              3.0              .7                 3.7                 7.6            11.3
December                   22              2.6              .6                 3.2                 5.5             8.7
January                    15              1.8              .4                 2.2                  2.8             5.0
February                   20              2.0              .6                 2.6                  3.6             6.2
March                      18              2.2              .5                 2.7                  3.1             5.8
Rabi                        -             15.3             3.6                18.9                32.6             51.5
Total                                     39.1             8.6                47.8                92.8           140.7
Source of data and method of calculation:
1.  Sathio Wah water use are Irrigation Department data.
2.  Mir Wah discharges through direct outlet are 14.12 cusecs.  The amount passing through was calculated from              Hrn
the number of operating days per month.
3.  Figures pertaining to the Patni are the sum of direct readings of the Irrigation Department taken on days
when the canal was running.
co
0c



ANNEX 9
PAKISTAN                                               Table 2
KHAIRPUR TILE DBIN E AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Crop Factors, Weighted for Time Spread in Planting
Cotton    Kharif    Kharif    Wheat   Rabi   Oilseeds    Dates   Vegetable   Rabi    Kharif   Sugar  Rice
Fodder    Grain              Fodder                                     Pulses   Pulses   Cane
(guara)
Jan  I                                                .85     1.23      .925         .59      .80        1.05               .95
II                                             1.00      1.23       .8         .57       .80      1.075                .90
Feb  I                                              1.075     1.23       .65         .58       .80       ,975               .80
II                                             1.10     1.18      .475         .60       .80       .725                .70
Mar  I                                              1.05      1.07      .292         .63       .80       .525               .55
II                                             .925       .98     .125         .68       .80        .25                .75
Apr  I                                                .55      .91                   .73       .80                           .80
II                        .054                 .125       .75                  .76       .80                           .90
May  I                          .130                                                 .75       .80                           *95
II             .135       .244                                                 .70       .80                          1.00
Jun  I                .31       .394                                                 .7        .011
II     -         .42      .566                                                 .72       .80                          1 12
Jul  I                .59       .723         .19                                     .78       .80                 .415    1.20      1.25
II              .77       .873         .44                                     .85       .80                 .525    1.20    1.075
Aug  I               .985       .819         .65                                     .93       .80                  *75    1.25    1.125
II             1.11       .743        .725                                    1.00       .80                  .95    1.25    1.175
Sept I               1.09       .629      1.045                                     1.05       .80                 1.05    1.25    1.175
II             .955       .479        .995                          .063      1.10       .80                 .975    1.25    1.125
Oct  I               .775       .387        .775               .52       .138       1.07       .80                 .675    1.20        .90
II              .63       .150          .6                .59       .263        .98      .80        .19       .25    1.10        .35
Nov  I               .555                    .25      .19      .70       .413        .88       .80       .415               1.10
II             .265                            .415       .89       .588        .77      .80          .5              1.00
DecI                                               .50     1.07       .772        .68       .80        .65                .88
Dec  II                                        5.65     1.18        .875       .63       .80       .875                .75
Source: Khairpur II Project Planning Report, modified according to LIP and other studies.



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE                                                  ANNEX 9
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)                                 Table 3
Crop Water Requirements per Acre as Calculated. Adiusted  to Minimum Practicable Dose-WI
(ac-in)
Sugarcane      Cotton      Sumcer      Summer      Wheat      Winter      Winter         Date        Vegetable      Winter       Summer      Rice
fodder      grain                  fodder      oilseed      orchard                      pulses      pulses
January      I          2                                                2           2            2                          -              2
II         -                                                -           2           -            2              2             2
l'4bruary    I          2                                                 2           2           2            2              2             2
II         -                                                3           2           1             -             2             2
March        I          3                                                3           3            -            2             2
II        2                                                 3           3                        3              3
April        I          3                         2                      2           3                         4             3
II         3             2           1                                                           4              3
May          I          5             3           1                                                            4             4
II        4              3           2                                                           4              3
June         I          6             2           2                                                            5             4                          2          4
II        5              2           3           2                                               4              3                          3          4
July         I          6             3           3           2                                                5             4                          2          6
II         5             3           4           3                                               4              3                          3          4
August       I          6             4           3           4                                                4             4                          4          6
II         5             4           4           3                                                4             4                          4          5
September   I           5             4           2           4                                                4             4                          4          4
II        5              4           2           4                                  1             3             3                          4          5
October      I          4             3           2           2                                   1            3             3              2           2          3
II        3              2                                  2           *           1             3             2              3                      2
November    I           2             2                                  2           *            1            3             2              1
II         2                                                2           2           2             2             2              1
December    I           2                                                2            2           2            -              -             I
II        2                                                 -           2           2             2             2              l             _                   _   _
82            41          31          24         23          23          15            71            64             17          28         44
NtSupplied as part of cotton irrigation.
Notes:  Applications below 4"' per month imply the application of at least 4' to part of the area under the crop in question.



ANNEX 9
Table 4
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Pro,ject Monthly Water Requirements
1/
Crop                  Canal Head Requirements for Pro.ject Area
Water            Total
Requirements       Command         Patni Command        Sathio Wah Command
(000 ac-ft)      (000 ac-ft)  (000 ac-ft)   (cusec)   (000 ac-ft)   (cusec)
2/                       2/           3/
Kharif
April                    12.3             20.5          15.8         263          4.7          78
May                      13.6             22.7          17.5         282          5.2          84
June                     13.2             22.0          17.0         283          5.0          83
July                     15.0             25.0          19.3         311          5.7          92
August                   17.4             29.0          22.4         361          6.6         106
September                17.9             29.8          23.0         383          6.8         113
Subtotal              89.4            149.0         115.0         317         34.0         93
Rabi
October                  15.2             25.3          19.5         315          5.8          94
November                 13.8             23.0          17.8         297          5.2          87
December                  8.7            .14.5          11.2         181          3.3          53
January                   7.3             12.2           9.4         152          2.8          45
February                 13.0             21.7          16.8         300          4.9          88
March                    15.8             26.3          20.3         327          6.0          97
Subtotal              73.8            123.0          95.0         262         28.0          77
4/                      hi
Total                      163.2            272.0         210.0         288         62.0          85
Notes  1/  Assuming an overall irrigation efficiency of 60% from canal head.
2/  Apportioning between Patni and Sathio Wah command on 3            ratio, i.e. 77% to Patni
command.4400
3/ Figures show flow rates used in project area; about 8% of total.
4/ Average flow for period indicated.
91



PAKISTAN
KHAIR TILE DRAINAGE                                        Table 5
AND IRRIGATED PARMI)i DELOPMENT PR0JBCT (KHAIRPUR II)
Chemical Analysis of Indus Waters at Sukkur Barrage
E.C.                   Milliecuivalents per litre                                Total
Month         (mmhos/cm)   C03      H003    C1       S04     Ca    Kg      Na     K     SA?        Solids
_                                                                          _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(PPm)
April                .16       .20    2.43      .55    1.30    1.24   1.01   1.38   .14   1.30          310
May                  .36       .14    2.38      .61    1.78    1.72   0.80   1.93   .13   1.76          350
June                 .25       .12    1.68      .41    1.28    1.16   0.69   lO00  .10   1.00           240
July                 .23       .14    1.45      .40    1.37    1.04   0.54   1.49   .12   1.66          238
August               .21       .00    1.52      .32     .96    1.02   0.47   1.00   .12   1.16          2014
September            .24       .10    1.57      .40    1.33    1.09   0.63   1.35   .13   1.46          245
Average Kharif       .24       .13    1.84      .45    1.34    1.21   o.69   1.36   .12   1.39          264
October              .23       .08    1.83      .38    1.37    1.23    .54   1.28   .13   1.39          259
November             .27       .00    2.22      .31    1.24    1.68    .53   1.32   .13   1.26          282
December             .34        .00    2.52    .49    1.57    1.74    .85   1.61   .13   1.44           334
January              .36       .00    2.62      .55    1.62    1.50   .99   1.82   .12   1.63           344
February             .38       .26    2.78      .52    1.50    1.68    .97   1.50   .14   1.31          352
March                .37        .28    2.55     .57    1.33    1.55    .95   1.50   .15   1.33          330
Average Rabi         .32       .10    2.42      .47    1.44    1.56    .81   1.34   .13   1.39          317
Average              .28       .12    2.13      .46    1.39    1.39    .75   1.35   .13   1.39.         291
Mo
1  *Sodiumjy Absorption Ratio



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR 11)
Construction Schedule
FY76/77        |      FY7/78                 FY78/79                FY79/80                FY80/81
Main Activities                                   Flesponsibility                         1977                   1978                   1979                    .980            1=
Consultants                                                                               July                   July                    July                   July
Selection & appointment-                       WAPDA
In post-                                                                  _   .
Agricultural Extension                            SCARP Khairpu-
Training -                                     Agrieultural Wing
Contact farmer selection-
Intensive operation -
Soil reclamation-
Civil Works
Equipment Procurement:                            WAPDA
Specifications & documents                                                _                _
Bidding --                                                                         -           -
A-ard-                                                                                         -
Delvery-
Drainage SVstem                                   \NAPDA
Survey and design
Land acquisition -                             (Revenue Dept,)
Construction of
Disposal sVstem                                                                                                             -
Collectors and laterals-                                                                     -        -
0 & M -                                         (SI&PD)                                                                                                  -          -           -
Canal Remodehng.                                  WAPDA
Survey & design                                                                    -
Construction of
Distributaries                              (Sl&PD)
Minors                                                                                                            -
Warercourses.                                      WAPDA
Survey & design                                                                                   _ -   -             -          -           -           -          -
Construction in
Area A-                                                                                                             -
Area B -                                                                                             -
Road Improvements                                 WVAPDA
Construction
Land Leveling
Staff Training
Field assistants-                           PLLP
Conmmernial bank                            NBP             ,
Procure equipment -                                                     -          -
Establish branch -                             NBP
Department work -                              SDA/PLLP                             _                                                                   
Construction                                    Local contractors
World Bank-15745    -
D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



ANNEX 11
Table 1
PAKISTAN                   Page 1 of 3 pages
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KRAIRPUR II)
Detailed Cost Estimates
Estimated                   Imported*
Estimated           Unit    Civil Work Cost  Machinery
Quantity   Unit  Rate Rs   Local   Foreign  & Materials  Total
---- (Rs million)----------
I. Land Acquisition                    310   ac      6,500     2.0 -    0            0        2.0
II. (a) Drainage System
Mi) Lateral drain      7,900,000   ft        7.5                                    59.2
(ii) Collector drain      715,000   ft       29.7                                    21.2
(iii) Disposal drain
- Pump station           130   no    85,000                                     11.1
- Disposal canal          45   mi    64,500                                     2.9
Subtotal                                      33.0    11.00        50.4       94.4
(b) Canal Remodeling
(i) Patni distributary
and minor canals        63   mi   101,600                                      6.4
(ii) Left bank KEF
itrengthening          SUM                                                     1.6
(iii) Outlets and control
structures             SUM                                                    2.9
Subtotal                                       4.1      1.4         5.4       10.9
(c) Watercourse Reconstruction
New and reconstructed
watercourses (includ-
ing 11 mi lining)       200   mi    42,500       5.4     1.8         1.3       8.5
(d) Road Improvement
(i) Feeder and Improvement   40   mi    60,000                                       2.4
(ii) Village road improve-
ment                     60   mi    50,000                                      3.0
Subtotal                                       2.6      0.9         1.9       5.4
III. On-farm Works
Land leveling             44,000   ac        807    25.0       0.0       10.5       35.5
* See Annex 11 under IV Construction Equipment, Vehicles and Materials to be Imported
1/ This represents cost of land only and not civil works.                                   94



ANNEX 11
Table 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Detailed Cost Estimates
Local cost Customs
Estimated cif Cost   Freight      Duties
---------------(Rs million) ----
IV. Construction Equipment, Vehicles
& Materials to be Imported
(a) Drainage system equipment
(i) Concrete aggregate and
gravel production                  8.0               0.2          0.9
(ii) Concrete pipe production            8.7               0.3          1.0
(iii) Plastic pipe production             2.0               0.1          0.2
(iv) Tile drainage installation         19.0               0.5          2.1
(v) Permanent installation              5.5               0.2          0.6
(vi) Materials                           5.7               0.2         0.7
Subtotal                        48.9               1.5          5.5
(b) Canal remodeling equipment
(i) Construction equipment              4.7               0.1          0.5
(ii) Materials                           0.6               0.0          0.1
Subtotal                         5.3               0.1         0.6
(c) Watercourse reconstruction
equipment                                  1.3              0.0          0.1
(d) Road improvement equipment                 1.8              0.1          0.2
(e) Project OSM equipment                     2.0               0.1          0.2
(f) SCARP Khairpur spare parts                2.0               0.0          0.2
Subtotal                        61.3               1.8         6.8
V.  Agricultural Equipment and Vehicles
to be Imported
(a) Land leveling equipment                   8.9               0.2          1.1
(b) Transport vehicles (extension)            1.3               0.1          0.1
Subtotal  V                     10.2               0.3          1.2
(Total for imports under IV               71.5               2.1          8.0)
95



ANNEX 11
Table 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FARNING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Detailed Cost Estimates
Foreign     Total
Local Currency   Exchange    Cost
------------(Rs million) ---------
VI. Technical Assistance and Training
Consulting firm's specialists
Civil engineer                   36 man-months         0.4            2.8        3.2
Mechanical equipment engineer   24 man-months          0.4            1.8        2.2
Extension and farm management
expert     36 man-months        0.4            2.8         3.2
Drainage and reclamation
engineer   36 man-months        0.4            2.8         3.2
Short-term specialists           36 man-months         0.4            2.8        3.2
Subtotal                                      2.0           13.0        15.0
VII. Engineering and Administration
For WAPDA tSZ), SI&PD, and
Agricultural Extension
Staffing and housing                   SUM             7.5            0.0        7.5
Crop compensation                      SUM             1.5            0.0         1.5
Building and offices                   SUM             1.4            0.0        1.4
Subtotal                                     10.4            0.0        10.4
VIII.  Physical Contingencies-/                                  15.0           5.0        20.0
IX.  Expected Price Increases                                 42.0           25.0        67.0
Project Cost                                143.6          129.6       273.2
X. ERTS Survey
ERTS consultants for survey             SUM             0.2           10.0        10.2
Total project costs                         143.8          139.6       283.4
XI.  Custom Duties                               SUM             8.0           0.0         8.0
Grand Total                                  151.8          139.6      291.4
1/ 307. for drainage system, 20%o for canal remodeling, watercourse reconstruction
and road improvemont, and 15% for on-farm works.                                    96



ANNEX 12
Table 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
76/77   77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81       Total
-------------------(Rs Million) ---------------
1.   Land Acquisition                 0.5     0.5      1.0      -        -         2.0
2.   Civil Works                      6.0     9.1    15.1    18.0    12.0         60.2
3.   Land Leveling                    3.0     5.0      6.5     5.5      5.0       25.0
4.   Construction Equipment
& SCARP Khairpur Spare Parts  22.0    35.0       6.1      0.0     0.0        63.1
5.   Agricultural & Leveling
Equipment                      2.0      3.5     3.0      2.0     0.0        10.5
6.   Consultants & Training           3.0     4.0      3.0     3.0      2.0       15.0
7.   Engineering & Administration   2.4       2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0       10.4
8.   Physical Contingencies           2.0     3.0      5.0     6.0      4.0       20.0
Subtotal                       40.9    62.1    41.7    36.5    25.0         206.2
1/
9.   Expected Price Increases         3.9    12.1    14.5    19.2    17.3         67.0
Total Project Cost             44.8    74.2    56.2    55.7    42.3         273.2
10.   Aerial Photography and
ERTS Surveys                    10.2     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0       10.2
Grand Total                     55.0    74.2    56.2    55.7    42.3        283.4
1/ Table 4
97



ANNEX 12
Table 2
9AKTSTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
iRRIGAI2-.  ~4L -   ]V.LOLPUENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR !I-1
Proposed Credit Allocation
Amount
Category         Description                   Allocated    Percentage Financing
US$ Million
I      Civil Works                              1.5       25% of total expenditures
II      Commercial Bank loans
(a) to farmers for land leveling
work                               1.0        50% of amounts disbursed by
participating banks
(b) to contractors for purchase
of land leveling equipment         0.4       70% of amounts disbursed by
participating banks
III      Equipment, vehicles, spare parts
and imported materials and supplies
(other than II (b))                              100% of c.i.f. prices
100% of exfactory prices
for locally manufactured
equipment
70% of off-the-shelf price
(limit to the total
of $200,000)
(a) WAPDA                               6.0
(b) GOSind                              0.6
IV      Technical assistance                     1.0      100% of foreign expenditures, or
70% local expenditures
V      Overseas training                        0.3      100% of foreign expenditures
VI      Aerial photography and ERTS surveys    1.0        100% of foreign expenditures
VII      Unallocated                              2.2
Total            14.0
98



ANNEX 12
Table 3
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Schedule of Credit Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                            Accumulated
and half-year                 Disbursements              Disbursements
US$ million               US$ million
1977
1st                              0.0                        0.0
2nd                              0.9                        0.9
1978
1st                              1.5                        2.4
2nd                              2.2                        4.6
1979
1st                              2.5                        7.1
2nd                              1.6                        8.7
1980
1st                              1.5                       10.2
2nd                               1.3                      11.5
1981
1st                              1.0                       12.5
2nd                              0.9                       13.4
1982
1st                              0.6                       14.0
99



ANNEX 12
Table L
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Price Contingencies
Annual                         Accumulated          Basic
Jalendar      Rate of           Fiscal          Rate of           Project           Price
Year     Price Increases       Year       Price Increases  Disbursements    ontiencies
(%)  (%)        (Rs M)            (Rs M)
Bjuipment and Consultants
1976           9             1976/77              9             27.0              2.2
1977           8             1977/78             17             42.5              7.2
1978           8             1978/79             26             12.1              3.1
1979           8             1979/80             36              5.0              1.7
19P0           7             1980/81             46              2.0               .9
Total         17             88.6             15.1
Civil Works and Local Costs
1976          13             1976/77             13             13.4              1.7
'?77          12             1977/78             26             19.0              4.9
1978          12             1978/79             41             28.5             11.4
iQ79          12             1979/80             57             31.5             17.5
1980          10             1980/81             73             23.0             16.4
Total         45            115.4             51.9
Grand Total          33            204.0             67.0
- :e:  December 1975
100



ANNEX 13
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Agricultural Supporting Services
Background
1.        Before 1972, agricultural supporting services including agricul-
tural credit for the entire Khairpur II project area were administered by
the SCARP Khairpur directorate (Annex 1). In 1972, parts of Rohri taluka
outside SCARP Khairpur reverted to the Extra-Assistant Director of Agricul-
ture (EADA), Sukkur District. The dehs in Khairpur and Kot Diji talukas
continued under SCARP Khairpur's agricultural wing.
2.        To ensure unified administration of agricultural supporting services
in the drained areas, it would be essential to restore the pre-1972 situation.
The staff of the SCARP agricultural wing has been exposed for several years
to conditions brought about by good drainage. In some of SCARP's fresh
groundwater areas, they are already providing some of the advice and assistance
required by farmers who receive usable water supplies from the tubewells.
Fig. 1 shows SCARP's agricultural wing's organizational chart and staff
requirements.
Services to be Extended
3.        Apart from the crop husbandry advice now given, the following points
would require special emphasis under project conditions:
--   farm planning services, in view of increased water
supplies;
--   close supervision of reclamation by leaching;
-- survey and subsequent certification of works for land
leveling;
--   closer supervision of and assistance with plant
protection than at present;
-- agricultural inputs provision, and
--   agricultural credit.
Farm Planning Services
4.        With greatly increased water supplies, more careful thought than
at present must be given to the sequence of operations, the tillage aids   101



ANNEX 13
Page 2
used and the planning of crop sequences and varieties. Mechanization will
be increasingly necessary. Organization and the best method of administering
the service will not emerge for some years, but the work the new farm
machinery should do and the kind of assistance required by farmers can be
readily identified in the third or fourth year of operation of expected
project conditions.
5.        In setting up the SCARP Khairpur extension service and preparing
the manuals for its operation, the project consultants envisaged that such
a service would be needed in the fresh groundwater areas. The guidelines
have been prepared, but no staff member has had operational experience.
Since the best training is through actual planning work on operating farms,
the necessary expertise would be made available at a time when project
implementation is sufficiently advanced.
Reclamation
6.        Most of the area not fit for cultivation is saline.  The estimated
area of saline-alkaline lands is of the order of 1% or some 400 ac. There-
fore most reclamation activities will consist of leaching only. Before
leaching, however, the land must be leveled (paras 7-12). The farmers are
unlikely to use water for leaching as long as they are short of irrigation
supplies. A real incentive for reclamation will have been created only
when there is assurance that the increased water supply is reliable and
more than can be used on land already fit for cultivation. The technical
problems then to be faced are well within the capabilities of the SCARP
extension service which works closely with an agricultural chemist. An
administrative routine for sampling the soil before and during the leaching
process must be organized. Advice on cultural practices during the reclam-
ation process must be given and the irrigation regime devised, once reclam-
ation has progressed far enough to grow crops. No extra expenditure in way
of support services is required beyond ensuring that laboratory equipment is
functional and the necessary chemicals are available.
Land Leveling
7.        The Precision Land Leveling Project (PLLP) is an on-going project
technically supported by USAID. It aims at leveling each irrigation unit.
This would ensure that the field was evenly watered especially when irrigated
for the first or second time after sowing when the plants are still small
and can be damaged by prolonged submergence or early desiccation. Apart
from increasing the field efficiency of irrigation applications, fine leveling
eliminates the high spots where salts would accumulate and makes reclamation
by leaching much more economical.
8.        Under PLLP, all the work is performed by the participating farmer.
The technicians' task is to peg out the fields for leveling, discuss and
mark out possible changes in field alignment and calculate the number of
cubic meters of earth that will have to be moved. On completion, if the
102



ANNEX 13
Page 3
work is found to comply with specified standards, a certificate by the
technician enables the farmer to collect a subsidy.
9.        The USAID advisers calculated that, using the rate of tractor hire
and wages in 1974, it cost Rs 2.60 to move one cubic meter of soil. The
Central Government, under which the project operates, reimburses the farmer at
the rate of Rs 1.30 per m3, irrespective of what his actual costs are. The
subsidy applies at present to no more than 10 ac of any one owner's land.
10.       Leading farmers have, through their own efforts, achieved a re-
markable degree of perfection. The use of ox or tractor-drawn scraper boards
is routine in land preparation for all the major crops. Nevertheless, the
project meets a long-felt need in:
a.   providing means to mark fields for leveling (i.e.
not to rely on the naked eye and trial floodings
for accuracy);
b.   fostering the manufacture and use of specialized
equipment for the wheel tractors in general use, and
C.   providing a grant to speed up leveling works which,
until now, have progressed slowly, especially on
farms of less than 10 ac.
11.       In Sind, PLLP has been little more than of demonstration value.
Based on their experience, technicians associated with the project estimate
that some two thirds of the presently cultivated area will need some level-
ing, of which nearly half would mean moving 350 to 400 m3 soil per ac and
the rest about 150 m3. In FY 1975, and again in FY 1976, the total alloca-
tion for leveling grants was Rs 700,000 which, prorated to the project area,
is roughly Rs 3,500, the subsidy required for only 7 to 8 ac of leveling.
To make a meaningful contribution, the amount of money to be committed on
a provincial scale would have to be several tens of million rupees per annum.
Such a financial commitment would be impractical.
12.       Leveling as a first step to reclaiming culturable waste and land
never before cultivated in the project area is unlikely to gather momentum
until it is obvious to farmers that water for reclamation is either actually
available or that the remodeling of canals is near completion. Eventually,
the project authorities expect to become part of the agricultural engineering
wing providing a technical service. The grant component of the project will
likely become a minor part of their operation. Therefore, under the project,
a revolving fund of about Rs 24 M would be provided through commercial banks
for lending to farmers for land leveling. The technical and survey backup would
come from staff trained by PLLP, as will the training of commercial bank
officials whose task would be to verify the quantity and technical accept-
ability of work done. This sum would be adequate to meet the full requirements
of the project area inclusive of the heavy leveling, involving the use of
bulldozers, oln an estimated 8,000 ac. The method of using the loan is described
in Annex 8.                                                                    103



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Plant Protection
13.       The crops at risk from pests are cotton, Brassica oilseeds, sugar-
cane and the expected high yielding grain sorghum. There is at present
limited aerial spraying available for cotton, and some farmers use manual or
motorized knapsack sprayers. Aerial spraying is free. For ground spraying,
the farmer purchases the pest control chemical at a subsidized rate, gets
the sprayer on loan, free of charge and provides his own labor to do the
spraying. The sprayers available are usually badly designed and maintenance
is inadequate, largely due to lack of spare washers, packings and nozzles.
14.       For sorghum and sugarcane, granular formulations are best.  These
are applied by hand, using plastic gloves and elementary sanitary precautions
against contamination through the skin.
15.       The estimated cotton area will be about 15,000 ac.  During August
and September, this may have to be sprayed up to four times (i.e. at 15 day
intervals). One motorized knapsack sprayer would cover 7 ac per day, if
it is adequately serviced with water and chemicals. Therefore, 145 sprayers
would have to be provided. Aiming for 75% protection by ground spraying and
relying on aerial control to cope with any excess or possible outbreaks of
epidemic proportion, 110 sprayers are needed. Before August, the frequency
will be less and the ground covered by one sprayer more per day because the
plants are smaller and do not yet meet in the row. The required number of
sprayers in the off-peak period would be less than 110, allowing repairs
and maintenance to be done in this period. The estimated cost is US$200
per sprayer. The total investment, including 20% extra for spares, is
US$26,400. The successful tenderer should be requested to provide a
mechanic for three months to assemble and commission the first 25 machines
and train local staff in maintenance, operation and repair. The mechanic's
services would cost an estimated US$10,000. The same sprayers can handle
the Brassicas that have to be sprayed during the rabi (Table 1).
16.       To support the expected plant protection activities, the field as-
sistants-and of course their supervisors- must be trained to be able to
spot and evaluate pest outbreaks. The appropriate training is within the
capability of the Plant Protection staff. Sprayer operation will be taught
to the same people by two mechanics who will, in turn, be trained by the
manufacturer's representative.
Agricultural Inputs
17.       Fertilizers.  Fertilizer supplies and the distribution infrastruc-
ture is adequate in the area. The Esso Pakistan Fertilizer Co., Ltd. (EPFCL)
supplies the area with urea from its plant, 80 mi away. Another two plants
with three times EPFCL's capacityare planned to feed off the same gas field.
The combined capacity of 2,100 tons of ammonia per day will be more than the
whole of the Sind will need for many years to come. The Sind Agricultural
Supply Organization (SASO) also operates in the area and provides phosphatic
and potassic fertilizers and nitrogen in forms other than urea.
104



ANNEX 13
Page 5
18.       Pesticides.  Pesticides are distributed by the Agricultural Depart-
ment. Supplies are procured by the Central Government from sources that
offer the most advantageous terms. Since the chemicals and their formulation
are proprietary, there are no guarantees that the same active ingredient in
the same formulation will be available from one year to the next. Adequate
supplies of chemicals in the right formulation and with comprehensive
instructions for use written in English and Sindhi should be allocated to the
project area.
19.       Seeds.  Traditionally, farmers obtain seeds either from their own
crop o- from cotton ginneries. Landlords often make their tenants plant seed
that they have selected from an outstanding field. Other seed sources are
the grain merchants and, to a far smaller extent, Government-supported
organizations like SASO. New crop varieties are made available either by
the extension service or SASO and then spread either from farmer to farmer
or through grain merchants.
20.       The system works efficiently when new varieties are introduced
(e.g. as in the spread of Mexi-Pak wheat and IR3 and IR6 rice). In such
cases, the demonstrable advantages readily convinced the farner to seek the
new variety. But the advantages of changing seeds when not changing the
variety can only be demonstrated when the seed offered is pure, disease-
free and germinates and grows vigorously in its early stages. The IDA-sup-
ported Cereal Seeds project will provide high quality certified seeds. It
would be desirable that farmers purchase certified instead of ordinary ginnery
cottonseed every year and, for the other crops, purchase certified seeds every
four or five years.
Agricultural Credit
21.       Credit is available through cooperative societies set up for the
purpose. Funds are limited to resources and their own credit rating. There
is no cooperative bank from which they can borrow and they may not borrow
from the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP). Some 38 such
societies exist in Khairpur administrative District, which has 5,000 members
but which is unable to expand. The ADBP has provided, in the same area,
Rs 1.3 M in short-term and Rs 1.2 M in medium-term credit to some 6,000
farmers.
22.       The relatively low credit availability in the past does not seem
to have slowed down the growth of fertilizer consumption which is the greatest
single purchased input. However, a growth rate higher than the present 20%
may not be sustainable without increased credit facilities. To increase
credit facilities, the cooperative movement must expand and acquire access
to additional working capital. Once this is assured, a concerted drive to
increase membership and also the number of societies would become meaningful.
Organization of the Extension Service
23.       The Method.  To make the extension service efficient in the project
area, it is proposed to institute an operational systeu that is simple to
105



ANNEX 13
Page 6
organize and easy to supervise. The technical soundness of its message
must be unequivocal and the effects clearly demonstrated. The message will
cover matters of crop husbandry, fanr planning, reclamation, land leveling
and intensified plant protection. Executors would be the field staff, Field
Assistants (FA), and Agricultural Assistants (AA). They would work through
contact farmers in each watercourse. Staff support work would devolve on
the Extra-Assistant Director of Agriculture, (EADA) SCARP Khairpur, the
headquarters support staff and the Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs). The
line of responsibility would be straight and liaison duties and functions
would rest with the EADA only.
The Field Assistant
24.       The basis of the farmer contacts would be the FA.  He would be
a matriculate, have had secondary education up to the age of 16 and then
he would have spent two years in a Field Assistant Training Institute.
Another potential is the new agriculture gyaduate who has had only limited
field experience and may gain it by working as an FA for a time. He must
receive frequent in-service refresher training. The unit area would be a
watercourse command of approximately 200 ac and in each of these commands
there would be one or two progressive working farmers who would be the FA's
contact with the other farmers. He would have 13 or 14 watercourses under
his care and would visit each once a fortnight. The day and time of the
visit would be known in the watercourse. The FA would demonstrate on fields
of the contact farmer the crop husbandry techniques that are on schedule for
the visit. All farmers of the watercourse command who have similar problems
would be invited to attend and participate. Time would be spent in visiting
the fields of farmers who would raise special problems during the demonstration
and/or who will have asked the contact farmer previously to arrange such a
visit. All who have genuine problems must be visited, either in the course
of the day or on one special day during the week set apart for the purpose.
Any problems not related to the specific extension task of the period-assist-
ance with crops not normally grown, farm planning, special reclamation
problems, etc.--will be handled on that day. Previous notice of such
problems would enable prior discussion with the AA by the FA in the course
of the routine meeting or training session with that officer. The rest of
the FA's time would be spent in training, in routine office work and in
reporting.  To cover the 44,000 ac of the project, there would be about 18 FAs.
The Agricultural Assistant
25.       The FAs would be supervised by three AAs.  The AA would be a
graduate with at least three years of post-graduate practical agricultural
experience. He would be sufficiently trained to backstop his FA in problems
of crop husbandry and farm management that are likely to occur with any
regularity. Ile would spend eight days in the field per fortnight and leave
one day a week free to attend to specific problems brought to him by an FA
and with which the FA cannot cope even after discussing it with his super-
visor. The rest of his working time would be spent on routine reporting
and training duties and on attending to his own demonstration plots or
farms.
to 6



ANNEX 13
Page 7
26.       It is mandatory for the AA to visit each of his FAs once in a
fortnight, and for the FAs to be in each watercourse on the same day in
each fortnightly period. It is, however, equally important that the MA
visit a different watercourse whenever he visits an FA. Therefore, it
would be essential to draw up a schedule of visits for each month which
would enable the AA to inspect all his watercourses in a strict rotation.
27.       Each of the AAs should concentrate on one or two of the special
problems of the area, like the Brassicas, lan'1 leveing. fielSlayout, etc.
They would then be available for the whole area in matters pertaining to
their subject.
The Subject Matter Specialist
28.       Supporting the AAs on a technical level would be the SMSs. They
would be attached to the EADA's office and would be available to all the
AAs. Initially, the disciplines most needed are: plant protection; land
leveling and reclamation; irrigation practice, and training. Farm planning
should not be a specialty. One operating AA should specialize in it, but
all must be trained to prepare farm plans.
29.       The SMS for land leveling and reclamation would be the officer
certifying that fields leveled under the PLLP-sponsored project (nara 7)
meet the criteria of the project.  He would also keep in close touch with
leaching operations and would be the link between the chemist (para 35) and
the field works.
30.       The SMS would be available for all training sessions and for any
special demand made on them by the AAs. Besides, they should schedule one
routine visit per fortnight to each AA to more familiarize themselves
with problems in their field, to draw attention to problems not readily
observed by the AAs and to offer solutions.
The Extra-Assistant Director of Agriculture
31.       The project would share the services of the EADA with that of
SCARP Khairpur. The EADA should devote one week per month to the project
and he would be available at other times for administrative, technical and
liaison matters that require his decisions. He would visit a particular AA
on a different day on each occasion, so that he would see a different part
of the project and a different FA each time, thereby ensuring his maximum
exposure to different parts of the project area as well as to all his staff.
The supporting services shown on the chart must be equally available to
the project and must be strengthened by the SMSs.
Extension Committees
32.       Major failings which could hamper the effectiveness of any extension
organization are: not keeping in touch with pertinent developments in the
scientific and social field; not being fully informed concerning all proposed
activities and not evaluating past campaigns with the leading farmers of the
area. Therefore, it is proposed that an Extension Committee be set up for the
107



ANNEX i3
Page 8
project area. Its chairman would be the Project Director. Members would
be the EADA, selected AAs, the SMSs, delegates from the Tando Jam Agricultural
Research Station, any markhaz officer functioning in the project area (para 40)
irrigation officials directly involved in the problems of the area and a number
of leading farmers, selected from among the contact farmers in the water-
courses. The functions of the committee, which would meet twice a year after
each season, would be to review the previous season's activities, and achieve-
ments, the general policy guiding it and to consider any changes that may be
needed. The detailed liaison would be carried out through four required
branch committees for: kharif crops; rabi crops; plant protection, and land
leveling. They would be headed either by the SMS or the AA who would have
special interest and aptitude for the discipline involved. The branch
committees should meet on an ad hoc basis, but not less frequently than once
every three months, to discuss past and future activities and plans for the
subject matter in question. The chairman of the groups would transmit the
deliberations at his next meeting with EADA unless there was some special
urgency.
Training (Appendix 1)
33.       For extension workers to have an impact, it is most important that
they be fully competent to advise the farmers. During visits, the FAs
will concentrate on only a few points. Therefore, a well designed training
program scheduled to take place once or twice a month and concentration on
the few salient points to be imported can ensure the desired degree of com-
petence. Training would be communicated in a two-tier program. One would
take a week and would be held before the kharif and rabi season. There
would also be a monthly, one day refresher course and a monthly planning
session, aimed to synthesize technical and organizational problems. The
planning session would be scheduled to take place halfway between the re-
fresher courses. The refresher courses would be held for all the FAs
simultaneously. Formal and informal opportunities would be provided to
compare and exchange information from all parts of the project area. The
organization and planning session would be in one extension circle, where
the schedule on how to execute the technical information learned a fortnight
earlier would have been developed. It would be helpful to hold these meetings
in a watercourse, on a farm that would best illustrate the problem at issue
and to allow the contact farmer to participate. He, in his turn, must be
trained into an outstandingly successful operator who is so conversant with
every detail of practical farming that he commands other farmers' respect
on this ground and motivates them to emulate him.
34.       The twice-yearly courses would be organized by the EADA, assisted
by SN$3s who would be lecturers and discussion group leaders.  The AAs would
assist and participate in these functions. The SMSs also would take part
in the monthly meetings and maintain regular monthly contacts with research
staff on all matters relevant to the area. In all training courses there
would be room for speakers on special subjects. They can be research workers
or outstanding farmers of the area or the neighborhood.
108



ANNEX 13
Page 9
Work Planning
35.       The FA's work plan would be the basic one to which all others would
be geared. The key factors relating to each major crop in each area would
be identified during the pre-seasonal training courses. Only major constraints
would be picked out and not more than a few of those even if the results are
expected to fall short of the ideal. For instance, the yield of dwarf
wheat depends principally on the time of planting, the amount of the soaking
dose and the timing of the first and third irrigation. It is most important
to get the three operations as nearly perfect as would be attainable before
the precise amounts and timing of other inputs could be expected to have
a major impact on yields. Each AA would have to be able to evaluate his area
as to the emphasis it needs and he would then follow it throughout the
season. In his demonstration plot, he would follow all good practices to
maximize the yield and would then point this out to visiting farmers on the
pre-harvest field day. The farmer meetings following would further explain
the practices. The conclusions would serve as a guide for the next season
as to which key factors emphasized during past season have become accepted
practices and can therefore be committed from the next year's package.
36.       The detailed work plan, concerned with the execution of the overall
extension plan, would be worked out during the monthly meeting of the FAs
with their AAs and, if necessary, further refined during the fortnightly
field visits. This plan would set out in fortnightly periods, the target
operations on which to concentrate.
37.       The AA's backup activities would extend to supplies and services.
Briefed by his FAs, he would ensure that fertilizers are available in
adequate quantities, with dealers supplying the watercourse in question
for the demands of the next fortnight's work program. This could involve for
them ad hoc contacts with the main fertilizer distributors, in persuading
dealers to order and to ensure timely deliveries. The pesticide supplies
must be ensured through the Plant Protection SMS. The placement of
sprayers at strategic points in perfect working condition and with necessary
fuel must be ensured. All these activities can be planned well in advance
and pinpointed during the monthly meetings as to the exact day when they are
to be carried out.
Transport
38.       Experience in Pakistan shows that anything smaller than a four-
wheel drive vehicle under Government control has a short service life in
contrast to when it is in private hands. Therefore, it is proposed to ensure
that the AAs and the headquarters support staff have four-wheel drive vehicles
from project resources. The FAs would have to own motorcycles. They would
get a three year loan for purchase and a mileage allowance for operation.
Since motorcycles are not manufactured in Pakistan, under the proposed credit
foreign exchange would be made available to an importer, selected by the
Government, who has adequate spares and servicing facilities in Khairpur,
to import 36 machines (100 cc) for sale to the FAs at prevailing rates.
Budgetary provisions should be made to the project authorities to ensure
the prompt payment of a fair and equitable mileage allowance.  Under the 109



ANNEX 13
Page 10
project, funds would be provided for 10, four-wheel drive vehicles and 36
motor scooters, and would include replacement vehicles for purchases made
earlier in project implementation.
39.       The build-up and annual operating cost of the extension organiza-
tion are in Table 2.
The Integrated Rural Development Program
40.       Pakistan is committed to an Integrated Rural Development Program
in an administative entity called markhaz, corresponding in the Sind to a
taluka. Under a markhaz officer, who acts as chairman and executive officer
of the local development committee, all development activities are co-
ordinated and work programs arranged to serve the agreed objectives arranged
for the technical officers and credit organizations.
41.       At present, no markhaz is functioning in the project area, but
one is scheduled for Kot DiJi taluka. A desirable precondition is that the
whole area should be at about the same stage of development and while detailed
village-by-village needs may vary, the variation would not be too wide. When,
however, the present project, involving an investment of over US$400 per
ac is implemented in part of the area, then its incremental service needs,
like an agricultural service of maximum efficiency, must be fully and un-
equivocally met, to safeguard the main investment. Therefore, it is proposed
to concentrate on building up and ensuring the efficient functioning of the
organization as outlined in the three extension Circles, comprising the
project area. About three full agricultural cycles after project effective-
ness, enough operational experience will have accumulated to extend the
same support services approach to the whole of Rohri, Khairpur and Kot DiJi
talukas. The expanded organization will be perfectly placed to be integrated
into the markhaz as it it gets established. Subsequently, it will be entirely
possible to extend the system to the entire Khairpur District, or even beyond
if achievements warrant it.
June 1976
110



ANNEX 13
Appendix 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Agricultural Staff Training Needs
1.        Special training will be required in extension methods, farm plan-
ning and land leveling surveys. Crop production technologies will require
updating only in refresher courses and the fortnightly training sessions.
New technologies required by new varieties or a changed environment will be
imparted to the SMSs by the research institutes. Improved extension methods
will make their dissemination easier than in the past.
Extension Methods
2.        The best way for all staff to appreciate and learn the operation
of the extension methods proposed is to see it in operation. This requires
visits to areas where there is no language barrier between the Sindhi trainees
and local farmers. But as an alternative, the language in which the FAs
report and the bi-monthly meetings are held must be undertstood. Some of
the States of India would meet this requirement. It is therefore proposed
to send the AAs and EADA to a suitable project area for about one month.
Farm Planning
3.        The aim is to enable full utilization of the extra water and also
to devise a year-by-year cropping pattern that will maximize profits. It is
expected to be a continuous operation: farm plans need restructuring as some
crops change in profitability due to price changes or technological advances
in production. Intricate knowledge of the area concerned is required as
well as an accurate assessment of the ability of the farmer concerned to
implement changes smoothly and effectively. Consequently, it has to be
an in-service training operation, by someone who himself is familiar with
local conditions.
4.        It is proposed to have a consultant for a period of 15 months,
starting about two years after the commencement of the project by which time
a scope for the task will have developed. The consultant would be expected
also to assist with the extension training program and integrate the basics
of the farm planning work into the schedule of the training sessions for the
AAs.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 1
Page 2
Land Leveling
5.        Training in the necessary survey techniques, the calculations
involved and subsequent pegging out of the fields are part of the USAID-
sponsored Precision Land Leveling Project. Since 1965, the teaching of
the use of leveling instruments to undergraduates taking agricultural
degree courses has been discontinued, extending the training required under
the project. Therefore, all AAs in the project must participate in the
PLLP training course to be available to assist farmers wishing to do land
leveling.
June 1976
112



ANNEX 13
Table 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
(KHAIRPIR II)
Capit.ai Cet- and pIasin" of Agricultural SupDorting Services
Year                 1975/76          1976/77           1977/78           1978/79            1979/80              Total
AgricultuTal Extension
Equipment
No     Rs      No        Rs      No        Rs      No       Rs        No       Rs         No       Rs
4-wheel vehicles         -         -    3            -    5            -    -            -     2            -     10            _
local                 i          -    -         3.00             5.00    -                            2.00       -       10.00
F.E.                   -         -    -       120.00    -      200.00    -             -     -       80.00       -      400.00
Motor scooters           -         -   10            -    8            -    -            -    18            -     36            -
local                 -          -    -         5.00    -        5.00    -            -      -        9.00       -       18.00
P.E.                   -         -    -        70.00    -       70.00    -             -     -      126.00       -      252.00
Slide projector &
canera                   1         -    -            -    -            -    -            -     -            -                   -
F.E.                   -      3.00    -            -    -            -    -                               -      -        3.00
TOTAL                    -      3.00    -       198.00    -       280.00    -            -     -      217.00       -      683.00
Extension and Farm
Planning Consultant
local                 -          -    -        92.00    -       92.00    -        46.00      -           -       -      230.00
F.E.                   -         -    -       550.00    -      550.00    -       275.00      -            -      -    1,375.00
Total                 -          -    -       642.00           642.00    -       321.00      -            -      -    1,605.00
Reclamation
Lab, requisites
local                 -          -    -         1.00    -        1.00    -         1.00      -        1.00       -        4.00
F.E.                   -         -    -        10.00    -        10.00    -       10.00      -       10.00       -       40.00
Total                  -         -    -        11.00    -        11.00    -       11.00      -       11.00       -       44.00
Land Levelina
Equipment
local                 -        .30    -.60    -                    .30    -            -                  -                1.20
F.E.                   -      3.00               .00    -         3.00    -                                               12 -    -  12.00
Total                  -    103.30    -       206.60    -       503.30    -    1,.00         -    1,000.00       -    2,813.20
Plant Protection
Sprayers                 --              -        25                                                                         10
local                                                             36 -  .50  3.00    -  3.00  -       2.50       -        1.0
F.E.                   -         -    -        60.00    -        72.00    -        72.00     -        60.00      -       264.00
Total                  -              -        62.50    -        75.00    -        75.00     -        62.50      -       275.00
Mechanic Advisor
local                  -         -    -        36.00    -            -    -            -     -            -      -        36.00
F.E.                   -         -    -       100.00    -                                                00      -       100.00
Total                  -         -    -       136.00    -            -    -                                              136.00
Fellowships
local                  -         -    -        1                 200      -        4         -        3          -       1
T.E.                   -                       10.00    -        20.00    -        40.00     -        30.00       -      100.00
Total                  -         -    -        10.00    -        20.00    -        40.00     -        30.00       -      100.00
GRAND TOTAL
local                  -       .30            140.10            105.30             50.00              1l.50              310.20
F.E.                   -      6.00    -       926.00    -       911.00    -       397.00      -      306.00       -    2,546.00
Total                         6.30          1,066.10          1,016.30            hk7.00             320.5o            2,856.20
113



ANNEX.13
Table 2
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
(KHAIRPUR II)
Operating Cost of Agricultural Extension Service
(Without Consultants)
(Rs)
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80  1980 onward
Agricultural Assistants
Sa1ary (Rs 500/mo)                  o,000    12,000    15,000    18,000    18,000
T.A.*(Rs 100/mo)                    1,200      2,400     3,000      3,600     3,600
Transport (1000 m/mo;
(6 Rs 1.20)                      14,100    28,200    35,200    42,200   42,200
Field Assistants
Salary (Rs 250/mo)                 1s,000    36,000    45,000    54,000    54,000
£ileage allowance
(Rs 0.40/m; 250 rn/mo)            7,200    14,400    18,000    21,600    21,600
Subject Matter Specialists
Salary (Rs 250/mo;
1/3 of time)                      6,6oo      6,600     6,6oO      6,600     6,600
T.A. (Rs 75/mo)                     2,700      2,700      2,700     2,700      2,700
Transport (200 m/mo;
@ Rs 1.20)                        8,640      8,640     8,640      8,640     8,640
EADA
Salary (Rs 1000/mo; 20%)            2,400      2,400     2,400      2,'400    2,400
T.A. (Rs 150/mo)                    1,800      1,800     1,800      1,800     1,800
Transport (100 m/mo;
9 ils 1.20)                       1,440      1,440     1,440      1,440     1,440
Share of EADA's Staff (est.)             2,400     2,400     2,400      2,400      2,400
Lab. Chemicals and
Samples                             370        750       925      1,100     1,100
Printing, Posters,
Puiblications                     7,000    12,000    16,000    20,000    20,000
Contingency                         7,850    13,270    16,895    19,020    19,020
87,700   145,000   176,000   205,500   205,500
Area Covered (acres)                     8,noo    20,000    32,000    44,000    44,000
Cost per acre                           10.95       7.25      5.50       4.o7      4.67
*  Trin~1liz%   allowance.                                                114.
Trnvrllintg allowance.                                                              114



ANNEX 13
Figure 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIr73TED FARMING DEVELDPMENT PROJECT
(KHAIRPUR II)
Organization of SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Extension Wing - November 1974
Project Directcr; - SCARP Khairpur
Deputy Director of' Agriculture
I~~~~~
In2ormation Officer    Assistant Plant          Agricultural Chemist          Agronomist
Protection Office       (vacant; an acting
(vacant; an actin       appointee)
appointee)
Photographer
Extra-Assistant Director of Agriculture
I
Sector Officers
(  substantive, 1 acting)
I
15 Agricultural Assistants
+ one vacancy)
1
71 Field Assistants
( F four vacancies)
115



ANNEX 13
Figure 2
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(KHAIRPUR II)
Proposed Organization Chart, Project Extension Service
PD - SC.IP Khairpar
PD - Khairpur II
(for pertinent matters only)
EADA    - xtension Corinit-4tee
----- -61S
--- SMS
I ~ ~~~~~~ -* - _._
AA                                                     *1AA
FA   FA   FA   FA   FAFE
CF   CF   CF   C?   CF   CF   CF   CF   CF   CF   C    CF
116



ANNEX 14
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Consulting Services
General
1.        The Water and Power Development Authority, Southern Zone (WAPDA,SZ),
which would be responsible for project implementation would engage a consult-
ing firm acceptable to IDA to assist WAPDA(SZ) in the preparation of engineer-
ing designs and supervision of construction of project works and to provide
expertise to the SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Extension Wing in developing
extension services and in monitoring project performance and production in-
creases. The engineering services would include assistance in detailed
designs, preparing equipment procurement documents, managing and supervising
construction, operation and maintenance training and preparing operation and
maintenance manuals. Agriculture services would include assistance in
identifying local production constraints, managing extension activities and
intensifying existing services.
Services Required
2.        The services of the following specialists would be required for
a total of about 170 man-months:
Man-months
(a) Civil Engineer:
Team leader, responsible for assist-
ance in design and construction super-
vision. He should have extensive ex-
perience in the design and construction
of tile drainage and gravity irrigation
distribution sytems.                         36
(b) Mechanical Equipment Engineer:
Would prepare specifications and bidding
documents for all equipment required
for the project, assist in selecting
and procuring it and in supervising its
operation and maintenance; he should
have extensive experience with the type
of construction equipment, in particular
the tile laying and earthmoving equipment,
to be used.                                  24
117



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Man-Months
(c) Extension and Farm Management Expert:
Would advise agricultural extension
staff in developing the extension services
program and assist in implementing it.
Also would assist in improving farm
water management techniques and in
optimizing farm use of crop inputs
under changing local conditions.              36
(d) Drainage and Reclamation Engineer:
Would advise on identification of
drainage requirements -- surface and
sub-surface drainage design criteria,
planning and design and installation of
surface and sub-surface drains -- as
well as on soil reclamation methods and
procedures.                                   36
(e) Short-Term Specialists:
Would advise and assist in solving
specific problems relating to soils
and water quality and to tile drain-
age design criteria installation, etc.        36
Total number of man-months required is estimated at:         168
Responsibility of the Consultant
3.        The WAPDA(SZ) would engage a consulting firm to provide the ser-
vices of the qualified specialists described above. These specialists
would give technical advice, assistance and direction to the engineering and
agricultural staff assigned to the project, particularly in regard to deter-
mining design and construction methods appropriate for prevailing conditions
in the locality. They would assist in the following activities:
(a) A review of all pertinent published and unpublished
data and reports on the project area;
(b) The completion of the soil, groundwater and topo-
graphical surveys and drainage investigations
needed for the design of drainage works;
(c) The preparation of specifications and tender documents
for international and local bidding satisfactory to the
Bank Group and the evaluation of bids for civil works
118



ANNEX i4
Page 3
and the procurement of vehicles and equipment, including
spare parts;
(d) Plans, designs, and estimates of the tile drainage
and surface disposal system, including pump stations
and power transmission lines;
(e)  Overall planning and coordination of the drainage
construction program, including pipe manufacture,
pipe storage and delivery, gravel filter supply and
pipe installation by alternative methods and
equipment; training of WAPDA personnel in mechanized
pipe laying techniques;
(f) The supervision of drain installation and drainage
monitoring in the field;
(g) The preparation of cost estimates for projects works
and the establishment of cost accounting procedures
for review of project costs;
(h)  The preparation of drainage system operation and
maintenance including annual budgetary requirements
covering staff and equipment;
(i) A review of irrigation water distribution, delivery
scheduling and the means to improve irrigation services
in the project area;
tj) Development (by SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing) of
appropriate training courses for extension staff;
(k) The reclamation of saline lands in the project area;
(1) The preparation of a detailed work program and schedule
for intensification of the extension service field
staff activities;
(m)  Development (by SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing) of
an intensive farm management advisory service,
particularly to improve farm use of increased water
supplies.
4.        The Team Leader would assist the Project Director in the prepara-
tion of project quarterly and annual reports for submission to GOSind,
GOP and IDA.
119



ANNEX 14
Page 4
Services To Be Provided By The Government
j.        The Government will:
(a) Exempt or bear the cost of any taxes, duties, fees,
levies and other impositions imposed under its laws and
regulations or the laws and regulations in effect in
its territories or any political sub-division of agency
thereof, on the consultant and/or his personnel (other
than those who are citizens or permanent residents
of Pakistan) in respect of:
(i) any payments made to the consultants or to such
personnel in connection with the carrying out of
the agreed services;
(ii) any equipment, materials and supplies brought
into the country for the purpose of carrying out
the services and which, after having been brought
into such territories, will subsequently be disposed
of in a manner to be decided by the Government of
Pakistan;
(iii) any property brought into Pakistan by the personnel
of the consultant and dependents for their personal
use and which, after having been brought into Pakistan,
will subsequently be withdrawn therefrom upon departure
of such personnel after obtaining clearance of Govern-
ment of Pakistan. However, to qualify for these exemp-
tions, shipment of such property will have to be
arranged by contract no later than three months after
the arrival of the staff member;
(b)  facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any equip-
ment, material and supplies required for the services and
of the personal effects of the consultants' personnel;
(c) ensure that:
(i) the consultants' expatriate personnel and their
dependents are promptly provided with any necessary
entry and exit visas, residence permits, exchange
permits and travel documents required for
their stay in the territories of the Government;
(ii) all necessary permits and authorization for carry-
ing out of the services, including prompt review
of the experience resume of the consultants' proposed
staff, are provided promptly and that if the consultant
has not been advised of approval or disapproval of
120



ANNEX 14
Page 5
the proposed employee within a period of 15 days
from the date of receipt of such proposal from
the consultant by the executing agency, the proposed
employee will be considered as accepted for employ-
ment.
6.        Services and facilities that will be made available to the con-
sultant include:
(a) reasonably furnished family living quarters, or
compensation therefor, for consultant personnel while
in Pakistan in connection with the project work. The
consultant will be responsible for furnishing and
maintaining the accommodations and the cost of the same
will be reimbursed by the executing agency;
(u) all existing aerial photographs, maps, drawings, data,
reports and other information pertinent to the execution
of the work;
(c) suitably furnished office facilities, including adequate
office equipment and supplies that may be required for
the proper execution of the consultants' work;
(d) counterpart professional and clerical staff as may be
required for the proper execution of the consultants'
duties in Pakistan;
(e) overland transportation facilities and/or air transporta-
tion and service vehicles, including drivers and the cost
of operation and maintenance, required in the conduct of
official work; and
(f) telephone, telegraph, cable and postage expenses and
printing and reproductions required by the consultant
in the performlance of the work.
June 1976
121



ANNEX 15
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Net Farm Incomes
General
1.        Present agricultural practices in the project area and anticipated
changes under the proposed project are discussed in Annex 16. This Annex
assesses the effects of those changes on individual farm incomes and the
capacities of project beneficiaries to repay part of the costs of the new
facilities.
Crop Enterprise Budgets
2.        The bases for preparation of complete farm budgets (Table 4) are
the crop enterprise budgets given in Table 1, which presents per acre crop
incomes as well as production costs. These budgets are determined by using
the financial price estimates discussed in Annex 17, the yield projections
discussed in Annex 16, and the production inputs requirements shown on Table
1. The Department of Agriculture, the Sind Agriculture Supply Organization,
and commercial fertilizer distributors provided the data used for these esti-
mates. The following assumptions underlie this analysis:
3.        Fertilizers and Pesticides.  Since use of fertilizers is well
accepted in the area, scope for increased use of fertilizers will be deter-
mined by increasing crop yields (Annexes 5 and 16).   If production remains
constrained by waterlogging, salinity, and limited water supplies, fertilizer
use is likely to decline. Under the project, with these constraints removed,
and extension services intensified, fertilizer use is expected to increase
about seven times over the development period. Pesticide use which presently
is limited and not very effective due to local shortage of chemicals and
equipment, would increase to levels adequate to support the anticipated yields
of cotton and oilseeds.
4.        Seed.  Average annual requirements are given for each crop, includ-
ing sugarcane which is a ratoon crop reseeded every three years. Farm owners
save part of their crops for seed and purchase the balance of their and their
tenants' requirements. For this analysis, the aggregate cost of purchased
and farm produced seed is included as a deduction from the gross crop value.
122



ANNEX 15
Page 2
5.        Power.  The annual requirements for power used in field preparation
are given in terms of ox-pair days.  Small and medium farmers and most large
farmers use oxen which they either own, share, or hire on various terms
which include provision for fodder. A few large landowners own tractors
which they use primarily for heavy leveling and which they occasionally hire
out to other farmers. Power requirements for land leveling and other farm
development are included as part of the project costs.
6.        The cost of bullock power, derived in Table 2, amounts to about
Rs 20 per ox-pair day (Rs 28 in 1975 terms), of which about half is the
labor cost of the driver. The remainder includes the average cost of re-
placement, upkeep, feed, as well as the value of fodder, grain straw, and
cane tops produced on the farm.
7.        Farm Labor.  The annual labor requirements are the sum of family
and hired labor requirements by month given in Table 3.
8.        Irrigation.  The costs of operating and maintaining the existing
and proposed facilities and the associated capital recovery costs are treated
as a separate part of the farm budget.
Farm Incomes
9.        On the basis of the increments in net crop values shown above, the
anticipated 60% expansion of cropped areas and 100% increase in field employ-
ment opportunities (Annex 4), estimated net farm incomes at full development
would average about seven times future farm incomes without the project and
about five times at present levels. Table 4 shows the estimated incomes from
farm production and field wages for three farms which illustrate the range of
conditions under the project within the limits of available data.
10.       Non-Farm Earnings.  Information on the various sources and levels
of non-farm earnings needed to establish the effect on total farm incomes of
the increase in field labor requirements under the project is not adequate.
Consequently, the mission recommends that the proposed project monitoring
unit collect this information as part of the proposed benchmark survey. In
analyzing the net increase in farm incomes for this appraisal, the monthly
requirements for hired labor and the monthly opportunities for field wage
earnings are determined from a month by month analysis of field labor require-
ments in relation to the various farm family labor supplies (para 12). In
estimating wage earning opportunities, potential wage earnings based on the
excess availability of the family labor supply are discounted in proportion
to the overall employment ratio of project area field labor demand to local
supply. Wage earning opportunities in the slack period are assumed negligi-
ble because the employment ratio then is very low.
123



ANNEX 15
Page 3
11.       Farm Budgets.  Nearly half the farms in the project area are under
7 ac, which presently is about the minimum area required to support an aver-
age family. 1/. Most farms, therefore, are subsistence oriented, consuming
most of their own grain, pulse, and vegetable produce and marketing for cash
a little cotton, wheat, oilseeds, and in some cases livestock products. Only
owners of 15 ac or more have date orchards, which are grown under contract
for cash. The available information is not sufficiently accurate or compre-
hensive to draw fine distinctions, but analysis of the following three farm
types indicates the range of project effects on subsistence incomes, cash
crop returns and field wage earnings:
(a) submarginal farm of 5 ac whose household income must
be derived in part from field wages;
(b) subsistence farm of average size, 10 ac, and
(c) cash crop oriented farm of 25 ac.
12.       The budgets are estimated on an annual financial basis under the
following assumptions:
(a) Farm Population: The average size family in the area is
about six persons. Based on surveys in other rural areas,
farm family sizes generally vary somewhat according to
size of holding. For the three farms in this analysis
the following has been assumed:
Farm Area       Number of Persons
5 ac                  5
10 ac                  6
25 ac                  8
(b) Subsistence Requirements: In 1974, minimum living expenses
for a farm family in the area averaged about Rs 400 per
person per year (Rs 570 in 1975 terms), about one-third
national average per capita income. This included annual
requirements for food and clothing, as follows:
1/   Average family size generally varies with farm size.  While the average
farm of 10 ac can now support about six persons, which is average
for the area, a farm of 7 ac can support about five persons, which is
about average for that farm size.
124



ANNEX 15
Page 4
Minimum Annual
Per Capita Living
Expenses
Grain (4.2 mds)                      85
Edible Oils (0.1 md)                 20
Livestock by products               130
Other food                           90
Clothing                             45
Miscellaneous                        30
Total         400
Miscellaneous expenses include a minimum allowance for
health, education, and important celebrations.
(c)  Farm Family Labor Suly:  In the Sind, women and children
work part time, picking cotton and harvesting grain. Pre-
vious surveys suggest that a family of six includes on the
average about three adult field workers or the equivalent:
Adult
Family   Field   Field Workers
Members Weight (or equivalent)
Males over 14             1.5       1.0         1.5
Males between 10 & 14       .5       .8          .4
Females over 14           1.0        .5          .5
Females between 10 &14    .5         .4          .2
Children under 10          .5        .4          .2
Children not working      2.0         0           0
Total                6.0                  2.9
Assuming an average monthly capacity per adult of about
20 days, the family labor supplies for the three farms
are estimated to be:
Farm Size            Family Labor Supply
(acres)               (man-days/month)
5                         48
10                         58
25                         77
(d) Hired Labor Costs: The seasonal variation in labor
requirements forces families with otherwise sufficient
annual supply of labor to hire outside workers. The
annual costs of hired labor, therefore, are determined
125



ANNEX 15
Page 5
according to the estimated monthly labor requirements
and average monthly availability of family labor for each
farm.
(e)  Cropping Patterns:  Reflect the average for the project
area, but have been adjusted for the 5 ac and 25 ac farms
to illustrate the differences due to subsistence and cash
oriented farming in the area.
(f)  Irrigation Costs:  The project implementation and operating
costs are pro-rated per farm acre. The costs include
recovery of initial investment costs assuming an interest
rate of 10%.
Project Cost Recovery
13.       The capital costs of the Khairpur II project investments, excluding
the costs of land leveling and equipment to be financed directly by farmers
themselves, would amount to, for irrigation, about Rs 430 per ac of the
project and, for drainage, about Rs 3.0 per ac spread over the entire
irrigated area of the Indus Basin (about 30 million ac). Annual charges to
recover the irrigation component over 30 years with 10% interest per annum
would be about Rs 45 per ac while the charges to recover the drainage com-
ponent would be only REs 0.32 per ac. Annual 0 & M costs for all proposed
facilities and services would average about Rs 50 per ac.
Repayment Capacity
14.       Farmer's ability to pay such charges in general would be determined
by his production increases due to the project, the prevailing farm gate com-
modity prices and adequate increases in net farm income as incentives to
increase production. A measure of this, the project rent, is the portion
of his increase in net farm income due to the project which would be avail-
able after taking into account suitable rewards for family labor and
management and a margin for cultivation risks. Suitable rewards for family
labor and management should include adequate farm production incentives.
Such incentives are speculative and in practice would vary depending on local
alternative income opportunities. In this report, family labor is valued
at Rs 14 per man-day, the peak opportunity cost for wage labor, and rewards
for management are 10% of the residual farm income. In the absence of
studies of the variance in crop yields and market price projections, a margin
for cultivation risks is taken as 10% of the gross crop income.
15.       Through price regulation, GOP holds down prices of some agricultural
products, particularly wheat, cotton, and sugarcane, as a means to lower
consumer prices primarily for landless wage earners and urban residents
(Annex 17). In relation to market prices and to prices which would prevail
if GOP were to impose no import or export restrictions, this price regula-
tion comprises an implicit tax on farm holders and tenants who must sell
126



ANNEX 15
Page 6
at least a part of their production to GOP. 1/ In past years, the part of
marketable wheat surplus which GOP has procured has varied depending on
the relative levels of procurement and free market prices and the ocassional
restrictions which Government has placed in certain areas on grain movements
near harvest time when the bulk of procurement is completed. Inevitably
during this period, the farmers who sold to Government were the poorer
farmers with pressing cash needs. In general, since implicit tax rates vary
for different crops this form of taxation is inequitable and regressive
in that it puts a heavy burden on the subsistence farmers who cultivate
mostly wheat and cotton and puts little burden on large cash crop farmers
who cultivate crops such as pulses and date orchards which bear no in-
direct taxation. Consequently, such general taxes are not an appropriate
instrument for cost recovery, and they involve broad issues and policies
which extend beyond the perspective of a single investment project such as
this. However, the regulated prices must be taken into account in assess-
ing the farmers' abilities to make payments.
16.       Amounts which farmers could pay would depend on which agricultural
pricing policy GOP would follow in the future. Table 5 shows the project
rent estimates for the three farm models. If GOP were to increase procure-
ment prices somewhat as a measure to stimulate farm production increases,
the project rents after full development would range from about Rs 730
per ac on small farms (5 ac) to about Rs 1,330 per ac on large farms (25 ac).
On the other hand, if GOP were to maintain present price levels, the project
rents after full development would range from only about Rs 250 per ac to
about Rs 850 per ac.
17.       Farmers' abilities to pay would reach such levels only after full
development should they achieve the anticipated increases in yields and cropped
areas. During the interim, project farm incomes would increase gradually,
more rapidly for some farmers than for others. Actual capabilities to
pay water charges, therefore, should be based on field recorded increases
in farm water supplies and production and increases in farm incomes evaluated
using prevailing actual farm gate prices. Benchmark assessments of farm
production and incomes would be required before construction completion.
Subsequently, new assessments would be required periodically to adjust for
actual production increases and changes in price levels.
Existing Tax Structure
18.       Water Rates.  Sind landowners who are entitled to a proportion of
the watercourse flow determined by their size of holding served, now pay a
composite tax which contains a component for water charges. The owner pays
1/   In addition, farmers must sell their remaining surplus production in
markets where prices, although usually higher than procurement prices,
still are controlled indirectly through price restrictions on end
products.
127



ANNEX 15
Page 7
land revenue to the Revenue Department and water charges to the Irrigation
Department overseer, the patwari at each watercourse. The tax amount is
determined as follows:
1.   Land revenue = area owned x produce index unit x land rate;
2.   Water charge - area owned x produce index unit x water rate.
19.       The Produce Index Units (PIU) and the land and water rates were most
recently fixed in September 1973 pursuant to the "Sind Canal Water Flat Rate
Rules of 1973". The figures are effective for five years from the date of
publication. A different PIU is applicable in each taluka based on evalua-
tion of the land productivity. Within each taluka are several PIUs, one for
land under each type of irrigation reflecting the general water availability.
Within the project area, all lands fall into the hybrid grade, "gravity flow
irrigation". The water rates are assessed for each village area (deh), taking
into account local land fertility/salinity relative to land elsewhere in the
taluka.
20.       The PIU for Rohri taluka is 34, for all talukas of Khairpur dis-
trict, 40. The assessment for the water averages Rs 0.30 for the dehs in
Rohri taluka and Rs 0.29 for the dehs in Khairpur and Kot Diji talukas. The
average for the project area is Rs 0.30. Therefore the expected revenue in
the project area that is clearly attributable to water supplied is,
Rohri:          31,800 ac x Rs 0.30 x 34        Rs 332,200
Khairpur &
Kot Diii:    12,200 ac x Rs 0.29 x 40         Rs 142,000
Rs 464,200
(Rs 10.55 per ac)
21.       Changes in the numerical factors are possible every five years
within the present system so long as they are directly related to improved
conditions. In view of the fact that the present assessment does not cover
annual operating costs, let alone build up reserves for future capital works,
a change in assessment is clearly indicated. Working, however, within the
present framework, the following can be deduced.
(a) The project would provide drainage which would render
the land as good as the best of Sind. The PIU for
such lands is 42. They are in the Rohri Canal
Command, where the design duty of water is 2.6 ft3/
1,000 CCA. In Khairpur, the design duty is 3.03 ft3/
1,000 CCA. Therefore an appropriate PIU would be
(3.03/2.60) x 42 - 49.
128



ANNEX 15
Page 8
(b)  The water rate is now Rs 0.30 per PIU.  Under the project,
the design cropping intensity increases from 91K to 1441%,
or by a factor of 1.6. Also, the desigrn cropping pattern
contains a higher area of crops that have a higher water
requirement than the design cropping pattern for the
Khairpur Feeder Canals did in 1932. Therefore, the factor
to be applied can be adjusted upwards to at least 1.75.
Thus the new unit water rate would be Rs 0.30 x 1.75 = 0.53.
The expected rate is 49 x Rs 0.53 = Rs 26 per ac and the
total water rate collection 44,000 ac x 26 = Rs 1.14 which
would be sufficient to cover about half the O&M costs but
none of the capital recovery.
22.       Drainage Charges.  At present, GOP does not charge farmers ex-
plicitly for drainage and has not increased water charges in drained areas.
It regards drainage not as an improvement but as a measure needed to restore
land to its former productivity and regards drainage charges as impractical
to administer since they appear inequitable among farmers living near farms
requiring no drainage. The provision of additional water supplies in the
project area would provide GOP with an appropriate basis for collecting
additional charges for drainage investments.
June 1976
129



n~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               0           >              ft    ft n '  nncsfetO
on                                                       8                                                                  Oft's
r o >   r q   '8   @   °    f      w                 r   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'   sf          _           I     n>u     
o  r M t <  r o N eV                                              -   b- U'    c      r
O~~~~~U                              ffi n4.                                                                       'ftOse>o nSs>WWW      
n'                               U'       U'S       @e                                                            -  e'    s 
w w @ ~o                           0  IoU   o                                               -           0'I
Ot                                0         0nU  @ov' 'sU'f  '4                                      '          0   ,,, ,  
S~ ~          ~          ~~~ g'  U'U                 'UUU''''                                           'U
^                     o         S  ~~~~~r rUU                                           I s OU' 
.                    ,        s         s   e                                -  eE    s U'_00                               C
< ~        ~        U      _          _        _~U UU_C              I I I I I      I   '|                 
r   ' °       '   U' 'U                                               U' 3'                   ft Wt            0            I4       :W C
U'       g'  IU U U _1    _e                                                  0-           0' 10H
s'           s -       eUU     30                    0'U        e      ' s        0'U'W 
0'       0'        U'      U''    U                                     0      '          ft
0' U        U'     00'   U''01'  U'> -s                               Ox 01 NU    ft
W  S  3  ~~~~~~~ ~~ 3 n~~f
C4 U'         U''UU           U'0       U'                  U 1 U3U1'01U'0'       0'0'                         !
0'   D "   U' °'              U'     U'                    0  °' °
U'       O'                                             U'  U' 0_
o.       o'  o'  g'    00    U'                        U'         0           U'
g'        U'3   t         t                                                   0s@ °°        3 11 S8~8  
,0   r   2    S     ' ' '' ' ' '   ' ' ' '  '                U' 0'                                U' 0
0'  'f  0'      r
loo     o2's a2                                                                                     U'  0'           0'     _      



0,1                                                                            ft                                                                          *0 CI        °_ r     
5               12         00                                                   It<O-0000n'000010 _                  0          ,:           0      100         0   OjOO > 
00                          X¢    0_     00°                       0                             0       r.    _0      'oos  
C' t o'                                   00          C'0              o       0      ''         "        0        ~0 1 ' 0 0 '~~0 .,                               -          '.  n no
oo                           2- X7, '' 02                                            ft 00  o  °2                                                                    ft.>       -
00                                        0            00 D                     0                                     '0      00 o'              0 °0            0"             ",   
0                            0 g                    001            0           ' _ 0             0_'                0       0      000
00            j            ,                         0         n     -                 It          01         "0      _-      0      0,          -    _         -      0          '-'0
o:                                   S              --                                                                                   0              ID _      O
101                                   '-0                       '1                  '0 ->                                                01             10' '   t tw           s
00:r             0                        0              o             So          S                                                                               ;;1 4
00                     -               0     '0      '0          0'1l4                                                                                   
0-   10               0     0        0(        '0      ,                       'I'           "0,0 '0                                           0 0
10  °0 0,@                                         o     0                  0,
00-      ~ 00       0                      0-                             ''             '0 '0                                                    0~                0's
0,S     110'                                    00 ''0''''0''''                                                                °0
0                                          0,              01          0                                                                                             00s
I$ 2lw
'00



ANNEX 15
Table 2
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Net Farm Incomes
Annual Cost of Bullock Field Power in Sind
Depreciation (assuming 8 years useful life)
One pair costing Rs.6000 net2./                Rs   750
Feed
Green fodder, 1.5 ac @ Rs1400/acZ/             Rs 2,100
Wheat straw (bhoosa), 110 mds @ RslO/md        Rs 1,100
Gram, 3.5 mds @ Rs6O/mdl/                      Rs   210
Upkeep
Veterinary expenses                            Rs   100
Repairs to driving equipment                   Rs   100
Driver
Wages for 1 full time man @ Rs250 per month   Rs 3,000
Total per annum    Rs 7,360
Average Cost per Cropped Acre
Assuming 12.5 ac (i) under intensity of 120%
(15 ac)        490
(ii) under intensity of 100%
(12.5 ac)        590
(iii) under intensity of 85%
(10.6 ac)        690
1/  Residual value taken into consideration.
2/  Green fodder - Rabi Rs1200 - 1,h00 per acre.
Kharif Rs800 - 1,000 per acre.
3/ As the intensity increases more gran, etc., would be
required and feeding charges would be higher.
132



AINNE 15
Table 3
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
ANfD IRRIOATED FARIDKG DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHARIRPR II)
Net Farm Income
Monthly Crop Labor Resuirements
(man-days/ac)
Jan.   Feb.  March  April  _Ma    June   July   _An.  Sept    Oct.   Nov.   Dec.  Total
Cotton:         P    0       0      0       2      5       2      2       2      1      9      12       2     37
W    O      0      0       2      5       2      2       2      1       9     12       2     37
W    0      0      0       2      6       3      2       3      2      11     15      13     47
Wheat:           p    0      0      0       5      5       0      0      0       0       2      3       1     16
W    0      0      0       5      5       0      0       0      0       2      3       1     16
W    0      1      0       7      7       0      0      0       1      2       4      3      25
Sorghum:        P    0       0      0       1      1       1.5    0      0       0       3      4      0.5   11
y    0      0       0      1       1      1.5    0       0      0       3      4      0.5   11
w    0      0      0       0      1.5    1.5    2        1      1       3      5      5      20
Rice:            P    0      0      0       0      4       4      0       1      1      6       7      2      25
W           0      0       0      4       4      0       1      1      6       7      2      25
w    0      0       0      0      4       4      0       1      1       6      7      2      25
Sugarcane:      p   11      11      10      1      0       0      0      0       0      3      10     11      57
W   11     11      10      1      0       0      0       0      0       3     10     11      57
W   12     11      12      1      1       1      1       0.5    0.5    0      11     12      63
Dates:          p    0.5    0.5    1        2      0       0      3       3      0      0.5    0       0.5   11
W    0.5    0.5    1       2      0       0      3       3      0      0.5    0       0.5   11
w    0.5    0.5    1       2.5    0       1      4       4      0      1       0      0.5   15
Oilseeds:       P    2       2       2      1      0       0      0      0       0       1      1      0       9
'i    2     2       2      1      0       0      0      0       0       1      1      0       9
w    2      2.5    2.5    1       0       0      0       0      1.5    1.5    0.5    0.5   12
Kharif Fbdder:  P    0       0      0       1      1       0.5    1       0.5    0.5    1       1      0       6.5
V    o      0       0      1       1      0.5    1       0.5    0.5    1       1      0       6.5
W    0      0      0.5    0.5    2.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    2          2      2      0      20
Rabi Fbdder:    P    3       3       3      3      0       0      0       0      0       0.5    1.5    3      17
W    3      3       3      3      0       0      0       0      0       0.5    1.5    3      17
W    4      4       4      3.5    0       0      0       0      0       0.5    1       3     20
Kharif Pulses:  P    0       0      0       0      0.5    1       0.5    0       0       3      4       1     10
W    0      0      0       0      0.5    1       0.5    0       0       3      4       1     10
w    0      0       0      0      0       0      2       1      2       14     4       2     15
Rabi Pulses:    P    0       0       1      3      1       0      0       0      0       1      2       1      9
W    0      0       1      3       1      0      0       0      0       1      2       1      9
w    0      0       4      3       1      0      0       0      0.5    1       0.5    0      10
Vegetables:     P   10      10     10      10     10      10     10      10     10      10     10     10    120
W   10     10      10     10      10     10     10      10     10      10     10      10    120
w   10     10      10     10     10      10     10      10     10      10     10      10    120         oi|
m
Note:     Requirements are based on an average of 7 hours labor per day.
%rmbols: P - Present situation.
W - Future without the proposed project.
W - Future with the proposed project.                                                          133



ANNEX 15
Table 4
PAKISTAN
IKRARPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATgD FARMING DEVELODPMENT PROJECTM(EMAIRPUR II)
Net Farm Incomes
5 Acres                        10 Acres                       25 Acres
Present   Without   With        Present  Without  With           Present   Without   With
Cropped Area (acres)
Wheat                                 1.4      1.2       2.3         2.7         2.3      4.7          4.5       3.2     10.5
Sorghum                               .6        .7       1.0         1.4         1.7      1.3          2.5       2.5       .9
Paddy                                  .6      1.0        .0         1.2         2.0      .0           3.0      3.5        .0
Oilseeds                               .0       .0        .0          .1          .1      1.0           .4        .4      2.5
Pulses                                 .1       .2        .2          .1          .2       .5           .9       1.0       .5
Vegetables                             .0       .0        .0          .0          .0       .0           .1       1.0        .5
Sugarcane                              .0       .2        .5          .0          .4      1.0           .0       1.8      3.5
Dates                                  .0        .0       .0          .0          .0       .0           .8       1.0      2.2
Cotton                                1.0       .5       1.5         2.0         1.1      3.8          5.7      3.0       7 5
Fodder                                 .5       .5       1.2          .9          .7      1.3          3.5       3.0      3.0
TOTAL                             4.2       4.3       6.7         8.4         8.5    13.6         21.4      19.5      30 7
Overall Intensityl/ (7)          84        90       144          84         89      146           89        89       146
Gross Crop Income (Rs)
Cereals                             1414      3385      8400        2794        6946   15708          5196    10145    31,164
Sugarcane                               0      868      2170           0        1736    4340             0      7812    15,190
Cotton                               1419     1155      4125        2839        2541   10450          8090      6930    20,625
Dates                                   0        0         0           0           0        0         6624    16100    35,420
Other                                 207      307       820         402         543    3130          1725      2368      7,310
TOTAL                            3040      5715    15515        6035        11766   33628        21635    43355   109,709
Production Costs
Purchased inputs (Rs)a               595       601      2639        1175        1213    537           2650      3391    12,543
Bullock Power (Rs)31                 454       441      1017         904         883    2183          2138     2005      5 089
sobtotal                         1049      1042      3656        2079        2096    7553         4788      5396
4/
Family Labor (man-daysa)/            (123)    (125)    (232)        (207)       (211)   (388)         (390)    (450)       (781)
Hired Labor (man-days) -             ( 0)    (  0)    ( 48)         ( 38)       ( 36)   (200)         (243)    (162)       (582)
Hired Labor (Rs)                        0        0       672         532         504    2800          3402      2268       8148
TOTAL                            1049      1042      4328        2611        2600   10353         8190      7664    25,7p0
Wage Earnings (Re)                      360       295      460         245         200      145          105       100          0
Land Tax (Rs)                           -70       -70      -70        -140        -140    -140          -350      -350       -350
Net Farm Income (Rs)
(Before charges for Irrigation
and Drainage)                      2281      4898    11577         3529        9226   23280        13200    35441      83,579
Increase in Not Farm Income
(Before charges for Irrigation
and Drainage)
Future "With" minus "Present" (Rs)                      9296                            19751                            70,379
Increase per acre (Rs/ac)                               1860                             1975                             2,815
Charges for Irrigation and Drainmge
O6Mg/ (RN)                             70       70       250         140         140      500          350       350      1,250
Capital Recovery (Rs)                   0        0      1750           0           0    3500             0         0      8,750
TOTAL                              70        70      2000         140         140    4000           350      350    10,000
Total per acre                     14        14       400          14          14      400           14        14        400
Net Farm Income (Rs)
(After charges for Irrigation
and Drainage)                       2211     4828      9577        3389        908b   1928u         12850     3591    73,579
Increment in Net Farm Income Due to Prolect
Future "With" minus "Without" (Rs)                      4749                            10194                            38,488
Increment per man-day of additional
family labor (Rs/men-day)                               45                               58                               116
Increment per ac (Ralac)                                 950                            1020                             1,540
Notes:  Present - Under present conditions.
Without - In the future, without development under the proposed project.
With    - In the future, after full development under the project.
1/  In calculating intensity, the areas under sugarcane and dates, being perennial crops are counted twice..
2/  Includes the costs of fertilizers, pesticides, certified seed, and contingency allowance of 10%.
3/  ExcLudes the labor costs for bullock drivers which are included as part of farm family and hired labor.
4/  Also includes bullock driver requirements in May and November.
5/ Present costs are the current water component of the flat rate tax.                                                          134



ANNEX 15
Table 5
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(KEAIREUR II)
ProJect Rent
Farm Income/ ense-/            5 Ac Farm            10 Ac Farm           25 Ac Farm
(Rupees)               Without   With       Without   With      Without   With
Gross Income                  5,715   15,515     11,766   33,628      43,355   109,709
Certain Income (90%)          5,143   13,964     10,589   30,265      39,019    98,738
Expenses:
Inputs                   (1,042)  (4,328)    (2,600) (10,353)      7,664    25,780
Fixed Tax                   (70)     (70)      (140)    (140)       (350)     (350)
Family Labor            (1,750)  (3,250)    (2,950)  (5,430)    (6,300)  (10,930)
Residual Income               2,281    6,316      4,899   1h,342      24,705    61,678
Management Fee (10%)           (228)    (632)      (490)  (1 43O      (2,705   (60168)
Net Income                    2,053    5,684      4,409   12,908      22,235    55,510
Project Rent                           3,631               8,499                33,275
Per Acre Rent                            726                 850                 1,331
NOTE:  Without -- Future, without project development
With    -- Future, after full project development
1/  From Table 4.
2/ Includes purchased inputs, bullock power and hired labor.
135



ANNEX 16
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Present and Future Cropping Patterns and Production
Present Situation
1.        The present cropping pattern is diagrammatically shown in Fig. 1.
The percent of project area (44,000 ac) occupied by various crops are as
follows:
Kharif          Rabi
--% Project Area---
Sugarcane                        0.5             0.5
Date Orchards                    4.0             4.0
Fodder                           1.0            12.0
Pulses                           0.5             3.0
Kharif grain                     9.0              -
Oilseeds                          -              1.0
Cotton                          23.0
Rice                            12.0
Wheat                                           17.0
Total                           50              37.5
Cropped area as % of CCA        83%
Cropping intensity /a           87%
/a   Counting area occupied by perennial crops (sugarcane and date
orchards) twice.
In fact, at present only some 60% of the project area is being cropped,
because 17,300 ac are too saline for profitable agriculture. Thus, there
is double cropping on 26% of the CCA. Figure 1 shows the present situation
on the land actually cropped.
136



ANNEX 16
Page 2
Cropping Pattern and Yields Under Project Conditions
2.        The future cropping pattern has been developed taking into con-
sideration the Government's plan thiat a sugar mill, with a daily crushing
capacity of 1,500 tons of cane will be built in Kot Diji.
Kharif           Rabi
---% Project Area---
Sugarcane                        12               12
Date Orchards                     8                8
Vegetables                        1                1
Fodder                            4               12
Pulses                            tr               2
Kharif grain                      5                -
Oilseeds                          -                8
Cotton                           30                -
Wheat                            _                42
Total                            60               85
Cropped area as % of CCA        125%
Cropping intensity /a           146%
la See footnote on page 1.
Thus, cropping intensity is expected to increase by nearly 60%, but the
cropped area by only 40%, owing to now uncultivable saline land being re-
claimed. Nevertheless, as the schematic representation of the expected crop-
ping pattern shows (Fig. 2) managerial and planning skill over and above that
called for at present will be required to fit in the necessary crop sequences.
The imparting of this, and the more exacting techniques required to attain
the projected yields, will be the task of the strengthened agricultural sup-
porting services (Annex 13).
3.        Table 1 also shows the present and future yields.  Yields under
project conditions are expected to bridge the gap between the present and
expected level as follows:
137



ANNEX 16
Page 3
Year After Project Completion             No Change
Year Five                      33% of expected increase
Year Seven                      66% "      "        "
Year Ten                       100% "      "        "
Future Development Without the Project
4.        The time perspective for considering the probable "without project"
situation is around 1990, by which time, with the project, full benefits
would be attained. In that time, probable development without the project
would be the following:
a.   The area will receive its share of water from upstream
storage in Tarbela and Chasma. This would bring about
the following changes:
i.   Area Al (which will receive rabi supplies) rabi
yields and cropping intensities would increase.
Yields would still be below the "with project" levels
because of less extensive leveling and no possibility
of kharif leachings. The cropping intensities would
also be lower because the area will have no special
rights for rabi water, as it will not be a development
area where other investments must be safeguarded.
Therefore, the water table will not yet have risen
to levels where it would seriously lower yields, but
would have risen enough to cause a sizeable shift to
more water and salt-tolerant crops, mainly at the
expense of cotton, the potential wheat area in the
rabi and the potential date and sugarcane areas.
ii.   Area A2 (which at present receives almost full rabi
supplies) would continue to deteriorate; the cropping
pattern will shift towards the low-value water and
salt-tolerant crops and, despite the sugar mill
that will be built virtually within the area, the
acreage of sugarcane would remain low. Also, the
total cropped area would decline due to water logging
and salinization.
iii.   Area B (which is already drained by tubewells and will
receive rabi supplies) would attain rabi development
almost equal to that expected under project conditions,
handicapped only by lack of leaching water in the kharif
and the slower progress of land leveling.
138



ANNEX 16
Page 4
b.   Developments in cotton agronomy.  This will mean the release
of monopodial varieties that are higher yielders than those
grown at present and are more responsive to fertilizers. Such
varieties are said to be in advanced testing stages. Pest
control technology will advance and is expected to receive
backstopping not only from enthomologists but also from
application technologists. Therefore yields, where not
constrained by soil conditions, will improve. The overall
acreage will however decrease: in Al and A2 because of
deteriorating soil conditions; in B it will have to compete
with sugarcane, which is potentially more profitable. The
better pest control technologies will have their effect on
the yield of Brassicas, which are expected to improve where-
ever they can be grown.
c.   The revitalizing and greater effectiveness of the extension
service will affect yields and production.
d.   PLLP will proceed within the resources available and while
its direct influence may not be great, the advent of extra
rabi water will act as an incentive in areas Al and B for
farmers to accelerate their efforts and to upgrade them to
PLLP standards. Its total achievements, and therefore effect
on production, will however be lower than under the project.
e.   Until now, there has been no development in sorghum agronomy
in Pakistan comparable to that in India and Sri Lanka, where
the high-yielding hybrids and dwarf grain varieties have made
important headway. There is little doubt that with a
revitalized extension service high-yielding sorghums will
take over a significant part of the area devoted to this crop,
greatly influencing present average grain yields.
5.        The composite effect of the foregoing is shown in Table 1.  While
most crop yields are expected to show some advance event without a project,
they are expected to be lower than what can be reached with the project.
Most importantly, however, the acreage of the more profitable crops will
decline, due to deriorating soil conditions. After 1990, the shift to
the less profitable crops will accelerate and yields of all crops will
decline more.
June 1976
139



H          H  H       HHHIHHHCH              H  H  H  =           H    H           H  H       H'  NH  H  H  C)       H  H  H  H
H  H           H  H  H  -  H          H  H  H  H          H            H                      H  H  H         H  H  H
H  H       H  H  H  H  H          H  H       H        H                H           H'  H  H  -  H         H  H       H
HH
HH$H
H        HHIH'HHHH.H                                                                                   'N j         **,  NH H H
NH  H      H  H           N           H  H  H  H              H'   H  H  H         H' H.  H    H  H  H  -   H  H  'H  HH  -
H      H  H  H  H                 -  H       H-          'H    H  H  H         H   H  H  H                -  H  H  H'
*    H'    N            H       H   -                     H   H              [H'    H           H       H.    H                   H    H
H'    H.    H         H       H   H              H.    NH               H  H.    H             H      H    H
H              H  H  H                H                                H               H   H  H               H
'HHHHH             H              H  H  H                H                                 H              H  H  H                H
HHH            H                  H          H       H  H                              H                  H          H  NH  H   H
H  H       H      H  H        H  H       H  H                     H    H  H        H      H           H  H  H   H
H   HHHHHHH  H                                        H  H H H H   H  HH  H H H H H H H H
H  H  H  H        HHHHHH                 H  H  H  H  H            H    H  H  'I  H   '  H    H    H  H  H   H  H  H  H  H
H  H              H           H      -  H        H                      H                  H          H  H  -   H
HHH   H   H H H H    H H H H H H H H                                             HHHH'H                   H H - H H H H                                OH
H  H  H  H        H  H  H  H  H  H  H  H                          H    H  H  H  H          H  H  H  H  H  H   H  H  H  H  H               H
HHHOHHHHH HHHH                                                   H HH                                H' HHHHHH
H     H  H  H  H   '  H  H  H  H  H  H  H  H  H  H  H   '   H    H  H  H  H                      H  H  H  H  H  H   H  H  H  H  H              H
H H -             H                  H H                                H H H H   H H   H   H H QQQHHH
H                         -                               H                H           H  -  H  -         -  H
H                             HHH
'H               H          H9          H  '  H  H  H  H'                                H    'H
H H H H  H HHHHHHH    H H H                                             H'H2 H   H H -
[1.1                H                     H                             IH.H,H             II,)                                     H
H                                                                            H
H                             H  HH    H  H   H  H                      H                     H
H  H  H                       HI  NiH H  H  H   H  H  H'         '       H         H  H
H.  H.             H.                     H.                            H.   H.             'H                    H.
H                     HH                              I      H         H
H  H           H      H  H  H            H                                  H'         H       H  H  H                                             H
'H  H          H  -  H  H  H          H  H                              H  H           H
H  H'          H  H  H  H  H          H-H                               H  H'          H  H  'H    H'
H  H           H      H  H  H'           H                              H  H           H       H  H  H                                                H
H   H          H' H  H  H  H          H  H                              H  H           'Hi H  H  H  H
H H I  HHHHH   H H                                                      H H I  HHHHH                                                               H H
HH H
H  H  H        H      H       HI                                 H        H
                                                                                                                                                  H
H      H                             IH                                '.IH'H         I'HHH'         H
H  H  H'       H  H  H        H      H  H                               H  H'  H       H  H  H        H
H  H  H        H  H  H        H      H  H                               H  H'  H'      H  H  H   I  H         H  H  H  H
H                                                                                                                                                     H
H H H        H                                     H  -
'H    H  H   H  H        -  H  H   I            H                  H              -  H   H           H  H   '                     H
H  H  H        H  H  H  H  HH   F   H  H                       H    H  H       -       H           H' H'  H   H                     'H                H
HHHH  HHHHHH&IHH&H   H HHH                                                                            HHHOHHHH.
H H            H 'H H H                                                          H H H H                 HIO HOHHHHHH
I                       H
I                       H               H
HHH.H    H                                H H H              H
He   H OH  H OH HO  H                                             H  H H OH    H H                                                       H               H
I                                                                                              I                       H                H
HHHH                                H H H                              H - H    H
F                  HHHH
H  H       H      H  H  H  H         H  H  0  H
H H H             H H                    H                              HHH                HH                     H
H  H  H  H        H  H           H  -  H                                QHQ    'H          0  H           H  H
H  H  H  H   '  H  H  H  H  H  H  H  H' H                               HHH'   H   '  H  H  H  H' H  H                H' H' 0  H
H.            H.                     H                              IHIHH              H                      H.               H    H
H  H  H  H        H  H                   H                              H  H  H  -         H  H                   H'
H H H H  HHHHHHHH                                                       H H H
H H H H  H HHHHHHH H'                                                   HHOH'HHH  H ' H HfH                                         
H              H                     H                H'            '..               H.                     H.
H                              HHHHHHH                                   -
H HHH HHH H' H HOHO                                                             HHHHHH  HO   2,0
HIHOHIHHH                             H - H H                H' H ' H   OH'HH
[H                    IH                              H  H             H'1H
H.                H.'                   H.                              H.   H.
H'     H  H  H        H  H                               H  H                       'H  H
HHHHH    HH                                              H' H            H - 'H - H
H H '   H H H H H   H H                                                 HH  '   HHHOH
HHHI:   H
H H
[H  H                                                                    H                                                         H                         H
H H H H H H H H H H H
QH'HH    H'H                                              H H    H                      H
H H   H H                                     H H            H H HH
H H I  HHHH    H 0                                                      HH'   NiH' H'O   H.H'HH    H
I
H  H  H                       H                             j
H H H C H H H' H H C
H  H       H'  H  H   '  H'       H  H  H
I HfqH



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(KHAIRPUR II)
Schematic Representation of Cropping Patterns                                    AiNNE i6
Present Situation
Pc ccl cI
100         _          _    .          ,    A     '    '          "         '    ,    . - " . . ' ' ' .                             '      1
80 -
60                             |/                                                            -  9%   a=  
40~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND                                                       ANNEX 16
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                   Figure 2
(KHAIRPUR 11)
Schematic Representation of Cropping Patterns
Future at Full Development
I<rt
300
Pl~~~~~~~ha 4ce
90
,15aRTRob, -e 'a  
A 2 _ . / Wheat o'o  /
50 -                                                                                          te 
.10   _|1 je-.S, ....... 
|        /         /                                     //            ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~                            ~~~~~Wh-a 32%/  
30     N                                                                       )                           
i~ ~ ~ ~~W- 43erwh%ihu  lnin                                                                                                                       4       i 
20~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W -dBn  ed6F                                                                   ]



ANNEX  17
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Marketing and Prices
General
1.        Marketing.  Prospects for the project's major crops will be linked
to international markets. Cotton lint and lint manufactures will in part
be exported, and surplus grain, sugar, oilseeds and dates will help offset
imports. Fertilizer and pesticide inputs will be imported, and in the case
of nitrogenous fertilizers, in addition to imports, large amounts will be
domestically produced. Almost all pulses and vegetables and the greater
part of the fodder will be consumed on the farms. Future market prospects
for these commodities and price estimates for the financial and economic
analyses are discussed below.
2.        The project is situated near large market centers which are located
at major rail and highway junctions. The production increases in crops or
crop manufactures, given in Table 1, are all small compared with the present
market volumes in the area. Consequently, additional marketing or distribu-
tion facilities would not be required.
3.        Prices.  For internationally traded commodities and crop inputs,
price estimates are based on Bank projections (dated May 27, 1975) of World
Market prices through 1985, and for other crops and crop inputs are based on
present levels and historic trends of local prices (Table 2). The prices and
economic values are expressed in terms of constant currency, using December
1975 prices as the base. Separate estimates for present and future take
into account the anticipated changes in the long-term supply and demand
relationships for each commodity. Farm gate price estimates, in taking into
account taxes and subsidies, assume future relaxation of some Government price
controls, as discussed below. Values for the economic analysis are derived
using an exchange rate of US$1 = Rs 11 and exclude taxes, subsidies, and value
added between farm and market. The estimates are given in Table 3.
Cotton
4.        Cotton in the form of lint, yarn, and cloth comprised 35% of the
value of Pakistan's exports in 1973/74. Even with steady growth in cotton
exports, however, the domestic market has regularly consumed one-third to
one-half of annual production.
143



ANNEX 17
Page 2
1969/70  1970/71   1971/72   1972/73  1973/74
Production (million bales lint)
Punjab                                2.2       2.3        3.0       2.8       2.4
Sind                                  0.8       0.8        1.0        1.1      1.2
Total                            3.0       3.1       4.0        3.9       3.6
Exports (million bales lint
equivalent)
Raw cotton                            0.6       1.4        1.2        1.0      0.3
Yarn, cloth and waste                  1.0(est.)1.0        1.2        1.6      0.9
Total                            1.6(est.)2.4        2.4        2.6       1.2
Value (US$ million)                 217       249        360       416       364
Share of all export value (%)        38        41         56        50        35
5.        Future domestic requirements will continue to comprise a major part
of the market as the country's population and income levels increase.  World
consumption is forecast to continue increasing at a long-term rate of about
1.7% per year.  In the next few years, however, a relatively rapid increase
in world productivity is expected to balance international supply and demand
and lower world prices.
6.        Average quality 15/16 inch lint usually fetches a price about 90%
of the price for best-quality Ilexican 17/16 inch lint. Khairpur quality
lint, 15/16-inch, sells for about 10% less. Based on the Bank's projections,
lint from the project area would command a price fob Karachi in constant
1975 terms of about US$0.60 per lb in 1974 and an estimated US$0.47 per lb
in 1985.
7.        In 1972 at the time of devaluation when an upward trend in inter-
national prices took place, the Government imposed a 35% ad valorem export
duty on raw cotton. After a severe shortage of fertilizers and loss of more
than one million acres due to the 1973 floods, the Government raised the
duty to 45% and restricted exports to prevent sudden domestic shortages and
price increases. In August 1973, GOP nationalized the export of cotton and
fixed the price at which the Cotton Export Committee could purchase lint from
the ginners. One year later GOP reduced the nominal duty to 35% and during
1974 the Government's overall margin on exports averaged about 35%. In de-
termining the future farm gate price, it has been assumed that under grad-
ually declining international prices, the Government's margin would decline
to about 30%.
80        Ginning, baling, marketing, transport, and handling costs in 1974
totaled about Rs 70 per md lint (Rs 100 in 1975 terms) between Karachi and
the Khairpur gins. Transport and handling costs between local farms and the
gins averaged about Rs 2 per md of seed cotton (Rs 3 in 1975 terms). The
estimates assume the ginning ratio of one maund lint to two maunds seed, and
seed prices which are based on the assumptions are discussed in paras 20 to
22.                                                                            144



ANNEX 17
Page 3
9.        Gin capacity in the Khairpur area presently is 25,000 lg tons lint
based on an operating season from mid-November to April. The existing
capacity which can increase somewhat by extending operations, therefore, is
more than adequate to handle the estimated 2,800 lg ton increase under the
project. Of the ten existing ginneries in the Khairpur area, four were built
in the last six years, and additional ginneries can be expected to appear
as production throughout the vicinity increases.
Wheat, Sorghum and Coarse Rice
10.       In recent years, Pakistan has imported, net of rice exports, 4% to
8% of its foodgrain requirements:
1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74
    -- - - -- -(million lg tons)---------- - --- -
Net Production 
Wheat                   5.7       5.9      6.5      5.7        6.1     6.4
Sorghum and
Coarse Grains          0.5       0.5      0.6      0.6       0.5      0.6
Rice (Basmati and
Coarse)                1.9       2.2      2.0      2.1       2.1      2.2
Subtotal           8.1      8.6       9.1      8.4       8.7      9.2
Trade
Wheat Imports           1.4       0.2      0.2      0.7        1.5      1.1
Rice Exports            0.4       0.5      0.3      0.3        0.8     0.6
Net Imports        1.0      (0.3)    (0.1)    0.4        0.7      0.5
Consumption             9.1       8.3      9.0      8.8        9.4     9.7
Net Imports as %
of Consumption       11.0        -        -       4.5        7.4     5.2
/1   Figures show amounts available for consumption, including wheat pro-
duced in the previous year.  Figures are net of seed, feed, and wastage
amounting to 10% for wheat, 60% for sorghum and coarse grains, and 6%
for rice.
Since 1968, when fertilizer responsive high yielding wheat varieties became
widely accepted, average annual production growth of about 3% or more just
kept pace with population growth.  After eliminating the current deficit,
production of foodgrains, primarily wheat, must continue to increase at
about 3% per year to maintain self-sufficiency. Increases will be required
in sorghum and coarse grain production to meet the expanding demand for live-
stock products as per capita incomes increase, and in rice exports to expand
foreign exchange earnings.                                                      145



ANNEX 17
Page 4
11.       World production is expected to grow somewhat faster than demand
(at about 2.4% per year) for wheat and at about the same rate as demand for
coarse grains and rice. International trade in grains, which represents only
a small proportion of the total production, is expected to decline some-
what, assuming moderate gains towards foodgrain self-sufficiency in develop-
ing countries and an overall decline in coarse grain imports for livestock
production in developing countries. Based on the Bank's projections, grain
prices cif/fob Karachi are expected to decline, in constant terms, as follows:
1974      1985
($/metric ton)
Wheat                288        208
Sorghum              180        140
Rice (coarse)        408        220
12.       In line with the general policy to hold down consumer prices, the
Government set the wheat procurement price at Rs 25.50 for the 1974 harvest,
about 70% below the World Market equivalent. Sorghum prices maintained a
relative position about 30% below the wheat price. The Government procured
coarse rice for export at Rs 40 per md, about 60% below the World Market
equivalent. It is expected that GOP will want to stimulate domestic pro-
duction even when the World Market becomes more competitive. Therefore,
future difference between World Market and farm gate prices is assumed to
be 30%.
13.       Grain marketing, transport, and handling costs between Karachi
and project area markets averaged about Rs 12 per md (Rs 17 in 1975 terms),
and between the markets and farms they averaged about Rs 2 per md (Rs 3
in 1975 terms). Rice milling costs totaled about Rs 1.5 per md rice (Rs 2
in 1975 terms) and mill yields were about 2 md of rice for every 3 md of
paddy.
Sugar
14.       Pakistan has imported sugar in most years to keep pace with the
growing demand for the refined product:
146



ANNEX 17
Page 5
1967/68  1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73
Factory Refined
Sugar ('000 lg tons)
Production               248      401      600        511      369       426
Change in stocks         95      (120)   (140)        139       97       (54)
Net imports               16      216      (13)      (142)      11       176
Domestic consumption 359        497      447       508       477       548
Village Refined Sugar
('000 lg tons gur equivalent)
Production (estimate)1,299    1,408   1,506         1,293    1,299    1,209
As % of consumption
of all sugar
products               78        74       77         72       73        69
15.       Although about one-half of cane production is still processed by
growers in village industries, factory refined sugar increasingly substi-
tutes for the village products, such as gur, particularly in urban areas.
In view of the rapid growth of urban areas, expected growth in supporting
markets such as soft drinks and sweets, and mnore stable domestic prices for
sugar, the FAO estimates that Pakistan's future demand for the factory re-
fined product will increase at about 8% per year through the 1980s, a rate
greater than the expected rate of growth in domestic output. 1/ Demand for
the village products, which generally declines in relation to increases in
household incomes, is expected gradually to level off.
16.       Due to production shortages, world stocks of factory refined sugar
have been drawn down for five consecutive years.  The corresponding rise
in World Market prices is expected to result in a sharp expansion of production,
especially in developing countries. In the long term, world production is
expected to outpace demand. Sugar prices cif Karachi (in constant 1975 terms)
are expected to decline from an average of US$0.31 per lb in 1974 to US$0.16
per lb by 1985, based on the Bank's projections.
17.       The Government at present controls prices at the mills for sugar-
cane and factory refined sugar at levels which before 1973 were near World
Market levels. In 1974, however, the ex-mill price was Rs 95 per md sugar,
about 65% below the World Market equivalent. The anticipated decline in
World Market prices will virtually eliminate the Government margin over the
ex-mill rate. For the purpose of analysis, therefore, the future farm gate
price has been estimated assuming an unregulated price for sugar. In addi-
tion, mills paid an excise tax of about Rs 15 per md sugar, and accordingly,
the mill-gate price for cane in 1974 was fixed at Rs 5.2 per md. The same
excise tax is assumed to apply in the future.
1/   FAO, Commodity Policy Study on Sugar, Report to the Government of
Pakistan, 1974.
147



ANNEX 1 7
Page 6
18.       Milling costs are estimated to be about Rs 30 per md sugar (Rs 43
in 1975 terms). At present mill efficiencies, sugar recovery averages about
8.9% by weight. Distribution and handling costs averaged an estimated Rs 7
per md sugar (Rs 10 in 1975 terms) between Karachi and the project area;
farm to mill transport costs averaged about 10% or Rs 0.50 per md of cane
(Rs 0.70 in 1975 terms).
19.       The mill to be built at Kot Diji would have a capacity of 1,500
lg tons of cane per day, which is adequate in the vicinity of roughly 30,000
ac of cane. Based on experience in the Sind, roughly 30% of total cane
production in the vicinity is expected to go to the mill and the remainder
for gur, "chewing" cane, juice, seed, or fodder. Prices would be largely
determined by mill gate prices.
Cotton and Brassica Seeds
20.       Over the last five years, domestic consumption of vegetable oils
increased at an average rate of over 12% per year and Pakistan imported
soybean and sunflower oil to supplement domestic production. Vegetable ghee,
which is made mainly from domestically produced cotton seed and Brassica
seed oils and imported soybean and sunflower oil are used in the manufacture
of vegetable ghee which is the second most important food item in local
households. The ghee industry, which furnishes about half of the country's
total edible oil supplies, uses 70% to 85% of Pakistan's cotton seed production.
Brassica seeds (rape and mustard seeds) supply an additional one-quarter of
the edible oil supplies. The seed cakes are used primarily for livestock
feed.
21.       International vegetable oil prices are expected to decline (in
constant terms) from their shortage-related highs, while seed cake prices
which are related to livestock production, are expected to rise slowly. The
demand for oilseeds will reflect the joint demand. Based on the Bank's pro-
jections of prices for vegetable oils and seed cakes, World Market cotton
seed prices cif Rotterdam (in December 1975 Dollars) are expected to decline
initially and then rise gradually from US$263 per metric ton in 1974 to
US$245 per metric ton in 1975. Since seed and oil shipments travel about as
far to Karachi as to Rotterdam, the prices cif Karachi and cif Rotterdam
will be about the same.
22.       As the result of regulated prices for vegetable oils, domestic
seed prices have remained below World Market levels. In 1974, however, the
market price for cotton seed which averaged about Rs 50 per md was only about
Rs 2 per md below the World Market equivalent due to the high demand for seed-
cakes. The future price estimate assumes no regulation. In relation to cot-
ton seed prices, Brassica seed prices are expected to be about 30% higher.
23.       Most of the seed crushing takes place at ginneries in major
towns, although numerous farm households crush seed using simple animal-
powered machines ( anis). In estimating the farm gate prices, seed dis-
tribution and handling costs are assumed to average about Rs 2 per md (Rs 3
148



ANNEX 17
Page 7
in 1975 terms) from project farms to local markets, and about Rs 5 per md
(net) (Rs 8 in 1975 terms) between local markets and crushing centers.
Dates
24.       The Khairpur area is the second of two main date areas in Pakis-
tan. Up to 1974, Pakistan supplemented domestic production with lower
quality dates imported mainly from Iraq, and exported very small quantities
of luxury quality dates grown in the Mekhran coast area, where Pakistan's
only central packing facilities exist. In 1973, following sharp increases
in international prices for dates, Pakistan cut back imports by 80% and in
1974 halted them entirely.
25.       Growers often sell dates as a standing crop to contractors, who
bear all expenses and risks of picking, transporting and marketing. The
dates are marketed domestically in bulk, either fresh or boiled and dried.
Khairpur production has grown over the past five years at rates of about 3%
per year. Incremental production under the project would amount to less
than one third of current market volume in the area and could be readily
handled by the existing infrastructure.
26.       In the absence of Bank price forecasts for dates, domestic prices
are estimated in relation to the average values of date exports from Iraq.
The average prices for all Iraq date exports, adjusted to cif Karachi, have
been nearly the same as the average prices for the low quality Pakistan
imports. Khairpur dates are of high quality. As shown in the following
table, prices for Khairpur dates in the town of Sukkur consistently com-
manded a premium of 100% or more.
1970     1971      1972     1973
------------(Rs/md)------------
Average Price for Imports from Iraq        12        12       15        38
Sukkur Harvest Time Price                  30        27       40        73
(estimate)
27.       The 1974 harvest time price in Sukkur was Rs 75 per md, indicating
that the recent restriction on imports did not significantly affect prices
for high quality domestic dates. With production increasing steadily, marked
changes in the supply and demand relationship are not anticipated, and future
prices, excluding increases due to inflation, are expected to remain at pres-
ent levels. Therefore, after allowing 15% as contractor's margin, Rs 65 per
maund (Rs 92 in 1975 terms) is used for the present and future farm gate
prices.
Fertilizers
28.       Pakistan currently imports about 35% of the nitrogenous fertilizers
used in the country, most of the phosphatic and all potassic fertilizers. New
149



ANNEX 17
Page 8
plants planned to begin production in 1977, 1978 and 1979 will bring down
the average cost of domestically produced nitrogeneous fertilizers. As-
suming moderate growth in domestic requirements at rates of 11% for nitro-
genous and 21% for phosphatic fertilizers (IBRD Report No. 373-PAK, dated
April 3, 1974), imports would still comprise about 20% of supplies of nitro-
gen and about 45% of supplies of phosphorus after the new plants are in
operation.
29.       The Bank projects that World Market prices will decline, in con-
stant terms, from the peak 1974 levels. Using these projections, import
prices cif Karachi (in constant 1975 terms) are estimated as follows:
1974       1975
(US$/metric ton)
Urea (46% N)                    395         192
DAP (18% N, 46% P205)           432        274
Muriate of Potash (60% K20)   117           105
30.       Estimated levels of imports and production, and the average port of en-
try and ex-works prices under these assumptions are as follows:
1973/74                    1980/81
Supply         Price        Supply         Price
('000 ntr      (Rs/lg       ('000 ntr      (Rs/lg
tons) /1       ton) /1      tons) /1       ton)/1
Nitrogen
Domestic:
Esso                       78          2,870           80            2,870
Dawood-Hercules           145          2,520          155            2,520
PIDC, existing             58          6,560            58           6,560
PIDC, new                   0             -           240            3,750
Pak-Saudi                   0             -           240            3,750
Fauji-Agrico                0             -           240            3,750
Imports                     149          8,730           -               _
Total/average             430          5,720        1,013           4,053
Phosphorus
Domestic;
PIDC, existing              9          8,120            10           8,120
PIDC, new                   0             -           115           2,710
Imports                      51          6,130
Potassium
Imports                      10          1,980           45            1,780
/1   Nutrient lg tons abbreviated ntr tons.
150



ANNEX 17
Page 9
Transport costs and distribution margins are expected to return from present
high levels which, converted to terms of nutrient lg tons, average about
Rs 300 per lg ton (Rs 245 in 1975 terms) to 1973 levels of about Rs 200
per nutrient lg ton (Rs 285 in 1975 terms) for nitrates and phosphates,
comprising about 45% nutrient, and correspondingly less for potassics, com-
prising 60% nutrient.
31.       In 1974, the Government fixed retail prices (e.g. at Rs 1,500 per
ton urea, Rs 440 per ton single super phosphate, and Rs 652 per ton of
sulphate of potash), which resulted in subsidies to farmers averaging about
20% on nitrogenous, 50% on phosphatic, and 10% on potassic fertilizers. Esso,
Dawood-Hercules, and PIDC carried out the distribution of domestic products,
and were taxed or reimbursed the difference between the fixed and the ex-
works prices after allowance for distribution costs. The future price
estimates assume that, the overall subsidies are eliminated.
Pesticides
32.       Estimated prices in Karachi for some of the pesticide concentrates
that could be used are as follows:
US$/lb
Endrin (95%)                2.47
Methyl Parathion (80%)    1.30
Dimecron                    2.17
Diazinon (90%)              2.25
33.       Pesticides which may be used in the project area are expected to
be diluted to 20% for endrin, 56% for methyl parathion, and to 15% for
diazinon. Transport and distribution costs totaling Rs 200 per ton dilute
have been assumed. The costs of effective pest control per acre generally
vary little, irrespective of the brand of pesticide used. For purposes of
computation, the use of certain proprietary contact and systemic pesticides
is assumed which are expected to control the full spectrum of insects
attacking the crops at risk.
June 1976
151



ANNEX 17
Table 1
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMnIG DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Marketing and Prices
Production Increases in Crops and Crop Manufactures
Future       Future      Increment
Without       With        'With" minus
Present      Project     Project      "Without"
-----------(lg tons)----------------
Wheat_/                4,180        6,800        21,000        14,200
ice-2/                 1,820        2,100             0        (2,100)
Sorghum-2                800        2,500         2,700           200
Subtotal, Grain      6,800       11,400        23,700        12,300
Sugar-/                   20          930         3,630         2,700
Cotton Lint            1,470        1,500         4,000         2,50o
Dates                  5,810        7,400        22,600        15,200
Seed Oil-                460          390         1,530         1,14Q
Seed Cakes-            1,840        1,510         6,280         4,770
l/ Assuming the sugar mill is built.
7/ Available for local consumption after deducting seed, feed,and wastage
amounting to 10% for wheat and sorghum and 6% for rice.
3/ White sugar potential from 30% of production at existing mill efficiencies.
/ Includes product of cotton and Brassica seeds.
152



ANNEX L7
Table 2
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FATT'ING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHARPUR II)
Marketing and Prices
World Market Prices1/
(in Constant December 1975 Dollars)
1974=       1985
Cotton Tint - Mexi can SM 1 1/16 inches
(}/lb  cif  Iiverpool)               76           61
Wheat - CWRS
($/n ton  fob   Canada)             242          162
Grain Sorghum - No. 2 Milo
($/m ton  fob   U.S. Gulf)          140           97
Rice - 5% Brokens
($/m, ton  fob   Bangkok)           628          338
Sugar
(¢/lb  fob   Caribbean)              29           14
Cotton Seed
($/1m ton  cif   Liverpool)         263          245
Soybean Oil - U.S. crude
($/Inton  cif   Rotterdam)          920          507
Urea - 46% N, bagged
($/-I ton  fob   Rotterdam)         366          163
DAP - 18% N, 46% P205
($/ mton  fob   U.S. Gulf)          386          228
Muriate of Potash - 60% K
($/ai1ton  fob   Vancouver)          71           59
1/  IBRD Econoric Analysis and Projections Department,
May 27, 1975. Prices for cotton seeds are
imputed from the market prices for vegetable oils
and seedcake.
153



ANNEX 17
Table 3
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Marketing and Prices
Estimated Prices for the Financial and Economic Analyses
(in Constant Decenber 1975 Rupees)
1974                   1985
1nancial9 Economic   financial  Economic
Crop Produce (Rs/md)
Seed Cotton                    118        212         110         168
Wheat                           35         132         70          99
Grain Sorghum                   25         92          49          69
Rice Paddy                      32 6                   30          44
Sugarcane                        5         21           6           9
Brassica Oilseeds               89        126         105         117
Cotton seeds                    71        100          83          93
Dates                           92          92         92          92
Pulses                          50          50         50          50
Vegetables                      21         21          21          21
Fodder                           1           1          1           1
Straw                            7           7          7           7
Sugarcane Tops                   1           1          1           1
Fertilizers (Rs/lb nutrient)
Nitrogen                         2.1         4.5         1.6        2.2
Phosphate                        1.6         3.2         1.8        2.3
Potassium                        0.9         1.1        0.9         1.0
Pesticides (Rs/lb)
Ehdrin                           5.3        5.8         5.3         5.8
Methyl Parathion                 9.2        10.1        9.2        10.1
Dimecron                        21.8        24.0       21.8        24.0
Diazinon                         3.8         4.2        3 8         4.2
154



ANNEX 18
Page 1
PAKISTAN
KHAIRPUR TILE DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR II)
Economic Analysis
Assumptions
1.        The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Benefits -- The direct benefits of the project would be the
incremental agricultural production over the estimated future
production without the project. The project would also have
substantial secondary employment effects in trade and trans-
port. This analysis considers only the economic benefits
from the increase in agricultural production which can be
directly valued. Expected crop yields and acreages are shown
in Annex 16. Farm gate prices are derived from the Bank's
projections of World Market prices or from trends in domestic
market prices as discussed in Annex 17.
(b) Crop Production Costs -- Per acre input requirements are
shown in Annex 15. The value of labor inputs are discussed
in Annex 4.
(c) Pricing of Labor -- Farm family and hired labor are evaluated
at a seasonally adjusted opportunity cost. The economic cost
per man-day is estimated at about Rs 4.70 (Rs 6.70 in 1975
terms), about half the market wage for field labor during
peak activity (Annex 4). Unskilled construction labor has
been valued at market wages.
(d) Irrigation & Drainage Costs -- The additional drainage operating
costs and the increase in operating costs for the improved parts
of the existing canal and watercourse system serving the area
are included as recurrent project costs.
(e) Land Acquisition -- Agricultural land has been valued at its
opportunity cost based on the resulting loss of crop production.
This is reflected in future income without the project.
(f) Investment Costs -- All investment costs, net of taxes and
duties and price contingencies are included in this analysis
with the exception of the estimated costs for ERTS imagery, mapping
155



ANNEX 18
Page 2
facilities, and related technical assistance and equipment.
These items would not be prerequisites for development of the
project area.
(g)  Development Phasing -- Construction would be phased over
five years. Incremental production would be realized
beginning in some areas in the sixth year. Attainment
of the full increment over the project area it is assumed
will take about ten years after project completion, with
one third to be attained in the first half of the ten year
development period.
(h)  Exchange Rate -- Foreign investment costs and prices
for internationally traded goods used in the economic analysis
are based on a shadow exchange rate of US$1 - Rs 11 to reflect
the scarcity of foreign exchange.
Economic Rate of Return
2.        Based on the foregoing and assuming a 30 year period of analysis,
the economic rate of return is 17%.
Sensitivity Analysis
3.        The sensitivity of the analysis to alternative assumptions is
given in the following tabulation:
Estimated
Rate of Return
(a)  that a sugar mill is not built at Kot Diji;         15%
(b)  increase in construction costs of 15%;              15%
(c)  decrease in future prices of farm crops of 15%;  15%
(d)  increase in costs of crop inputs of 15%;            17%
(e)  combination of (a) and (c);                          13%
(f)  combination of (a), (c) and (d);                     11%
(g)  farm labor valued at the peak wage for
hired labor (Rs 10 per man-day -- Rs 14 in
1975 terms)                                         16%
156
June 1976



ANNEX 18
Table 1
PAKISTAN
KIATRPUJR TILE DRAINAC,
AND IRRIGATED FARMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (KHAIRPUR TI)
Economic Analysis
Cost and Benefit Streams
(Rs Million)
Agricultural
Support
Year      Civil Works Costs                              Costs        Net Benefits
Operation,                                       Net Value
Maintenance &                                       of Crop
Construction  Replacement                                      Production
1       38.h             0                               0.5              0
2       61.5            0                                1.0              0
3       40.6            0                                o.5              o
h       36.5              .5                             0.5              0
5       25.0             1.5                             0.5              0
6        0               2.2                             0.5              6
7        0               2.2                             0.5             11
8        0               2.2                             0.5             22
9        0               2.2                             0.5             39
10        0               2.2                             0.5             61
11        0               2.2                             0.5             77
12        0               2.2                             0.5             88
13        0               2.2                             0.5             97
14        0               2.2                             0.5            105
15-30     0               2.2                             0.5            111
157






7  e,.        -                                                       TeO.,Rt  ~~~~~~~~~~e                          To Molten     PAKI STA N                    t0 ~~~~~~~~~BRD11526
T.  PAKISTAN                         ~~~~MA' 1975
NShodad.                                                                                           ar          Tile   Drainage   and
~~~~V~~~~~~(lV~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~                                                                                          Pvrr i         Development  Project
~~                         WeOee as  ~~~~~~~~ ~~~  Li ~~Khairpur II Project
/  ff'4H~~~~~~~~~~§I5                                                                                          P~~~~~ROJCT-LOCATIO-N
'  '1)  2    f,r~~~~7~rr'f~~,,3'\    ,~~~                                                                       BARRAGE      n~~~-e---B-rdory Of Kh- por I area
~~  ((/1>           Somber           ,~~~~~~~~~~$                                      -'~~~~-.---n~~~~- Budary of KIroirp.r I area
-              K MH~~~~!PRL             xx          Propoced t,  dr.i, area, Kh.,rpon It proleCt
r'    ,,s,~~~~~  r>jcl "j~~~~~ ~~   '1           '1r              /~~~~~2~~'                                      SalineF-1 grOard w-ler area, Kh.,rpur I project
A-,  1,              Dye,erOO    &   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   __________~~~~~~~5 Sine grocod water aots,de prajeot areas
l'~~~~/~~  f   --          {'Arvui~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~P ~Rivers- barrages
I              v,o                      ,-         -                             -          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mangroe swamp
/Kerd                                      soma                 loon   -   Confours ir metere
II                                                                                                                         In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tor Desert
~~ ~K,  A      < ~~~                                                                                                                                               I.____...eertiono1 boordery
I   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~  A~IN                                                                                                                    
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qf~~~~~~~~H A R
,,  -, ,    I,     ~                                                       k1                             Naoaaesha
1 <   2'--                                                                                                                 Tedo~~J                          Khlpr 
h.1.                                         ~A                                                                          A an
a"%,            I ah)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n5l~e1,ron   IonoeseO  O
Kh ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'NdakrlefOn                                                                           0
Moth~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
KARACHI              tako   2i/r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' Il'                                                                  o~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~A   1-oZVHINA~~~~~~~~~~~
Rn   kh o -ye 1
7AV, 
Arab/an  580                                                                                                                                                 kOoraad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ l~~u ~& ~
CHN
A  00         40                                                                                                                                    di, 00 10,ro                                                     N I
'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~
1 0  00   0    40   50  oR                                   1~
30 40 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  NIOt
q7R'*Ime-                                                                                                         -0         -






IBRD 11527
ToJ-cobobed   eB                                     Shikar    o6Co                                         T.o B.haneepur               MAY 1975
Shrahdadkot>                                                      \                                V
Khairpur  Tile  Drainage  and
WAhdAH   fRAN 5a                                                 Irrigated  Farming  Development Project
Khairpur II Project
-Boundary of E-sr and Wes,t Feeder Cana.l C-errone
---P/  Bou ndary of Khairpur I (SCARP prCnol area
_'_          .Boundery  of  Khoarpur It project area
/ ,   Tile drairnge area, Khairpur 1I project
T,,b-oee drone.d area, Khairpur I and U pronechs
V Xf--[fSaa,line groundwater area, Khoirpur I and Il projects
______Saline groundwater area, Knairaur East Feeder Command,
outside Kh airpur  I project
Frs  raundwater area, Khoirpur I project
Fresh groundwater area, Kohrpur West Feeder Command,
.      outside Khairpar I pro aect
I//  'ono Major coon1
Other ccanls
/:::=~V  R vers- barrage
J-..-----cMajor roads
Kharpur  thaa Shah                                                                                                 0 _  \t
a                                                                  MIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ES
!0 1 't/ F 
The    uhin  -p  i  ro
rely   esiororo,or or o ,rpo   hi  r,
a /  a  -
AU.b eSr S. a
\ XE t   f k                                         IR                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
Xt V  \   \                                   /                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0\W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z O -GH NISTAI
;      ~~~~~~~~d 4dn                   Mip, Kh: 






IBRD 11528
MAY 1975
SUKKUR                   R~~~OHRI
PAKISTAN
Khairpur Tile Drainage and                          V-
Irrigated  Farming  Development Proiect
Khairpur II Project                                 Baberlc\
Project area boundary
Main canals
-   Main drains
Branch/other canals
Branch drains
Main roads(metalled)                         /-
Unmetalled roads
,     Railway
4    Urban areas
District bounary               .                                               ndra
Taluka boundary
* Khairpur I (SCARP) tubewells                       K                   T A L UK A   W 
Area  & ,to be tile drained         7R- *                                    R
" Area (E)drained  by    <           TA  L-'  KA          -       
7   A   lubewells              R\P  U- P R   r
011
+         |         /       .    9:;        ~~~~~~~~~~Shadi Shahid              MILES        
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~0                                            24  
KILOMETERS
>  U. S.S. R
/  ;}                   j       1  } <   .    9\ n   ..4.ffCHINA
TA L UKA                                 GIX                                        2          TIS D I J I < Pes*t "10
/   If           islomab4 '      Apprn. f
AFGHANISTAN       5-e-oe
Burir"    Khanona hore '^
PAKISTA       J
Quettag
/ /:  Khairpur2
sli2\>MF   y                                           _         )   95~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I N D I A
eTh bonda'ies shown on this rnap do not    Arvbifao   eta:
Kot Diji                 bmply endorsmenent or acceptance by the                .. 
World Bank and i.t af- .ii-tea



