CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 648 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated
Farming Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF SIND
Dated July 22, 1976


﻿S
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and THE
PROVINCE OF SIND, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Sind).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Sind agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS Sind, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Sind shall carry out and shall cause to be car-
ried out those parts of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement for which Sind shall be responsible
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropri-
ate engineering, agricultural and financial practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) Sind shall make adequate and timely bud-
getary provisions for the implementation of those parts of the
Project for which Sind shall be responsible in line with the
recommendations on financial requirements for the Project as in-
cluded in the Project Implementation Plan for the following fis-
cal year.
(b) Following the transfer to Sind of any equipment or facil-
ities provided under Part A of the Project, Sind shall make ade-
quate and timely budgetary provisions for the operation and main-
tenance of such equipment or facilities. Sind shall inform the As-
sociation of such budgetary provisions not later than December 31
of the year prior to aforesaid transfer, and not later than Decem-
ber 31 of each year thereafter.
eP


﻿Section 2.03. Sind shall: (i) redesignate the Patni Distri-
butary Canal as a perennial canal, and (ii) complete action which
shall be necessary to ensure that the Project Area is allotted
assured sufficient water supplies.
Section 2.04. Sind shall, in accordance with the Project Im-
plementat.on Plans, arrange timely acquisition of construction rights
of way for the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.05. Sind shall ensure that, not later than March 31,
1977, all activities, staff, buildings, vehicles and equipment
related to agricultural extension services located in Rohri-Taluka
shall be placed under the SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing under
the Sind Irrigation and Power Department, or such other agency as
shall be acceptable to Sind and the Association.
Section 2.06. Sind shall take all action which shall be nec-
essary to make pesticide supplies in suitable formulation avail-
able to farmers in the Project Area to meet future increases in
demand in the Project Area.
Section 2.07. (a) Sind shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the prog-
ress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit,
including the level of water charges, the operation and maintenance
costs of drainage and irrigation facilities in Sind, and investment
costs of such facilities in the Project Area.


﻿_                            -5-
(b) Sind shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by Sind of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Sind shall, taking into account the increase
of water to be provided in the Project Area, within one year after
completion of the Project, collect from owners of land in the Proj-
ect Area the maximum water charges permissible under the conditions
prevailing in the Project Area.
(b) Sind shall, not later than 1978, 1983, and 1988, review
the level of water charges in Sind with a view to increasing those
charges in three stages so that by 1988 water charges: (i) in Sind
shall be sufficient to recover the full cost of operational and
maintenance of irrigation and drainage facilities located in Sind,
and (ii) in addition thereto, in the Project Area, shall be suffi-
cient to recover a reasonable portion of the investment cost of
the facilities constructed under Part A of the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Sind thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Sind
of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿8                                      0
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Sind:
Additional Chief Secretary (Development)
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sind
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT SIND
Karachi


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Sind may be taken or executed by its
Additional Chief Secretary (Development) or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Sind shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Sind,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted
to be taken or executed by Sind pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert Picciotto
Director
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
PROVINCE OF SIND
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative


