CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 648 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated
Farming Development Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 22, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 22, 1976, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President, (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) By an agreement of even date herewith between the Asso-
ciation and the Borrower's Province of Sind (hereinafter referred
to as Sind), Sind has agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of the Project; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a proj-
ect agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Sind;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2                                     0
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Sind of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Act" means the Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority Act, 1958, as amended to the date of this Agreement and
all regulations framed thereunder;
(c) "WAPDA" means the Borrower's Water and Power Development
Authority established under the Act, and includes any agency or
entity of the Borrower or of any political subdivision of the


﻿Borrower which shall perform in whole or in part, the services
performed at the date of this Agreement by such Authority;
(d)  "Contractors" means companies,,firms and individuals
including local farmers capable of undertaking land levelling
work with farm machinery in the Project Area;
(e)  "Project Coordinating Committee" means the committee
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.09 of this
Agreement;
(f) "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan referred
to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(g) "SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan or any succes-
sor thereof;
(h) "Participating Banks" means the banks selected by the
Borrower and the Association to provide funds for Part B of the
Project;
(i) "SCARP Khairpur" means the Salinity Control and Reclama-
tion Project at Khairpur as described in the Development Credit
Agreement (Khairpur Ground Water and Salinity Control Project)
Credit No. 22-PAK between the Republic of Pakistan and the Asso-
ciation dated June 29, 1962;
(j) "Project Area" means an area comprising about 44,000
acres in parts of Rohri, Khairpur and Kot-Diji Talukas;


﻿40
(k) "Area A" means an area in the Project Area of about
36,000 acres at present without drainage;
(1) "Area B" means an area in the Project Area of about
8,000 acres drained by tubewells of SCARP Khairpur; and
(m) "water charges" means the charges levied for the right
of the use of water.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works or services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1982 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-6 -
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15 1986 and ending Febru-
ary 15, 2026, each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, agri-
cultural and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose. To that end, the Borrower shall make ade-
quate and timely budgetary provisions for the implementation of
the Project in line with the recommendation on financial require-
ments for the Project included in the Project Implementation Plan
for the following fiscal year.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause Sind to perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, nec-
essary or appropriate to enable Sind to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist Sind in carrying out
those parts of Part D of the Project for which Sind shall be re-
sponsible, the Borrower shall make available to Sind the proceeds
of the Credit allocated under Category (3) (a) of Schedule 1 to


﻿-8                                    0
this Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(b) In order to assist WAPDA in carrying out those parts
of Parts A, D and E of the Project for which WAPDA is responsible,
the Borrower shall make available to WAPDA the proceeds of the
Credit allocated-dnder Categories (1), (3) (b), (4) and (6) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association.
(c) In order to carry out Part B of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall make available through SBP to the Participating Banks,
to be made further available to farmers and contractors, the pro-
ceeds of the Credit allocated under Category (2) of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, including inter alia, those
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. In order to assist WAPDA in implementing Part
A of the Project, and SCARP Khairpur Agricultural Wing under the
Sind Irrigation and Power Department in implementing Part C of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause WAPDA to employ a consulting
firm to provide qualified specialists with experience in tile
drainage and irrigation, mechanical equipment, agricultural exten-
sion services and farm management, and land reclamation, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. The Sind Department of
Agriculture shall be consulted in connection with the appointment
of any agricultural extension services and farm management spe-
cialist.


﻿0-9-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
The goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall there-
after be used as agreed with the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all action as shall be necessary to ensure:
(a) that sufficient quantities of sulfate-resistant cement
shall be made available to WAPDA as and when required in accor-
dance with the Project Implementation Plans; and
(b) the power supply for each new pump station installed
under Part A.1 of the Project shall be provided in accordance
with the Project Implementation Plans.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that about forty trac-
tors of 60 to 65 horse-power with suitable land-levelling imple-
ments shall be made available promptly to contractors as and when
needed for carrying out Part B of the Project, under procedures
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-10                                   0
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the General Manager
of WAPDA-Southern Zone to prepare annual Project Implementation
Plans satisfactory to the Association, together with budgetary
estimates for the following fiscal year, to be furnished to the
Borrower and the Association not later than March 31, 1977 and
not later than December 31, 1977 and December 31 of each year
thereafter.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause WAPDA through its
Central Monitoring Organization to undertake benchmark and follow-
up surveys satisfactory to the Association to monitor the agricul-
tural, social and economic changes brought about by the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause to be established
and maintained a Project Coordinating Committee acceptable to the
Association, responsible for the coordination among tie agencies
responsible for the implementation of the Project and consisting
of, but not limited to, representatives of such agencies.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or shall cause
to be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such de-
tail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained, records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose


﻿0                           -11 -
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower and Sind responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and SBP and
Participating Banks.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the departments or agencies
of the Borrower and Sind responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and SBP and Participating Banks, in respect
of activities related to the Project to: (i) have their accounts
and financial statements (statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) except for SBP and
Participating Banks whose accounts shall be retained by the Bor-
rower for review by the Association, furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Association such other Project related information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the institutions
referred to hereinabove, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿I
-13-
Section 4.02. The Borrower 3hall cause WAPDA to establish a
cost accounting system for the Project to permit the monitoring
of unit costs of alternative construction methods, acceptable to
the Association, within six months of the date of this Agreement.


﻿-14                                      0
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Sind shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or other obligation of Sind under the Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Sind will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event specified in para-
graph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and Sind.


﻿-15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of Sind have been duly authorized or ratified by all nec-
essary corporate and governmental action;
(b)  the consulting firm referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement shall have been appointed; and
(c) the Project Coordinating Committee referred to in Sec-
tion 3.09 shall have been established.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and deliv-
ered on behalf of, Sind, and is legally binding upon Sind in ac-
cordance with its terms.


﻿-16                                       0
Section 6.03. The date October 20, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-17-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Bbrrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary of the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-18-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of -America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /a/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By // Robert Picciotto
Director
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office


﻿-19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           Z of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works               1,500,000          25%
(2) Agricultural Credits
through Participating
Banks under Part B
of the Project:
(a) to farmers for        1,000,000         50% of amounts
land levelling                          disbursed
work
(b) to contractors         400,000          70% of amounts
for purchase of                        disbursed
land levelling
equipment
(3) Equipment and Mate-                          100% of foreign
rials other than for                        expenditures, or
land levelling:                              100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory) for
locally manufac-
tured goods, or
70% of expendi-
tures for other
locally procured
goods


﻿20
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(a) Sind                         600,000
(b) WAPDA                      6,000,000
(4) Technical Assistance            1,000,000     100% of foreign
expenditures
or 70% of local
expenditures
(5) Overseas Training                 300,000     100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Aerial Photography              1,000,000     100% of foreign
and Surveys                                  expenditures
(7) Unallocated                     2,200,000
TOTAL          14,000,000


﻿-21-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on-or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such item as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect
of Category (6) on account of expenditures made after February 1,
1976 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,000,000.


﻿-22-
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category end which in the opinion of the As-
sociation are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, re-
duce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expendi-
tures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
vould otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   1.   The installation by WAPDA of a subsurface tile drain-
age system and surface disposal drains in Area A, in-
cluding buried tile and collector drains, pump stations
and surface drains.
2.   The enlargement and remodeling by WAPDA of irriga-
tion canals and structures, and the reconstruction of
irrigation outlets serving the Project Area.
3.   The construction by WAPDA of new watercourses and
the rehabilitation of existing watercourses and asso-
ciated structures in the Project Area.
4.   The construction by WAPDA of wider and improved
carriageway surfaces and the strengthening of bridges
on roads in Area A.
B.   The provision to farmers and contractors of agricultural
credit through Participating Banks for the levelling of farm
land and the purchase of equipment for land levelling to
improve water distribution and control in the Project Area.


﻿-24-
C.   The reorganization and intensification of agricultural ex-
tension services in the Project Area provided by SCARP
Khairpur Agricultural Wing under the Sind Irrigation and
Power Department.
D.   The provision of equipment, materials, vehicles, supplies
and spare parts to WAPDA and the Sind Department of Agri-
culture for the carrying out of construction works, and the
operation and maintenance of facilities constructed under
the Project and of tubewells in the Project Area and in the
adjacent SCARP Khairpur area.
E.   1.   The provision for WAPDA to carry out an aerial survey
of the Indus Basin and the Province of Baluchistan to
assist the Borrower in planning for water resources
development in the Indus Basin.
2.   The preparation by WAPDA of maps based on data from
Earth Resources Technology Satellites, as a pilot study
for assessing and measuring areas affected by soil sa-
linization and waterlogging.
F.   About 15 man-years of overseas fellowships for staff of
WAPDA, Sind Department of Agriculture and Sind Irrigation
and Power Department for training in design and construction
of drainage works and agricultural development including
extension.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1981.


﻿A01                                     -25-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, the equipment
and materials shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (herein-
after called the Guidelines), on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Equipment and materials with unit prices of less than $10,000
each shall be procured in accordance with the Borrower's procure-
ment procedures acceptable to the Association, provided that the
aggregate expenditure of i,tems so procuoed shall not exceed the
equivalent of $300,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their


﻿- 26-
bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Pakistan if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Pakistan equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.


﻿- 27 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
-s           (d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.


﻿-28                                      0
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works under Part A of the Project shall be carried
out by force account under the supervision of WAPDA.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and fi-
nal contracts.
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Association shall reason-
ably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents
shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, in-
form the Association of the name of the bidder to which it in-
tends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,


﻿-29 -
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the eval-
uation and comparison of the bids received, and such other in-
formation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Asso-
ciation shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly in-
form the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿-30-
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms and Conditions
Under Which Funds are to be Made
Available under Part B of the Project
A.   Borrower to SBP
Loan period:                            6 - 9 years
Grace period:                           1 - 2 years
Interest rate:                          5% per annum
Objective:                              For onlending to
Participating Banks
B.   SBP to Participating Banks
Loan period:                            6 - 9 years
Grace period:                           1 - 2 years
Interest rate:                          6% per annum
Objective:                              For onlending to
farmers and contrac-
tors
C.   Participating Banks to Farmers
Loan period:                             5 - 8 years
Grace period:                            1 - 2 years
Interest rate:                          11% per annum
Objective:                              For land levelling
work
D.   Participating Banks to Contractors
Loan period:                             5 years
Grace period:                           1 year
Interest rate:                          11% per annum
Objective:                               For purchase of land
levelling equipment


