laryvans Water Resources Consolidaltion Proiecl
Proiect D)evelopment
Eiuvirounemittal Canmonmut                                         Jg
REPORT TITLE: Haryana Irrigation Department Environmental
Action Program
prcpared for:
World Bank India Agriculture Operations Division
and
India Resident Office
by:
T. P. Wlltington
Seatec liiternatioiial, Ltd.
23 November, 1992                             -_-_.
Chandigarh India                          ,    X ;



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
DOIs           Departments of Irrigation (general, State level)
EA             Environmental Assessment
EIA            Environmental Impact assessment
EMP            Envirolnmental Management Plan
GOI            Goverrnment of India
HDH            Haryana Department of Health
HDOA           Haryana Department of Agriculture
HDOE           Haryana Departnent of Environment
HID            Haryana Irrigation Departnent
HPCB           Haryana Pollution Control Board
HSMITC         Haryana Small Irrigation and Tubewell Corporation
IPM            Integrated Pest Management
IEE            Initial Environmental Assessment
MOEF           Ministry of Environment and Forests
NGO            Non-Govermnental Organization
PCB            Pollution Control Board
PWD(PH)        Public Works Department (Public Health) (also known as
the Haryana Dept. of Public Health
TOR            Terns of Reference
WRCP           Water Resources Consolidation Project



TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Background on Consultancy
1.2. Consultant Terms of Reference
1.3. Objective
1.4. Methodology
1.5. Rationale
1.6. Report Organization
1.7. Acknowledgments
2. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT: ISSUES AND RELATIONSHIPS
2.1. Types of Environmental Issues
2.1.1.   Affected Groups
2.1.2.   Project Components and Environmental Impacts
2.1.3.   System Boundary and Externalities
2.2. Approaches to Environmental Management for Line Agencies
2.2.1.   Delegation or Responsibilities
2.2.2.   Environmental management Units
2.3. Standards and Procedures
2.3.1.   Standards
2.3.2.   Assessment Procedures
2.3.3.   Environmental Management Plans
2.4. Regulatory Aspects
2.4.1.   Government of India
2.4.2.   The World Bank
3. HARYANA DEPARTMENT OF IRRIGATION: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
3.1. Issues and Environmental Values
3.1.1.   Physical
3.1.1.1.  Waterlogging
3.1.1.2.  Soil Salinity
3.1.1.3.  Sedimentation
3.1.1.4.  Water Quality
3.1.1.5.  Groundwater Depletion
3.1.2.   Biological
3.1.2.1.  Changes in Flora and Fauna



3.1.2.2.  Wildlife Protection
3.1.2.3.  Aquatic Resourecs
3.1.3.    Socio-econoinic
3.1.3.1.  Public Health
3.1.3.2.  L-and Use Changes
3.1.3.3.  Displacement of Tribals
3.1.3.4.  Resettlement and Relocation
3.1.3.5.  Village-Urban Water SUDDpIy
3.1.4.    Cultural and Quality of Lire Values
3.1.4.1.  Cultural artifacts
3.1.4.2.  Cultural Norms
3.1.4.3.  EmplopMent and Livelihood
3.1.5.    Construction Impacts
3.1.6.    Positive (Beneficial) Impacts
3.2. Affected Groups
3.2.1.    Beneficiaries
3.2.2.    External
3.3. Responsibilities
3.3.1.    Bulk Water Supply
3.3.1.1.  Irrigation
3.3.1.2.  Viliage Water Supply
3.3.2.    Irrigation Distribution Systems
3.3.3.    Drainage
3.3.4.    Flood Control
3.3.5.    Groundwater Management
3.4. Functions
3.4.1.    Monitoring, Data Collection and Evaluation
3.4.2.    Planning
3.4.3.    Design
3.4.4.    Construction
3.4.5.    Operations and Maintenance
3.4.6.    Public Awareness
3.4.6.1.  Formal Hearings
3.4.6.2.  Benefciaary/Public Participation
3.4.6.3.  Public Information
4. LINKAGES WITH OTHER AGENCIES
4.1. Existing Working Agreements
4.2. Vertical Unkages
4.2.1.    With National Agencies
4.2.2.    With Local Agencies
4.3. Lateral Linkages
4.3.1.    With Other Agencies of Haryana State



4.3.2.    Witl DOls of Contiguous States
4.4. Development of Linkages
4.4.1.    Potential Linkages
4.4.2.    Justirication
4.4.3.    Hnaryana Department of Environumcit
4.4.4.    Pollution Control Board
4.4.5.    Public Works Department (Public EIalth)
4.4.6.    State llealth Department
4.4.7.    Statc Departiment of Agriculiture
5. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
5.1. Activities with Direct Environmental Impact
5.2. Enhancement of Environmental Values
5.3. Environmental Criteria
5.3.1.    Set by HID
5.3.2.   Met by HID
5.3.3.   Relevant Criteria for Use by tID
5.4. Water Resources Consolidation Project
S.4.1.   Strategy for Implementing Environmental Component
5.4.1.1.  Initial Enviromnental Examination
5.4.1.2.  Regional Environmental Planning
5.4.1.3.  Project Environmental Assessment
5.4.1.4.  Environmental Management Plan
6. FIVE YEAR PROGRAM
6.1. General Activities
6.2. Specific Responsibilities
6.2.1.   Planning
6.2.2.   Monitoring
6.2.2.1.  Ambient Monitoiing
6.2.2.2.  Surveillance Monitoing
6.2.2.3.  Discharge Monitoring
6.2.3.   Environmental Assessment
6.2.4.    Coordination
6.3. Intemal Strengthening
6.3.1.   Personnel
6.3.2.    Equipment
6.3.3.    Training
6.3.4.    Outside Support
6.4. Public Awareness
6.4.1.   Formal Hearings



6.4.2.   Bicnfeiciary/Public Pnrticipation
6.4.3.   Ptiblic Inforimiation
6.5. Institutional Framework
6.5.1.   First Phase
6.5.2.   Second Pliase
6.5.3.   Thtird Pliase
7. RECOMMENDATIONS: PRIORITY ACTION PLAN
TABLES
Table 1: Checklist of Potential Issues for an EA
Table 2: Environmental Resources and Issues Relevant to HID
ANNEXES
Annex I         List of References
Annex 11         Terms of References for the Present Assignment
Annex III       Review Abstracts for Selected References
Annex IV         Minutes of Meetings
Annex V          Environmental Aspects of the WRCP
Annex VI        WB Guidelines for EA for Irrigation and Drainage Projects



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
There are two thrusts to thc prcscnt report: thc first involvcs issues surrounding the major planning
initiatives, including multiscctoral aspects of water resources allocations and drainagc and salinity
problems. The sccond involves ovcrall environmcntal impact of the activitics of ID in general, and, in
particular, potential impacts stcmning from the WRCP. A conclusion of thc uresenrtzr is that.
while direct cnvironmental impacts from HID activities are minor and can be dealt with througlh simple
mitigation measures. thcre is a justifiablc scope for reajonal environmcntal planning for water
resources development using a multisectoral approach.
The WRCP is geared to furithcr optinizing usc of water witiin the approxinately two million ha of
cultivable land within the State through furthcr channel lining, extension and lining of watcrcourses,
and development of spray irrigation as a mcans of dcaling with undulating topography in the southem
portion of Haryana. There arc other components as well, including the opening of newly irrigated
arcas. Environmental rcporting requirements within the Govcrnmnent of India (GOI) and within the
Bank need to be met in the coursc of project development. In conjunction with these stipulations, there
is a need to address the critical issues of waterlogging and soil salinity, as well as to develop a
conprehensivc perspective on cnvironmental management in general within HID, in order to prepare
the agency for dealing with all types of evcntualitics and projcct developmcat componcnts. The agency
necds to be cmpoNvcred to act confidently and widt rcsponsibility in all aspects of project developmcnt,
incorporating modem environmcntal managemcnt perspectives in thc course of project implemcntation.
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND RELATIONSHIPS
Environmental issucs always involve cause-and-effect relationships. The various roles in this
rclationship can be characterized as the initiator role, which is the group which sponsors, or initiates,
the activity, and the beneficial user of the resource, which in general is the group which is affected by
the activity. The linkage between the initiator and the user is the resource, which is a pbysikal,
biological, socio-economic, cultural or quality of lifc value. With respect to those environental issues
associated with HID activities, HID may be the initiator or the beneficial user, depending on the
resource which is being affected.
The identification of cause-and-efecct relationships and intervening resource degradation is called
environmental assessment (EA). EA is generally considered to be a function of project development;
however extended forms include regional environmetal planning (or Regional EA) and Sectoral EA.
The techniques are similar, except that these latter approaches focus on a geographical arca, such as
Haryana State, or a sectoral activity, and provide a strategy within which environmeally sound
projects can take place. The regional environmnetal plan would ffcus on raw water resources, and
would consider a wide variety of linkages to othcr aspects of water use (and indeed other human
activities). The strategy would identify projects which could take place according to a timetable of
action. The enviromnental soundncss of individual projects is in a sense guaranteed by this approach,
as long as the regional plan is enviromnentally sound. The Northwest India Drainage Study and the
Water Resources Plan Study both provide excellent foundations upon which regional environmental
planning can take place within HID. The GOI and WB both require EA for specific types of projects;
however sound planning and management should support regional and sectoaml environmental planning
in conjunction, or in precedence to, project development It should be mentioned that all EA work
involves recommendations for mitigation of enviromnental effects. These recommendations are
generally contained within a separate section of the EA report called the Environmental Management
Plan (EMP).



Executive Summary-2
Ccrtain regulatory requiroments need to bc mct in ordcr to clear projects with the Central Govcrnment
and to obtain funding from the Bank. Othcr international lending agencics havc similar EA
requirenicnts to those of the World Bank.
Government of India
The Govermnent of India (GOI) roquircs environmental assessments (EAs) for ecrtain types of
dcvclopmcnt projects. Thc procedure for clearance of cnvironmcntal projccts within the GOI consists
of the following:
* Preparation of the EA for the project
*  Review of the EA at the State levCl (in this case by the Haryana Department of Environment)
*  Review at the Central level througlh the Ministry of Environmcnt and Forests (MEF)
*  Review by an appointed Rcview Committec composed of reprcsentatives from MEF and NGOs
plus independent professionals, followed by a recommended course of action
*  Ruling by the Central Govcrnment on the projjct
Dcficiencies in thc EA may be noted at any step in the process, as a result of which additional
information and analysis may be required of the executing agency.
The World Bank
The World Bank has issued Opcrational Directive 4.00 Annex A: Environmental Assessment, which
prcscribes EA for certain typcs of projects. [t specifies that "EA is a flexible procedure, which can
vary in breadth, depth, and type of analysis, depcnding on the project." OD 4.00 specifies that project-
specific EAs, regional EAs and sectoral EAs are all possiblc options in complying with Bank policy,
depcnding on the type of credit or loan mcchanism being provided by the Bank. (From OD 4.00):
*  Project specific EAs arc used to analyze specific investmncft projects (e.g. dams, factories,
irrigation systems) with significant environmental issucs
*  Rcgional EAs are used wherc a number of significant development activities are planned for a
reasonably localized area
*  Sectoral EAs are used for the design of sector investment programs
The environmental assessment should be prepared during the projcct development phase and a
summary of the EA included in the project appraisal report.
HARYANA DEPARTMENT OF IRRIGATION: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Environmental values can be viewed in tcnns of the resources which are being affected by the project
activity. These resources are commonly classified as physical, biological, socio-economic and cultural
resources. A general description of environmental issues associated with water resources projects is
presented in the report. The samc issues and values are itemized in Table 2 of the report.
The report contains a section describing HID's service commitments fiom the viewpoint of
envirnmtal impact. The functions and tasks undertaken by HID are described in a later section.
The basis for the information in this section is the "Handbook on Irrigation Statistics" prepared by HID
(Ref. 2.5) plus other sources.
LINKAGES WITH OTHER AGENCIES
Chapter 4 of the report explores existing water shaing arrangements, vertical and lateral likages with
other agencies including those at the central level, in other States, at local lcvel and within the
Government of Haryana. Potential linkages are described, mostly focusing on the role of other State
agencies in a regional environmental planning effort. The role of the Department of Enviroment is
considered to be potentially the most useful for HID and regional planning of water resources.



Executivc Summary-3
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
Conclusion
Sincc HID is an agency with a long history of activity in Haryana, and much of thc ultimate irrigation
system possiblc in thc Statc is alrcady cstablishcd, direct environmcntal impacts from new projcct
activities arc not scvere. Thc State has becn significantly transformed by irrigation, with major
econormic and social benefits. There are environmental impacts that havc rcsulted from past activitics
which are ongoing and sustained by HID; these include the full range of impacts cxpected fiom
irrigation projccts, such as waterlogging, prolifbration of agricultural pests as well as others. The
WRCP may cxacerbate thcsc problems in certain areas, and may reduec specific problcms in others,
but the net effTct, in comparison with cffects having already occurred from irrigation devclopmcnt, is
minor.
HID should mitigate impacts from the WRCP as well as from ongoing activities. Thc WRC? in fact
includes measurcs to mitigate somc impacts in the latter category. In doing so, HID recognizes its
cnvironmental responsibilities, even though mnitigation is driven by the nced to conscrve water
rcsouroes.
Condusion
HID can support sustainable water use within the Statc. Because of its key role as water resources
manager, IUD has the right and authority to exercise a coordination role in all aspcots of water usc. It
should be an easy matter to obtain cooperation from othcr water management agencies, a fact that
enhances its coordination function. The ultimate slaring of responsibilitics for water management
should not be decided at the present time. The nascent Department of Enviroment will in all
likelihood have a key role in watcr quality managemcat, whercas HID will ultimately find its role more
in quantity allocations and rcgional drainage concerns.
Conclusion
-IID could set criteria for water entering dteir system, either from main stream allocations, from runoff
and drainage water, or from saline or fresh conjunctive use watcr. Such criteria would help in
maintaiing mnimum water quantity or quality values. Quality criteria are generally considered
environmental critcria; however there arc no such criteria currently in effect by HID. Quality
parameters are not measured anywhere in the systcm at prescnt, and there arc no requirements that
water entering the irrigation system must be of a certain quality. Water quality criteria could be used
to control the quality of extractions from the systcm for urban/village water use and for irrigation (the
two main uses), but there are no such criteria in effect at present. HID may also see fit to set criteria
for all types of crop water regardless of whether it enters the cdistribution system, including saline
groundwater and drainage/urban wastewater used for irrigation.
Water Resources Consolidation Project
Condusion: Strategy for Implementing Environmental Component
.Factors which support a comprehensive strategy for environmental planning for the Water Resources
Consolidation Project are:
* The existence of two prior water resources planning sudies that serve as the basis for
enviromnental assessment for WRCP, e.g. thc Northwest India Drainage Study and the Water
Resources Plan Study;
* The type of credit proposed by the Bank, which is a sector credit (irrigation and drainage sector);
*  The nature of the WRCP which is composed of numerous components, many of which are follow-
ups to previous WB credits;
* The need for an integrated approach to environmental planning that involves other agencies in the
planming process.



Exccutivc Summary4
WB OD 4.00 Anncx A also contains specific dircctivcs which support the proposed approach for
cnvironmental asscssmentt. Thcsc dircctives concem (i) regional and scetoral EAs, (ii) intcragency
coordination, (iii) involvement of affected groups and (iv) strcngthenin; of cnvironmintal capabilities.
Recommendation
Therc arc thurce basic steps proposed for environmcntal asscssmcnt for WRCP. Notc initially that
approval by GOI and by WB would bc souglht after step one is complete, but bcfore fill EIA is
provided for the specific project components.
*  Step I (Initial Step): preparation of an Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) for the WRCP
(corresponding to a Soctoral EA)
*  Step II: Initiation of multisectoral interagency regional environmental planning (emphasizing water
resources as the key (or lead) component of the regional plan (corrcsponding to a Regional EA)
*  Step 111: Preparation of EAs for the individual components of the WRCP, as integrated
eomponents, or outgrowths, of the regional environmental plan (corresponding to individual Project
EAs)
'nitial Environmental Examination
This step should conform to the requirements for a scetoral EA. The components of the IEE consist of
preparation of a checklist of environmental issues for the specific components of the WRCP, and a
general assessment of their magnitude and potential impact adequate for the respective decision makers
within GOI and the Bank to determine whetler ar.y particular component should be omitted from the
project. The use of IEE will also allow detailed design of the project components to occur in
conjunction with environmcntal assessment, so that suggestions for improvements can be ineorporated
into the designs.
The IEE will also contain the TOR for the rcgional cnvironmcntal planning projcct, and will idcntify
the schedule for submittal of TORs for the EAs for individual projcct components. The IEE should be
the basic documeat used for approval of the project by the Bank and by the Govermment of India-,
however follow-up EAs will be prepared and should also stand for review through GOI mechanisms
The lEE should be prepared by a contract consultant with expertise in enviAromental assessmcnt and
environmental program planning for line agencies. A terns of reference (TOR) for the IEE is
contained in Annex VI. The IEE and attached documents (including the TOR for the regional
environmental planning project) should require approximately six weclks to two months for preparation.
Regional Environmental Planning
The regional environmental plan (or regional EA) should build upon the work done in the Northwest
Drainage Study and the Water Resources Plan Study. It should focus on multisectoral issues related to
water use. It should include all topics with potential impacts on water use and quality. The plan
should address the total resource, including foreseeable supply and denand, impacts related to water
use such as waterlogging, sality and polluted drainage water and secondary impacts related to water
use of the ldnds described in this report The plan should lay out a long term strategy for land use and
other aspects of human activity that are in conformance with water resources availability, and
conponent strategies for management of wastes (both liquid and solid) that maximizm reuse and
minimize impacts. There should also be strategic components for alleviating drainage problems over
the long term, and for deling with secondary impacts of irrigation water use, including propagation of
pests and disease vectors.
The regional planning team should work in conjunction with the WRCP project development team to
arrive at optimized designs for specific project components. The planning team should provide TORs
for the EAs for these components according to a reasonable timetable that allows the individual



L,xeLutive Sumna y 5
compnonents to bc rcviewcd by thc necessary authoritics withiin thc Statc Govcnncni of n laryana and
also the Ccntral Govcmmcnt.
The regional environmicntal plan should bc preparcd by a working group composed of consultUlits in
conjunction with governmcnt counteiparts from IhID, IIDOE, llDOA, PWD(PII), and HPCB, wiah
occasional assistance from other agencies. Approxinmatcly two years should bc allowed for preparation
of the plan. In addition to prcparation of tic rcgional cnvironimcntal plan, this phasc of thc work
should also rcsult in:
*  institutional and skills strcngtheling of the agencies mcntionied above;
*  budget support for some or all of those agcticics (with approximate amounts and uses to be
detcrmined at thc timc of prcparation of the TOR for the rcgioial plan);
*  cstablishmcnt of an environmcntal rescarch institutc focusing on water rcsources and related issues
along the lincs of NEERI (thc National Environmental Engincring Rcscarci Institutc) at Nagpur;
*  EAs for project components.
Proiect Environmental Assessment
These individual assessments should follow specific methodologics that arc dcfincd by die regional
planning team. Duplication of infornation can be minimized by this approach. Specific niitigation
measures that are necessary to protect the local enviromnent can be takcn up in die individual
assessments; however there will not bc a ncod to deal with broad issues, since these will be addressed
as part of the regional plan.
The EAs for projcet components should be prepared by tile saue group of consultants and govemment
counterparts assigned to formulate the regional cnvironmcntal plan. All EAs should be prepared over a
period of two years from the start of work on the regional plan. Additional budgets may be rcquired to
perform specific asscssment tasks that excced the manpower and capability of the regional plazuiimg
tcam.
Environmental Management Plan
Therc are two stages at which cnvironmental management plans (EMPs) are released for the project.
Tlc first is with submittal of thc IEE. Thc EMP for dic project as a whole calls for (i) preparation of a
regiona! environmental plan, and (ii) preparation of inidividual EAs for the project components which
will be subject to review and approval by GOI. Additional stipulations can also be written into the
EMP associated with the IEE; howevcr it will not be necessary to place requirements on individual
project components, since these requirements will be enumerated in the EMPs accompanying the
individual EAs. These EMPs conistitute the second stage at which EMPs for the project will be
provided.
FVE YEAR PROGRAM
General Activities
Conclusion
Since water is the principal resource link for all human activitics, since water is the prime mobile media
for transport of pollutants to human receptors (bence environmental damage effects), and finally
because environmcntal planning has a rccognizcd value as a modem nmanagcment tool widtin the
institutional structure of govemment, it seems clcar that HID is the prime candidate for inistituting
many of the finctions of cnvironmntal planning, and in consequence, enviromnental management in
general.



Executive Summary-6
Planning dcvolvcs onto operational tasks, including monitoring and coordination. Reciprocal links
bctwcen monitoring withini the agency, and the tasks of other agcncies allow a feedback to the
responsibie agency (cither PCB for regulation, PWD(Pli) for control of urban drainage, or a specific
industrial pollutcr), so that actions can be taken to curtail the problem.
Specific Responsibilities
Recommendation
Planninig
The Northwest India DrainagB Project and Ihc Water Resources Plan Study should providc a basis for
regional environmental planning within HID. The environmental components of thcsc projects should
bc cxpanded either by revising the existing TORs or by adding a parallel technical assistance to address
water rcsources issues from an cnvironmental perspectivc.
The objective of the cnvironmental component should be to dovelop the analytical framework,
infrastructure and capability for understanding tic watcr resources systen in Haryana State and its
linkages to beneficiares. Other tasks associated with enviromnental managemnent should devolvc from
this primary analytical framework, including seetoral management needs (such as a variety of potential
criteria related to agricultural practice) watcr quality monitoring within the operational framcwork of
HID, and specific aspects of assessment, including those associated with the WRCP.
The regional environmental planning project should be coordinated by a Statc-appointed committee
with representatives fiom all concerned agencies, and the counterpart tcam for the work should be
soconded from cach agency. The team mix should reflcct the relative importance of the rcspcctive
agencies in management of the resouree, with HID taking a lead role in implementation.
Involvement of other agencies is critical. Baseline information from the Pollution Control Department
(PCB) is essential for a complete understanding of water quality in the State. PCB is the only agency
in a position to forecast imnrovencents in industrial effluent quality. The regional plan should
incorporate pre-feasibility level proposals for centralized industrial treatment facilities where-needed,
and siould propose establishment or strcngthcning of industrial cstates equipped with adequate waste
management infrastructure. PWD(PH) has a similar role concerning urban wastewater, and a planning
unit in this agency should also participate in thc plan formulation. Since HID provides water to urban
and industrial users within the State, it is in a position to requcst their participation.
Monitoring
The monitoring program for HID should be established in conjunction with the regional environmcntal
planning project, and should be extended into operational activities foUowing the comnpletion of that
project. The program should be complemented by other monitoring performed by the Polution Control
Board (PCB) and by PWD(PH), but should not be redundant with activities of these groups. Some
additional monitoring functions may be taken on by PCB if it has the manpower, equipment and
interest in doing so.
HID should undertake three types of monitoring activities: ambient, surveilance and discharge
monitoring. Ambient mnonitoring establishes basic features of water quality within the system
(including irrigation canals and drainage system). Surveillance monitoring is intended to identify
impacts on the system by discharges of urban and industrial wastevater and agricultural runoff.
Discharge monitoring provides data on the quality of drainage water as it leaves the system, e.g. is
discharged into the main river systems.
Environmental Assessment
HID should perform EA work for project components within the framework of the regional
environmental management plan. In some cases specific envimental assesment tasks can be



contracted to consulting organizations and rcscarch institutcs. Non-govcrnmcntal organizations
(NGOs) may also fill specific EA task assignnicnts especially in the areas of social and culturml valucs.
Coordination
HID is rcsponsiblc for thc distribution and drainage of suifacc and groundwatcr rcsources throughout
the Statc, and should coordinatc with HPCB, HDOE and othcr agcncics in maintaining bencficial uscs
of thcsc watcrs.
Intemal Strengthening
Intcrnal strcngthcning of HID in environmcntal managcmcnt skills should occur in conjunction with
formulation of the regional environmcntal plan. Training proposals set forth in the report are for
impiemcntation over a five year tinic span.
Personnel
Overall personnel assigned to cnvironmental management tasks within IUD should consist of the
following:
*  Executivc Engineer (I)
*  Assistant Engineer (2)
*  Junior Engineer (3)
e  Other personnel as dcfined by future activitics
Equipment
Essential cnvironmcntal monitoring and data processing oquipment should obtained and placed into use
as part of the regional planning projcct. Ultimatcly the items of oquipment may bc held by
dcpartmcnts other than HID, depcnding on which agencies naintain final rcsponsibility ovcr
specific environmental management tasks.
Training
Tlhree main avcnucs for training should be pursued:
D  Counterpart on-the-job training via the regional environmcntal planning project
-  Study tour for Superintending and Chief Enginecrs for a duration of onc month in the USA (or
elsewhere) in order to familiarize themselves with approaches for cnvironmental managemcnt of
irrigation projects
- Masters dcgrec study for two Assistant and/or Junior Engineers in Environmental/Water Resources
Engineering (assuming thesc individuals can be bound to a period of tenure within the Department
following their return.
Outside Technical Support
Outside support for the enviromnental managemcnt program should come in the form of a consultancy
to assist in the preparation of the regional enviromnental plan and associated EAs for WRCP project
components.
Public Awareness
The regional environmental plan should support a comprehensive public awareness program which
encompasses the public participation needs of the EAs for project components. The public awarcness
campaign should bc initiated as a joint effort of the HID and other water ranagement agencies in
Haryana State, specifically the Dcpartment of Environment.
Institutional Framework
The institutional frmework involves fonnation of an Environmental Unit within the R&D Division,
and placemet of individuals in key locations within other units, depending on which types of activities
predominate within the Department at any given period of time.
First Phase



Exccutivc Summary-8
Thc major impetus is providcd by the rcgional planning projcct. The Exccutivc Engineer should be
located within tie R&D Division of HID, supported by a singlc Assistant Engineer. Together these
personnel should constitutc thc E[nvironmental Ccil within HID and coordinate counterpart efforts in
thc planning project. An Assistant Enginecr should bc located within the project Division to intcrfacc
environmcntal planning with project design work. This person should be responsibie for
implementation of thc EAs for project componcnts. Hc is part of the Environmental Ccll also, but is
assigned to Projects for the duration of the design wvork.
Second Phase
Following the commcncemcnt of construction activities, a singic Junior Engineer should be assignod to
the construction division to assure that construction impacts are minimized and othcr conditions
associated with dtc EMPs are carried out. The two remaining Junior Engineers continuc to support
regional planning and EA work through the Environmental Ccil in the R&D Division.
Third Pbase
This phase is distinguished by thc cnd of the regional planning work, and complction of the EA and
design work associated with the WRCP. It is mosdy taken up with ongoing operational activities.
Environmcntal components of operations arc defined during the course of environmental plan
development, but may involvc monitoring water quality, balancing conjunctivc usc schemes involving
treated wastewater and saline groundwater, maintaining field drainagc courses, and monitoring long
term activitics associated with thc enviromnental management plan.
Coordination should originate from the Environment Unit within R&D. Individual environmental
ofricers should be assigned to the threc main operational groups: canals, lift irrigation schemes, and
drainage. These persons will report to the Executive Engincer in chargc of Enviromnent, but will work
within these other units to maintain close contact with activities having potential environmental impact.
RECOMMENDATIONS: PRIORITY ACTION PLAN
Note: The following is reproduced in entirety from the final Chapter of the report. The base year is
1993. Thc double asterisk in placc of a bullet indicates a critical activity which should take place
vithin the framework of the regional cnvironmcntal plan. Not all activities occurring within the plan
framework are described in the priority action plan.
Year One
-  Establish a Joint Executive Comnittee for Environmental Management within the Haryana State
Govermnent, composed of senior level officials from respective water management agencies, in
particular HID, HPCB, HDOE HDOA and PWD(PH), and chaired by a representative of the State
Secretariat.
*  Form the Environmnental Unit within HID by appointment of an Executive Engineer to the
responsibility of Environmental Management Coordinator of HID. (Alenatively, an Assistant
Engineer may be appointed to the position and promoted after the first year.)
* Prepare the IEE and Sectoral EA for the WRCP, and formulate a comprehensive TOR for a
Statewide regional environmental plan focusing on multisectoral aspects of water resources.
*  Identify and expedite funding mechanisms for the regional plan in order at benefits can be shared
among various water management agencies within the Haryana State Government, specifically
HID, HDOE, HPCB and PWD(PH).
* Begin the regional environmental plan project by the last quarter of year one.



Executivc Summary-9
Year Two
* Makc additional personncl assignments to tdie Environmcnl Unit within HID.
* Perform EAs for WRCP project components.
*  Set initial investmt requiremcnts for an ambicnt watcr quality monitoring laboratory, to be
initially managed by thc regional planning teatn, with final assignment of responsibility postponed
until completion of the plan.
* Establish the monitoring program for HID in conjunction with the regional cnvironmental planning
project, and extend it into operational activities following the completion of that projcct.
* Utilize existing monitoring facilities of the Pollution Control Board (PCB) to support thc project
until additional facilities can be developed.
** Develop criteria for water entering the irrigation system, either from main stream allocations, from
runoff and drainage water, or from saline or fresh conjunctive usc water.
Develop a framework for invcstment and mobilization for the enviromental research institute
focusing on water resources and irrigation managemrent issues.
* Establish water quality criteria to control the quality of extractions from the system for
urban/village water use and for irrigation.
** Support a comprehensive public awareness program which cncompasses the public participation
needs of the EAs for project components. The public awareness campaign should be initiated as a
joint effort of the HID and other water management agencies in Haryana State, specifically the
Department of Environment.
** Develop and implement a study tour for Superintending and Chief Engineers for a duration of one
month in the USA (or elsewhere) in order to familiarize senior officials with approaches for
environmental management of irrigation projccts.
** Set criteria for all types of crop water regardless of whethcr it enters the distribution system,
including saline groundwater and drainage/urban wastewater used for irrigation.
Year Three
** Identify priorty investment projects for environmental protection within the State-
** Provide counterpart on-the-job training via the regional environmental planning project
*  Provide masters degree study for two Assistant and/or Junior Engineers in EnvironmentalWater
Resources Engineering.
* Conclude the regional planning projcct.
Year Four
*  Reassign HID environmental personnel from project related activities to irrigation and dminage
divisions.



Exccutivc Summary-1o
*  Impicmcnt thc opcrational framncwork for Statcwidc cnvironmcntal-cum-walcr rcsourccs
managcmcnt.
Year Five
*  Implcmcnt the investmcnt rocommendations of the regional environmcnt plan, spocifically thosc
concrning urban and industrial wastewatcr and solid wastc managcmncnt.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Background on Consultancy
Two rajor credit facilities by the World Bank to support the Haryana Irrigation Department (HID) in
Haryana State havc highlighted specific cnvironmcntal issues associated with water resources
dcvelopment. Haryana Irrigation [ (1978 - 1983) and Irrigation 11(1983 - 1992) Projects both sought
to increasc the cfficicncy of irrigation water usc througlh lining of canals and improvcmcnts in methods
of irrigation. The Haryana Watcr Resources Consolidation Project (WRCP) is a follow-up to these
prcvious credits, and is the basis for the prcsont assignment.
There arc two thrusts to the prcscnt rcport: lIhc first involves issues surrounding the major planning
initiatives, including niulLisectoral aspects of water resources allocations and drainage and salinity
problems. The second involves overall environmental impact of the activities of HID in general, and, in
particular, potential impacts stemming from the WRCP. A conclusion of the present report is that.
while direct environmcntal impacts from HID activities are minor and can be dealt with through simple
mitigation measures. there is a justifiable scopc for rcgional environmental planning for water
resources development using a multisectoral approach.
Previous projects highlighted the extent of waterlogging and soil salinity witiin the State. Studies
which followed on the last credit have been directed at regional drainage altenatives (Ref 1.3) and
also at more localized solutions which introduce alternative cropping practices and use of local disposal
methods for excess salt (Ref. 1.2). The World Bank has proposed additional analysis of mgional
drainage, within the context of a two year study which incorporates extensive modeling of surface and
groundwater flows (Ref. 1.8). In addition, a Statewide water resources allocation study ("the Water
Resources Plan Study") will begin in the early part of next year (1993), and will provide the basis for a
comprehensive review of water related issues within the State.
The WRCP is geared to further optimizing use of water within the approximately two million ha of
cultivable land within die State through further channel lining, extension and lining of watercourses,
and development of spray irrigation as a means of dealing with undulating topography in the southern
portion of Haryana. There arc other components as well, including the opening of newly irrigated
areas. The World Bank will provide approximately 90 percent of the finds needed for implementation
of the project. Environmental reporting requirements within the Government of India (GOI) and within
the Bank need to be met in the course of project development. In conjunction with these stipulations,
there is a need to address the critical issues of waterlogging and soil salinity, as well as to develop a
comprehensive perspective on cnvironmental management in general within HID, in order to prepare
the agency for dealing with all types of eventualities and project development components. The agency
needs;o be empowered to act confidently and with responsibility in all aspects of project development,
incorporating modern enviromnmental management perspectives in the course of project implementation.
1.2. Consultant Terns of Reference
The Table of Contents for the present report is based on the consultant's termas of reference (TOR) for
the present assignment, which can be found in Annex 11.
1.3. Objective
The objective of the present assigmnent is to assist HID in defining a clear and sensible strategy for
environmental management and identifying an action plan for meeting environmental requiremnts and
responsibilities; and to provide necessary information for implernerting the strategy and action plan.



2
1.4. Methodology
Tnic methodology consists of a review of availabic infoniation concerning irrigation dcvclopment in
Haryana, natural resources and physical featurcs, principal planning issucs, and environmcntal
rcquircmcnts of die Govcrnment and of the Bank; discussion with officials of HID and othcr State
agencies concerning resource and environmental managcment activities; and devclopment of a plan that
provides HID with a basis for cntry into environmental management in keeping with thcir present level
of know how and available resources. Discussion of findings and conclusions occurs along witi
devclopmcnt of the plan. In particular thc methodology includes the following key activities:
*   review the full scope of activities carried out by HID, and identify the environmental issues likely
to be faced by HID in implementation of current and future activities associated with a State-
wide water resources consolidation plan
*   identify the groups which may be affcted by HID activitics
*   identify service responsibilities of HID, as a basis for establishing its jurisdiction in water
resources management
*   identify administrative, operational and techmical functions which HID engages in to fulfill
service responsibilities
*   identify existing linkages and working arrangements with other agcncies which HID supports in
carrying out service responsibilities
a   propose alternative approaches, and identify a rational set of activities, for meeting cnvironmental
management responsibilities
*   develop a reasonable and acccptable scope of activities in tie form of a five-year program for
HID in envirornental managemcnt
X   prepare a priority action plan which will initiate thC five year program, to be implemented within
the next one - to two years
1.5. Rationale
HID is the lead agency in Haryana State for water resources management. Since water is the principal
feature in environmental management within most situations, and especially those where agricultural
activity represents the major income producing activity, it seems appropriate that HID take on the lead
line agency role for environmental management within the Haryana State Govrnmment. This role is not
preemptive of responsibilities held by the Pollution Control Board (for regulation of effluents) and by
the Public Works Departnent (Public Health) (concrning provision of water and sanitation facilities),
but rather focuses on comprehensive water resource-cum-environmental planning and coordination
among other agencies for naximum efficiency in utilization of the resource. It should be recognized
that piecemeal environmental issues associated with HID activities are not severe, and would not in
themselves necessitate the allocation of significant agency resources for adequate mitigation.
Nevertheless, water resources planning is critical to the future of Haryana State, and it is a
multisectoral, hence environmental, issue. HID is the only agency that can take on this planning role.
The HID can develop a pro-activc approach to environmental management which will provide a basis
for future planning. Sound enviromnental management is a type of project modermization in line with
other technological features of project design (computers, automated controls, improved construction
practices, and the like). There are real and direct benefits from adopting a sound environmental
approach for project design, which extend beyond, indeed dwarf, benefits related specifically to
obtaining approvals from governmental and funding agencies. An environmental perspective on project
design is always represented by a broader more fundamental view of relationships, providing higher
levels of responsibility to be adopted for dealing with future uncertainties, and leading to sustainable
systems.



3
HID needs to havc the capability for properly mitigating impacts from a wide rangc of futurc potential
projct components, a capabilily whicil comes from having, in-house, thc fundamcntal skills for
environmental revicw. At tUlC least, HID sbould bc abie to asecrtain thc features of quality
environmental engincering work, and to fit those work components into an ovcrall managcmcnt
viewpoint, to plan for eventualitics, and to prepare itscif for correcting impacts on broad or minor
scales.
1.6. Report Organization
ilic report (i) provides in Chaptcr 2 an ovcrvicw of cnvironmcntal roles and rclationships, sinec all
environmcntal work involves managmcuent, c.g. the coordination of relationships among various active
working groups, beneficiaries and affected parties; (ii) describes in Claptcr 3 HID activities,
responsibilities and admiinistcred functions to dctermine which of thcse have environmental
consequcnces, or can be adjusted to include environmental managcment tasks; (iii) identifies in Chapter
4 existing vertical or lateral relationships wiLh othcr agencics, sinee these arc critical for providing a
functional management systcm; (iv) describes in Chapter 5 alternative approaches for environmcntal
management and some of the tasks and responsibilities associated with these alternatives; and (v)
selects in Chapter 6 a preferred rational approach for HID, and describes the resources and manpower
needed for implementing the preferred approach; including a five year development program for
environmental management in terms of fimctions, institutional development and the relationship of HID
with its service and affectcd public. The report concludes in Chaptcr 7 with a set of recommendations
fort a priority action plan for the next 18 months. Annexes include: (i) references, (ii) terms of
reference for tie present study, (iii) review abstracts for selected references, (iv) mninutes of meetings
undertaken during the assignment, (v) additional comments on environmental aspects of the proposed
scope for the WRCP including a TOR for an initial environmental examnmation and sectoral
cnvironmcntal asscssment, and (vi) WB guidelincs for cnvironmcntal assessment for irrigation and
drainage projects.
1.7. Acknowledgments
I wish to thank the staff in the Project Division of the Haryana Irrigation Department for their
assistance in researching the present report, in particular Mr. R. K. Bhatia, Chief Engineer, and Mr. S.
R. Malhotra, Superintending Engineer. Numerous other individuals provided assistance, including Mr.
B. S. Jain, Executivc Engineer in the Projcct Division, and those in other agencies including HSMITC
(Dr. B. S. Taniwar, Director of Groundwater), the Pollution Control Board (Mr. Uday Veer Singh,
Director), the Department of Environment (Mr. R. N. Malik, Joint Director), PWD(PH) (Mr. S. Bhola,
Superintending Engineer), the Health Departnent and the Departnent of Agriculture. Other
individuals both wihiin and outside the Department of Irrigation assisted in the present study, and their
dedication and advice is greatly appreciated.



4
2. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT: ISSUES AND RELATIONSHIPS
Tiis chaptcr provides an overvicw of rclationships among fomWal and informal groups conceming
cnvironmental managcmcnt, and dcscribcs various approacies for linc agcncics to take in dcaling with
cnvironmcntal managcmcnt issucs. Thc purpose of this chaptcr is to provide HID with a perspective on
its potential rolc in environmcntal activity.
Environmcntal issucs always involvc causc-and-cffcct rclationships. Gcnerally wc are concerned with
the impact of human activity on cnvironmcntal rcsources and values, and in turn the effect of
degradation or cnhancement or thosc valucs on uscrs of the rcsource or valuc. The various roles in this
rclationship can be charactcrized as the initiator role, which is the group which sponsors, or initiates,
the acLivity, and the beneficial uscr of the rcsource, which in gencral is the group which is affected by
the activity. Thc linkagc between the initiator and the uscr is thc resource, which is a physical.
biological, socio-economic, cultural or quality of life valuc. Rcsources may also be linked, so that an
impact on a physical resource then affects a biological resourec before becoming spoecifically
detrimcntal to a beneficial user. With respect to those environmental issues associated with HID
activities, HID may be the initiator or the beneficial uscr, depending on the resource which is being
affected.
2.1. Types of Environmental Issues
Agency activities and projects arc geared to improving quality-of-life for the bcneficiarics. In some
cases unforeseen effects occur that cause negative impacts. Rcsources are affected in unforeseen ways
and beneficial users of those resources are potcntially affectod in a manner that reduces their quality-
of-life. In some cases the resource may be affecd without any consequent effect on a beneficial user,
or the "user" may be uncounted individuals making up future generations.
Examples:
*  Extension of an irrigation system into new areas may introduce habitats for mnosquito breeding with
a potential for spread of malaria into the new area. Impact is on public health, a socio-ccononic
value.
*  Irrigation in heavy clay soils withl improper subsoil drainage can lead to waterlogging. The impact
is on a physical (soil) resource, and the beneficial user is the farmer who no longer can obtain full
productive usc of the land. (In this case, prior to introduction of irrigation the faoner practiced
rain-fed agriculture, so in a sense the farmer benefits for a period following irrigation and prior to
the waterlogged condition, and then his benefits decrease.
*  Drainage of saline water is provided for a local area, with discharge to a regional river.
Discharges of inorganic mineral salts affect water quality (a physical resouree) and in turn the
biological system may be affected (e.g. there is an impact on fisheries and other aquatic life in the
river). Beneficial uses of both the physical resource (the water) or the biological resource (the fish)
may be affected.
2.1.1.    Affected Groups
These are the "beneficial users" of the resource. In the above three examples the beneficial users
include (i) local inhabitants in the newly irrigated area and who live in the area of higher disease
incidence, (ii) the fiarmer whose land is affected by waterlogging, and (iii) any number of groups, such
as industry owners who use the river water for cooling, and fishermen whose livelihoods are affected.
There are at least two cases where HID is an "afficcted group" involving cause-and-effect relationships
with environmental issues:
Examples:



5
*  Villagc and town drainage enicrs lIlD clhnneis and/or drainagc ways, aficcting eithcr the quality
of the water or depositing solids wlicii affect stream cross sections and flow charactcristics.
*  Upstreamn watcrshed management is poor and human activities, including anima! grazing, hillside
cropping and tree fclling, contribute to higier crosion rates with a consequent inerease in sedimcnt
loads into the sources for irrigation water for the HID. Thc physical resource (water) is degraded
and the bcncficial uscr (HID) pays for added maintenance burdens. The initiator in this case may
be any number of unidentified parties (individuals) who contribute to watershod dcgradation.
2.1.2.    Project Components and Environmental Impacts
The identification of cause-and-effect rclationships between initiators and users, and the intervening
resource degradation, is called environmental impact assessment (EIA), or in bank parlance
environmental assessment (EA). EA is generally considered to be a function of project development;
however an extended form, that is uncoupled to any specific projects, is called regional environmcntal
planning. The techniques are similar, exeept that the latter approach focuses on a geographical area,
such as Haryana State, rather than a specific development project, and provides an environmental
strategy within which environmentally sound projects can takc place. In the case with HID, the
regional environmcntal plan would focus on raw water resources, would consider a wide variety of
linkages to othcr aspects of water use (and indeed other human activities), and would devise a long
term strategy for sustainable management of the resouree. The strategy would identify projects which
could then take place according to a timetable of action. The cnviromental soundness of individual
projects is in a sense guaranteed by this approach, as long as the regional plan is environmentally
sound.
Exarnples:
T hlie WRCP identifies critical areas for improved drainage using horizontal drains, and includes a
component in the project budget for providing drains for a total of 11,000 ha in the project area.
Howvcvcr it is difficult to say conclusively whether the budget and targeted area is sufficient to head
off the problem over the long term. A regional plan is needed which considers the frill scope of this
issue and prcscribes a timetable for implementation of successive project components. Such a plan
would consider temporal trends in the extent and severity of waterlogging and soil salinity, long
term objectives, productivity needs, financial resources, ultimate disposal options for salt, potential
conjunctive use schemes, agency capabilities and other factors.
*  Water quality continues to worsen both up- and downstrcan in the raw water supply system.
Specific projects address the issue in a piecemeal fashion by providing demonstration projects for
urban wastewater management, instituting new controls on industries and with components for
treatment of the watershed. Despite these efforts it is never clear to HID the long term trends in
water quality, or what needs to be done to phase in a system for sustainable use of the resource.
This again is a subject for rcgional environmental planning.
*  Urban and indusrial growth will continue and a long term prediction of water resource needs must
be considered. HID has as its priority the provision of village water supplies, and as a second
priority the provision of irrigation water to fiamers. The question of highest value use needs to be
addressed as a basis for reorienting priorities in water allocations. This is a topic to be undertaken
within the context of a regional environmental plan.
The Northwest India Drainage Study and the Water Resources Plan Study both provide excellent
foundations upon which rcgional cnvironmental planning can take place within HID. Further
discussion of these projects is provided in Sections 5.2 and 6.2. 1.
The GOI and WB both require EA for specific types of projects; however sound planning and
management should also support the development of a regional environmental plan in conjunction, or in
precedcnce to, project development. Many aspects of long term planning can only bc addressed in the



6
context of regional plans. IL}D can obtain approval for Its projccts through EA, but the real bcncfits of
environmental management arc bcst realized througih a broadcr and morc comprehensive approach.
HID alrcady perfonrs sonic of the functions of regional planning as a necessary adjunct to irrigation
system planning; however the regional cnviromnental planning viewpoint can yieid more inclusivc and
sustainabic rcsults.
It should be mentioned that all EA work involvcs rxconuncndations for mitigation of environmental
effects. These recommendations arc gencrally contained within a separatc section of thc EA report
ca!led the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
2.1.3.    System Boundary and Externalities
Many of the issues described above have already been considered by HID, and in a sense
environmental management is notling more than a more comprehensive approach to program planning.
An extcrnality is an unforeseen effect from project activities. Just as channel leakage and consequent
rise in groundwater levels is (or was) an externality of earlier project development activities, which
have since bcen considered in project design and thus internalized, so there are other potential
externalities which can result from present project development activities. Good environmental
management considers the full scope of cxtemalities and incorporates all of them into the overall
project design. Oftcn there arc no direct benefits to the implementing agency for this approach;
however if the rights of all peopie are to be considercd, this should not be a deterring factor. The WB
and GOI require EA for projects in order to be assured that rights of groups other than direcet
beneficiaries are being considered.
2.2. Approaches to Environmental Management for Line Agencies
Regional (Statewide) environmental planning can be a valuable component of sector Iending programs,
and can be "piggy-backed" on loans. Environmcntal assessment for projects can take place within, or
in parallel with, the regional environmental strategy. Environmental projects usually involve
institutional strengthening so that the mechanics of cnvironmental analysis can be incorporated into
ongoing agency firnctions. A mix of in-house skills and contract support can be relied upon to provide
the necessary environmental asscssment work. Some possibic combinations of in-house and contract
support are described below:.....
*  The "minimum effort approach" involves meeting requiremcnts for project approval, which can bc
had by (i) hiring a single cxpert to preparc a terms of reference for an EA, and hiring a consulting
firm (such as WAPCOS) to perform the work. The EMP is then implemented on a piecemeal basis
by different agencies and there is generally no effort to track the progress of the EMP components.
  The "second tier approach" involves retaning a single individual as a pennanent staff member to
supervise environmental management work for HID, who would then provide supervisory inputs
for the preparation of the TOR and for the implemcntation of the EA. This individual would then
make an effort to stay up-to-date on the implementation of the EMP.
D The "third tier approach" involves developmeept of an environmental cell around the single
supervisory professional, with extended responsibilities for preparation of the EA and for
implementation of the EMP. The basic function for this group is review and evaluation; however
multiple functions can be developed which include monitoring, operational controls, support for
public (user) participation in direct HID service areas and in related activities, analysis,
envirownental design, and long range planning.
*  The "fourth tier approach" would incorporate multiple environmental management functions in an
environmental unit at the HID, and would approach environmental issues from a regional planning
perspective. Certain trend analyses would be conducted as ongoing activities by this groups,
whereas detailed and extensive planning activities, particularly those requiring specialized skills,
would be supervised and monitored by the group, yet implemented by outside professionals. EA



7
work would also be conducted fro specilic project activitics by the group itsclf, rathcr than by
outside consultants.
A recommended approach for environmcntal managcmcnt withui HID is provided in Clhaptcr 6 of the
rcport.
2.2.1.    Delegation of Responsibilities
Good environmental managcniont always involves thc judicious slecction of in-house responsibilities
versus those to be undcrtaken by contractors. There is also an clement of strengdtening involved in any
environmental management undcrtaking: skills are acquirod by in-house staff through an incremcntal
approach, wherein increasingly more difficult tasks are taken on and capabilities are developed thereby.
Depending on the complexity of the project, environmental assessment (EA) can bc undertaken by in-
hIouse staff or prepared by outside consultants.
2.2.2.    Environmental Management Units
An Environmenatal Unit within a line agency is responsible for all aspoects of the agency's operations
pertaining to the enviromnmnt. Depending on the staff and skills within the unit, more or less actual
task responsibilities may be taken on by the unit. Regardless of the size of the unit, it is still good
policy to have one built into the agency organizational structure.
2.3. Standards and Procedures
2.3.1.    Standards
A standard is a legal limit that is enforceable through monitoring. A standard is of no value if it does
not reprcsent a measurable quantity. Standards can be more-or-less applicable for different types of
development projects. Industrial developments can include standards for air emissions and wastcwatcr
discharges. Standards are less casy to definc for irrigation projects. However there are still numerous
environmental quality parameters which can be govemed by a standard. Some of thcse may be set by
outside agencies such as the Pollution Control Board, the Departmcnt of Health, and the Central Water
Commission under the Ministry of Water Resources. Others may be established as a result of impact
assessment, in which a specific limit is derived in order to protect specific resources and beneficial
uses. Standards also exist for assessment procedures, which specify the environmental issues which
must be considered and to some extent the nature of the assessment and the types of remedial planning
measures which must be adopted.
2.3.2.    Assessment Procedures
Many types of water resource projects are evaluated through environmental assessment rather than
ihrough application of pre-existing standards. The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MEF)
prescribes some aspects of assessment methodology by identifying the types of information which must
be compiled and the extent of impacts among specific affected groups. Nevertheless the types of
analytical approaches for determining cause-and-effect relationships, or which link baseline
infonnation to impact evaluation, are not specified. A comprehensive TOR for an EA for a specific
project will specify the assessment methodologies to be used-
2.3.3.    Environmental Management Plans
The EA recommendations make up the enviromnental management plan (EMP). EMPs are composed
of a variety of prescribed activities, including (i) physical controls that are built into the project, thus
representing project components, (ii) trend monitoring through active programs directed at specific
environmental issues, (iii) enhancement measures which offset or compensate for environmental
damage, or remedy environmental problems which do not specifically stem from project activities, (iv)
follow up studies to better understand specific aspects ofthe environment, and (v) control measures
which come into play if and when specific parameters are exceeded at some time in the future.
2.4. Regulatory Aspects and Clearances



x
Despite whatevcr othcr reasons an agcncy may have for cnvironmcntal management, ccrtain regulatory
requircmcnts need to bc mct in ordcr to clear projects with the Central Govcmment and to obtain
funding from the Bank. Other intcrnational lending agencics havc similar EA requircments to thosc of
the World Bank.
2.4.1.    Government of India
ThC Govcrnncnt of India (GOI) requires environmental assessments (EAs) for ccrtain types of
dcvclopment projects. The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MEF) publishes guidclines for EA
for specific project types. Guidelincs most applicable for projects undcrtaken by HID arc cntitlcd
"Guidelines for River Vallcy Projects". lThc documcnt prcparcd by HID and entitled "Water Resources
Consolidation Project, Clearance of Major and Medium Irrigation Projects from Environmental and
Ecological Aspects" (Rcef. 2.3) provides a good sununary of these requiremcnts. Many of these
requirements are not pertinent to the WRCP; nevertheless the EAs prepared for WRCP should provide
information concerning the degrce of relevance of these issues. Most EA guidclincs, including those of
the GOI, do not specify assessment metiodologies or prioritize the issues.
The procedure for clearance of environmental projects within the GO[ consists of the following:
*  Preparation of the EA for the projcct
*  Rcview of the EA at the State level (in this case by the Haryana Departrnent of Environnent)
*  Review at the Central level through the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MEF)
* Review by an appointed Review Committee composed of representatives from MEF and NGOs
plus independent professionals, followed by a recommended course of action
* Ruling by the Ccntral Governmcnt on the project
Deficiencies in the EA may be notcd at any step in the process, as a result of which additional
information and analysis may be required of the executing agency.
2.4.2.    The World Bank
The World Bank has issued Operational Directive 4.00 Annex A: Enviromnental Assessment, which
prescribes EA for certain types of projects. (OD 4.00 Annex A is reprinted in the Bank's
"Enviromnental Assessment Sourcebook" (Rcf 1.5), which also provides extensive guidanee on all
aspccts of EA preparation.) It specifies that "EA is a flexible procedure, which can vary in breadth,
depth, and type of analysis, depcnding on the projcct." OD 4.00 specifies that project-specific EAs,
regional EAs and sectoral EAs are all possible options in complying with Bank policy, depcnding on
the type of credit or loan mechanism being provided by the Bank. (From OD 4.00):
*  Prowect secific EAs are used to analyze specific investment projects (e.g. dams, factories,
irrigation systems) with significant environmental issues
*  Regional EAs are used where a number of significant development activities are planned for a
reasonably localized area
*  Sectoral EAs are used for the design of sector investment programs
OD 4.00 classifies projects as A through D in relation to the severity of potential impacts. Category A
projects normally require EA, as the project may have divcrse and significant environmental impacts,
according to Bank policy. Category A projects include, among others:
*  Aquaculturelmariculture (large scale)
*  Dams and Reservoirs
*  Irrigation and Drainage (large scale)
* Land Clearance and Leveling
*  Reclamation and New Land Developmcnt
*  River basin Development



9
* Rural Roads
According to Bank policy, "EAs should address tile following issucs, which are subject to thc Bank
policies and guidelines identified below" (as applicabie to Haryana Irrigation Department activitics):
*  Agrocheniieals: projccts and sector dcvclopmncnt plns whidc involve usc of agrochemicals should
incorporatc intcgrated pest management ({PM) in the design of the project, with guidance on Bank
policy contained in OD 4.00 Annex C
*  Biological Diversity: the Bank promotcs conscrvation of endangered plant and animal species
*  Cultural Properties involves active protection of archeological sites, historical monuments and
historical settlements, with bank policy provided in OD 4.50
*  Dams and Reservoirs, with specific guidance in EA preparation offered by OD 4.00 Annex B
*  Intemational Treaties and Agrecnicnts on the Elnvironment and Natural Rcsources
* International Watenvays, widt Guidance provided by OD 7.50. Notification requiretnents are
imposod on projects whicih affect the quantity or quality of water flows
* Involuntary Resettlement, with guidance provided in OD 4.30.
* Land Settlement
*  Natural Hazards
*  Tribal Peoples, witi OD 4.40 providing specific guidanec on protecting the rights of tribal peoples,
including traditional land and water rights
*  Watersheds, with Bank policy promoting the protection and managemcnt of watersheds as an
element of lending operations for dams, reservoirs and irrigation systems
-  Wetlands, with the Bank promoting the conservation of wetlands
-  Wildlands
These issues are itemized in a checklist contained in Tabie 1, with additional reficrenoe concerning their
relvance to HID activities. The environmental assessment should be prepared during the project
development phase and a summary of the EA included in die project appraisal report. The World Bank
"Enviromnental Assessment Soureebook" states that
"The borrower should submit the final EA report to the Bank prior to Bank appraisal. The EA
report is the borrowver's property, but the Bank encourages the borrower to release relevant
information to appropriate interested parties. The Final Executive Project Summary should
sunmmarize the EA's status and describe how major environmental issues have been resolved or are
* to be addressed, noting any proposed conditionality. The appraisal mission should review both the
procedural and substantive elements of the EA with the borrower, resolve any issues, assess the
adequacy of the institutions responsible for environmental management in light of the EA's
findings, and determine if the EA's recommcndations are properly addressed in project design and
economic analysis."



10
3. HARYANA DEPARTMENT OF IRRIGATION: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Tllis scction describes the cnvironmnental issucs faced by I lID, using thc viCwpoints provided in
previous sections of tre present report. Additional oommenits on some of tdese issues are also provided
in a latcr section relatod specifically to thc currcntly proposed physical components for the Watcr
Resouroes Consolidation Plan (WRCP). However this current section does not specifically discuss the
WRCP, so that a broader basis can bc established for undcrstanding environmcntal issues whidli may
arise on any typc of activity or project undertakcn by HIlD.
3.1. Issues and Environmental Values
The phrase "environmental issue" generally refers to a cause-and-effect relationship of somc
significance to project planning. (Note that "project planning" may also include sector programs and
ongoing operational activitics, but thc more direct term of "project" is commonly used in the present
report.) At thc causal end of thc issuc is the project activity, and at the "effect" end is the
environmental valuc. Most, but not all, issues can bc viewcd in this manaer. Somc variations on this
perspective will be noted in the following descriptions of "environmcatal issues".
Environmental valucs can bc viewed in terms of the resources which arc being affected by the projcct
activity. These rcsourees are commonly classified as physical, biological, socio-economic and cultural
resources. The latter catcgory also includcs a rathcr ncbulous subset callcd "qualityof-lifi values".
This classification scheme is generally successful in cncompassing all topics of merit in environmental
asscssment; howcver thcrc arc a few which arc difficult to consider within this context. Onc cxample is
agrochenical use, which is a human activity whicih affects a variety of resources, including physical
rcsources (soil productivity and watcr quality), biological rcsources (both terrestrial and aquatic plant
and animal life can be adversely affected), socio-economic rcsources (e.g. public health, in the sensc of
occupational hazards associated with agrochesnical use), and other resources in additional to these
notod. The difficulty comcs in addrcssing agrochemical usc in relation to these divisions within the
context of reporting, which can become fragmented and/or redundant as a result. There is occasionally
a need to address issues on a topical, rather than a gcncric basis in an EA report.
One currcnt issue in India which transcends thcse divisions is maintenance of in-stream uses. Many
irrigation projects in and regions throughout the country extract all water during the dry season, so that
any bencficial uses in downstrcam sections of rivcrs arc lost. This attitude is reflected in policies by
the Ministry of Water Rcsources, and does not represent sound environmental planning. However
water allocations are at stake in the issue, and basic policy decisions are made. There needs to be a re-
evaluation of these policies based on an objective presentation of the various related factors, including
vhat sorts of beneficial uses might be maintained if base flow allocations were sustained in the river
channel. Consideration of the futurc quality of industrial and urban discharges into the stream channels
would also have to be considered.
A general description of cnironmcntal issucs associated with specific types of rcsources is presented in
the following sections. All of thcse issucs do not necessarily pertain to the activities of HID, or to the
proposed WRCP. The same issucs and values are itemized in Table 2.
3.1.1.    Physical
Soil and water are the principal physical resources of concem to HID, and assessment of impacts
requires baseline data related to these plus other physical values (such as meteorological parameters).
Data requirements itemized in Ref. 2.3 (which reflect requirements of GOI) and which relate to
physical resources are primarily needed in order to evaluate impacts on soil and water. The reader is
referred to that list for a summaly of background data requirments. The important point is that



II
background data included in assessment work slhould be logically linked to specific types of impacts as
noted below.
3.1.1.1. WaterlQggin
Waterlogging and soil salinity (thc following topic) are liniked plhcnonicna, but do not necessarily occur
in contiguous areas. To soII1C cxtcnit, both phenomena may be a reflcction of natural conditions, and
may pre-date buman activity (e.g. irrigation) in a particular area. Both may bc partially or wholly the
result of poor natural drainage, and augmented drainage is an engineering solution, or mitigation, for
onc or both problems.
According to Ref. .1I
"land witd watertabic less than 3 mctros below the surface in June before the monsoon is
classed as being in a 'critical' state wili respect to waterlogging and salinity. Waterlogging is
more certain than salinisation which depends on the salinity of the shallow groundwater.
Approxirnately 450,000 ha land is affected in this way. The soils arc generally of very low
productiviLy."
Waterlogging occurs from a combination of natural conditions (including flat drainage slopes and poor
subsoil drainage) withi excessive moisture from monsoon rains and/or application of irrigation water.
The Groundwater Directorate of HSMITC at Karnal monitors groundwater conditions, and prcpares
tlii,.c types of maps on a ycarly basis; (i) groundwater elevation maps, (ii) fluctuation maps which
show changes from the 1974 base year, and (iii) maps showing conductivity of groundwater.
Sinee the earliest data on groundwater levcls for Haryana State are reflected by the 1974 data, and by
that time much of the irrigation developmcnt within the State had alrcady occurred (or about 80% of
the current canal command, according to data in Ref. 2.5), conditions prior to the advent of irrigation
cannot bc known with any certainty. The fluctuation maps noted abovc can give a direct indication of
temnporal trends. Rises in groundwater level are mainly in the westcm part of the State (Hisar,
Dhabwali); however shallow water tables are also found in other areas (Rohtak, Ambala). The WRCP
intends to install horizontal drains in parts of the State to alleviate high watcrtable conditions. (See
Section 4 of this report for a further explanation of the cnvironmental aspccts of the WRCP.)
3.1.1.2.   Soil Saliiy
Salinity is present in both soil and groundwater. Crops are affected by excessive soil salinity. Shallow
saline groundwater, if present in the root zone of the crops, may also have detrimental eftcets on crop
productivity, and of course salinity limits the usefulness of groundwater for most all purposes. The
salinity conditions in the central part of the State most likcly have a geological origin. Conditions can
be exacerbated by irrigation water containing high concentrations of dissolved solids, by poor
percolation through the surface soil and by high evaporation ratcs. Tthc saline soil and water conditions
in Hayana Statc may be partially due to recent irrigation practices; however salinity increases are due
mainly to rising goundwater tables in areas of high groundwater salinity rather than a lateral spread in
salinity levels. HID, in attempting to mitigate saline soil conditions, is correcting both a natural
phenomcnon as well as problems associated with more recent irrigation practics. Groundwater less
than 2 dS mrI is considered adequatc for irrigation given soil conditions within the State, and cxtends
over about 40 percent of the land arca in depths less than 150 ft. Conductivity values fom.r 2 - 6 dS m
I arc found in 45 percent, and above 6 dS n -I in 15 percent of the State's land area in depths less
than 150 ft. At depths greatcr than 150 ft., the last two figures are reversed. As long as drainage can
be provided, salts can be kept out of the plant root zone and soil salinity itself is not a severe problem
within the State.



12
Irrigation cianneis as well as drains suffor from  cxccss quantities of scdimcnt. HID is in sonlic
rcspects the viclim of upstrcamn watershed management practices. Sedimcnt, sludgc and solid wastc
may also cntcr drains (and to a lesser cxtent irrigation channels) from within the State, originating from
settlements and agricultural ficids. Sullagc water may be partially responsibic. A comparison of
maintenancc costs with upstream and wilhin-Statc soil conservation costs would provide a useful (and
fcasiblc) cconomnic comparison for planning purposes.
3.1.1.4.   Water Qualily
BCncricial uses of the water include urban and village supply (following treatment), industrial supply
and irrigation. Sinee treatment is provided prior to domestic use, it is unlikely that variabies in rav
water quality can be held responsibic for increasod public health costs. Thc costs associated with
finished water production arc not particularly sensitivc to raw water quality parameters, so long as they
do not exeed certain limits. Total industrial watcr supply within the State (ground- and surface water)
stands at about 0.5 MAP and is expected to incrcase to 0.9 MAF by 2010. Industrial water supply
may bc affected by quality parameters, specifically as rclated to turbidity and dissolved solids. In most
cases, industries will providc treatment regardless of raw watcr quality, once it is established that
treatmcnt is needod, and the cost variables for treatment will not bc sensitive to variations in quality.
Clear relationships between quality and costs (hence between quality and impact) would be difficult to
establish. This is not to say that the quality of watcr in the irrigation canals is unimportant. HD
should establish an ambicnt monitoring program for watcr quality (including sediment) at the upstream
end of the system, and should endcavor to prevent any direct discharges into irrigation canals without
closely monitoring the quality of thosc discharges. Non-point drainage into canals should be strictly
limitcd.
There are also a number of lakes, or reservoirs which storc flood waters during the rainy scason for
later use as irrigation water. Some of thcse (such as Bibipur) rcceivc irrigation canal watcr, but others
intercept drains. Thcse bodies of water on occasion may exhibit a varicty of bencficial uses, including
contact usc for bathing, stock watering, and other uses. A water quality monitoring program should be
established to identify lake fluctuations, isolate sources of pollution found in the lakes, and provide
means for preserving a reasonabie set of beneficial uses. Thesc, like al! water in the State, should be
considcred part of the water resource and preserved to the extent possible through careful planning and
management.
Water quality in drains should also be considered in instances where sufficient quantities are routed
through surfice outlets such that beneficial uses in the receiving streams (primarily the Jamuna River
but also drains ultimately flowing westward into the Indus drainage, and depression storage within the
State) might be affected. Urban discharges and irrigation ietum flows containing salts and agreultural
chemicals ultimately affect the potential downstream uses of these waters.
Water quality impacts on irrigation include (i) high TDS levels which may affcct soil texture and soil
salinity levels, and (ii) chronic toxicity and microbial contamination of vegetables irrigated with
polluted water.
3.1.1.5.   Groundwater Depletion
Groundwater table elevations are falling in some areas of the State, yet overall pumpage is about 70
present of the net recharge estimated at 7.5 MAF annually. The water table fluctuation maps prepared
by HSMITC indicate whcre depletion is occurring in the Statc. There are no regulations on
groundwater use in Haryana, as in other parts of India. Depletion may be tansitory, depending on the
depth of the aquifer being pumped, its recharge zone, the proxinity of surface waters directly



13
recharging tdc aquifcr, and other factors. HID is not responsiblc for thc phenomcnon, but it may be in
a position to provide limited mitigation through project design. A comprehcnsivc groundwater
rcsources evaluation is needed to undcrstand the multiplicity of factors rcelvant to the dcplction
phcinomcnon.
3.1.2.    Biological
3.1.2.1.   Changees in Flora and Fauna
Irrigation introduces significant changc into an arca in the form of land use and hydrological
charactcristics. Incrcascs in soil moisturc bring about changc in natural plant growth ovcr and above
irrigated crop production. Animal lifc, adaptcd to previous conditions, undcrgo change due to
displacemcent of components of dicir adaptivc habitats and introduction of new compctitivc specics.
Changes can be so immense as to bc entircly unpredictable, particularly in new and cxtensive irrigated
arcas. Thcsc conditions of change havC becn prcsent in Haryana Statc for some time already, and it is
not cxpected that the WRCP will introduce significant additional change. The general approach for
analysis is throughi inventory and prediction; controls arc through modification of project planning.
3.1.2.2.   Wildlife Protection
Wildlife protection is an extension of managing the natural cnvironment under conditions which elicit
changc. It gencrally focuses on valuable specics whiich havc cultural value and contribute to the
country's natural hcritage. Wildlifc protection is best addrcssed through regional cnviromcntal
planning. Through rcgional planning, land usc is prioritized and protected areas arc set aside for
valucd species, or for specific precious habitats. Pre-established land uscs do not easily give way to
project development activities.
Analysis involves identification of species and habitat arcas that descrvc priority protection. During
project formulation thesc areas can be avoided and rescrves can be established. A general survcy of
endangered species is also needed to identify any specics that arc cndangered and are threatened by
project activitics.
3.1.2.3.   Aquatic Resources
Impacts occur through changes in water quality and due to installation of structures along rivers and
strcams harboring migratory specics. Asscssment involves inventory of native specics, recording (or
prior knowledge) of life cycles and knowledgc of cnvironmental conditions that may impact the species
at different stages of its life cycle, prediction of water quality conditions or monitoring of existing
conditions, and prediction of impacts.
3.1.3.    Socio-economic
3.1.3.1.  Public Health
Irrigation systems can introducc disease vectors into new areas be providing fertile breeding habitats
for carricrs. Malaria and filariasis, both carried by mosquitoes, and schistosomiasis, introduced
through a variety of snail, could propagate in Haryana. Othcr public health issues involve
gastrointestinal diseases, which may become less of a problem through introduction of improved raw
water supply, but could also be aggravated if those supplies are inadequately treated.
Malaria incidcnce is low within the State. The Haryana State Hcalth Department has a policy of
maintaining the A.P.I. (annual parasitic index) at less than 2 per 1,000 population, and initiates an
intensive program for control, including spraying and prophylactic measures, if levels exceed this
threshold. The year 1991 saw a total of 33,976 cases Statewide, yielding an A.P.I. value of 1.93. The
stated target was 1.76 and so control measures were intensified, and the number of cases in the first 10
months of 1992 has been reduced to 14,910. Falciparum (cerebral malaria) incidents are few, and
there have been no deaths from this virulent strain in the last four years, according to Departnent



14
officials. Therc arc no incidcnts of schistosomiasis, though occasional cases of Japancsc cnccphalitis
arc found. Thc Health Dcpartmcnt takes prcvcntivc mcasurcs to combat its sprcad.
Previous work has shown that direct corrclation of increascs in irrigation area and malaria incidcnce is
difficult to establish. A malaria control program which can bc placed on the alert in the evcnt of an
cpidcmic is the best policy. The National Malaria Prevention Program, which startod in 1977 and has
since bocn revised and upgraded, is a sufficient response to malaria incidencc at thc Ccntral level;
howevcr statc-by-statc applications vary in thcir cifctiveness.
3.1.3.2.   Land Use Changes
It is worth asking what sorts of land usc changes arc significant and attributable to projct activitics.
When new areas arc introduced to irrigation, land usc changes can occur, which may or may not bc
significant. Significant changes displace peopic, perhaps forcing them to migrate or otherwise
destroying their livelihood. Thcsc sorts of changes seem unlikely in Haryana considering that irrigation
is already well established in most areas of the Statc. Investigation into areas proposed for new lift
schemes is needed. Evaluation focuses on socio-economic invcntories of the populations potentially
affected by projcct activities. Mitigation gencrally involves plans for introducing new modes of
livelihood to people.
3.1.3.3.   Displacement of Tribals
HID must ascertain whether there are any tribals residing in the Statc which can be affected by its
project activities, and then cvaluatc thc effect of those activities on the lifistyles of the tribals,
particularly if those people are herders and their historical grazing land is being converted to
agricultural production. This is unlikely to bc the case in Haryana, but nevertheless should be
investigated.
3.1.3.4.   Resettlement and Relocation
This issue comes up in dam projects primarily. If any dams arc to be constructed by HID then there
will undoubtedly be persons displaced by the rescrvoir. A detailed resettlemcnt plan is required,
followed by asscssment of the plan through the EA process. Post evaluation of the resettlement activity
is also frequently required by the Bank. Land acquisition associated with canal alignments does not
involve resetlement; however compensation for land and stationary structures is required. These may
be subject to Bank review policies.
3.1.3.5.  Village-Urban Water Supply
Since HID supplies raw watcr for villagc and urban supply throughout the State, both quantity and
quality of that water needs to be assured. First priority use for water delivered by HID is for village
and urban supply, as should be the case, since this use generally represents the highest value for water.
A monitoring program that is sufficient to guarantee raw water quality is also needed, in particular to
assure that pesticide residues are not present.
3.1.4.    Cultural and Quality of Lire Values
3.1.4.1.  Cultural artifacts
Archeological monuments, historical sites and historical settlements contribute to the Country's
national heritage and should be preserved under most all circumstances that would be encountered by
HID. It is seldom if ever the case that routing of irrigation canals or drains would by necessity
interfere with these monuments. The issue generally is found in relation to dam and rmsemoir projects.
3.1.4.2.  Cultural Norms
Will project activities have a direct impact on cultural norms through introducing disruptive influences
into the local scene? Cultural change takes place regardless; are any of these changes directly
attributable to the project? Are they negative or positive changes? These sorts of questions are
inherently ambiguous, and EAs typically can only provide a general qualitative description of the



15
issues. Quantifiable cause-and-eiTect relationships arc virtually impossibic to establish without great
cxpcnse, which in most all cascs is not justified.
3.1.4.3.   Employment and Livelihood
Many similar questions are fhced undcr this heading as were asked in the scction rclated to land usc
changes. The issue is whetiher all peopic will be as well or bcttcr off after the project as they were
beforc the project. If not, then those groups which arc affected adversely should be identified and
either direct or indirect compensation to those groups should be providod.
3.1.5.    Construction Impacts
The environmental effects of construction activities can affect beneficial uses in all four categories of
resource. In general the effects are transitory, but can be significant for large projects wherc influx of
workers over long time periods significantly alter the demographic profile of the local conununity.
Impacts on natural values (physical and biological values) can also be significant if various controls
are not instituted by the construction management group. Construction impaets include noise, air and
water pollution , spoil piles, public health impacts from poor sanitation and spread of diseases,
occupational health impacts from inadequatc safiety codes at the job site and many others. Mitigation
is almost always accomplished through incorporation into the construction bid documents specific
requirements for job site maintenance and provision of facilities for the worker community. There arc a
number of chcklists available through the literature which provide guidance for mitigation of
construction impacts.
3.1.6.    Positive (Beneficial) Impacts
Most of the earlier paragraphs focus on ncgativc impacts from poor planning, design, construction and
operations of irrigation facilities. Clearly there are extensive positive impacts which can be itemized
under the same categories, for if not there would hardly be a justification for undertaking these
projects. One difficulty comes in segregating project from environmental benefits. For instance,
irrigation works clearly enhance the socio-cconomic status of local farmers, a fact that figures directly
into the expected ERR for thc project. Are these socio-economic benefits also to be counted as
environmental benefits, and if so, does it amount to double-counting in the project evaluation step? It is
interesting to consider also that some project components are included specifically in order to enhance
environmental values (the horizontal drainage component of the WRCP is such an example). Clearly
the benefits of these components nced to be considered, but are the benefits directy linkod to the project
or should they be considered an environmental benefit, or both. Satisfactory views on these issues are
difficult to come by; however the Bank is clear in its policics that positive impacts should be considered
in EA work. Commonly such impacts are not as clearly quantified as negative impacts, and certainly
they are not addressed in the EMP, for obvious reasons.
3.2. Affected Groups
A particular project or activity affects certain groups of people; some of these effects are intended and
some are unintended. Enviromnental management tries to account for all these effects.
3.2.1.    Beneficiaries
These include firmers and fiumers orgaizations, and PWD(PH) and their downstream water users.
There are others: the Forestry Dept. receives water for canalside forests, and other agencies may also
benefit directly from the water. The Dept. of Agriculture benefits because the water keeps them in
business. Some of the water goes to Delhi as a rcsult of earlier water sharing arrangements.
There may be beneficiaries in other sectors as well. Projects may involve components that provide
roads, which benefit the general public. In some cases there may be components intended to enhance
the environment, by provision of wildlife reserves and the like. In these cases there are diffuse
beneficiaries.



16
There are also secondary bciiefits whicih becomn more difficult to traec but are nevcrlheiless real.
Economic devclopmcnt is gcncrally bencficial to all citizens of the State. It is difficult to identify the
benefits of a project without first identifying project bencficiaries. Both GOI and the Bank rccomncnd
in their EA guiddines that positivc impacts (e.g. bencfits) also bc idcntified.
3.2.2.    External
Extemal groups may also bcncfit; howevcr the logic is a bit fuzzy herc. Once die group is identificd, it
would make more sense to list it as one of the bcncficiarics. External groups typically mcan thosc
whiich arc affccted in a negative manner by the project. Even though they arc identified (such as, for
example, downstrean water users on thc Jamuna Rivcr), the project development activity may need to
incorporate special means for mitigating impacts on the group.
Beneficiaries may also suffer rrom externalities, as for example with farmners who ovcr time find that
waterlogging and soiUgroundwvatcr salinity arc increasing in their distriet due to common use of the
resource in an uncontrolled manner.
It is not necessary to go througli a list of possible Affectod Groups (either beneficiaries or cxtemal
groups), but it is necessary to keep in mind that for every impact tlherc must be ani identifiable affccted
group; othlerwise the assessment framnework is erroneous. This is berause environmetal assessment
and management always involvc causc-and-effect relationships. In practice, an agency such as HID
would be very farniliar with who these groups are, what they represent, and how they are affected by
agency activities.
3.3. Responsibilities
This section describes IllD's service commitments from the viewpoint of environmental impact, without
repeating the information provided in the earlier section which described the gencral range of issues
faced by HID. Thc functions and tasks undertaken by HID are described in a later section. T!hc basis
for the infornnation in this section is the "Handbook on Irrigation Statistics" prepared by HID (Ref. 2.5)
plus other sources.
3.3.1.    Bulk Water Supply
The total amount of water utilized in the State (whioU. consists of watcr delivered through the Bhakra,
WJC and Gurgaon Canals plus cstimates of groundwater extractions) is 16.4 MAF. The annual
Statewide average rainfall is 442 mm during the monsoon and about 80 mm from October to June, over
an area of 44,200 sq kIn, for an additional contribution of about 2 MAF. These figures represent the
total available resource; howevcr without storagc a large portion is lost to drainage during the
monsoon. These figures arc not intended to represent an overall water balance for the State.
3.3.1.1.  Irrigation
According to Ref. 2.5 (p. 46) a total of 6.4 MAF was delivered througb the Bbakra, WJC and Gurgaon
Canal systems in 1984-85, irrigating a total of 1.2 iba., or about 53 percent of the total irrigated area.
Tubewells were used to irrigate 46 percent, with the balance from tanks and (dug) wells. Interestingly,
the canal command increased from 2 to 2.9 mnha from 1966 (at the formation of the State) to 1991, an
increase of only 45 percent. The net area irrigated by canals increased from 1 to 1.24 nha over
approxinately the same period, an increase of 24 percent. Tubewcll irrigation, however, increased by
100 percent from 1975 (the earliest year for which data are available) to the present, and overall net
area irrigated increased by 44 percent. This shows the significant contribution of tubewells to the
growth of irrigation potential within the State in comparison to the canal system ovcr the last 30 years.
These numbers also indicate the mature state of the surface water distribution system, especially from
the standpoint of supply. With the cxccption of the Gurgaon Canal, there does not appear to be any
significant increase in quantities of water delivered to the State through the surface water system since
1976 (earliest date of record in Ref. 2.5). The siuation can improve, however, if a political settlemnent



17
can bc provided for compiction of tic Sutlcj-Jamuna Link to providc Beas River water, for which a
total of 3.8 MAP has bcen allocated annually, a quantity whicii rprcscnts ovcr 20 pcrcent of thc total
available for irrigation at tic prcscit time. Currcnt supplies represent loss than 50 pcrcent of the
quantity required to reach full irrigation potcntial throughout the Statc. Watcr conservation in
irrigation practiee as wcll as in othcr aspcets of use should bc adopted as a long tcrnm planning priority.
Bcttcr utilization of already availabie water resourees is the principal opportunity for HID to increase
irrigated area. Hence the devclopmcnt schcmes of the Irrigation 1&11 projects emphasized various
means to this end, including canal and watercourse lining, and improvcd melhods of irrigation. In the
faee of constricted supplies, farmers have turned to more groundwatcr utilization, an unregulated
activity, and as a result parts of the State suffer fronm excessive water harvesting and consequent
problems with draw down.
3.3.1.2.   Village Water Supply
HID provided approximately 0.6 MAF for rural (village and suburbs) and urban water supply in 1991.
The projected value for 2021 is one MAF. There are no quality criteria set for the provision of the
water, and PWD(PH) provides treatment and delivery for water within the villages and urban arcas.
Raw water quality of surface water supplies appears adequate at present. More surveillance of the
quality of well water used for domestic supplies is needed in view of the serious potential for
contanination of sballow aquifers within tie State. This activity would come under the purview of the
Public Health Dcpartment (PWD(PH)).
3.3.2.    Irrigation Distribution Systems
Dctails on the irrigation distribution systems in Haryana State can be found in Referencc 2.5.
Extensive main canals, distributarics and sub-channeis exist diroughout the State. These have
contributed to waterlogging in parts of Haryana, and in other areas the channels provide a means for
recharge. Some areas currently irrigatod by tubewells will be provided with surface irrigation under
the WRCP. As a result thwes areas can be provided with more irrigation water. The potential for
waterlogging should be investigated, and critcria cstablished for managing application rates.
Augmentation tubewells in the Northcast are blamed for depressing the watcr table such that shallow
private weIls are affected. Therc is a complex set of effccts stemnming from the irrigation system and
its auxiliary components. Since most of these effects are correctablc, environmnental planning should
focus on cngincering approaches for minimizing negative effccts during the design phase of the WRCP.
HID also operates lift irrigation schemes in the southern part of the State. In general these should have
less impact tban gravity systans because drainage is bettcr and watertablc elevations should not be
affected. Local factors, however, necessitate that case-by-case investigations be made of any proposed
neiv systems to determine interactions with the groundwater regime. Spray irrigation systems which
are just now being introduced should also have less impact on groundwater because of more
conservative water use.
3.3.3.    Drainage
Details on the dminage systems in Haryana State can be found in Reference 2.5 and on drainage maps.
Many parts of the State do not have developed drainage systes. It was discovered, during field trips
on the present assignment, that drainagc in many urban and village areas is poor. Drains often
discharge into ponds on the lower elevations where the water is allowed to stagnate. A common
practice is to use this water for local irrigation of vegetable crops. Significant pollution of shallow
aquifers also results from this practice, though the magnitude and cxtent of contamination has not been
investigated. Urban drainage does not fall within the jurisdiction of HID, however the urban drainage
system should be coupled to regional drainage schemes. The problems associated with drainage and



18
groundwatcr rcchargc, including percolation of contaminatod water into usabie aquifers, arc issues
which should be addrcssed through regional environmental planning.
3.3.4.    Flood Control
Maintcnance of drains is the primary means for flood prevention within the Statc, which is a joint
responsibility of HID and PWD(PH). Flood control, flood managerient and drainage should be
addressed in an integral fhshion. Thc dminagc system should bc designed to bandle a spceified flood
frequcncy and divert flood watcrs to low-lying areas outside of human habitation. It will not be
possibic, in the ncar tenn at lcast, to provide adequate protection through regional drains. Flood
prediction and early warning systems may bc a rcalizabie objectivc in the mid tcrm planning horizon.
3.3.5.    Groundwater Management
HID, through HSMITC, has the most direct control ovcr groundwatcr management within the State.
HSMITC activities include (i) installation and operation of public tubewells, (ii) lining of watercourscs,
(iii) manufaeture of lift and submcrsible pumps, and (iv) repair of transformers and electric motors.
HSMITC also maintains a monitoring function for groundwater (see below).
Soil characteristics throughout the State are such that there is a high probability of groundwater
contamination from municipal and industrial effluents as well as from agricultural chemicals. A
number of poor management practices contribute to the problem, including storage of effluents in
unlined ponds and the "Warabundi" systcm of irrigation which tends to flush agricultural chemicals
through the surface soil and into the groundwater. Thus far there has been no investigation of thcse
potential probiens, though the opportunity exists to monitor existing tubewels throughout the State
(there are ovcr 0.5 million of thcm) and analyze for indicator parametcrs. A number of agcncies,
including HID, could play their respective roles in this investigative cffort.
3.4. Functions
3.4.1.    Monitoring, Data Collection and Evaluation
Flow data are obtained at the head of every offlake channel and flows are also monitored at the
headworks of the main canals. HID does not monitor surface water quality. HID also monitors
discharges in the natural drinage courses into and out of the State during the monsoon seasons. IHD
has some rain gauge stations, but relics on the Dcpartment of Meteorology for most weather
monitoring.
HSMITC monitors water level and conductivity in 1,850 open (dug) wells and in more than 2,000 deep
tubeweUs. Samples are taken and analyses are performcd for total cations and anions, and occasionally
nitrates. HSMlTC produces pre- and post-monsoon reports which reflect water level elevations and
change from the 1974 datum, and salinity contours for the State.
3.4.2.    Planning
The Superintending Engineer for Planning and the Superintending Engineer for Projects coordinate for
planning. A quarterly report is issued for projects that have been cleared and for those under
consideration. The SE Planning interacts with the Government of Haryana to formulate the five year
plans. These are used to formulate the annual plans, which are finalized at the State level and then go
to the Cetal Water Commission for review. Resources arc allocated to mfatch budgetary constraints.
Projects precede planning, by originafing at the field level based on demand from users and from
perceived nceds by HID field persomnel.
3.4.3.    Design
Design is performed in the R&D Division under the scrutiny of the Chief Engineer for R&D. Therc
arm two Superintnding Engineers and 1O Executive Engineers in the design group. There needs to be a
strger interfiae between environmental management efforts and the design group. Environmental



19
concrms should be incorporatcd illto design at an carly stagc so that thc final designs maximize thcir
potcntial bcncfits for uscrs and dC public.
3.4.4.    Construction
Tlhc Chicf Enginecr Construction is in chargc of the Construction Division. Hc handles action plans
for construction, sets budgets and priorities and submits thcsc to the Statc Govcrnmcnt for approval.
Tlicrc arc many cnvironmental concems which should bc introduced during the construction sLigc of
projccts tirough upgrading tcnder documents to incorporatc thosc concerns, providing budgets for
specific itcms of work such as spoil reclamation and silt control, and provision of adequatc facilities for
work tcams. Inspection of construction sites is also needed in order to assure thnt the specifications are
being met.
3.4.5.    Operations and Mainlenance
O&M functions makc up a largc part of the work associated witl HID. Thcsc include canal
maintenance and repair, allocating watcr, scheduling rcicascs and numerous other tasks. O&M
functions should ultimately assure that environmcntal managemcnt strategics are being met, including
thosc associated with regional control of the watcr resource. Various functional aspccts of
cnviromental managemet are O&M functions, such as monitoring watcr quality, analysis of data on
a continuous basis, and filing rcports conccming thc environmental status of various aspects of the
systcm. Maintenance guidelmies should incorporatc cnvironmental guidelincs so that local impacts arc
minimized.
3.4.6.    Public Awareness
3.4.6.1.   Formal Hearings
HID personncl occasionally attend town meetings to describc activitics of the Dcpartment. HID should
stimulate public involvemcnt in the full rangc of water related cnvironmental issucs. Sincc it is the
wvater management agency, it has the rcsponsibility to obtain views from a representative cross section
of the public and then to pass on thcse concerns to other agencics.
3.4.6.2. Beneficiary/Public Participation
Public participation mostly occurs within frnners groups for lining of watercourses. These activities
are managed by HSMITC. Other potential tasks which might be taken up at the frineres level include
cleaning and maintenance of watcr courscs, mainitenancc of sprinkler systems and other tasks as well.
Various environmental functions may also be taken up at the local level once they arc defined within a
larger management system.
3.4.6.3. Public information
HID has a public relations group which provides press relcases and public infonnation brochures on a
non periodic basis, according to need. HID could adopt an environmcntal awareness campaign in
which water management issues werc explored. The purpose of the campaign would be to elicit public
participation and gradually develop a more informed public. In the long run, a higher standard of
environmental management would be sought by the public.



20
4. LINKAGES WITH OTHER AGENCIES
4.1. Existing Working Agreements
HID does not have any cxtcnsivc working agreements with other agencies. Interstate agreements arc
used to set water rights allocations and, once cstablishcd, arc considered inviolate. The existing
interstate agreements cntercd into by Haryana State includc:
* Bhakra Dam water: The Bbakra Management Board was set up to manage water from the Bhakra
Dam, which is allocated to three States: Punjab, Rajasihan and Haryana. This Board functions
directly undcr the authority of the Govemment of India, and provides for managcment of the dam
and allocation of water to the three states.
*  The Eradic Tribunal sct allocations for Beas River watcr but its reommnidations, though they
have been accepted in principle by the Punjab State Government, have been obstructed by militant
activity. Water allocated to Haryana under this agreemcnt amounts to 3.83 MAF, or about 10
percent of the total irrigation demand of the State. However this water is not yet available due to
disputes over the decision of the Tribunal.
*  Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have a working agreement for sharing of Jamuna River water, which is
bascd on a fornula related to availablc quantities.
4.2. Vertical Linkages
4.2.1.    With National Agencies
ThIC Haryana Irrigation Department HD) is a State agency under the Central Water Commission
within the Ministry of Water Resources. Annual plans, following preparation in conjunction with the
State Govcrnment, are reviewed and discussed with the Central Water Commission which approves
GOI sharm of the budget for projects.
4.2.2.    With Local Agencies
HID supports field personnel at the district and local levels for operations and maintenance finctions.
In addition the Haryana State Minor Irrigation and TubcwelI Corporation (HSMlTC) has significant
field level activities for water course lining and other aspects of their operations.
4.3. Lateral Linkages
4.3.1.    With Other Agencies of Haryana State
HID works with the quasi-governmcntal agency HSMITC, which is subomed within HID, but
functions indcpendendy. HSMITC has more comprehensive activities concerning groundwater dtan
does HID, and there are many areas in which HID and HSMrrC work together.
HID has a working arrangement with the Department of Agriculture (DOA) to set priorities for
releases within irrigated areas, though the quantity of release is already fixd. DOA manages the
agricultural extension service, but HID has no relationships involving extension activities. DOA has
done some work in installation of horizontal drains within the State, which may have some relationship
with HID activities, whether now or in the future.
The Public Works Department (Public Health) is rebponsible for vilage and urban water supply and
wastewater treatment. Raw water supplies for these systms comes in part from the HID distnbution
systern. Specific allocations are set; regulation of supplies involves 2rovision over a fixed period at a
fixed discharge rate.
4.3.2.    With DOIs of Contiguous States
HID has had few opportunities for working relationships with the irrigation departments of adjoining
states. Water allocations are set by prior agreemnets and unless specific problems arise, there is no
reason for the agencies to work together.



21
4.4. Development of Linkages
4.4.1.    Potential Liiikagcs
A comprchcnsive management plan may involve a morc extcnsive set of working agreements with other
agencies. As an example, WB guidclincs stipulate that an intcgmated pest managemnwt plan (IPM)
should be developed along with any project whidi supports the usc of agro-chcmicals. HID project
planning activities, whilc not containing agricultural components, arc nevertheless supportive of
increased agricultural production. DOA most likcly has some initial work compiete on IPM, which can
be expanded to meet the requirements of the Bank. Neverdieless thcre needs to be some
communications between DOA and HID in ordcr to enlist the help of DOA in formulating a rcasonabic
plan for inclusion in the EA and EMP for the WRCP.
4.4.2.    Justification
Environmental management functions often include improvemcnt of communications across sectors and
political boundaries, and vertically within organizational stiuctures. Administrative linkages axe under
the purview of eavironmental management because environmental issues are almost always cross-
scctoral, and do not respect political boundarics. Good envirownental management sImost. always
involves an isuprovement in cooperative working relationships between agencies and lines of
government. This is especially true in vwatr resource projects where many agencies of government
dcal cither directly or indircctly with watcr rclatcd issues. Implemcntation of EMPs for water rcsource
projects inevitably involvc many different govcrnment agencies. Ihe focal agency, in this casc MD,
should always be in a position of knowing to wlat extcnt EMP functions are being carriod out by other
agencies. More so, the executing agency HID nceds access to data, reflcctod by the activities of other
agencies, in order to call into action cornponcnts of the EMP which involvc response to specific critical
environmnental conditions.
4.4.3.    Haryana Department of Environment
HDOE has been established thrce years, but it has only been within the last year that it has becn active.
The agency s responsible for initiating the Jamuna Action Plan, a project for regulation and clean up of
industrial and urban discharges into the Jarnuna River. This project is now admiistered by the
Ganggar Development Authority within the MOEF of the GOI. HDOE has one Dimrtor, a joint
Director, two scientists and administrative staff. HDOE can be involved through joint participation in
future environmental planning activities undertaken by HID. HDOE will also have a significant role in
the rview of EAs prepared for the WRCP.
4.4.4.    Polution Control Board
The HPCB is responsible for regulating industrial discharges within the State. Its data base identifies
the location and amounts of industrial discharges. HPCB can particippite through provision of
information with any regional planning work undertaken by HID. HPCB would also respond to any
complaints from HID conceming industrial discharges entering their irrigation and drainage works. In
this regard, HD is in a "watchdog" role with respect to HPCB, since HID is the beneficial user of the
resource that HPCB is charged to protect.
4.4.5.    Public Works Department (Public Health)
PW1D(PH) is responsible for executing projects associated with urban wastwater and drainage. This
agency is actively pursuing a program to provide urban wastewater treatrnent for the 17 larger
municipal areas within the State. Six of thesc cities are to be provided with facilities under a Japanesc
funding program. PWD(PH) has requested that 10 of the renaiming I I be funded under the WRCP.
An alteriative approach is for PWD(PH) to participatc in a regional enviromnental planning project
whic;h would identify at the pre-feasibility level the types and locations of treatment facilities. These
could then enter the project funding cycle.



22
HID sliould rcqucst morc participation from PWD(PH) in protcction of groundwatcr rcsources used for
urban watcr supply. Thc two agencics should also participatc in joint cfforts to improvc drinage in
arcas ncar to urban townships, and in mitigation of cnvironmcntal problems associatcd with urban
drainage.
4.4.6.    State Health Department
Thc State Hcalth Dcpartment has a public hcalth program for control of malaria within thc Statc.
HDH has indicated its willingness to cxtdnd thc program to workcr camps dt:ring thc construction
period for the WRCP. HDH also can parLicipatc in a rcgional environmcntal planning project, through
provision of information and devclopmcnt of public hcalti programs.
4.4.7.    State Department of Agriculture
I-IDOA has cxtension activitics tiroughout thc State to provide agricultural assistance to fanncrs. Thc
full scope of these activities havc not been cxplored; howevcr H-IDOA can participate in regional
panning and EA through provision of infonnation and tcchnical cxpertisc concrning pcsts, pesticidc
use and integrated pest management, as well as irrigation practices and watcr conservation.



23
5. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
5.1. Activities with Direct Environmental Impact
Since HID is an agency with a long liistory of activity in Haryana, and much of the ultinatc irrigation
system possible in tho State is already cstablished, dircct environmental impacts from new projcct
activities are not sevcre. The State has been significantly transformwd by irrigation, with major
economic and social bcncfits. Thcre arc environmental impacts that lave resulted from past activities
which are ongoing and sustainod by HID; thcsc includc the full rangc of impacts expected from
irrigation projects, such as waterlogging, prolifcration of agricultural pests as well as others. ihc
WRCP may exacerbatc thesc problcms in certain areas, and may reduce specific probilms in others,
but the net effect, in comparison with cifects having already occurred from irrigation development, is
minor.
HID should mitigate irnpacts from tie WRCP as well as from ongoing activities. The WRCP in fact
includes measures to nmitigate some impacts in the latter category. In doing so, HID recognizes its
cnvironmental rcsponsibilities, even though mitigation is driven by the need to conscrvc water
rcsources.
5.2. Enhancement of Environmental Values
HID can support sustainable water use within the State. Because of its kcy role as water resources
manager, HID has the right and authority to exercise a coordination role in all aspects of water use. It
should be an easy matter for HID to obtain cooperation from other water management agencies, a fact
that enhances its coordination function. The ultimate sharing of responsibilities for water managemcnt
should not be decided at the present time. The nascent Department of Environment will in all
likelihood have a key role in water quality management and HPCB in the regulation of discharges,
whereas HID will ultimately find its role more in quantity allocations, regional drainage concerns and
policing its own rcsource. Proposals set forth herein for regional enviromnental planning require the
participation of all agencies with standing on water managemcnt issues in proportion to the magnitude
of their concerns. These proposals do not require that long term responsibilities be sct before planning
proceeds. The regional plan itself will be able to define roles fur the conccrned agencies.
5.3. Environmental Standards and Criteria
Water quantity and quality requirements can be used to guarantee the user's rights to the resource.
"Standard' generally refers to an enforceable limit, whereas "criteria" applies to a recommended value
based an beneficial uses. Criteria are generally used to set limits on ambient water quality, since
numerous individuals and groups may contribute to overall cumulative impact, and direct enforcement
is not possible in most cases. Standards are used to set liits on point source discharges (such as those
from industries) since a single entity is often responsible for the discharge. Quantity critcria are set by
agreements on water sharing with other States; these criteria do not specifically concem environmental
values and will not be discussed further here.
5.3.1.    Set by HID
HID could set criteria for water entering their systm, either from main stream allocations, from runoff
and drinage water, or firm saline or fresh conjunctive use water. Such criteria would help in
maintining minimum water quantity or quality values. Quality criteria are generally considered
environental criteria; however there are no such criteria currently in effect by HID. Quality
parametrs are not measured anywhere in the system at present, and there are no requirements that
water entering the irngation system must be of a certain quality.
5.3.2.    Met by HIID



24
Water quality critcria could be used to control the quality of cxtractions from thc systcin ror
urbanlvillagc watcr usc and for irrigation (dic two main uses), but therc arc no such critcria in cffect at
prcsent. Criteria could bc uscd to cootrol thc quality of drainagc watcr, in a manmer similar to an
industrial dischargc; howevcr since tlhere are many sources of potential contamination of drain watcr,
thcrc would of coursc not bc any way to cnforce such critcria as a standard. Critcria arc mct through
planning rather than by direct regulation. The drains arc part of public infrastructurc; it is not fcasiblc,
nor should there bc any cffort, to set standards for thc points of dischargc whcrc HID drains cntcr
natural watcr courscs such as thc Jamnuna and Gaggar Rivcrs.
5.3.3.    Relevsant Criteria for Use by IID
Critcria can be used to set goals for water quality. A watcr body can bc cl:ssified according to its
bencficial uscs: fishing, contact usc, water supply, irrigation and others. For cach typc of bencficial
use, certain physical and chemical valucs for the watcr can bc identified. Thcsc scervc as ambicnt watcr
quality critcria and, depcnding on thc degree of variance betwccn dte critcria and actual conditions,
may scrve as attainmcnt goals. In the cventuality that HID attcmpted to augmcat supplics with urban
drainagc water, irrigation rcturn flows, or salinc groundwatcr, critcria could be used to control the
watcr quality in the system. If final water quality parametcrs arc known, then numerical and analytical
models can be used to determinc thc required quality parameters for discharges into thc system.
HID may also soe fit to set critcria for all typcs of crop water regardless of whether it enters the
distribution system, including salinc groundwater and drainage/urban wastewatcr used for irrigation.
5.4. Water Resources Consolidation Project
5.4.1.    Strategy for Implementing Environmental Component
A comprdecnsivc strategy for cnvironmcntal planning is proposed for the Water Rcsourccs
Consolidation Project. Factors which support the proposed approach arc:
T The cxistcnce of two prior, or pcnding, watcr rcsources planning studics that servc as die basis for
environmcntal asscssmcnt for WRCP, c.g. the Northwest India Drainagc Study and the Water
Rcsources Plan Study;
-  The type of credit proposed by the Bank, which is a scctor crcdit (inigation and drainagc scetor);
-  The nature of the WRCP whiich is composed of numerous components, many of which are follow-
ups to previous WB crcdits;
*  The need for an integratcd approach to cavironmcntal plannit. that involves other agencies in the
planning process.
WB OD 4.00 Annex A also contains specific directives which support the proposed approach for
environmental asscssment. These directives concern (i) regional and sectoral EAs, (ii) intragency
coordination, (iii) involvement of affected groups and (iv) strengtlhiing of enviromnental capabilities.
Some excerpts from these directives follow:
Regeional and Sedoral EAs
"Regional EAs are used where a number of significant developmcnt activities with potential
cumulative impacts are planned for a reasonably localized area. ... and may identifly issues [such
as] intcraction among effluents or competition for water or land. .-.Sectoral EAs arc used for the
design of sector investment programs. They are particularly suitable for reviewing ... institutional
capacities and requirmnats for environmental revtFw, implcmentation and monitoring at the
soctoral level; and ...the cumulative impacts of many relatively small, similar investments which do
not merit individual project specific EAs."
Intera,-enCE Coordination
"Because envirmental issues generally involve national, regional, and local government agencies,
and cover a broad range of responsibilities..., coordination among govermeat agencies is crucial."
Strenetheninr Environmental Capabilities



25
"l1le ultinmate success of EA dcpcnds upon the dcvclopmnct of environmental capability and
understanding in tie agencies concerned. ProjecLs witlh major potential impacts nonnally require
the establishment or strcngthicning of in-housc cnviroiunental units for the projoc ...,thc
implemcnting agency and thc ministry."
Thcre are thire basic steps proposed for cnvironmcntal assessment for WRCP. Notc initially that
approval by GOI and by WB would be sought aftcr step onc is completc, but before full EIA is
provided for the specific projcet components.
*  Stcp I (Initial Stcp): preparation of an Initial Elnvironmental Examination (lEE) for thc WRCP
(eorrcsponding to a Scetoral EA)
*  Step 11: Initiation of multisectoral intcragency regional cnvironmental planning (empha.,izing water
resourecs as the key (or lead) component of the regional plan (corresponding to a Rcgional EA)
*  Step IU: Preparation of EAs for tlc intdividual components of the WRCP, as integrated
components, or outgrowtis, of the regional cnvironmental plan (corresponding to individual Project
EAs)
There arc a number of advantages to this approach. First, since the major cnvironmental issues are not
tied to project components, but rather involve regional evaluation, it is not fcasibie to address most
critical issucs using a traditional approach for EIA. Secondly, the approach provides the best means
for rcalizing the full benefits from environmental planning. Sinec the projects can bc defined within the
larger oontext of cnvironmental issues, the asscssmcnt of project components can be more focusod on
the specific issues. Broader issues can be evaluated within the context of the regional plan. WB OD
4.00 Annex A provides guidance on tie approach:
"In some cases, regional or sectoral EAs cover all the nonnal requircments of projcct-specific EAs.
More often, the latter arc still nooded for major investments..., but the regional or sectoral EAs will
have identified the relevant issues, collected much of the data, and, in general, greatly reduced the
work needed in the project specific EAs."
5.4.1.1.   Initial Environmental Examination
This step should conform to the requirements for a sectoral EA. The components of the IEE consist of
prcparation of a checklist of cnvironmental issues for the specific components of the WRCP, and a
general assessment of their magnitudc and potential impact adequate tor the rcspective decision makers
within GOI and the Bank to determine whether any particular component should be omitted from the
project The use of IEE will also allow dctailed design of the project components to occur in
conjunction with environmental assessment, so that suggestions for improvements can be incorporated
into the designs.
The lIEE will also contain the TOR for the regional environmental planning project, and will identi
the schedule for submittal of TORs for the EAs for individual project components. Thc IEE should be
the basic document used for approval of the project by the Bank and by the Govermnent of India;
however follow-up EAs will bc prepared and should also stand for review through GOI mechanisms
The IEE should be prepared by a contract consultant with expertise in environmental assessment and
environmental program planning for linc agencics. A tcrms of reference (TOR) for the IEE is
contained in Annex V. The IEE and attached documcnts (including the TOR for the regional
environmental planning project) should require approximately six weeks to two months for preparation.
5.4.1.2.   Regonal Environmental Planinni



26
ilic regional environmiental plan (or rogional EA) should build upon the work donc in the Northwcst
Dminage Study and the Water Resources Plan Study. It should focus on multiscctoral issues rclatcd to
watcr use. It should includc all topics with potcntial impacts on watcr usc and quality. Tlic plan
slhould address the total resourcc, including forcsecablc supply and demand, impacts rclated to watcr
usc such as watcrlogging, salinity and polluted drainagc water, groundwater contamination within the
Statc and secondary imnpacts rclated to watcr use of the kinds described in this report. The plan should
lay out a long term strategy for land usc and othcr aspccts of hurman activity that are in conformance
with water resourecs availability, and componcnt strategics for managcmcnt of wastcs (both liquid and
solid) that maximize rcuse and minimize impacts. Thcrc should also be strategic components for
alleviating drainagc problems ovcr the long tenn, and for dcaling with scondary impacts of irrigation
water usc, including propagation of pests and diseasc vectors. The planning project should contain an
institutional component which reviews stafring and skills for environmcatal managemcnt for all water
agencies. There should bc componenis relating to implemcntation of the plan, and to infiastructure
investmcnts nccdcd for sustaininig the quality of the watcr resource within the Statc.
The regional planning team should work in conjunction with the WRCP project development team to
arrive at optimized designs for specific project components. The planning tcam should provide TORs
for the EAs for these components according to a reasonabie timntablc that allows the individual
components to be reviewed by the ncessary authorities within the Statc Governmnnt of Haryana and
also the Central Government.
Thc regional environmental plan should be prepared by a working group composed of consultants in
conjunction with government counterparts from HID, HDOE, HDOA, PWD(PHI), and HPCB, with
occasional assistance from other agencies. Approximatcly two y3cirs should be allowed for preparation
of the plan. In addition to preparation of the regional cnvironmcntal plan, this phase of the work would
also rcsult in:
*  institutional and skills strengthening of the agencies mentioned above;
*  budget support for some or all of those agencies (with approximate amounts and uses to be
determined at the time of preparation of the TOR for the regional plan);
*  establishment of an environmental research institute focusing on water resources and relatod issues
along the lines of NEERI (the National Environmental Engineering Rescarch Institute) at Nagpur,
*  EAs for project components.
5.4.1.3.   Project Environmental Assessment
These individual assessments should follow specific methodologies that are defined by the regional
planning team. Duplication of infornation can be minimized by this approach. Specific nitigation
measures that arm necessaly to protect the local environment can be taken up in the individual
assessments; however therc wilH not be a nced to deal with broad issues, since thcse will be addressed
as part of the rgional plan.
The EAs for project components should be prepared by the same group of consultants and govemrnment
counterparts assigned to formulate the regional cnviromecntal plan. EAs should be prepared at thc
start of work on the regional plan in order to avoid delay in inplementing the project components.
Additional budgcts may be required to perforn specific assessment tasks that exceed the manpower
and capability of the regional planning tcam.
5.4.1.4.   Environmental Management Plan
There are two stages at which environmental management plans (EMPs) arc released for the project
The first is with submittal of the IEE. The EMP for the project as a whole calls for (i) preparation of a
regional environmental plan, and (ii) preparation of individual EAs for the project components which



27
will be subjcct to rcvicw anvd approval by GOI. Additiosial stipulationis can also bc written into thc
EMI' associated witlh elic ME1 tiowcvcr it will ino1 be neccssary to placc rcquircnircts on intdividual
project coniponents, sincc thcsc requirerncnts will be cnumcratcd in thc EMPs accompanying thc
individual EAs. Thcsc EMPs constitutc tdc secoid stagc at which EMPs for thc projcct will bc
providcd.



28
6. FIVE YEAR PROGRAM
6.1. General Activities
HID is the Iead water resources managcemnt agency in Haryana Statc, and as a rcsult should adopt a
lcad rolc in planning. It can be contended accurately that Ihis is already thc casc, and that water
resources planning functions within HID, if not alrcady developed, are quickly becoming so undcr the
thrust of new planning projects. The qucstion concerns the cxtension of this rolc into cnvironmental
planning as a reasonable adjunct to water resources planning. Since water is the principal resource link
for all human activities, since watcr is the prime mobile media for transport of pollutants to human
receptors (hence environmental damage effects), and finally because environmncntal plannang has a
recognized value as a modem nanagement tool within the institutional structure of govenment, it
seems clear that HID is the prime candidate for instituting many of the fiunctions of environmcntal
planmng, and in consequencre, environmental management in general.
Good planning defines project and operational functions. Planning identifies capital investment
priorities over a term period (5, 10 or 50 years) and thus environmental assessment needs are defined.
Good planning, if instituted within the agencies through personnel strengthening and judicious
investments in equipment, provides the agency with the requisitc skills for evaluating asscssment noeds
for future projects, e.g. dcfining comprchcnivc TORs, acquiring competent assistance in their
implementation, and critically evaluating the rcsults of their cfforts. Good asscssment always
contributes to an ovrall picture of the environmental resources, in the same way as pieces of a puzzlc
fit together. One task of the in-house environmental planning function is to assemble the puzzle, and to
know when a picec does not fit.
Planning devolves onto operational tasks, including monitoring and coordination. Rcciprocal links
between monitoring within the agency, and the tasks of other agencies become clear. For instance, a
good monitoring program would uncover pollutant sources within the irrigation and drainage
components of HID's physical infrastructure. If the coordination function were adequately developed,
this would allow a feedback to the responsible agency (either PCB for regulation, PWD(PH) for
control of urban drainage, or a spccific industrial pollutcr), so that some actions could be taken to
curtail the problem. Clearly there are many reasons why this ideal system will not work very
effectively. Agencies don't like working together, and what seems clear and easy to one party is a long
and difficult road for another. Nevertheless, a rational framework for management is the best hope,
regardless of whether it can be expected that all partics will conform. This is why the role is defined as
coordination, which in a way is a diplomatic fimctioii.
6.2. Specific Responsibilities
6.2.1.    Planning
The Northwest India Drainage Project and the Water R-sources Plan Study provide a basis for
mitating regional enviromnental planning within HID. These studies can be executed in a manner to
guidc HID into related activities by giving them a basis in action: defining futwe project components
and associated EA requirements, establishing prioritics for monitoring water quantity and quality, and
assigning roles to other water managment agencies. Thc enviromnental components of these projects
should be expanded eitber by revising the existing TORs or by adding a parallel technical assistance to
address water resources issues fiom an environmental perspective.
The objective ofthe environmenal component is to develop the analytical fiamework, infastructure
and capability for understanding the water resources system in Haiyana State and its linkages to



29
bcneficiarics. Therc would thcn bc tie forecasting abilily within HID to make reliabic cstimatcs of
shortfalls in quantity and water quality probicms for facility planning and rcgulation of pollutant
dischargcs, boti functions to bc carried out by othcr agencics. Othcr tasks associatcd with
cnvironmcntal managemcnt would dcvolvc from this prirary anlytical framework, including sectoral
managcmcnt needs (such as a variety of potcntial critcria related to agricultural practice) watcr quality
monitoring within the opcrational framework of HIlD, and specific aspects of asscssment which requirc
longer Icad times for baselinc data accumulation (such as, for instance, defining the scopc of a
rcscLtlcment problem in the event of rcscrvoir construction).
Logical linkagces can generally be found among most all sectoral managemeat issues, and
envirornnmtal planning allows thcse issucs to be traced out and incorporated into a multisectoral
management strategy. If the linkages arc not cxploitod, thcn management planning appcars disjointed
and irrcelvant. On the other hand, proper devclopmcnt of the issues provides the potential for an
integrated approach to overall cnvironmental improvcment throughout the regional planning arca. For
instance, a developed understanding of watcr resources issues would necessarily includc dainage.
From that cvaluation, potential flood cvcnts become clearer, and flood control itself is taken up in order
that the necessary mcans for mitigating flood damages - within the contcxt of mnid- or long term action
planning - is devcloped. Thesc flood control components necessarily involve urban drainagc and land
use issues, which arc logically considered if a meaningful flood mitigation stratcgy is to be provided.
Urban wastc managemcat (both solid and liquid) arc nocessazy adjuncts to the overall nexus of issucs
through numerous linkages. Clearly suchi a planning approach involves numerous agencies for
involvcment in any potcntial implemcntation scheme. It also becomes clear why TORs for such
projccts appear as a complex and ill-dcfinod mix of terminology that on first glance dcfies rational
analysis. This is not the case in practice if the logical linkages among the issues are exploited properly.
Optimally, such a rcgional cnviromncntal planning projcct vould bc coordinated by a Statc-appointed
conunittce with represcntatives from all conced agencics, and the counterpart team for tde work
would bc seconded from cach agency. Tic tcam mix would rcflect the relative importance of the
respective agencics in managemcnt of the resource, with HID taking a lead role in implementation.
Involvcment of othcr agencies is critical. Basclinc infonnation from the Pollution Control Board (PCB)
is essential for a complete understanding of water quality in the State. PCB is the only agency in a
position to forecast improvements in industrial effluent quality. The regional plan should incorporate
pre-fcasibility level proposals for centralized industrial treahment facilities where necded, and should
propose establishment or strengthening of industrial estatcs equipped with adequate waste management
infirastructurc. PWD(PH) has a similar role concening urban wastewater, and a planning unit in this
agency should also participate in the plan fonnulation. Since HID provides water to urban and
industrial users within the State, it is in a position to roquest their participation. All round
strngthening results. By coordinating inputs froinm all sectors, the traditional domains of these agencies
are preservcd, the inputs to the plan are clear, and the rcsults should be valid and useful for future
water resources-cum-enviromnental planning in Haryana.
6.2.2.    Monitoring
The monitoring program for HID should be established in conjunction with planning projects, and
extended into operational activities foilowing the completion of those projects. Thc program should be
complemented by other monitonng performed by the Pollution Control Board (PCB) and by
PWD(PH), but should not be redundant with activities of these groups. Some of the functions
prescribed here may be taken on by PCB if it has the manpower, equipment and interest in doing so.



30
Proposed HID monitoring activities can be classified as thrwc typcs: ambicnt, survcillanec and
dischargc monitoring. Ambient monitoring cstablishcs basic fealures of water quality within thc
system (including groundwater, irrigation canals and points in dic drainagc systen). Surveillance
monitoring is intended to identify impacts on the systcm by discharges of urban and industrial
wastewater, agricultural runoff and infiltrating industrial wastcwatcr. Discdargc monitoring provides
data on thc quality of drainagc water as it leavcs the system, e.g. is discharged into the main rivcr
systcms. In all, monitoring is performed on the following types of water: irrigation channels at main
headworks and at specific points throughout the systcm, monitoring and supply wcels at various dptlhs
in the aquifer, drains at specified points, and impoundments and reservoirs that are intcrlinked with the
irrigation or drain systems.
6.2.2.1.   Ambient Monitoring
The purpose of ambient monitoring is to detect long term trends in water quality, particularly with
regard to geochemical parameters related to dissolved solids. It can also be used to identify general
trends related to pollution from human activity. Ambient monitoring should focus on total cation and
anion balances, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, suspended solids, pesticide residuals, and total organic
carbon or biQchemical oxygen demand. Ambicnt sampling should be undertaken at the main
hcadworks on the upper reaches of the system, at representativc locations where distributor canals
branch from main canals, at representative fecders, at minor drainage channels, at main drains, at
representative reservoirs, ponds or impoundments within the system, and in groundwater. Sampling
and analysis should be pcrformed at the peak of the rainy season, and at two or three other periods of
the year, one of which represents the scasonal low flow period. Table 4 itemizes a potential ambient
sampling and analysis program.
6.2.2.2.   Surveillance Monitoring
Surveillance monitoring is performcd wherevcr spccific problems with water quality are suspectod.
The purpose is to isolate the cause for deterioration in water quality. Generally up- and downstrcam
(or gradient, in the case of groundwvater) monitoring is performed in the problem area. Pollutant
parameters depend in part on the type of problem under surveillance. For instance, an ambient
monitoring program might tum up increasing conecntrations of pesticides in drainage water from a
specific irrigated area. The question posed might involve identifying the typcs of agricultural practices
that are contributing to the elevated levels. Surveillance monitoring might be perfomwd at minor
drainage outlets specifically for pesticides, or using totl organic carbon as an indicator. Surveillance
monitoring might be applied to some of the lakes in Haryana that receive irrigation drainage water, in
order to determiine sources of pollution that affect watcr quality in the lakes. Surveillance monitoring is
not recommended in the first stagc programn for HID, as it involves specific tecbnical skills that are not
presently available (or not soon to be available) within the Department.
6.2.2.3.   Discharge Monitoring
Discharge monitoring focuses on the main drains from the Haryana irrigation system, and their points
of outfall into the major natural drainage courses, the Jamuna and Gaggar Rivers. Monitoring for the
first year should establish the range of water quality parameters for the drains. Following that, a
surveillance monitoring approach may be used to determine sources of particular problems, and to
define a control plan for improving watcr quality conditions.
6.2.3.    Environmental Assessment
HID should be in a position to perform EA work for project components within the fiamework of a
larger environmental management structure. In some cases specific environmental assessment tasks
can be contracted to consulting organizations and research institutes. Non-govemmental organizations
(NGOs) may also fill specific EA task assignments especially in the areas of social and cultural values.
NGOs can provide such support because of their ability to work at the village level in areas directly
affecting the lives of the people, such as public health and sanitation.



31
6.2.4.    Coordiinationi
Potential coordination arrangemcnts luhvc bcen dcrined carlier in iho rcport. hecsc includc work in
prcparation ora regional cnviromnncital plan, and ongoing monitoring of all aspccts of watcr quality in
the State. IlD is rcsponsible for thc distribution and drainagc of surfacc and groundwater resources
throughout thc Statc, and can coordinatc wihd HPCB, HDOE and otlicr agcncies in maintaining
benericial uscs of thcsc watcrs.
6.3. Intemal Strengthening
Intcrnal strcngthcning of lID in environmcntal managcmcnt skills occurs in conjunction with
fonnulation of the regional environmcntal plan. Training is imparted to countcrparts, equipment is
obtained and placed into use, and famniliarity is oblained by HID withi the techniques for environmcntal
management. The proposals set fordt herein arc for implementation ovcr a fivc year time span. ThC
implemcntation schcdule is contained in Chaptcr 6 of the report.
6.3.1.    Personnel
Overall personnel assigned to cnvironmental managcmcnt tasks within HID should consist of the
following:
*  Executive Enginecr (1)
*  Assistant Engineer (2)
* .. 2ior Engineer (3)
X Other personnel as defined by future activities
The placement of thesc personnel within the Dcpartmcnt is described in a following section,
"Institutional Arrangemcnts".
6.3.2.    Equipment
Most equipment is obtained and placed into usc as part of the regional planning projcct. Ultimatcly the
items of equipment may be hcld by departmcnts other than HID, depending on which agencies maintain
final rcsponsibility over specific cnvironmcntal management tasks. Possib'z items of equipmcnt
include:
*  Vehicles (2 or more)
*  Field sampling equipmcnt including velocity meters, manual sampling apparatus, automatic and
composite samnplers, fieid pH, conductivity and ORP meters;
* laboratory equipment including distillation apparatus, analytical balance, IR spectrophotometer,
reflux columns, miscellancous glassware, and othcr equipment needed for conducting basic wet
cnhmistry analysis of water samples;
*  gas chromatography and TOC analyzer (in the cvcnt that a rescarch institutc can bc establishied
with sufficient capability for proper carc and usc of this item of equipment);
*  computers for data processing and analysis, and report preparation.
6.3.3.    Training
There are three main avenues for training which should be pursued:
*  Counterpart on-the-job training via the regional cnvironmental planning project
*  Study tour for Superintending and Chief Enginecrs for a duration of one month in the USA (or
elsewhere) in order to familiarize them with approaches for environmcntal management of
irrigation projects
*  Masters degree study for two Executive and/or Junior Engineers in Environmental/Water
Resources Engineering (assuming thesc individuals can be bound to a period of tenurc within the
Department following their retum).
6.3.4.    Outside Technical Support
Initial outside support for the environmental management program comes in the form of a consultancy
to assist in the preparation of the regional environmcntal plan and associated EAs for WRCP project



32
components. Further outsidc support may be necded; substantivc support could comc from the
proposed caviromncntal rescardb institute.
6.4. Public Awareness
Thc rcgional environmncntal plan should support a comprchensive public awarcncss program which
encompasscs the public participation nceds of thc EAs for projcct componcots. Thc public awarcncss
campaign should be initiated as a joint effort of the HID and othcr water management agcncics in
lary3na Statc, spcrifically Itle Departmecnt of Environmcnt.
6.4.1.    Formal Hearings
Thesc should eacompass the scope of activitics proposed undcr thc WRCP, and should address specific
environmcntal issues. Broad issues that are taken up by the rcgional plan should also be discusscd.
One approach is to prepare informative articles for publication in statewide newspapers in order to
familiarize thc public on the issues. Formal hearings on aspects of planning and project development
can then be announced and the hearings held. Thc objcclive of the harings arc to (i) inforn thc pubic
of the State's activities in water resources planning, and (ii) obtain a view of concems from the affectcd
groups.
6.4.2.    Beneficiary/lPublic Participation
Thc formal hcarings also providc a basis for public participation in design or implemncntation of
selected project components. In particular tie fnnmces views on subsurfice drainage and water course
lining should be sought. NGOs which have rcsponsibie roles to play in the farming community should
bc involved in die public participation effort.
6.4.3.    Public Information
A schedule for providing puiblic information conceming the findings of the regional cnvironmental plan
and the devclopment of the WRCP should be established. Radio, tccvision and newspapers providc
means for public information.
6.5. Institutional Framework
There are three disfinct phaSCs to the developmcnt of the environmcntal managment capability within
HID. During the preparation of the proposed regional plan, HID will be involved in both project
development and design, followed by construction activities associated with the project. Construction
will extend beyond the end of the regional planning activities. Finally, after the complction of
construction activities, the period of opcrations and maintenancc begins. These phases are not distinct;
they overlap and activities associated with a particular phase may already be in progrcss, or similar
activities may continue following the end of the WRCP. In any case, the proposed institutional
fiamewvork differs with respect to these phases.
The institutional fraimwork involvcs formation of an Enviromnental Unit within the R&D Division,
and placement of individuals in key locations within other units, depending on the types of activities
that predominate within the Departnent at any given period of time.
6.5.1.    First Phase
The major impetus is provided by the regional planning project. The Executive Engineer should be
located within the R&D Division of HID, supported by a single Assistant Engineer. Togethcr these
personnel should constitute the Environmental Unit within HID and coordinate counterpart efforts in
the planning project. An Assistant Engineer should be located within the project Division to interface
environmentl planning with project design work. This person should be responsible for
implementation of the EAs for project components. He is part of the Environmental Unit also, but is
assigned to Projects for the duration of the design work.
6.5.2.    Second Phase



33
Following the commcnccmcint of construction activities, a singlc Junior Enginecr should be assigned to
the construction division to assure lhat construction impacts arc minimized and other conditions
associated with thc EMPs arc carried out. The two rcnaining Junior Engineors continuc to support
rcgional planning and EA work tirouglh the Environmental Unit in the R&D Division.
6.5.3.    Third Phase
This phasc is distinguished by the end of th regional planning work, and completion of tie EA and
design work associated with the WRCP. It is mostly taken up with ongoing operational activities.
Environmental components of operations are defined during thc course of environmcntal plan
dcvclopmcnt, but may involve monitoring water quality, balancing conjunctive use schenmes involving
trcated wastewater and salinc groundwatcr, maintaining ficld drainagc courses, and monitoring long
tenn activities associated with tde cnvironmental managcment plan.
Coordination should originate from the Environment Unit within R&D. Individual cnvironmental
officers should be assigned to the three main operational groups: canals, lift irrigation schiemes, and
drainage. Thcse persons will report to the Executive Engineer in charge of Environment, but will work
within these other units to maintain close contact with activities having potential cnvironmental impact.



34
7.   RECOMMENDATIONS: PRIORITY ACTION PLAN
Notc: Base vcar: 1993.
Year One
* Establish a Joint Executive Committce for Environmcntal Management within the Haryana Statc
Govermrcnt, composed of senior level officials from rcspective watcr management agencics, in
particular IUD, HPCB, HDOE HDOA and PWD(PH), and chaired by tic Dcputy Govemor of the
Statc.
*  Form the Environment Unit within HID by appointment of an Executive Engineer to the
rcsponsibility of Environmental Managemcnt Coordinator of HID. (Alternatively, an Assistant
Enginear may be appointed to thc position and promoted after the first year.)
*  Preparc the IEE and Soctoral EA for the WRCP, and formulate a comprchensive TOR for a
Statewidc rcgional cnviromnental plan focusing on multisectoral aspects of water resources.
* Identify and expeditc funding mcchanisms for the regional plan in order that benefits can bc shared
among various water managemcnt agencies within the laryana State Govermcat, specifically
HID, HDOE, HPCB and PWD(PH).
*  Bcgin the regional cnvironmcntal plan project by the last quarter of year onc.
Year Two
*  Make additional personncl assignments to thc Environment Unit witiin HID.
** Perform EAs for WRCP projcct components.
** Set initial investment requirements for an ainbient water quality monitoring laboratory, to be
managed by the regional planning team, with final assigmncat ef responsibility postponed until
completion of the plan.
E* Establish the monitoring program for HID in conjunction with the regional environmntal planning
project, and cxtend it into operational activities following the completion of that project.
** Utilize existing monitoring facilities of the Pollution Control Board (PCB) to support the project
until additional facilities can be developed.
* Develop criteria for water entering the irrigation system, either from main stram allocations, from
runoff and drainage water, or from saline or firsh conjunctive use water.
*  Develop a framework for investment and mobilization for the envirnental research institute
focusing on water resources and irrigation managenent issues.
* Establish water quality criteria to control the quality of exbactions from the system for
urban/village water use and for irrigation.
*t Support a comprehensive public awareness program which encompasses the public participation
needs of the EAs for project components. The public awareness campaign should be initiated as a



35
joint cffort of tic HID anud ollicr watcr management agcncics in laryana Statc, spocifically thc
Dcpartmcnt of Environmcnt.
l Thc doublc asterisk in placc of a bullet indicates a critical activity which should takc placc within
the framework of thc rcgional cnvironmental plan. Not all activities occunring within thc plan
framework arc dcscribed in thc priority action plan.
'  Dcvelop and implcmcnt a study tour for Superintcnding and Chicf Engineers for a duration of onc
month in thc USA (or cisewhcrc) in order to familiarizc senior officials with approaches for
cnvironmcntal managemcnt of irrigation projccts.
*  Set critcria for all typcs of crop water regardlcss of whcdicr it cntcrs thc distribution system,
including saline groundwater and drainagc/urban wastewatcr used for irrigation.
Year Three
** Identify priority invcstmcnt projccts for cnvironmcntal protection within the Statc.
* Provide counterpart on-thc-job training via the regional environmental planning project
* Provide mastcrs degree study for two Assistant and/or Junior Engineers in Environmental/Watcr
Resources Engineering.
* Concludc the regional planning project.
Year Four
* Rcassign HID environmcntal personncl from projcct rclated activitics to irrigation and drainagc
divisions.
* Impicnent the operational framework for Statewide environmental-cum-watcr rcsources
managemcnt.
Year Five
* Implemcnt the investment recommendations of the regional cnvironment plan, specifically those
conceming urban and industrial wastewater and solid waste management.



36
Table 1: Checklist of Potential Issues for an EA (from WVB OD 4.00 Annex A2)
ISSUE                 SUPPORTING                 DEGREE OF                EVALUATION               AGENCY RES-             APPLICATION
DOCU1ENTATION            RELEVANCE TO HID              APPROACH             PONSIBLE FOR EMP
Agrochemicals           OPN 11.0 1/D 4.00 Annex    Minor/WB rqrmt. should  Bckgrnd. Info. on Chemical   Dept of Agriculture and   EMP; implementation by
C                          be met                  Use; prepare IPM Plan       Ag. University          Ag. Extens. Service
Biological Diversity    OPN 11.02/0D 4.00 Annex    Minor/WB rqrmt. should  Flora/Fauna Survey;, identifi-  Dept otForests and  Project Design/Wildlife
D                          be met                  cation of Endangered Species  Scientific Institutes  Protection in ENV
Coastal Management      CZM Planning Guidelines    N/A
Cultural Properties     OPN 11.03/0D 4.50           Minor/WE rqrmt. should  Inventory monuments; docu-  H1D and EA team        Project Design/Relocation
be met                  ment design avoids conflict                        in exteme cases
Dams and Reservoirs I/   OD 4.00 Annex B            Major, if component is    Multiple approaches to   Multiple agencies       Planning, design and
included in HID program   evaluation.              responsible             EMP
HazardousiToxic Mtls.    general literature         Negligible              Through [PM (see Agro-     D.O.                    D.O.
chemicals, above)
Induced Development     general literature          Negligible; beneficial  Regional Environmental     Multiple agencies       Multisectoral Planning
Planning                   responsible             o/s of project EA
Industrial Hazards      WB Tech. Paper No. 55       N/A
Int'l Treaties/Agreements  general literature       Moderate                Review project planning for   State and Central Govt;   Project Planning and EA
compliance with Int'l      HID
Treaties
Int'l Waterways         general literature          Moderate                Review project planning for   State and Central GoVt;   Project Planning and EA
compliance with Int'l      HID
Treaties
Involuntary Resettlement  OMS 2.33/OPN 10.08/OD     Significant for dam pro-   Prepare detailed resettlement  H[D or delegated  Resettlement planning,
4.30                       ject; otherwise minor   plan; evaluate in EA        authority;, EA contractor   EA; EMP; Post
evaluation
Land Settlement         OD 4.31 (to be issued)      Minor, beneficial       Forecast changes in land use   H1D; EA contractors  EA: Reg Env. Planning
Natural Hazards         OD 8.50                     Minor (flooding)        Perform flood routing      HID                      Project Design docu-
through proposed structures                        mented in EA
Occupational Health     general literature          Negligible              Through EPM (see Agro-     D.O.                    D.O.
chemicals, above)
Tribal Peoples          OMS 2.34/OD 4.40            Minor (new lift schemes)  Through EA               HID or delegated        Resettlement planning,
authority, EA contractor   EA; EMP; Post
evaluation
Tropical Forests        OPN 11.02/0D 4.00 Annex    N/A
D
Watersheds              OD 4.00 Annex D             Significant             Regional Env. Planning, EA   Depts. of Forests in Har-   Reg Plan; EA; EMP
yana and nearby states
Wetlands                OPN 11.02                   Minor                   EA Evaluation; EMP         Dept. of Forests        Project Planning, EA
Wildlands               OPN 11.02/OD 4.00 Annex    MinoruWB rqrmt. should  Flora/Fauna Survey, identifi-  Dept of Forests and  Project Design/Wildlife
D                          be met                  cation of Endangered Speies  Scientific Institutes  Protecdon in EhP
I/     Note this is not an "issue" as much as it is a "project type", and may involve many of the issues itemized in this table.



37
Table 2: Environmental Resources tsid Issues Relevant to lilD
_NVIRON-            ACTIVITY    TIMl;E RAME   AF IECTED    APIRQAC I
MENTAL             CAUSINQ    QF IMPACT                      9RQ5IE                 1Q
ISSUE             IMPACT                                                    MITIGATION
PMHYICAL
Watcrlogging        Natuml Causcs;      Long Tcnn           Land Uscrs          Drainagc. Lining or
Lenkage; Irrigation                                         Canals
Soil Salinity       Natural Causcs; Ap-  Long Tcrnm         Land Uscrs Watcr   Drainnagc. flushing.
lication or Watcr in                    Uscrs               variations in irri-
poorly drained soils                                        gation practice
Scdimcntation       Erosion in Waler-   Immndiatc; seasonal  IUD                Watcrshld Managc-
sihcd;                                                      menl
Water Quality      UtrlmdnagriculturnU    Short and long tcrnm   1 ID, Watcr Users    Pollution Control
industrial pollution                                        and Management
Groundwatcr         Ovcr pumpagc or    Long Term            Gwoundwater Uscs   Controls' Auxiliary
Dcpiction           grodwailer                              (now and future)    Supply, Rechargc
BIOLOGICAL
Changes in Flora   Extension of irriga-   Mediiun Tcn,i     National I lcritage    Limits on Growth;
and Fauna           tion to ncw areas                                           Estabi. of Reserves
Wildlifc            Extcnsion oirriga-   Mediun Tcrm        National licritage    Limits on Growth;
Protection          ton to new areas                                            Eslabl. of Reserves
Aquatic             Disclargc ofpollu-   Mediium Tcrm       National I lcritage;   Engineering and
Rcsources          tants; diversionis                       Beneficial Users    mgt controls
SOCIO-ECONOMIC
Public Healtt       Poor Drainagc.      Medium lcnun        Public              Engineering; Public
Standing Watcr                                              leilth Survcillance
Land Use            Extension of Irriga-   Near Tenti       Sc.cctcd subgroups   Evaluntion or Scv-
Cmanges             tion into new  reams                                        crity, Modification
Displacemcnt of   Extension of Irriga-   Immediatc          Sciccted subgroups   Evaluation of Sev-
Tribals             tion into new Areas                                         einty, Modification
Rcsetlecmcnt and   Extncsion of Irriga-  Immediatc          Sclctexd subgroups   Evaluation of Scv-
Rclocation          tion into new Are                                           crity, Modification
Village-Urban       Pre-cstablished Use   Medium Tern       Bceneficial Uscrs   Evaluation of
Watcr Supply        Rights; Pollution                                           Highest Use. Design
CULTURAL AND OJALTY-OF-LIFE VALUES
Cultuial artifacts   Encrnachment       Immediatc           National Heritage    Project Design
Cultural Nonns    Employment            Medium Tenr         Seleted Subgroups   Evalunaion of Sev-
Change                                                      crity, Modification
Employment and   Employment             Medium Tern         Sclccted Subgroups   Evaluation of Sev-
Livclihood          Change                                                      crity, Modification



ANNEX I
List of References
WORLD BANK DOCUMENTS (prepared for and by WB)
1.1.   West, D. W., "Rcport on Agricultural Options for Utilizing Poor Quality Drainage Watcr in
Relation to Enginecring Solutions"; Watcr Resources Consolidation Project - Haryana;
(undated).
1.2.   WB, Haryana Irrigation II Project (Credit 1319-IN) "Project Completion Report"; (early
draft); 28 August 1992.
1.3.   WAPCOS, North West Drainagc Projcct "Draft Final Report".
1.4    WB Agricultural Division, Asia Tecinical Dept., "Asia Water Rcsources Study: Stage I"
(threc volumes); 29 April 1992.
1.5    WB Environment Dept., "Environmental Asscssment Souroebook" (throe volumes); World
Bank Technical PaperNo. 140; 1991.
1.6    WB (International Commission on Irrigtion and Drainage), "Planning the Management,
Operation, and Maintenance of Irrigation and Drainage Systems"; World Bank Technical
Papcr No. 99; 1989
1.7    WB (Water Resources Management Working Group), "Water Resourecs lnstitutions: An
Ovcrvicw of Indonesials Institutions and Possible Changes Rcflecting the Expericnecs of Other
Countries" (undated).
1.8    WB (Rcsident Mission, India), "India Northwest Drainagc Project Phasc 11 Studics: Tcnns of
Reference for Consultancy Services"; under trnsmittal dated I October 1992.
1.9    WB, Asia Technical Division., "Water Rcsources Institutions: Some Principlcs and Practices";
World Bank Technical Paper No.           ; 199_. (draft version)
1.10   WB, Asia Technical Division., "Selected Guidelines for Enginecring Staff in the Review and
Supervision of Irrigation, Drainagc, Flood Control and Broader Water Resources Programs";
draft report, February 1990.
1.11
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA AND STATE GOVERNMENTS (preparod for and by   J
2.1.   HID; Haryana Irrigation IH Project Stati.- Report", July 1991.
2.2.   HID; "Preparation of Water Resources Consolidation Project, Up-to-date Progress" (undated).
2.3.   HID; Water Resources Consolidation Project, 'Clearance of Major and Medium Irrigation
Projects frorn Environmcntal and Ecological Aspects"; January, 1992.
2.4    WAPCOS, "Guidelines for Sustainable Water Resources Development and Management"
(draft) (2 Vols.); for Central Watcr Commission, New Delhi; July 1992.
2.5   HRD, "Handbook on Irrigation Statistics", August 1991.
2.6    Haryama State Government, Haryana Canal and Drainage Act, 1974", Jain Genel House,
Chandigarh, 1983.
2.7    Central Board of [rTigation and Power, "Warabundi Systen: Some Basic Concepts; Popular
Leaflet 3, Deemnber 1985.
2.8    Public Works Department (Public Health), Haryana- Water Rcsources Consolidated
Programme under the World Bank Sponsored Scheme, (undated)



*                                                                                     r
TOR. for Eivironincictal Consultant
Objective: Ilic objectivc is to pirovidle a(lvice to the I-laryana Irrigation
Dcpartnciit on its programtl and general actions regarding institutional,
procedural and iinplernciltauioni mattcrs necessary to fully meet its specific
responsibilitics in lhc cnvironimcntal area ovcr the next fivc years. The
advicc will bc provided in the cotirsc of thc work and througlh a report
prcscnting a draft program of actions.
Background: Tlnc I-laryana Dcpartmccnt of Irrigation is examining its
activities in all of its areas of rcsponsibilitics so it may prepare a five-year
program that reconciles its priority work witlh its allocated budget. The
Department's basic responsibilities iniclude bulk water supply to irrigation
anid some village and urbani users, irrigation distribution, drainage, flood
control and aspects of groundwater martagement. It is a line agency with
data collection, planning, design, construction and O&M functions. It
engages in essentially no regulatory activities. hle state govremment has an
independent environmcntal organizationi that perforns the regulatory
functions in the water area, including setting standards and regulations,
monitoring conditions and enforcinlg compliance.
Scope of Work: Thle consultant will become familiar with the nature and
extent of the Department's scrvices arid related work that may directly have
an cnvironmental impact or entail environmental criteria that must be met,
such as drinking water standards. Ile will assist thle Department formulate a
five year program specifying general activities, including routine work in
fulfilling its specific responsibilities and any interilal strengthening needed to
improve its capability to better deal with environmental aspects of its work.
Perhaps the greatest potential impact at this stage of its work is on public
health and groundwater conditions. As a result, the activities will largely
consist of measuring the quality of its deliveries and drainage, monitoring
groundwater levels and instituting a decision process to respond to the
adverse Conditions that may arise. Any new facilities will, of course, dictate
that the Department has sound design and impact assessment capacity, or
employs outside assistance. The magnitude of these intemal activities will
depend on the conLent of the design and construction program that will
evolve for the five-year period and the changes instituted in O&M.
The tasks of the Consultant would include:
I.      Document the department's specific service and
performance responsibilities in the environmental area set



I
out in lcgishifion and(l rcgulations and dcfine any thal mnay
by precednlt oer traditioni usually bc imposed on such
agencies.
2.      Review prcsent activities carried out to fulFill thcse
responsibilitics, notinig any omissions.
3.      Estimate the nature and level of activities involved for the
department to mect its projccted overall program of work
and scrvices.
4.      Evaluate thic present capacity and that required for
meeting demands in the proposed five year period and at
the ten year horizon.
5.      Prepare a set of recommended activities with estimates of
personnel, equipment, training, outside support and
budget to meet future demands. (Any institutional
recommendations should be incorporated in the parallel
institutional study.)
The Consultant should formulate his work plan and coordinate his
activities with the consultants concurrently working in the institutional and
O&M areas of the Department's activities. In particular, the Consultant
should join the others in examining the nature of the existing and proposed
program encompassing formal hearings, beneficiary / public participation
and public information to facilitate general acceptance and actual execution
of its programs. The resulting recommendation should be incorporated into
the institutional report, unless there is substantial disagreement.
Reports: The Consultant will submit a Program of Study and report outline
for review with the Department. The COnsultant will prepare a final report
setting out information gathered, evaluation, findings and recommendations.
The individual component recommendations should be ranked by priority so
that the final program selected by the Department will meet the most urgent
needs within the budget allocation. A draft of the final report should be
submitted to the Department for comment prior to finalization.
Arrangements or Work: The Department will provide an office and
designate an individual to work with the Consultant. The Department will
gather all information, arrange access to files and schedule meetings as
required to complete the assignment.



Annex III           Review Abstracts for Selected References
I. I    West, D. W., "Rcport on Agricultural Options for Utilizing Poor Quality Drainagc Watcr in
Rclatien to Enginoering Solutions"; Water Resources Consolidations Project - Haryana; (undated).
CONTENTS
This is a 47 page tcchnical doctmient which details options for subsurface drainage and disposal of salt
within those arcas of Haryana subjccted to watcrlogging and soil salinity. It contains a valuable
synopsis of research on drainage and soil salinity, and provides somc uscful reconunendations for
mitigation without usc of a rcgiunal drainagc system.
RELEVANCE TO PRESENT PROJECT
Since these issues (waterlogging and soil salinity) are probably the most critical environmental
problcms associatcd with irrigation projects in India, and in particular thesc arc the problems that
directly stem from irrigation practices, it is critical that any environmental study for the WRCP
consider these issues closely. It is likely that the WRCP will be judged, from an enviroonental view,
on the extent to which it alleviates cxisting waterlogging and soil salinity and precludes the cxpansion
of arcas subjectod to these problcms.
INFORMATION TO BE NOTED
The report contains a large amnount of useful information. Much of it is too technical to be considcrcd
in the present study. The important point to note is that there are solutions to these problems which
have undergone extensive rcsearch in India, and which can be incorporated into the WRCP following
further study and evaluation. Most likely the most cost effective solution will be a combination of
means for drainage and dis,osa1, coupled with specific irrigation and cropping practices. This would
indicate the need for oducation at the farmcr level and also for an intensification of monitoring and
local controls. Organization then becomes a key factor in any set of solutions. This document should
be referred to in further development of the final report for the present assignment.
1.2 WB, Haryana Irrigation 11 Project (Crodit 13 19-IN) "Project Complction Report"; (early
draft); 28 August 1992.
CONTENTS
This - 50 pp. document is a post mortem review of the Irrigation 11 project, which documents some of
die problems associated with implementation and provides somc insight into lessons leamed from that
project.
RELEVANCE TO PRESENT PROJECT
Its primary relevance is in providing a thorough outline of the Irr-Il project, which is the immediate
predecessor to the prcsent WRCP. It notes a number of difficulties being faced by the HID in
irrigation management, and notes how the Irr-l1 in some cases failed to alleviate thosc problems. The
report also indicates a number of issues for the future, and in that regard the WRCP is the rightful
place for addressing those issues, which include introduction of new technology and ideas, opcrational



ANNEX III
improvements, land drainagc, necd for foreign expertisc, domcstic water demand, and "short post
incumbenicy".
INFORMATION TO BE NOTED
Post-mortcm revicw of somc of thc studies associatcd with the Irr. - 11 proiect arc rclevant to WRCP;
otherwisc the project componcnts from the earlicr work do not havc significant bearing on WRCP
cnvironmcntal aspocts. Note that Irr. I&1[ both contain significant components for canal lining in ordcr
to save watcr but do not emphasize in the project evaluation whether groundwatcr rechargc (with
potential waterlogging) is affected. Pcrhaps closer obscrvation of wells in the arcas whierc lining is
taking place would revcal the cffect of lining on groundwatcr levels. Another point to mcntion is that
there arc a fcw studies relovant to cnvironmcntal issues, the most important being the pilot schicmc for
vcrtical drainage at Narwana. Sonic of the results of this study are favorabic with rcspect for the
potential for mixing high conductivity groundwater with surface water for irrigation on crops. This
study should bc extended in the prcscnL project (WRCP), with somc additional issucs dcfined such as
logistics and practicality of the tcchmique.
2.1    HID; "Haryana Irrigation 11 Projcct Status Rcport", July 1991.
CONTENTS
The - 27 pp. documnent contains a precise account of earlier work undcr WB financed Iff.- I&II
projects, and a description of the proposed work to bc undertaken under Irr.- Im (which has since becn
designated as WRCP).
RELEVANCE TO PRESENT PROJECT
This documcnt, along with Rcf. 2.2, providc a description of the proposed physical works for the
WRCP.
INFORMATION TO BE NOTED
Among other infornation, the document describes the cxtcnt and location for horizotal draina  works
to be installed under the WRCP (as presently envisioned). The objective is to provide drainage in areas
affccted by high watertabies and saline groundwater conditions. A total of 10,500 ha is targeted out of
a total of 16,000 ha cited in the documcnt. Targeted areas are in districts of lind, Hissar, Rohtakl
Sirsa and Faridabad. The statcd objectives include lowering of groundwater table and remova: of salt
from the crop root zone in the affected areas.
2.2    HID; "Prcparation of Water Resources Consolidation Project, Up-to-date Progress" (undated).
CONTENTS
This is a three page document wbich itemizes the physical works associated with the proposed WRCP.
These include:
* modeniization of existing canal systen
* construction of the Hatnikund Barrage and link channels
* new irrigation projects (5)
* construction and extension of minors
instalation of sprinider sets
* research and development, and training
* O&M component
* flood protection and drainage component



ANNEX III
RELEVANCE TO PRESENT PROJECT
Tbis is a prcliminary documcnt which will undergo extensivc modification and rcfinimcnt as the inputs
from various specialtics arc providcd to thc HID. l'hc prcsent study as wcll as those for O&M and
institutional aspects are intended to provide a framework for the WRCP. Thc valuc of thc documcnt
for tic prcscnt proicet is that it givcs a gcneral overvicw of the cxpectations of the HID for the WRCP.
It serves as a prcliminary pro fonna for thc WRCP.
INFORMATION TO BE NOTEID
There is no mcntion of institutional or cnvironmental issues in the pro forma, nor is there a mcntion of
drainagc components, despitc the cmphasis placed on drainage in the Wcst study (Rcf 1.1) and in the
WAPCOS study (Rcf 2.3), and despitc the fact that about 25% of the irrigated arca in Haryana is
subjected to watcrlogging and salination at various times of the year (Rcf 1.1).
2.3    HID; Watcr Rcsources Consolidation Project, "CIcarance of Major and Mcdium Irrigation
Projccts from Environmental and Ecological Aspects"; January, 1992.
CONTENTS
This 13 page document provides a reasonable shopping list of GOI requircments for rivcr vallcy
projects (as they are knowvn in Indian parlance) wlhich touches many of the issucs and identifies
information needs for EA. It points to the conclusion that environmental issues are not critical on the
WRCP. A strgy is proposed which involvcs dealing with obvious issues associated with specific
projcct componcnts, a fish laddcr at the barrage, for instance.
Therc are two serious qucstions on the WRCP: drainage and soil salinity. HID prefers to consider the
project cntircly bencficial in regard to thcse issues, In onc sensc this is true; however there arc at lcast
two rcasons why environmcntalists could take exception to the claim: (i) cxtcnsion of irrigated area
means more land potentially subjected to waterlogging, and (ii) despite a general ovcrall improvcnent,
the project likely does not provide all it can to nmitigate thcsc problems, and there is no comprchcnsive
srategy for doing so built into the project.
RELEVANCE TO PRESENT PROJECT
The documcnt provides a good review of the perspective of HID concerning cnvironmental issues. It
also indicates that HID is already exposed to the shopping list approach, and will not be surprised
when huge amounts of assessment, of essentially minor questions, are undertaken in order to provide an
adequate EA, fiom the standpoints of GOI and the Bank.
INFORMATION TO BE NOTED
Annexure 11 (entitled 'Haryana Irrigation I Project", but equally applicable to the perspective of HID
on WRCP) states that 'the project is not expected to have any negative environmcntal effects." It goes
on to state that waterlogging and soil salinity will be reduced as a result of the project, which is
important to help slow the rise in brackish water levels in parts of the state. It goes on to quote some
investnent needs for filly dealing with the problems. Note that the curet project prospectus (Ref
2.2) provides about 1/4 of the funding ox ginally proposed in Ref 2.1 for drainage, and will cover
about 114 of the waterlogged areas with drainage control facilities.



ANNEX III
2.4    WAPCOS, "Guidclines for Sustainabic Watcr Rcsour.xs Dcvclopmcnt and Managemcnt"
(draft) (2 Vols.); for CCntMI Water Commission, Ncw Dclhi; July 1992.
CONTENTS
This 400 pagc document contains a good dcal of general information on conducting EAs for water
resources projects. A general review does not reveal any new idcas or approachcs for doing EAs, and
thc secondary information contained in the report is poorly cdited and not particularly hclpful for
resolving somc confusing points about preparation of EAs. For insLance thc usc of matrices is
presented in the documcnt cven thoughi thcir usc is scidom put into practice in Asia. The report does
not show useful linkages between baselinc data and predictive tecluiques. The causc-and-cflcct, or
initiator-receptor model is not cxplaincd. Rcvicws of previous EA guidelines are of poor quality.
Though a more appropriate titie for the documcnt would be "EA Guidelines for Water Rcsource
Projects', the work does not add anything new to this subject. In gencral, more reports reproducing
earlier information on this already confusing topic only worsen the situation for thosc having to preparc
EAs. What is needed arc simplifying guidelines that get at the essential issucs and cut through all the
unprioritized and banal information dtat many think are needed for EA work.
RELEVANCE TO PRESENT PROJECT
The report can provide the reader with information on baseline data necds, and on the typcs of issues
that necd to be considered. Thc report epitomizes (i) ovcremphasis on data without relating their usc to
evaluation of impacts, and (ii) the general failure to conduct coherent, integrated EAs that can support
rational decision making. In these two senses, thc rcport is illustrative.
INFORMATION TO BE NOTED
Thcre is no discernibly important information to be noted in the report, even though, as previously
stated, the work can be used for guidance in how (not) to conduct an EA.



ANNEX IV
MINUTES O1 MEETINGS
TW/3 Novcmbcr 1992
Notcs of mecting with Chris Pcrry
I met yestcrday moming (2 Nov) to discuss my assignment with Mr. Chris Pcrry at the World
Bank OfficCs at Dc0lii. Hc provided some uscful insiglht conceming his cxpectations from thc
cnvironmcntal componcnt of thc WRCP, which I will try to summarizc hcrc.
First, thcrc will likcly not bc any further largc watcr rcsource projects to bc carried out in Haryana.
Thc land is flat, and watcr rcsources havc alrcady bcen developed to their maxinum cxtcnt. What
remains is to optimize the system in order to prevcnt canal losscs and introducc morc cfbctivc
(conscrvativc) mcans of irrigation.
Therc is also a significant problcm associated with watcrlogging and soil salinity which the Bank
has becn attempting to get the GOI to addrcss in a morc conccrtod fashion. The North Wcst
Drainagc Project, for onc, was an attcmpt to look at the necd for a regional drainagc systcm for the
States of Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana. Hc cxplained the issucs associated with introducing
drainagc water into the Ghaggar Rivcr, that thc law is equivocal as to whether India violates its
agreement with Pakistan by doing so.
He provided me with two rcports (Rcfs. 1.1 and 1.2) and allowcd mc to review a third rcport (Rcf
1.3) whilc at the WB office. Other items were discussed.
TW/3 November 1992
Notes
I met with Chief Engineer R K. Bahtia and Superintcnding Engineer S. R. Malhotra both of
Haryana Irrigation Department (H1D). Also present was my support staff Mr. B S. Jain,
Executive Engineer. I was provided with a general description of the irrigation system operated by
HID, and maps of the irrigation canals and drainagc system were provided.
I discussed the proposed Watcr Resources Consolidation Project (WRCP) with Mr. Malhotra. He
provided me with a three-page document entitlod "Preparation of Water Resources Consolidation
Project, Up-to-date Progrcss" (undated, Ref 2.2) and also the 'Haryana Irrigation Ill Project Status
Report' (July 1991, Rcf .2.1), also by HID. We discussed my scope of work and I suggested that
the ID consider how I could best benefit them, in order to make the best use of my input over the
next three weeks. There is a distinct difference between the TOR, which does not specifically
mention project preparation for the WRCP, and the perspective which Mr. Malhotra seemed to
have, wherein he seemed most concemed with demonstrating that the WRCP did not have any
negative environmental consequences associated with the specific work components that are
prescntly incorporated into the project (Ref 2.2).
We agreed to meet again tomorrow to discuss the benefits expected from the HID from my
assignmint. We also agrced to a working arrangement whercin I will spend the morniings at the
HID offices and work in the aftemnoons at my hotel room.
TW/6 Nov. 1992



Minutes of Meeting wilh S. Bola Superintendiiig Enginieer
Public Works Department (Pniblic Ilealti)
On this datc I met in thc prcscnec of Mr. Malihotra with Mr. Bola and onc of his staff to discuss
thcir activitics in urban water supply and wastc managemcnt.
Water SuPply:
In Haryana thcrc are 80 towns (>20,000 pcrsons), 17 of which arc considered ; Class" (>grcater
than 100,000 persons) and some 6.745 villages (betwcen 500 and 20,000 personis. Among thc
towns PWD(PH) las reached a 60 % scrvicc lcvcl for watcr supply, mcaning that 60 % of thc
target per-capita allocation for water is being madc. All villagcs are provided with water supplics
via community standpipcs at the ratio of 1/100 persons.
Approximately 60% of the watcr comes frorn surfhec supplies from HID, and the balance from
groundwatcr. This figurc is for 10 reprcsentativc towns; an ovcrall figure for the State is not
available.
Thc proposed water supply strategy involves upgrading per-capita supplics to 40 Ipcd for thosc
villages now receiving Icss than that amount (2,700 villages), provision of 70 lpcd for villages
located in the descrt areas, in order to providc for stock watcring, and provision of 110 Ipcd for
villages and towns greater than 5,000 population to account for higher demands in the largcr
towns.
Sanitation and Seware Collection And Disposal
PWD(PH) is proposing to providc wastewatcr treatment systems (WWTS) for six "A Class" towns
using OECF funding from the Japanese govcmment (65%/o), with assistance of Haryana State
government and the Ccntral Government (cqual proportion of remainder). Thesc systems will be
located in the main industrial towns and will providc joint trcatmcnt for industrial wastes along
with urban wastes. PWD(PH) proposes to provide WWTS for ten of the remaining 11 "A Class"
towns through WB funding, possibly through the WRCP. A prospectus was provided for this
component (Ltef. 2.8). Mr. Bola discussed the need for this conponent because the continuing use
of urban drainage uater for irrigation of cropland, with potential negative health effects.
Mr. Bola also discussed a government policy to support pour flush toilets in homes through use of
a 50% subsidy on the installation cost (90% for below poverty line and scheduled caste families).
TW/ 10 Nov 1992
Meetng with Dr. B.S. Tanwar, Director of Groundwater HSMITC; and Mr. N. D. Madan, Deputy
Director of Groundwater Division at Kantal
I had a good discussion with Dr. Tanwar concerning the activitics of the HSMITC and also about
groundwater in general within Haryana State. Hc described HSMITC activities as consisting of
installation of public tubewells, generally with 12 - 18 in pump chambers and installed to about
1,000'. Tlhese wells can deliver up to 7 cfs in good condition. HSMITC also lines water courses
and has developed some useful working relationships with fanners groups to do this. It



An!NOI
manufactures lift pumps and submersibic pumps, gates, gearing and penstocks. It also does
transformicr and clcstric motor repair. Finkally, and most importanl from the standpoint of
cnvironment is its monitoring and data collation activitics concerning groundwatcr clcvations and
salinity lcvcls. Hc mcntions thc following about thc Haryana aquircrs:
*  largc variation in physical and dicmical paramctcrs
*  bcst aquifcrs along thC Jamuna, and second, along thc Gaggar, third along small rivcrs in S.
Haryana and 4th arc the salinc aquifcrs sprcad betwecn thcsc dcltaic scdimcntary sweet watcrs
*  along the Jamuna, there is sand to 500' with 25 - 50 % intcr bedded with clay, with a higher
percentagc of sand in thc upper laycrs
* Gaggar aquifcr is 20 - 40 % sand
*  aquifcrs arc always associated witi rivcrs, and therc is no regional aquifcr
* in the north bcdrock lics at 10,000', and in s at 1,000' so thcrc is a northern dip
*  '40 % of Haryana groundwatcr is frcsh, and 15 percent salinc in the upper 150"; the balancc is
brackish 2 - 6000 uS. Below 150', 15 % is bracksh and the balance is salinc (40 %, frcsh)
*  as long as drainagc is provided to soils the salts can bc removed; salts arc prcscnt in the
groundwater morc than in the soil
*  thcrc arc somc minor semi-confincd aquifcrs below 500' in somc areas and below 1,000' in
others
H-SMITC filcs pre-and post monsoon rcports describing their findings on changes in watcr lcvcls
with rcspect to the 1974 datum. It also provides infonnation on salinity as wcll as other
information. Haryana has about 0.5 million tubewells. Developmcnt in the canal command arcas
has introduced changes in watcr quality. Wherc watcr tables are rising, salinity incrcascs; however
there is no other factor contributing to the apparent spread in salinity at a given depth. Soil
salinity is measured by the CSSRI, and the findings arc that soils arc normally frcsh. Whcrc high
watcr tables exist there is variablc plant damagc. Alkalinity is nor a problem in fresh arcas subject
to high groundwater. Kamal has a sevcrc problem with alkalinc soils. Use of gypsum as a soil
additivc has helped the probleim significantly. Somc fanncrs are cxperimenting with the use of
marginally salinc water in the commnand. Other conjunctivc use schemcs involve the cxtensive
augmcntation tubewells along thc WJC.
There is about 7.5 MAF of net annual recharge in Haryana, of which about 70 % is currcntly be
extracted. Groundwater depletion is a local phenomenon; nevcrtheless it is a problem in some
arcas.
Land application of wastewater is done in some urban areas. Because of high water tables the
leaching of salts is prevented and leads to problems with soil productivity. There has been some
groundwater quality monitoring along solid wastc sitCs in Haryana, but virtually none in the areas
affected by urban drainage or industrial waste. There are no criteria for land application of waste
water to his knowledge. He states there is a rcal need for education   issues surrounding
groundwater.
12 Nov. 1992
Meeting with Uday Veer Singh, Environmental Engineer and Director for Pollution Control Board
of Hyana State.
He described the efforts to treat domestic effluents at 6 of the Class A towns as part of the Jamuna
Action Plan. PCB has district reprcsentatives througbout the State and supporting staff within the
district offices. Monitoring of industrial effluents for all waste producing industries (about 300) is



AnnoxL
donc at tcast yearly, with the main polluters (about 200) being monitored cvcry threc months.
Somc scif rcporting is provided by thc industries. Regulatory authority is provided by thc Watcr
Act as ancnded in 1988. 1 qucstioned whethier thc enforcement actions by PCB required the
approval of thc governor, and was told that is not thc case, that PCB has final say in cnforccmcnt
actions. PCB also reviews EIAs for largc industrics and thcrmal powcr installations. PCB has
authority to monitor and regulatc urban wastewater, and docs so in those cities where wastewater
trcatmcnt plants havc been installcd. Any planning for urban wastcwatcr v'uld be done by DOE
or the executing agency (PWD(PH)).
13 Nov. 1992
Mcting wiLh R. N. Malik, Joint Director of dic Haryana Departmcnt of thc Environmcnt
DOE has becn cstablished three years but only bccame active in thie last year. DOE of Haryana
State initiatcd the Jamuna Action Plan. Thc MOEF GOI has a cell which now oversecs the multi-
statc arrangements for the Plan. DOE has onc Director, I Joint Director, 2 Scicntists and some
clerical staff. Hc reminded me of the rccent guidelines fro MOEF that all international funded
projects will bc evaluated by DOE from the standpoint of envirnment
I asked him about guidelincs for this type of project, and he referred mc to the "Environment
Policy", which sets up the administrative requirenents for ELA, and he affirmed that HDOE will
review first before forwarding an EA to the Ccntral Governmcnt MOEF.
His personal opinion was that the project (WRCP) is "environmentally friendly" and then lie started
talking about the need of the hour is to augmnct supplies with more dams on the headwaters of the
Jamuna. He has spent a grcat deal of time thinking about how to build dams more effectively, and
has written a paper on the subject. He thinks the best approach is to build more smaller dams
instead of fewer small dams.
Again I tried to Icad him onto the topic of the WRCP. he said that he felt that waterlogging and
soil salinity were dcfinitely environmental probiems. He then stated that hc felt the Bank was at
fault by not advising India to further develop it hydropower potential.
I discussed the possibility of DOE being involved with HID in a regional plnning effort and he
seemed interested and thought that it would be a beneficial approach. He discussed the problem
with crop diseases and thought that land should be allowed to lay fallow at least two months before
the monsoon so that the "soil would be sterilized". Currently he thinks there is an excess demand
for chemical fertilizers and pesticides, with the latter at 5,000 tpy of use within the state. He
wanted me to suggest that an R&D center for environmental research be set up within the State.
13 Nov. 1992
Meeting with Dr. Batra, Director General of the Haryana Health Dept.
He and about five staff provided me with information on malaria and other endemic diseases in
Haryana. He first assured me that malaria is not a problem within the State and that the Health
Department strives to keep the incidence level below 2/1000 population (API index).
He described the controls implemcated by the Health Departnent to mainta the API index below
their target, which includes spraying in rural areas and provision of tablets. HE claims these are
available in every village dirougb local drug distribution centers. House to house inventories in the



A nncx lY
rural areas identirics sufferers. In urban areas I IPH sprays larvicides on stagnant water to control
mosquito brceding.
lic provided sonic statistics oi the total case count in die State for various years:
1976                        736,566
1991                        33,976
1992 (first ten mondis)     14,910
-lic described a responsc program initiated in 1991 bocausc thc ovcrall numbcr of cascs was oo
high for their policies .
HDIH used about 1,300 MT of pesticides annually over the last few years to control malaria.
I-IDII indicated its willingness to institutc a program for malaria control in workcr camps
associated with tic WRCP as long as IhID is willing to bear thc costs.
HIe also indicated there is a slight incidence of Japancse eiicphalitis in the State which is also
controlled by similar means. Falciparum incidencr is very low according to him. Therc is no
incidcncc of schistosomiasis in the State.
Thcrc are 93 primary hcalth carc ccntcrs, and 2,300 sub-entcrs. Therc arc 47 hospitals.
Their malaria progran confonns to dic National Malaria Prevention Program established by the
Ccntral Govemnment.



ANNEX V: TABLE 1
ENVRIONMENTAL CHECKLIST FOR PHYSICAL RESOURCES
Component                  Waterlogging        Soil Salinity     Sedimentation      Water Oualitv         Groundwater Devleon
CANAL SYSTEM
MODERNIZATION
Channel Lining             beneficial effect   beneficial effect   minor beneficial    minor beneficial   judicious project design can
effect              effect              be used to enhance
recharge
Modemization of the        D. O.               no effect         D. O.              D. O.                 no effect
Dadapur Headworks
LinkCanal                  D. O.               D. O.             D. O.              D. O.                 D. O.
CONSTRUCTION OF            no effect           D. 0.             beneficial effect    D. 0.               possible beneficial effect,
HATHNIKUND                                                                                              depending on design
BARRAGE
NEW IRRIGATION             possible negative    D. 0.            no effect          no effect             beneficial effect (major
PROJECTS                  effect                                                                        project benefit
CONSTRUCTION AND    beneficial effect          beneficial effect   D. 0.            D. 0.                 no effect
EXTENSION OF
MINORS
INSTALLATION OF            possible beneficial   D. 0.           D. 0.              D. 0.                 beneficial effect
SPRINKLER SETS            and negative
effects
SUB SURFACE                major beneficial    major beneficial   no effect         possible negative     no effect
DRAINAGE                  effect             effect                                effect
LINING OF                  D. 0.               D. 0.             D. 0.              no effect             judicious project design can
WATERCOURSES                                                                                            be used to enhance
recharge



ANNEX V; TABLE 2
ENVRIONMENTAL CHECKLIST FOR BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
Component                 Changes in Flora and Fauna            Wildlife Protection               Aauatic Resources
CANAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION
Channel Lining                 minor local impacts                no effect                        no effect
Modermization of the Dadapur    no effect                         D.O.                              D.O.
Headworks
Link Canal                     D.O.                               D.O.                              D.O.
CONSTRUCTION OF                D.O.                               minor local impacts during       potential impacts: analysis
HATHNIKUND                                                         construction                     necessary
BARRAGE
NEW IRRIGATION                 potential marginal effects (areas  no effect                         no effect
PROJECTS                       already under tubewell irrigation)
CONSTRUCTION AND               potential ecological change; some  D.O.                              D.O.
EXTENSION OF MINORS            evaluation necessary
INSTALLATION OF                D.O.                               potential effect for newly irrigated   D.O.
SPRINKLER SETS                                                     areas
SUB SURFACE DRAINAGE    beneficial effect                         potential impact for areas classified  potential effect on perennially
as wetlands                      submerged areas; neglible
LIN41NG OF                     D.O.                               no effect                         no effect
WATERCOURSES



ANNEX V: TABLE 3
ENVRIONMENTAL CHECKLIST FOR SOCIO-ECONONiC RESOURCES
Comnonent               Public Health    Land Use Changes         Tribals          Resettlement and      Vdlla2e-Urban WVater Sugplv
Relocation
CANAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION
Channel Lining                 beneficial effect   no effect           no effect         no effect               beneficial effect
Moderization of the Dadapur    no effect         D. 0.                 D. 0.             D. 0.                   D. 0.
Headworks
Link Canal                     beneficial effect   D. 0.               D. 0.             minor land acquisition    D. 0.
CONSTRUCTION OF                no effect         minor local effects    D. 0.            D. 0.                   D. 0.
HATHUIKTND BARRAGE
NEW DRRIGATION                 potential         beneficial effect     D. 0.             D. 0.                   no effect
PROJECTS                     waterlogging
CONSTRUCTION AND               beneficial effect   D. 0.               D. 0.             D. 0.                   D. 0.
EXTENSION OF MINORS
INSTALLATION OF                no effect         D. 0.                 D. 0.             no effect               no effect
SPRINKLER SETS
SUB SURFACE DRAINAGE    beneficial effect   beneficial effect          no effect         no effect               no effect
LlNNG OF                       D. 0.             no effect             no effect         no effect               D. O.
WATERCOURSES



ANNEX V: TABLE 4
ENVRIONMENTAL CHECKLIST FOR OUALITY OF LIFE VALUES
Component               Cultural arifacts          Cultural Norms             EmRlovment and Livelihood
CANAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION
Channel Lining              no effect                no effect                    no effect
Moderization of the Dadapur   minor potential effect  no effect                   no effect
Headworks
link Canal                  D. O.                    D. O.                        DO.
CONSTRUCTION OF             D. 0.                    D. 0.                        D. 0.
HATHNIKUND
BARRAGE
NEW   RIGATION              no effect                D. 0.                        beneficial effect
PROJECTS
CONSTRUCTION AND            minor potential effect   no effect                    D. 0.
EXTENSION OF MINORS
INSTALLATION OF             D. O.                    D. O.                        D. O.
SPRINKLER SETS
SUB SURFACE DRAINAGE   no effect                     D. 0.                        DO.
LINING OF                   D. O.                    D. O.                        DO.
WATERCOURSES



ANNEX V
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF TIIE WRCP
TERMS OF REFERENCES FOR SECTORAL EA
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Background
Two major credit facilities by the World Bank to support die I-laryana Irrigation Departncnt (HID) in
l-laryana State have highlighted specific cnvironmcntat issues associatod witih watcr rcsourccs
dcvclopmcnt. Haryana Irrigation 1(1978 - 1983) and Irrigation 11 (1983 - 1992) Projects both sought
to increase the cfficiency of irrigation water usc through lining of canals and improvcments in methods
of irrigation. The Haryana Watcr Resources Consolidation Project (WRCP) is a follow-up to thesc
previous credits, and is thc basis for the prcscnt project.
There are two thrusts to the present project The first involves overall cnvironmental impact of the
activities of HID in general. Thc second involves potential impacts stannting from the WRCP.
Previous projects highlighted the extent of waterlogging and soil salinity within the State. Studies
which followed on the last credit havc boen directed at regional drainage altenmatives and also at more
localized solutions which introduce alternativo cropping pmctices and use of local disposal methods for
excess salt . The World Bank has proposcd additional analysis of regional drainagc, within the
contcxt of a two year study which incorporates extensive modeling of surface and groundwater flows.
In addition, a Statewide water resources allocation study ("die Water Resources Plan Study") will
begin in the early part of next year (1993), and will provide the basis for a comprchcnsive review of
water related issues within the State.
The WRCP is geared to further optimizing usc of water within the approximately two million ha of
cultivabte land withiin the State through further channel lining, extension and lining of watercourses,
and development of spray irrigation as a means of dealing with undulating topography in the southern
portion of Haryana. There are other comnponents as well, including the opening of newly irrigated
areas. The World Bankw ill provide approximately 90 percent of the finds needed for implementation
of the project. Environmental reporting requirements within the Government of India (GOI) and within
the Bank need to be met in the course of project development. In conjunction with these stipulations,
there is a need to address the critical issues of waterlogging and soil salinity, as well as to develop a
comprehensive perspective on enviromnental management in general within HID, in order to prepare
the agency for dealing with all types of eventualities and project development components. The agency
needs to be empowered to act confidently and with responsibility in all aspects of project development,
incorporating moderm environmental management perspectives in the course of project implementation.
1.3. Objective
The objective of the present project is to prepare an environmental assessment for the sectoral activities
of the Haryana Irrigation Department (HID) that focuses on the marginal impacts (both beneficial and
negative of the various components of the WRCP.
1.4. Methodology
The methodology consists of a review of available information concerning irrigation development in
Haryana, natural resources and physical featurcs, principal planning issues, and environmental
requirements of the Government and of the Bank; discussion with officials of HiD and other State



agencies conlerning rcsourec and environmental nanagcmcnt activitics; dcvclopmcnt of checklists and
methodologics, and implcmcntation of mctlhodologies for cvaluating impacts of the various components
of dhe WRCP as prcscntly dclined. Specific com'poncnts of the WRCP arc as follows:
CANAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION
Channel Lining
Modemization of the Dadapur Ilcadworks
Link Canal
CONSTRUCTION OF IIATIINIKUND BARRAGE
NEW IRRIGATION PROJECTS
CONSTRUCTION AND ElXTENSION OF MINORS
INSTALLATION OF SPRINKLER SETS
SUB SURFACE DRAINAGE
LINING OF WATERCOURSES
(further dctails on these itcms should bc provided that describe their nragnitude and principal features,
following developmcnt of thc components by HID)
Thc general asscssmnt methodology involves the following:
* considcr the full scope of HID activities and the magnitude of impact occurring as a result of
extension of those activities by means of the WRCP
*   identify the groups which may be affccted by HID activities
*   identify scrvicc responsibilities of HID, as a basis for establishing its jurisdiction in watcr
resources managtement
*   identify administrative, opcrational and technical functions which I-HD engagcs in to fulfill
servicc responsibilities
*   identify existing linkages and working arrangemnents with other agencies which HID supports in
carrying out scrvicc rcsponsibilitics
*   propose alternative approaches, and identify a rational set of activitics, for mceting environmental
management responsibilities
*   develop a reasonable and acceptable scope of activities in the form of a five-year program  for
HID in environmental management
*  consider marginal positive and negative benefits from the WRCP on environmental values, in
relation to curreat scope of activities undertaken by HD
*  provide a quantitative estimate of positive and negative impacts on enviromnental values, based on
best judgment criteria with sufficient documentation to substantiate judgment claims, and providing
ranges of quantitative values where appropriate
* develop mitigation measures in the fonr of sectoral planning and management directives which will
maximize service benefits and provide a basis for mitigating impacts



*  p)rcparc tcrms or rcrcrcncc for a rcgional cnvironmcntal managcmcnt plan for implcmcntalion by
1111) aned othcr watcr usc agciics within Ilarynim Statc.
*   prcparc a priority action plan whichi will initiatc thc fivc ycar progrmm, to bc implcmncntcd within
thc ncxt onc - to two ycars



94
/i4'1/1eK    V/1
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
1.    Irrigation and drainage projects manage waler supplies for the purpose of agricultural production.
There is a wide variety of irrigation types depending upon the source of water (surface or groundwater),
means of water storagc, conveyance and distribution systems, and methods of delivery (field application).
2.     Large scale utilization of surface water (predominantly rivers) for irrigation has long been
practiced, in some countries for thousands of years, and still accounts for the major public sector
investments in irrigation. Large scale irrigation projects using groundwater are recent phenomena of the
last thirty years. They are found mainly on the great alluvial basins of Pakistan, India and China where
the tubewells tapping into the groundwater are often used in conjunction with surface water irrigation
systems.
3.     The dominant delivery method (up to 95 percent worldwide) is surface irrigation (flood or furrow
irrigation) in which water is distributed over the irrigated area by gravity in overland flow. Tle other
systems are sprinkler and drip (trickle) irrigation. Sprinkler irrigation involves spraying water droplets
over the land surface in simulation of rain. In drip irrigation water is released in drops or a light stream
through holes in plastic tubing laid on or buried below the surface of the soil. Although they are
relatively new technologies requiring higher initial investment and more intensive management than
surface irrigation, sprinkler and drip irrigation show great potential for maximizing the efficiency of water
use and reducing irrigation-related environmental problems.
4.    Irrigation projects can include the following facilities and infrastructure: (a) dams, watershed and
reservoirs; (b) diversion and intake facilities; (c) wells, pumping stations, canals, ditches and pipelines
for the conveyance of water (including drainage); and (d) distribution systems for sprinkle and drip
irrigation.
Potential Environmental Impacts
5.     The potential negative environmental impacts of most large irrigation projects include:
waterlogging and salinization of soils, increased incidence of water-borne and water-related diseases,
resettlement or changes in the lifestyle of local populations, and increases of agricultural pests and
diseases resulting from the elimination of dry season die-back and the creation of a more humid
microclimate.  The expansion and intensification of agriculture made possible by irrigation has the
potential for causing increased erosion; pollution of surface and groundwater from agricultural biocides;
deterioration of water quality; and increased nutrient levels in the irrigation and drainage water resulting
in algal blooms, proliferation of aquatic weeds and eutrophication in irrigation canals and downstream
waterways (see Table 8.7 at the end of this section for a sumunary of all potential impacts). Increased
quantities of agricultural chemicals are usually required in irrigated lands to keep production levels up;
fertilizer must be used to compensate for high growth rate and loss of nutrients through leaching, and
pesticides to control the greater numbers of crop pests and diseases.
6.     Large irrigation projects which impound or divert river waters have the potential to cause major
environmental disturbances resulting from changes in the hydrology and limnology of river basins. (The



95
effects of water impoundment are discussed in tde section on 'Dams and Reservoirs.') Reducing the
river flow changes floodplain land use and ecology, disrupts riverine and estuarine fisheries, and causes
salt water intrusion up the river and into the groundwater or adjacent lands. Diversion and loss of water
through irrigation reduces the water supply for downstream users, including municipalities, industries and
agriculturalists. A reduction in a river's base flow also decreases the dilution of municipal and industrial
wastes added downstream, posing pollution and health hazards. The deterioration of water quality below
an irrigation project can render the water unfit for other users, harm aquatic species, and, because of high
nutrient content, result in aquatic weed growth that clogs waterways and has health, navigation and
ecological consequences.
7.     The potential direct negative environmental impacts of the use of groundwater supplies for
irrigation arise from overtapping groundwater supplies (withdrawing water in excess of the rate of
recharge). This results in the lowering of the water table, land subsidence, decreased water quality, and
saltwater intrusion (in coastal areas).
B.     A number of external environmental factors influence irrigation projects. Upstream land use will
affect the quality of water entering the irrigation area, particularly the sediment content (e.g., from
agriculturally-induced erosion) and chemical composition (e.g., from agricultural and industrial
pollutants). Use of river waters with a large sediment load may result in canal clogging. Over time,
cleaning the canals and depositing the sediment on cropland, or simply irrigating with water of high
sediment content can raise the land level to such a heighL that irrigation is impaired.
9.     The obvious benefits conferred by irrigation are those resulting from increased production of
food. In addition, concentration and intensification of production on a smaller area can protect forests
or wildlands from being converted to agriculture. Increased vegetative cover for a greater portion of the
year helps reduce soil erosion, as does land preparation (e.g., land levelling and contouring). Some
health benefits result from improved hygiene and a decrease in the incidence of certain diseases.
Irrigation projects can also moderate flooding downstream.
Special Issues
Wateriogging and Salinization
10.   Waterlogging and salinization of soils are common problems associated with surface irrigation.
On a global basis it has been estimated that annually irrigation takes out of production as much land as
it puts in because of soiH deterioration, principally salinization. Waterlogging results primarily from
inadequate drainage and over-irrigation, and to a lesser extent from seepage from canals and ditches.
Salinity problems, naturally more acute in arid and semi-arid areas which have more rapid surface
evaporation and saline soils, are exacerbated by irrigation. Waterlogging concentrates salts, drawn up
from lower in the soil profile, in the plants' rooting zone. Alkalization (the buildup of sodium in soils)
Is a particularly detrimental form of salinization which is difficult to rectify. While soils in arid and
semi-arid zones have a natural tendency toward salinization, many of soil-related problems could be
minimized by instaling adequate drainage systems. Drainage is a critical element of irrigation projects
that too often is poorly planned and managed. Waterlogging and salinization can also be reduced or mini
mized by using sprinkler or drip irrigation which apply water more precisely and can more easily limit
quantities to no more than the crop needs.



96
Social Lssues
II.    Social disruption is inevitable in large irrigation projects covering vast areas. Local people
dislocated by the irrigation project face the classic rcsettlement problems: a decrease in the standard of
living, increased health problems, social conflicts, and deterioration of natural resources in the
resettlement area (see 'Involuntary Resettlement" section). The people remaining in the area will likely
have to change their land use practices and agricultural patterns. Those moving into the area to benefit
from the irrigation scheme similarly will have to adapt to new conditions (see 'New Land Settlement"
section). The local people often find thal they have less access to water, land and vegetation resources
as a result of the project. Conflicting demands on the water resources and inequalities in distribution can
easily occur both in the project area and downstream. All these factors - changing agricultural practices,
increasing population density, and altering the distribution of wealth - can have a profound influence on
traditional social patterns.
12.    An increase, sometimes extraordinary, of water-borne or water-related diseases commonly is
associated with the introduction of irrigation. The diseases most often linked with irrigation are
schistosomiasis, malaria and onchocerciasis, whose vectors proliferate in the irrigation waters. Other
irrigation-related health risks include those associated with increased use of agrochemicals, deterioration
of water quality, and increased population pressure in the area (see "Public Health and Safety' section).
13.    The reuse of wastewater for irrigation has the potential of transmitting communicable diseases
(mainly helminthic, and to a lesser extent bacterial and viral). The population groups at risk include
agricultural workers, consumers of produce (and meat) from the wastewater-irrigated fields, and people
living nearby. Sprinkler irrigation poses an additional risk through the potential dispersal of pathogens
through the air. These risks vary according to the extent of treatment given to the wastewater prior to
reuse.
Irrigation EMciency and Improvement or Existing Systems
14.    Inefficient use of water (i.e., overwatering) not only wastes water which could go to other users
and avoid ecological impacts downstream, but results in land deterioration through waterlogging,
salinization and leaching, and decreased crop productivity. Maximizing the efficiency of water use,
therefore, should be of primary concern to all irrigation projects.
15.    As already stated, large areas of irrigated land has gone out of production because of soil
deterioration. It may be cost effective and certainly beneficial environmentally to invest in land
restoration rather than in increasing the area in irrigation.
Project Alternatives
16.    A variety of alternatives to a proposed irrigation project, its design, and management exist. They
are as follows: (a) improve the efficiency of existing projects and restore degraded crop lands to use
rather than establishing a new irrigation project; (b) develop small-scale, individually owned irrigation
systems as an alternative to large, publicly owned and managed schemes; (c) develop irrigation systems
using groundwater resources which have less potential for causing enviromnental damage than surface



97
water systems; (d) develop, wherc possible, irrigation systems using surface and groundwaters conjointly
to increase the flexibility of water supply and minimize negative hydrological impacts; (c) use sprinkler
or drip irrigation as alternatives to surface irrigation to decrease the risk of waterlogging, salinization,
erosion and inefficient water use; (I) site the irrigation project on the site where negative social and
environmental impacts are minimized; and (g) use treated wastewater, where appropriate, to make more
waler available to other users or reduce the environmental impacts of withdrawing water from surface
and groundwater supplies.
Man:ageinient and Training
17.   Institutional factors are often cited as the cause of failure of large scale public irrigation schemes.
Operation of all control facilities from the water source to individual farms requires almost constant
management. Careful water management is essential to the quantity, timing, controllability, and
predictability of water delivered to the users, all of which will determine the success of the project.
Training of a cadre of managers to provide the needed services is required if they are not available or
lack necessary technical and managerial skills.
18.    Planning and implementation of an irrigation project must be done with the cooperation and
collaboration of engineers, soil scientists, hydrologists, public health specialists, social scientists and
economists. An operations plan, outlining the operating rules and water distribution goals, should be
developed prior to the design of the physical infrastructure and guide the subsequent project management.
Monitoring
19.    Factors to be monitored should include: climate (wind, temperature, rainfall, etc.); stream
discharge above the irrigation project and below at various points; nutrient content of discharge water;
flow and water levels at critical points in the irrigation system; water table elevations in project area and
downstream; water quality of project inflows and return flows; quality of groundwater in project area;
water salinity levels in coastal wells; physical and chemical properties of soil in irrigation area; agri-
cultural acreage in production; cropping intensity; crop yield per unit of land and water; erosion/sedimen-
tation rates in project area; relation between water demand and supply of users (equitability of
distribution); condition of distribution and drainage canals (siltation, presence of weeds, condition of
linings); upstream watershed management (agricultural extent and practices, industrial activity); incidence
of disease and presence of disease vectors; health condition of project populations; changes in natural
vegetation in the project area and on the floodplain downstream; changes in wildlife populations in the
project area and on the floodplain downstream; and fish population and species.



Table 8.7. Irrigation and Drainage
Potential Negative Impacts                                                         Mitigadng Messures
Dit
1. Soil erosion (furrow, surface).                                              1. * Proper design and layout of furrows or field avoiding too steep a
gradient.
* Land leveling.
* Design of teraces on hillside minimiiing surface esion hazed.
2. Soil erosion (with sprinkler irrigation on hilly area).                      2. Design of sprinkler system minimizing erosion hatrd w.ring infil-
tration rate exceeds application rate of the sprinklers.
3. Waterlogging of soils.                                                       3. * Regulation of water application to avoid overwatering (including
controlled tum-out to allow cutting off water supply to irrigation
ditches).
* Installation and maintenance of adequate drainage system.
* Use of lined canals or pipes to prevent seepage.
* Use of sprinkler or drip irrigation.
4. SalinizAion of soils.                                                        4. * Measures to avoid waterlogging:
* leaching of salts by flushing soils periodically
 cultivaidon of crops with salinity tolerance



Table 8.7. Irrigation and Drainage (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts                                                   Mitigating Measures
Direct (continued)
5.   Scouring of canals.                                                  S.       Design of canal system to minimize risk and use of lined canals.
6.   Clogging of canals by sediments.                                     6.   *  Measures to minimize ermsion on fields.
* Design and management of canals to minimize sedimentation.
*  Provision of acces to canals for mmoval of weeds and sedimts.
7.   Leaching of nutricnts from soils.                                    7.   *  Avoidance of overwatering.                                     '0
* Replacement of nutrients by fertilizers or crop rotations.
8.   Algal blooms and wood pmoliferadon.                                  8.   Reduction of input to and release of nutrients (nitrogen and
phosphorous) frm fields.
9.   Clogging of canals by weeds.                                         9.   *  Deigu and management of canals to minimi  weed growth.
* Provision of access to canas for treatment or removal of weeds.
10.  Deterioration of river water quality below irrigation project and    10.  *  Improved water mangement; improved agricultunl practices and
conutamination of local ground water (higher salinity, nutrients,            control of inputs (patticularly biocides and chemical fertilizer).
agrochemicals) affecting fisheries and downstream users.
* Imposition of water quality criteria.



Table 8.7. Irrigation and Dainage (continued)
Potential Negative Inpacts                                                    Mtigating Measura
Direct (continued)
11.  Sea water intrusion into downstream freshwater systems.               11. * Reduction of takeoff to maintain adequate downstmam flow.
* Recharge of coastal aquifers through injection wells.
12.  Reduction of downstream flows affecting flood plain use, flood plain  12. * Relocation or redesign of project.
ecology, riverine and estuarine fisheries, users of water, dilution of
pollutants.                                                               * Regulation of takeoff to mitigate effects.
* Compensatory measures where possible.
13.  Encroachment on swamps and other ecologically sensitive areas.        13. Siting of projects to avoid or minimize encroachment on critical areas.
14.  Alteration or destruction of wildlife habitat or impediment to        14. * Siting of prject to minimize loss or avoid encroachment on most
movement of wildlife.                                                        sensitive or critical arems.
* Establisbment of compensatory parks or reserved areas.
* Animal rescue and relocation.
* Provision of corridors for movement.
15.  Impediment to movement of livestock and hum.                          15. Provision of pasegeways.



. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                       __   Z. .
Table 8.7. Irrigation and Drainage (continued
Potlentl Negative Inpacts                                                           Mitigating Measures
Direct (continued)
16.  Threat to historic, culturl or aesthetic features.                          16. *  Siting of project to prevent loss.
* Salvage or protection of cultural sites.
17.  Alteration or loss of flood plain vegetation and disturbance of coastal     17.  *  Siting of project to less vulnerable area.
ecosystems (e.g., mangroves).
*  Limitation and regulation of water take-off to minim;1a kroblems
to extent possible.
18.  Dislocation of populations and communities.                                 18. *  Siting of project to minimize effect.
* Resettlement scheme ensuring at least equal sandard of living.
19.  Introduction or inerease in incidence of water-bome or water-related        19. *  Prevention measures:
diseas (schistosomiusis, malaria, onchocerciasis, etc.).
* use of lined canals or pipes to discourage vectors
* avoidance of stagnat or slowly moving water
*  use of straight or slightly curving cls
* installation of gates at canal endis to allow complete flushing
* flling or draining of borrow pits along canals and rads
* disease prophylaxis
* disease treatment



Table 8.7. Irrigation and Drainage (continued)
Potential Negative Impacts                                                   Mitigating hfeasures
Direct (conlinued)
20.  Disease and health problems from use of wastewater in irrigalion.     20. * Wastewter treatment (e.g., settling pends) prior to use.
a Establishment and enforcement standards for wastewater use.
21.  Conflicts over water supply and inequalities in water distribution    21. Means to ensure equitable distribution among usem  and monitor to
throughout service area.                                                 assure adherce.
22.  Overpumping of groundwater.                                           22. Limitation of withdrawal so that it does not exceed *safe yield' 
(recharge Rute).
Indirect
23.  Incrsed pollutionand health hazards fromdownstream industrial and    23. * Control of waste sources downstream.
municipal pollutants caused by decreased flow (decreased dilution) of
river water.                                                             * Reductioa of water take-off.
External
24.  Water quality deteriorated or made unusable by upstream land use and  24. * Control of land us in watershed ras.
pollutants discharge.
a* Control of pollutior sour es.
a Water tramet prior to use.






