Document of
IJt VVTU11U In__i_
1lile vv orld B0iril
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24218
TXAKDT 1VXA'VTrA TTO COV,TLPTLODT tPTT(YK VP 1)DCRT
(IDA-25920)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 187.3 MILLION
(US$258 MivLLION EQ-UIVALENT)
TO THE
INDIA
FOR
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
JUNE 21, 2002
R-kurnal DevVe:op U-Um en-Mt Sector UntT
South Asia Region
This document nas a restricted aistribution and may be used by recipients only in tne performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 21, 2002)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee
1 NR (48.915) = US$1.00
US$ 1 = 1NR(31.51) 1993
= INR (46) 2001
FISCAL YEAR
April I -- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIP               Agriculture Intensification Program
CADA              Command Area Development Authority
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
FOT               Farmer Organization Turnover
GOH               Government of Haryana
GOI               Govermment of India
HAU               Haryana Agriculture University
HID               Haryana Irrigation Department
HIRMI             Haryana Irrigation Research and Management Institute
HSMITC            Haryana State Minor Irrigation and Tubewell Corporation
ICR               Imnplementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
L/C/TF No.        Loan/Credit/Trust Fund Number
MOU               Memorandum of Understanding
MTR               Mid Term Review
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
PIM               Participatory Irrigation Management
QAG               Quality Assurance Group
QSR               Quality of Supervision Review
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SASRD             South Asia Rural Development
WSU               Water Service Units
WUA               Water User Association
Vice President:     Mieko Nishinmzu
Country Director:     Edwin Lim
Sector Director:    Constance Bernard
Tasck Team L.eader/Tasck Manager:    Prabir Joardar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2 Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
t.U1L YUVL1IMUL 01 UFJUJLAIVU WILU '.JULpJULO
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  I I
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 13
9. Partner Comments                                                                13
10. Additional Information                                                         14
Annex !. Key Performan-ce indicators[/Log FnPme Matri                              1 S
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               18
P.J1UX .3. ZiUUU1UL %IostW sUU DaUd1eLn                                            AU
Annex 4. Baink Inputs                                                              21
Annex 5. Raungs for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              26
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation                                                     27
nims aocumeni nas a restricted            UisLFIUULIUUI and      ,lay UV Ub U U-, Je by rcpXJ     onJLL yi
the Derformance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






I Project ID: P009964                                    I Project Name: Harvana Water Resources
Consolidation Project
Team Leader: Prabir Joardar                              TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 18, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project  L/C/TF Number: IDA-25920
Countrv/Department: INDIA                                               Region: South Asia ReQisnal
Office
Sector/subsector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage, VM - Natural Resources
Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/07/1991                             Effective: 06/24/1994        06/24/1994
Appraisal:  10/01/1993                               MTR:                       12/12/1997
Approval:  03/29/1994                             Closing: 12/31/2000          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/STATE DOI (HARYANA)
Other Partners: None
STAFF                Cuirr ent                                 At Annprical
Vice President:      M. Nishimizu                              D. Joseph Wood
Country.,  .n,rager.-:  E. T                                     Al  .
Sector Manager:      C. Bernard                                J. Wijnand
lr-    T-4--of'V     Di s_. Tor-                               C. SV C rrVy
ICR Primary Author:  John Weatherhogg (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, HA=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance. S
.,o,,ower Du rjur Mr. S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at RisK at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  The primary proiect obiectives were to: (a) introduce water resource planning and management; (b)
enhance agricultural productivity and diversification, and improve equity (in distribution of water); (c)
assure qustainabilitv of the environment: and (d) imnrove TMED's canabilities in all water related functional
areas.
3.1.2 The project's objectives were consistent with current country and sectoral assistance strategies which
stress. m-,,l., onA rvlrl developmlrnt oan,l m"nvAng covrnnmient -ffpe-thiPv.ne The nvn,ect ob,e-- ue
addressed Government priorities and were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
*M_ -    ea v  -v  _ f.--m4e Ein -ine Vt - Bal f S poh;cl.- atI " ,e;e of pIepJ 4lA'un  _ft _ jn_jjt.t. Y ve;,
the second and the most important objective was not supported by any corresponding agricultural
ucVcpIUcUL LomponentL, adLLU eLwo W gU1U1lo VI 'L-dV UJUU  ofJV1,Ac 1VI  susbVU'1111tjLI bUM4U1U1LY Wda too
broad and general. In the SAR, the main environmental concerns were water quality protection, managing
water logging and salinity problems, gr ound water over exploitation, drainage and ilood miutgauon whCih
were largely addressed by the project. Overall, the objectives were reasonable, given the period of
evolution of water sector projects, although detailed mechanism for attaining these oojectives were not very
clearly laid down in the SAR.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1  Tne original objectives remained unchanged during implementation of the project, althougn
following the 1997 Mid-Term Review (MTR) much greater emphasis was given to agricultural
development and the creation of Water Users' Associations (WUAs).
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The project was a sector investment loan, financing an agreed state-wide, six year program
covering both the Bhakra and Western Yamuna Canal systems with a total project cost of US$483 million
(base cost $459.7 M) estimated at appraisal. It consisted of four main components, namely, (a)
Rehabilitation of the existing canal and drainage systems, and selective lining of canals and water courses
($80.6 M); (b) Modernization of canal and drainage systems and water courses, construction of the
Hathnikund Barrage, and construction/extension of minors ($164.4 M); (c) upgraded Qpemfion and
Maintenance (O&M) of the water distribution and drainage system ($181.8 M); and (d) Institutional
Support for administration, data collection, planning, design, beneficiary participation, research and
training ($32.9M).
3.3.2 The choice of components was reasonably in line with the project's development objectives. The
construction of new major civil works and rehabilitation/modernization of irrigation and drainage
ifrastructure. as envisaged under the project, facilitated better and sustained service deliverv and higher
agricultural productivity which are the main objectives of the project. This was supported by institutional
refnrm^- innhidina qsntTnti^n nf s  ir_e /O&M nrTvni7sttinn frinm imnlemertina ngaswnnieqs whirch rpmiitpA in
better coordination and management of construction, operation and maintenance activities. Due importance
was given to policy reforms a     bnl1A]ng ,z.thin the EmT Benef.cio,y poicip.tion WG, an
important component in the project design; and project monitoring and evaluation through a computer
1L_ AW AA+ _-A   --TA A_*AOSA_ -+-  ___O AXT  AA  A-A 1. MA        AM_ 3_1_ _ _lL
UbaseU DyaXu' waD Au 1AcgE ji  lpt'N a0t V ND  C pLUJtt)L UtD1LI aGh JIJtU 'U UISiit'it'Utdt'V. I U Uvail 01 UIV
institutional component was inadequate to fully achieve the envisaged changes. Also, there was a lack of
o-wnersmAip on iuc par. oI %.nr *U he proposed *,hanges. Scounu, he prouject, at the tume of design and
appraisal, lacked effective activities to promote higher agricultural productivity and diversification, on
which the major part of the project's justification rested. Also, the slow project implementation in initial



years indicates that lessons learned from previous projects were inadequately taken account of in the
design. Tne merger of HID, the Haryana Staie iinor irnigation and Tubewe;;s Corporauton (HSMITC) and
the Command Area Development Authority (CADA) into a single agency was proposed under the
institutional reform component without criticaly looking into the feasibiiity of such proposai.
2 . s*Cv-tuDn ru4 
3.4.1  Following the MTR, some critical and appropriate revisions were made to the project. These
uriduureu a SLLLUUM. new vI.OULpUi1VUL, uir e1LUw1 ULLrib uurA;i4UV- alul e-%ifiuo WIJ.al Wwr -UUUUUxuc EL
July 1997. The AIP component gave greater emphasis to formation of WUAs and integration of support to
farmers, and facilitated improved agricuiural and water management practices in tne field including crop
diversification. At the time this component was introduced, the Bank, the Government of India and the
Government of Haryana's thinking on participatory irrigation management had progressed, based on
international experience in Mexico and in the Philippines and early lessons coming out of a parallel Bank
project financed operation in Andhra Pradesh. Other changes included provision of a new Head Quarter
building for HID at Panchkula, and some modifications in rehabilitation and modernization components. A
further change to the project occurred in March 2001 when SDR37 million (US$48 million) of anticipated
savings under the Credit was reallocated to a separate category to be used for the Gujarat earthquake
emergency reconstruction.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  No quality assessment of project design was made at appraisal. The project objectives and setting
were appropriate and timely at the project design stage and were in line with similar projects being
prepared during that time. The component mix was reasonable - some major works construction and lining
of canals and water courses; rehabilitation of canals, drains and water courses; a component for improved
O&M; institutional strengthening; and policy change. However, the Bank should have given more attention
to assess the Borrower's commitment the proposed reforms and preparedness to implement the same. The
farmers organization and turnover component was weakly designed, and the non-inclusion of an
agricultural component was a major deficiency. Accordingly, the ICR rates the quality of project design as
"unsatisfactory".
4. Achievement of Obiective and OutDuts
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1   Tine first objective of introducing water resources planning and management was substantially
achieved even though with considerable delays due to the slow preparation of the State Water Plan (SWP)
which was just about finalized by the Credit Closing date. However, capacity has been built in HID to use
the simulation model prepared under SWP as a decision support tool in future water sector planning and
allocation. A State Water Policy has been drafted which recognizes the importance of a holistic approach to
water resources planning and management. A National Workshop on Water Sector Reform in Haryana
(May 29-30, 2001) drew up an action plan for institutional reforms and integrated water resources
management. A positive development following the workshop has been the creation of the State Water
Resource Council under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister as a policy making body, supported by the
Water Conservation Mission under the Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister and including
representation of some 20 departmnents associated with water resources use and management The Water
Conservation Mission is responsible for optimization of water use in all sectors. However, all these positive
developments happened towards the end of the project, thus denying the opportunity to measure their long
term impact/influence on the functioning of the water sector in Harvana.
4-112  The second nhiective of enhancement of aoirclltiiral nmrndutivitv diversifiestion andi nmitv h5m
bee   _ti        a_a___d_The_imp_eme--  ---a   - m-- i -  r---j,z-   a   r t cs
been substantially attained. The implementation of modernization and rehabilitation components had



progressed well after the initial delays. The Farmer Organization & Turnover (FOT) and Agriculture
Intensification Program (AIP) components, albeit very slow starts, have performed well towards the end.
The visible interest and involvement of fanners in these programs facilitated greater water use efficiency,
enhanced productivity, and delivered the desired outcome of equity of distribution. Where WUAs have been
formed and functioning, an average increase in irrigated areas of the order of 15-25% with equitable
distribution of water to the satisfaction of tail end farmers have been reported. ICR mission field visits also
confirmed this positive outcome. Seen in the context of Country's policies on pricing and procurement of
agricultural produce, the performance of the AIP program towards achieving modest diversification of
crops in the project areas, is noteworthy. The modernized/rehabilitated water courses were handed over to
the farmers (WUAs) for management, operation and maintenance at their own cost, enhancing
siLqtainabilitv of investment.
4. 1.3  The nhioijtive to "assumre sstainability of the environment" has been largely achieved if connidered
in light of the original project design features. An in-house Environmental Policy for HID has been adopted
by the Un,.-yana Gover.nLm..e.t which includes: a mr.ech,aim f.fr rrneiterinrcr .virornmnciptqtdl safpcmnqrdc acnd
clearance of new projects and capacity building in environmental planning and management to meet
-LUnau-n- and -.opsp4-onu.ilito nder naLtial1 oraL+ s1t4 MVJhvU.ULOA ,s.sld.-n A ad. rLaLtin. Tn
coordination with State Pollution Control Board, the HID established a mechanism for punishing sources
pOiiuLug can,a's ando Uler water UbUieV. -JI,oUIU wai eAjJV1LatUU ion   UVVha L een 1VLrULU IL 1 Iin y/dr oe
(where extraction exceeds 70% of rechargeable ground water), and by providing disincentive in the form of
increase in power tarirrr for agricultmre. Flood control and drainage inprovement works were implemented
which reduced water logging and salinity in critical areas. Ground water build-up in saline water zones has
been reduced by iining of canals and water courses, and through better water management practices.
4.1.4   The positive features of institutional development supported by the project include the
reorganization of HID on functional lines by separating construction and O&M units, transfer of O&M of
water courses to the farmer organizations (WUAs) and improved O&M cost recovery. HID's
reorganization is in place and working to provide improved service delivery to all users including supplying
bulk water for municipal uses in the western districts. The change in approach to service delivery with full
involvement of farmers organizations at the lower level, is one of the most significant positive institutional
changes of the project. Changes in the mind set at the policy making level is indicated by GOH's request for
another project with primary focus on participatory irrigation management and options for
unbundling/restructuring and corporatization of HID's service units. The policy of down sizing the over
staffed HID is also an important positive institutional aspect inducing reduction of O&M costs and for
improved O&M cost recovery. The preparation of the State Water Plan has provided the opportunity to
enhance HID's capability in water related planming and management. However, these initiatives came up
too late to make the same meaningful during the project implementation period. The training program under
the projent enhanced capnhilitv of staff in narticinatorv irrigation management throu gh in-houne and
external training. The uptake of information technology and modem business and management practices
"1l be enhanced with the ma-ryng of the IT investment ilth the con n1ctiot;n nfthbe "nw offnce complex for
HID, expected to be completed by May 2002. The ability to manage large and complex civil works
corliUO acO,wIUr sUU tjUA. uiy o1 t A - U --- LnuLction has been onile ofthe areas of -j± -d.-ul   capi-
enhancement. However, the proposed merger of HID, HSMITC and CADA did not take place, which was
cons1UereU mimpUrwnU 4L uIe pIrjecL Udesign s' g. I Ui DJO, in ermU VI u  J[Uj..L ue U1des  IgnLaLurs, xmaS Ueen
largely achieved. Overall, the development objectives were substantially met.
4.1.5 With the completion of main structures like Hathnikund and Pathrala barrages, Ottu Weir (and
other major structures) and rehabilitation/ modernization of feeder and distribution canals, the water
delivery to the service areas has improved considerably including lowering of transmission and distribution
- 4 -



losses. The rehabilitation/modernization of about 1700 water courses coupled with formation of WUAs and
training of farmers, enhanced water use efficiency and equity at the farm level (tail ender getting water).
The introduction of AIP component has increased cropping intensity and productivity and also facilitated
crop diversification in a limited way. WUAs are energetic and collecting adequate funds for maintenance,
operation and management of the assets handed over to them, reducing the O&M responsibilities and costs
of the Government. This indicates strong likelihood of the sustainability of investments.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Overall project performance was slow during the first half of the project period for reasons
discussed in para.5.1.1, 5.2.1 and 5.3.1. Performance over the last 18-24 months has been very much
better.
4.2.2 Rehabilitation and Modernization. The primarv obiective of the rehabilitation component was to
repair damage to existing irrigation and drainage systems caused largely by deferred maintenance and bring
the system back to acceptable nerformance. The modernization comnonent include renlacement of old
structure by new ones and lining of canals and water courses. Major works under modernization include
constructtin of Hathnimind Barrage (and Link Canal), Otti W.eir and Pathrnla BaTUrge which are the
replacement of over 100-year old major masonry structures. For other works, structurally there is little
distction bethee-n the rehabaifitowfi^n ann rnnAp'rvi',t.or -ompnonents (can  rpb-h4atinn  on/n.m
lining of canals and water courses, canal structures etc.). The bulk of the Credit was devoted to the
umpletuen-taon of these two hnpor-aUt compone.-.Lts ndvrAl.J Lil- rr.agemer.t &ofJL I V'Jraeorgd C-IJOLLU%,ctio
Units and their separation form the O&M responsibilities. The quality of construction of these
moderniztion aiid rehabiliationi works is genelly very good. in audition to tLe Uluinl work, the
achievements detailed in Annex I are summarized in the following table.
Estimated Rehabilitation and Modernization Achievements by31 December 2001
item                      I     SAR      IICR                       ICR as %of SAR
Canal lining (m2 million)        8.8               6.8                     77
tcanal earthworks (m3 million)  x__.9              18.2                    204
Canal structures (number)       7,573             4,363                    58
Drain cleaning (m3 million)      0.3               15.0                   652
Watercourse rehab.(number)       200               265                     123
t Item                      j     SAR      j        ICR               ICR as % of SAR
Watercourse rehab.(km)           425               557                     131
Watercourse modern.(number)      1,500            1,434                    96
Watercourse modern.(kmn)        6,858             5 341                    78
WUAs fohned (number)            1,700             1,280                    75
WUAs handed over (number)        1,700             754                     44
Still to be handed over                  |        526*
(number)                                                      I l                        l
* A further 420 watercourses have neen rehabilitated/modernized, but without WUAs being formed.
4.2.3  HID has shown great skill in planning and completing large amount of works in canals that can
have only very limited closure periods so as not to disrupt water supplies for drinldng (including supplies
for Delhi) and for farmers. The overall quality of construction is good as evident from the important civil
works executed by HID, and also reported by Bank supervision missions. The actual Rupee cost of works
(excluding Government's contributions) is about 74% of the SAR estimates for rehabilitation and 81% for
modernization; for O&M, Rupee costs of works are only 52% of the SAR estimate.
-5-



4.2.4 The SAR approach to turnover of system maintenance to farmers was however very cautious in the
initial years. The SAR stipulated that water courses be rehabilitated only when farmers had formed
WUAs. However, no such stipulation was there for modernization of water courses, although priority was
to be given to those water courses where farmers were willing to form WUAs. A Water Services Policy
Supnort (WSPS) unit was to assist implementation of turnover of svstem maintenance to beneficiaries.
tracking the program's progress and expanding its scope as the results warranted. Although GOH, in
Fehniarv 1995, declared its intention of turning over systems helow outlets to farmers- nothing iuihtantial
happened until October 1998 whenr GOH approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and draft
Bye Laiws defining the responsibilities and aut-hnorities of WTAs. At tha§t th mie, onluy some 53 WUTAs w,ere
formed (under both modernization and rehabilitation programs) and not a single water course had been
handAd V ov  to the L,T.  Over t he A  l-  - -A per..o. I 0o l , HSX,ATLV   had. LIA  arv-A 40 wate r- co -ses
under the modernization program without any WUAs. However, from 1998-99 progress started improving
anU consis'.et Ugood progress hsb.. U achi eLILVVeU sLnc 1777, WIU.L VY s LJhaving UbVee fULII,eU anU
functioning in 1,280 water courses. In addition, within the project area but independent of the project,
another 790 'WUAs have been formed. Formauton oi these w UAs indicates that the success story was
spreading amongst beneficiary farmers in general, even where the project did not have any direct
intervention.
4.2.5  The WUJAs are generaily well managed, including maintenance of proper registers and accounts,
holding of regular meetings and contribution of labor and cash towards maintenance. Farmers interviewed
during the field visits showed very favorable response towards assuming fill maintenance responsibility,
and there was also some favorable interaction with Department of Agriculture (DOA) officers. Quality of
construction of water courses was found to be good. Training in Participative Irrigation Management
(PIM) has been provided by Haryana Irrigation Research and Management Institute (HIRI) to HID and
HSMITC staff and WUA members, and Trainer of Trainers (TOT) courses to 2,923 HID staff. Training
for farmers which focused primarily on the motivational aspects of formation of WUAs, would require
more attention to capacity building of WUAs. HSNITC has conducted two impact studies on PIM, one for
66 water courses and another for 125 water courses, which inter-alia indicate reduction of time to reach
water at the tail end of water courses - by 30 minutes to 3 hours, average increase in irrigation area by 15
to 25 percent, and overall increase in farm income between 10 to 25 percent.
4=2.6 Rehabilitation of Augmentation Tubewells and Direct Irrigation Tubewells was included in the
project, but did not take place since the State Water Plan which would have provided the basis for
prinritizring thiese inv.eshtment hau not hben fiinnli7ed nn fime.
A.. 'Ope   rao n and M aintnnee .  A manornasf nV   TIM   rnoniz,on i s   connrh4  n f O &M
services from construction agencies and creation of two Water Service Units (WSUs), Bhakra Canal WSU
aiiu 'vesLeiu  I YaU.-.l.a anual TV WSU. The   4LLV, Iponsib1V  lel fIo theLXITI VI Uf tU. I1IjLV  WplrU . As
shown in Annex 1, silt clearance and bank strengthening reached about 83% of the SAR target and repairs
to canal lining were about 92% of appraisal expectation s. Reco-very of Unaual O&ozM COS tS for the surface
irrigation areas is reported to be over 90%. This was largely possible due to regular revision of water rates
by GOH (4 times during the project period) and good collection rate of water charges Cnarduy any
defaulters). However, allocation of adequate funds for future maintenance is crucial. It should be HID's
policy to base the budget requests on proper assessment of the needs for maintenance rather than to match
the maintenance budget to the funds made available, based on the current thumb rule (per hectare basis)
allocation practice.
4.2.8 Agriculture Intensification Program (AIP). The component was added to the project in July
1997 and consists of training, extension, adaptive trials and impact monitoring. After initial slow
- 6-



implementation, this copmonent picked un momentumn diiring the year 2000; with better coordinati.n
between the field staff of DOA and HSMITC/HID. Positive impacts of AIP activity became evident only
tniuarAd the Pnd nfthe nrnojet nerinA Staffand f1rmp,-r Training innh,l,pi tiA;T,  nf,of7o nO A stcff rndA 83
farmers by Haryana Agriculture University (HAU), mostly on water and soil management; training by
HITRIvT of 426 DO!A .fF  and45 fa -  r.si *mnager..ent   A          -or,,A AA-ddii^1 48 DnA
training camps during the year 2001 for 1,460 farmers. DOA also organized 4,525 farmers to visit
agricutural fairs and ree&c  ce,es  ,  -a,e ,,e-iuc &,e      xhrg    rga-    Traininrg
achievement for staff is generally satisfactory, but delivering useful technological messages to farmers
could nave been improved. Extensioin auvice is given by Agriculture uevelopment Omcers (AIDO) and
HID/HSMITC Junior Engineers (JE), who work individually within their fields of expertise. All WUAs
visited by the mission had such staff and most farmers seem satisfied with the services provided. On this
basis, the extension sub-component is rated satisfactory. Farmers seem eager to be trained in improved
technologies and ready to volunteer labor and land for demonstration plots, but reported inadequate training
opportunities in agriculture subjects and in the involvement in planning and implementation of
demonstration plots. Adaptive trials by HAU have included 119 irrigation scheduling/water management
trials for the major crops in kharif and rabi seasons in 12 districts, covering most of the project area. These
addressed relevant problems in crop production and were used for visits by DOA officers and farmers, but
it is not clear how the results are transferred to farmers. Also, the adoption rate of the recommended
technologies need to be monitored and documented. Impact monitoring in AIP remains weak, despite the
suggestions of most previous supervision missions. DOA has finally included monitoring in its "Action
Plan 2001/02". State and District Coordinating Committees and a Core Group Committee meet regularly,
ensuring good agency coordination and monitoring of progress. GOH has also set up small working groups
comprising Agricultural Development Officers (ADO), HID Junior Engineers (JE) and farmers, in 50 pilot
WIJAs. to coordinate nlanning and imnlementation of field level activities. These working groups could he
trained to conduct impact monitoring of AIP. These groups need support to carry out their activities,
ensuiring effec-tive fairmer participation.
A.2.9      I      n            t     +1lStegBelt. -{oe +epoect com...nenced,m  set up sepWraate 0or;s"ct-
Units for each of the Bhakra and the Western Yamuna Canal systems, and similarly two Services Units for
t _A___.____1_                      ,,___..1- _-  --A  --A1 v_ l__ .z____ _ _______ A  _   ___,A 
uJ;1k LWu systems uouvuing buul wrLVI t bujAly aL&U UU1bU1UULIUUL, 1ulIU uLLHar1Va. t IIUIUaI ul uuLt;r Unklugus
were also made within the existing staff establishment to make HID more functionally orientated, including
estaDbishment of an Environment Ceii, wvicn nas ueveioped successfiuly and produced an HiD
Environmental Policy. Participation of beneficiaries in planning and implementation of irrigation schemes
(at water course level) and transfer of O&M responsibilities to w'uAs are very significant institutionai
changes which developed rapidly during the last two years. With the training of lower level functionaries in
participatory management and progressive transfer of O &M responsibilities to WUAs, necessary
decentrlization and delegation of authority has been effected which in turn improved service delivery to the
beneficiaries. However, this change in approach to water management and service delivery is restricted to
the areas where WUAs have been formed and functioning under the project, which is about 20% of the
aggregate area under the two Water Service Units.
4.2.10 The inability of HID to use the opportunity provided by the project to modernize and computerize
the budgeting and accounting systems represents a very serious loss. The contract was signed in March
1998 and the software proposals (BUCAP) were finalized in October 1999. The reasons for the long
delays appear to have been HID unfamiliarity with the use of computer systems. The second phase, which
aims at putting the system into operation is moving slowly. Some 58 computers have been purchased,
installed and commissioned and it is proposed to train an additional 120 staff in the use of computers.
Implementation has been severely constrained by the fact that HED in Chandigarh is located in a number of
disnersed offices and computers are also to be installed in four other locationc (T4isar- Rohtak, K;mrnal 2nd
-7 -



T-nAN Th..2. -rr%w1pmca ^rp 1i.r .te-, hp'b larrplv nv,ppmnep whpn PMf mm  ;nves h,tn the nipur TTpsi-^ii,rtpr
Building at Panchkula financed by the project.
4.2.11 Other important studies include: (a) modernization of communications and provision of an
: _r_  ,:        I_%          A           DI    _-         _ .+      ~.+rA _  --At +_ l_g.{ _A _AA A_ .At _ |A_ _
wJ.IIUILlaULL bya1, vuj uLawur u.  a   TV adLU E Jiua, kvj plU99aOuuu vu a  audwu,y aLuuv AMA FLau in
participatory irrigation management; and (d) preparation of a socioeconomic and water services baseline
survey for the project. 1Tie Sa   proposed a s-tate-wide comViimunLicatiun systelU for LrLansitinug hydrologcal
and operational data; and an information system with analytical and modeling capacity, covering
hydrology, meteorology, land cover, land use, demography, cadastral information and geology. Consultants
were appointed in late 1997 and reported on this in October 1999. The contract has been awarded for
communications equipment. HID reported that the computer equipment and software will be instaUled and
commissioned in the new Headquarters building as soon as the latter is ready. The State Water Plan, has
been prepared by an international firm of consultants appointed in 1998. Their draft final report was
submitted in April 2000 and has now been finalized. The plan summarizes in detail the water resources and
demands for water in the state and provides much basic data, and indicated possible future developments.
On the basis of the assumptions made in the report, the demands for water vastly exceeds the water
availability.
4.2.12 Policy Reforms. Progress in policy reform has been mixed. The unification envisaged in the SAR
of HID, HSMITC and CADA has not happened, nor has there been much advance on groundwater
legislation, the draft for which remains under consideration by GOH. Draft Amendments to the Haryana
Canal and Drainage Act, 1974 to provide a firm legal basis for the Farmer Organization Transfer (FOT)
program are also under review by GOH at the time the ICR was written. On the positive side, there has
been a steady increase in water charges, which are ciurrently estimated to cnvf-r over 900/% of O&M
expenditure, and there has been successful WUA growth. Many of the policy advances expected in the
SAD h-Ve bee.n del^VPA hv thP -1te PrIr'r-tionn nfthP Rtntp W2tPr P1^n NUMPI (n,,ra A 1 1 'n lnA fhP
inability to install computerized management and information systems. Nevertheless, a draft State Water
Io uuty 1100 UtienA y1epm-t-  h d- waidng for1 aWLptn  by   V C-ovrme.t. CH .fl±  its JommiUIO for
water conservation and integrated water resources management by creating a State Water Council for
tiuug pPolcy decUisLV1 oJn wLater rcsouirces aLLouUaLiVii andU UdVUVVlJ1UQLLI, anU also a high poUWeI VT ,VtL,
Conservation Mission to look into the details with a holistic approach to inter-sectoral water allocation and
use.
4.2.13 Gujarat Earthquake. This new component was added to the project to meet the emergency
funding requirements of the Gujarat Earthquake Reconstruction project. A Credit cancellation of SDR 37
million (equivalent to US $ 48 million) was agreed with the Borrower. This amount was re-allocated for
Gujarat earthquake reconstruction by creating a separate Category Z by amending the Credit agreement
The surplus was generated partly due to variation of exchange rates between Indian rupees and SDR/US$,
and partly due to not reaching the some physical targets and quantities as set out in the SAR. By the end of
the Credit Closing date, SDR 36.83 million has been utilized for construction of temporary shelters for
people whose homes were damaged by the earthquake, reconstruction of fully collapsed houses and repair
of partially damaged houses in the affected areas. Supervision reports indicate that the procedures
established for damage assessment, identification of beneficiaries and implementation of the owner-driven
housing reconstruction activities progressed satisfactorily through a partnership approach involving
government, local communities, the private sector and NGOs.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  The economic analysis of the project has been based on the results of sample surveys carried out
by HSMITC on 125 water courses, crop budgets from the Haryana Agricultural University, published
-8 -



statistical data and also those available with the Department of Agriculture, Harvana and other data on
costs and benefits as available with the Haryana Irrigation Department and other Govermment/public
agncyneS. This was qiinnle-.mented hy the infnrmatinn cn1-pietPA iiiirirny the feld visits and cnn-ltatinn with
the beneficiary farmers. More precise data on agriculture production could not be mastered in the absence
of a    detailed impact assessment study, although a .nntrart f-r c-h a stu. dy  ,vasnhder onsidA-,;on Adr,ng
the ICR mission's visit. The economic analysis therefore relies on the mission's judgment, assumptions and
e-0a+e ars..g out of    .uh fiAl obs-rva;-o a.-A A-ul-.--+- rec.--A-. The .-esu 1+ a-_ SU-Lm  z
UJLUCLLV, aGiaLL1r 'JUL V.I LUI, ILMl.L J~ VtJOVJI OMJa aJUL 1kUIiiJUI.VU  VI.U Ua. I Uc 1LUES aLv SUiULdI IMLEU III
Annex 3 and detailed in Working Paper 3 (in the Project Files). The overall economic rate of return of the
project -  l ~ - 1 IAnl           1___ .L. I on/  -_ -~          A_1 -.
pFoUJect is cUaIUaLCU aL 147o, sorUnW-wUL tUWoe UlWil Uhe 1070 ULJuLOU 4L aappraisa UU Lu tosrnaiier bUenIits,
offset to some extent by savings in costs. The ICR recalculation allows comparison of the results of the
main components - whicn was not presented in the SALR. it snows that the resuit is best for the component
on watercourse lining and formation of WUAs (27%), followed by flood protection and drainage
improvement (i5%), and lowest in the case of canai lining, improvements to canal structures and improved
canal operational efficiency where the economic rate of return was calculated at only 9%. A separate
analysis of the Hathnikund barrage construction showed a better result at ICR than at SAR, mainly due to
improved quantification of benefits arising from prevention of failure of the old barrage, as summarized in
Annex 3.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1  The SAR included an analysis of the financial implications of the project for HID, mainly as a
result of increased revenue from water charges for irrigation. As shown in Working Paper 3, Attachment 1,
water charges have been steadily increased since the commencement of project implementation. Default in
payment of water charges by farmers is virtually unknown in Haryana and HID estimate that water charges
revenues cover over 90% of system operation and maintenance (O&M) expenditure. However, the ICR
mission have not attempted a financial analysis since there is only information on amount spent on O&M -
nothing on the ultimate O&M needs - which would require detailed surveys and analysis to be undertaken.
Also no clear method is available for deciding how much of the large HID establishment costs relate to
regular operation of systems and what proportion should be accounted as part of the capital costs of
scheme development. HID is already committed to a program of reduction in staff which should
significantly reduce future total operating costs (HID has already abolished a large number of vacant posts
and embarked upon a program for reducing the staffing strength by over 4000). In these circumstances the
nnly general conclusion that can be reached is that due to the policy changes promoted by the project, the
financial position of HID has strengthened over the implementation period.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 The project impact on HID has been less than what was expected at anpraisal. and is therefore
rated as modest at this time, but with the potential to lead to substantial improvements. The setting up of
the separate Coinstrnction and Service UInits early in imnlementation enabled HMlT) onerate in a far more
functional manner. Turnover of the management of the water courses to the farmer organizations (WUAs)
has- been the r.nnt eignifira-nt * hanig in the intiti,tinnal a?rrneTemenrt whhi- h f6aciliwt.afA iA-m.rnr^eA sr
delivery to the beneficiaries. This resulted in efficient water utilization and equity in distribution at the farm
level    mI.4U-A-.4_.5A.      .-Aeoe .C&Id - _ agA-+i^ prod.   ..v wIhe re llJrlr have -  fo- e Vuuu d A
assumed responsibilities of management and O&M of water courses. Other important developments taking
1_tA   -   1L A_ AX _ _ _ A _ -3|9 - I. A-  +A-   I__  A -__A_Ot.A  __  __ A_   At - L I   -   11 _ - - Xl I- t_ _  b| klorn"  __  
pUWU ULL ULU WLU UI UJ11yVUVULLaLLUI LU1lIUUV ULI IULiU UVV1UUS lUJdLdUUII Iii Ul ES LLL  W .lU rlUI ka W r) UiU
the installation of new communications, information, budgeting and cost accounting systems, which are
expected to be proceeded with as soon as tLe new hiD Hieadquarters building is compieted. GOii's
commitment to water conservation and integrated water resources management came towards the end of the
project, and would need time to see the impact of these policy changes on overall finctioning of the
institutions.
-9-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or £mpiemenng agency:
5.1.1  Unprecedented rainfall and flooding from July to September 1995 severely disrupted initial project
imp. lementation and delayed -work for four months. A;l project staff and resources were diverted to flood
damage repair and relief works, not only during the flood period but in subsequent repair and restoration of
the damages. rioods caused furinher delays in 1998.
5.2 Factors generally subyect to government control:
5.2.1  Project start-up was slowed by a nine month delay in approval of the project by Planning
Coimission, GwI from March 1994 to January 1995. hne State's policy of prohibition in the i99-i998
period resulted in a sharp reduction in revenue with consequent acute budgetary restrictions. These
difficulties were firiher compounded in i998i/99 by a revision of pay and allowances of all Government
servants and pensioners in order to accommodate the award of the Fifth Pay Commission set up by the
Government of India. Slow release of land under the control of the Forest Department also delayed start-up
of some of the major works. Very long, and still unresolved consideration of groundwater legislation
drafted in 1995 and lateness of the SWP prevented implementation of the groundwater development
components.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  HID staff7s unfamiliarity with IDA requirements led to considerable delays in awarding of tenders
and a very high level of re-tendering. Over-frequent re-posting of HID senior staff also discouraged any
build-up in the momentum of project implementation and had a negative impact on project planning,
management, coordination and monitoring. Delays in implementation occurred as a result of slowness in
decision making process, particularly in difficult cases such as canal closures and procurement of
equipment and consultancies, as well as due to inadequate staffing and lack of incentives for engineering
design offices.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 Total project cost at the time of ICR mission was estimated at Rs. 19.0 billion (US$474.5 million) or
102%(98%) of the Rs. 18.6 billion (US$483.4 million) cost at appraisal. This total includes the
Government's contribution (on land acquisition, O&M, coordination, management etc.) which rose from the
SAR provision of US$ 225.4 million to the level of US$ 267.74 million due to extension of the project
period as also increase in salary and overhead costs. Costs of the individual projiect components are
itemized in Annex 2. Whereas the expenditures on rehabilitation, modernization and O&M components
more or less match with the SAR provisions, the most noticeable change in expenditire patern  h g
occurred in the institutional strengthening component which is about 37 % SAR estimate.
5.4.2 Financial Management has been rated as satisfactory over the life of the project. The HID
,.a;nt..,a thaoesrrn,intcrs met;n the Ronl'c ron,,.entu,o end rornllr a..ibi,.en.cn   c,1 mswere .  ade~
following the agreed procedures. However, some weaknesses in financial management and accounting have
bw^^id..i<.e nhih inc Je    --- fe          __'eso nei_Aes:^u re cledb the ---'ect, -whic was
u~~u  rn~u 115A41 UAL.U J I a  Al~ Jjd LA L UI1uVjVULI~IWLLCU tyw  [J4., wmnwas
subsequently disallowed by the Bank. The HID which was responsible for the implementation of the project
had submitted regular a-udit reports within,the due dates anud these repos were found to be satisfactory.
However, the project could not submit on time consolidated audit reports covering all associated
implementing agencies, particularly in respect of HiSiiTC, reportedly due to the delay in engaging of the
external independent auditor by the Company Law Board (a statutory requirement) on which the State
Govermnent had little control.
- 10-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationaleforsustainability rating:
6. i.i  Overall sustainability of the project will depend largely on the ability to levy water charges which
reflect the true cost of water supply and for HID to receive sufficient budget allocations to match O&M
expenditure needs. Since water charges have been increased to come close to O&M expenditure of i-il),
sustainability of maintenance of irrigation infrastructure (diversion structures, main and secondary canals
and distribution systems up to minor level) is rated as likely. Regarding WUAs, the depositing of
contributions in common accounts to an extent in some cases equivalent to about two years O&M costs
provides positive evidence of the members' commitment. However, it was noted during the field visits by
the ICR team that HID was yet to assume full ownership of the WUA turnover program which was being
carried out mostly through the HSMITC. The sustainability of investment in watercourses is fully
dependent on the ability of the WUAs to operate and maintain the watercourses. Though many of the
WUAs are showing positive indications that this would be achieved, quite a few of the newly formed
WUAs may need further hand-holding. Because turnover of WUAs occurred mostly during the last two
years of the project, sustainability of the WUAs and water courses under their management will be evident
only after some more time. These WUAs would require continuous guidance and assistance by
HID/HSMITC for their capacity building to achieve institutional, technical and financial sustainability.
This assistance should he nmvided to the WIJAs even after the nrniect comnietion date to eLnire
continuous support for the associations to become wholly sustainable. The positive indication is in that the
menvPmPnt of fnrn,itinn nfWTTAs aind tnrnqfpr.rina nflA°rP vnnrndihi1iti;Pc hue ,ninped m-rnd ov, er the last
18-24 months of the project, which also enthused other farmers in the locality to form additional 790
WUAs (not funded from the prject). On a si-la note, the delay in n a,- po.Lnc -es 44l1 +.e. end of
the project creates some uncertainty in the sustainability of these changes. However, early indications are
that LAM GJV V .UULLent Ji sious G*J abutcaIIy inU juL W £LU tLhe 1JtiLtULUUI rfL-.siiLi3. %J V,IO.Il DuaLMUa)liU VA
the project is, therefore, rated likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6..1) IMost~ of +16 p.oJec ;nv1.+-t +_at  Sto - s, -. - 1. an' -an dA-n- Uhich h_eUen nop.-u
W .S  a  I.M.JO   '.   - FW1--       L W   MflJ./  UL0J.10l'Ul  A   OL t& %ILu0, t Cwoau.. tUCUl  VVAut.fl f vl Vt % UL..   AU UjJJv1QLIUU
for many years and for which operation plans are already well developed. However HID will need to pay
p-[UUL%;I11 I:LLLWIUULI LUJ CIbUIV LUIUL WI Wi2MA tL-UULbV JJIV%U UliUCI LU I) IUJQ%; iUL, LWUU~U UVYL LUC UWUV Ut
for full operation and maintenance, as early as possible. For this purpose a Project Operation Plan will be
requrea. ALSO, in adiuion to providing funus for tue compietion oI lining of water courses wmcn wiu oe
spilling beyond December 31, 2001, efforts should also be directed towards forming WUAs in 420 water
courses Hined earlier under the modernization program. As there are now many success stories within the
state, visits may be organized for farmers from other areas where WUAs are still deficient. In addition, the
Haryana Canal and Drainage Act needs to be suitably modified to empower the W-iAs with necessary
legal authority to conduct their business without any impediment from any farmer including nonmembers
(para. 4.2.12). Last but not the least, as the principal manager of the water resources in the state, HID
needs to take greater ownership and responsibility of the PIM program.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  Pursuing the water resources management strategy successfully accomplished elsewhere in India
aqnd abroad; this nroiect adonnted a simi1ar annroach of rehAhilitAtion and moderni,tinn nf eiritinr
irrigation and drainage infrastructure and improving institutions for irrigation management. The focus on
the pro,ect esigcm at evntrt nn inctiH,hcnon ivpulnemmnt wsak atr' arnvtivote artwoah r ,inmi avco ,x,.n &tar . Aa'A,1
entrenched taditional practices for O&M needed support and guidance for reform. However, the Bank
-11 -



should have given more attenfion to assess the Borrower's commitmnent to the nronosed reforms and
preparedness to carryout the same during the initial years of the project. The Bank did not pay enough
attention to upfront procurement actions to en sure the readiness of the Borrower to implement workC
during the first year. Also, adequate emphasis was not given in the farmers organization and turnover
component ~,lhch xs wealyde AscigmAA The need of the A TD nnmnr,n t icrh iwas inf--h,nAe la+t houhe!dil
have been foreseen and included in the original design. Therefore, Bank's performance in project
p.reparLation and apprl  has been rate - --uA'ufd7.
V-F-. --.
7.2.1  Supervision, during the early part of project implementation, focused mainly on engineering issues
.-A ,  somenf success in helirng TTTb +o ;nrove the pnrfoge   n.-A lfiy of mnf-lnn,n+aton-  A m.ao
positive contribution of the supervision team was the introduction of the ALP component after the mid-term
r- iew. XT-_ez^Les1- +'e FOT%' and ^A copnet Aid ,-.o rgesa pla _1____ Au.ing th A---i
kLVVIGW. 11V1VI 1LV0a ULLI~ 1 '%J I 4ZIU rILIE %UI1JULLLJJ%.1iL ULU LIUL pIUJLV&~0 a.0 jJ14llI1%U ULUJ ur LI1, IUnUd. IULLI
years. Progress on other institutional development components were also not satisfactory. The supervision
team cu-udd ha-ve given more aLeniuon to -these aspects during ute early years of ihe project by providing
better skill mix in the team. The project received focused attention on farmer participation in O&M of
water courses and AlP during Tne last 18-24 months, in addition to accelerated implementation of irrigation
infrastructure. The end May 2001 workshop in Haryana (facilitated by the Bank) proved extremely
valuable in strengthening the dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower and drawing up action plans for
institutional (water sector) reforms with a view to introduce a holistic approach in Integrated Water
Resources Management. These efforts had a direct bearing on the development outcome and sustainability
of the project. Bank's overall supervision is therefore rated as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1 IDA was correct in giving emphasis under this project to better water resources use and
management. A good mix of staff at the HQ and the field office had ensured continuity and efficient use of
Bank resources. The inclusion of the critical AIP component provided added value to the project outcome.
Some of the critical implementation problems caused by floods, or financial crises could not be foreseen at
the preparation stage. The Bank provided necessary guidance and help to the Government in tackling these
problems and improving the performance of the project. However, the Bank could have taken some more
proactive initiatives during the initial years to correct the design weakness and remedy problems facing
proposed institutional changes etc. The Bank was sensitive and correct in extending the credit closing date
by one year. Overall Bank performance on balance is therefore rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  Performance during preparation appears to have been adequate, although GOH should have
brought to IDA's attention that the institution reform suggesting that HID, HSMITC and CADA should
merge into one organization, was unworkable. The state institutions were apparently reasonably equipped
to undertake the physical works for rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation and drainage systems.
However, the commitment of the borrower towards institutional reforms were not evident particularly
during the initial years which resulted in very slow progress in software areas.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  Government support to the project in the initial years was weak with considerable delays in taking
decisions on procurement of works and consultancies. Apart from restructuring of HID on functional lines
by separating construction and O&M agencies, other institutional reforms were very slow to take off.
However. Governments nerformance was generally adenuate during the later years, althonuh duie to
extreme State funding difficulties project implementation progress was severely constrained during 1996 to
- 12 -



1999. GOH could have played a stronger role in encouraging HID to move faster in implementation and to
overcome bureaucratic difficulties such as delays in release of land required for canal excavation and works
construction. GOH performance on policy change during implementation - in particular adopting a steady
increase in water charges to more fully cover O&M expenditures is rated as highly satisfactory. However,
the pace of other policy changes did not match this performance.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 Performance of HID, HSMITC, HIRMI and DOA has been largely satisfactory although HID was
very slow in starting and failed to take up formation of WUAs quickly enough. Good quality construction
of large civil works was the particular strength of HID. However, HID's performance was affected by its
inability to adapt auickly enough to IDA's procurement procedures and to push ahead vigorously with the
computerization and software aspects of the project Inability to provide periodic closures of running canals
le] tn slow imnlementation of the rehabilitation cnmnnnent diirina the initial vears which deficienrv was
rectified during the last two years of the project. Handling of consultancy contracts were also not
catkfnw'tniry These dlelayu resliltel in snme ornnnnpntc still ren ng iinrnmnlepte at the rrPedi t plwneg
date. DOA also took a couple of years to gain sufficient momentum in the implementation of the AIP
componn.t
7 7 t)ua,.nll Rnrrnwvr nDrfrwnn,ro
7.7.1  In view of the difficulties listed in para. 5.1.1 and 5.2.1 above, the Borrower's performance is rated
on balance a5 satisfactory, if vo.es diso,,poin*,,g,,,,hen compr..ed wit.h the progrss projected at.
appraisal and actually achieved during the last two years of project implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    The mission's list of lessons learned as a result of the project implementation experience are as
follows:
1 . The policy framework - macro and sectoral - conducive to reforms should be in position before a maior
institutional reform program can be implemented. Up front commitment of the Borrower for
injtttional changes iS needed for successful imnlementation of reform nrocess.
2. Efficient and effective WUAs are the key to sustainable irrigation and agricultural development. WUAs
enped tn he fnrmed dlirina e-nrly stnae of the nrnoiert nnd innvlued in the n-nlningin desigmn -nd
implementation at appropriate level.
3 --tahol eithi r h.ive a flrmly 4mne.-niinA ,wnmran for nettiit.tw^a1 refnrm ;in .Auance of a major
investment project in capital works, or - ideally - have an initial project or project phase supporting
1J.Ui,tUtiUUaL &JLIrUefor  and'.L  U dvo e   to beAWAU wY by zsecon prvjJLA   orV. projectLF L phase in WhJIch Lthe
reformed institutions implement an investment works project.
A   A i.L- - L.-                                                             P1- A1!--- 
'4. tAuvwaLc acUtior audJ IedUinUes Uo UiL UIML UL UU11UWr,w/1Ju1p VnUL1Lg a1genieV are reqU-,U JuL foriiiLLy
project implementation and capacity building.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The bofrower has submitted comments which have been given at Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 13 -



10. Additional Information
10.1   The ICR mission have prepared three working papers, namely:
Working Paper 1 irrigation and Drainage
Working Paper 2 Water Course Lining and Water Users Associations (WUAs)
Working Paper 3 Economic Costs and Benefits
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/lmpact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                 T  Projected in SAR   |          Actual/Latest Estimate          |
Water Resources Planning & Management
Reorganise HID                                             Yes          Done
Prepare State Water Plan                                   Yes         IDone, but very late
Update SWP every 5 years                                   Yes          Lot done because plan only just finished
No new wells in dark zones                                  Yes          vone
Limited expansion of wells in grey zones                    Yes         Done
Beneficiary participation                                   Ys
Enhance Agricultural Productivity
I;;WSCe                       ^  AXA .........~~~~I  .. .  IV_;" %........ A
crpig itensi6ty                                         Yes         Yes
iversif t.^. higher value crmns                             YesI        To some extent but not much
|Increase yield and productivity                            Yes          Ees
Increased water savings                                     Yes        lYes
WUA formed and operating for at least 3 years               Yes         Formed but not operating for three years
WUAs effectively maintaining watercourses                   Yes        jHard to judge, mostly only recently handed
over, although good promise is indicated in
.any of the water courses
Assure sustainabuity of the environment
Decrease in waterlogging and salinity                       Yes         Yes
Changes in waLer tLaue leve, s Ul "I  & m  ay zor. e        Yes                                                     I
Less groundwater pumping                                    Yes           es                                        l
mprove sevce delivery to all users                |        Yes         Isomel
Imnroved plannin. programmning and budgeting      I         Yes        Isome
IFully recover O&M costs                           I        Yes          Ainost
|Full O&M carried out by farmers                   |        Yes         |Farmers carry out O&M of watercourses      |
I                                                                        2I1Z only
|Rigid groundwater management                      I        Yes         ISome
lWater rights licensing system                     I        Yes         INo                                         I
|Increased delegation of authority                 |        Yes         ISome
IStatl speciaiisation ana continuity                        Y es         Io some extent, Out suii cause for coucenm
IRecover capital costs                             |        Yes          !o
Issu FO  dec^  vo                                           V-.        .Wes
15bUc F'J I Urti L.VIdJL U
Eliminate arrears to HSEB                                   Yes        |Yes
1rhange MD to water ReYeouNces De-parn1 nt        ,                     No
lutnut Indicators.,
Indicator/Matrix                        Unit     Projected In SAR  I  Actual Latest Estlmate
lDisbursement                                              |   M$    1        258        |           210
Canal liningl                                                     lll
Bhaka Canal System                                    I_m2     1      633,700      1         2,006,300
West Yamuna Canal System                              |   _m2         747,800                1,586,000
I Bank strengthening                                       l          _                  I _
Bhakra Canal System                                   |  m3          3,090,000               9,076,000
-,.~~~~~~~.I ~~~~~~                    -.          oJ i nnn              n no I AnnL
I est Yai una1U   CanaujlnI SyIteI                     1L      1    J1JI,VVV                7,UvO XVVV
Masonry Structures                                      l        l                   l
-akr Canal Sysem                                       _ No W.         2567        T           1 944
Rest houses                                            6No             0                       6
Gates & gearinz                                     I   No    I        0          1            2
West Yamuna Canal System                                 No            3415        J           1,721



IndicatorlMatrix                        Unit  [ Projected in SAR 1   Actual Latest Estimate
Rest houses                                             No    |         0                      4
Gates & gearing                                        No              0                      22
Diversion                                              No              0                      1
Drainage
Clearance                                               M m3          2.279                    is
Siruciures                                               NO            7i1 i3i
River Control
er,b_IAr>                                        km           100.11                   176__Ii
Std,purs,pitching                                      No           45.26                   132
Watpren impa
Rehabilitation                                            kmi           425                    557
Dismantling                                               No            425
Augmentation Tube Wells                                             __
Carrier channel repair                                    kmi           100                     O
Replace pumpset                                           No            240                     0
Replace control panel                                     No            240                      0
Replace compressor                                        No   j         2                       0
Modernisatlon                                              I        I
I HK Barrage                                                   No   4                                 1
I Ottu Weir                                                I   No    I        I     
I   a-iraua  arrage at dLupur                                  No I 
| Canal fining                                             I   Im                       113
i h^-l, flo,l Iste m                         |            00 r          4322
West Yamuna Canal System                                000 m2          3111                   1,837
Structures                                                  No            1636        1           722
I Watercourses                                             I      t                     I
I    Lining                                                I   km            6858        I          5,341
Buildings                                               |  No             120                     21
llmproved O&M                                              I          ___
I  Canal system maintenance                                          I _                 1
Silt clearance                                        1 M m34            37        I            39
Lining repairs                                         UU 0 m2          880        1            823
Weed clearance                                          M m2             89         |           212
Structures                                           |  INo   1      29,0UU                  4,733
Pump houses                                              No             32                     217
-D-anage System maintenance                             I                  2           _
Silt clearance                                          M m3    |      _22 _                     13
I    Structures                                            I   No    1      2-390        1           370
I Pmp houses                                          |    _No          146                     134
I  River control works                                     I         I                   I
Embankments                                           |   kmr           915                    1,474
Structures                               _                No            916        {            260
E Watercourses                                             T
Lining repairs                                            km             165                    149
L    Augmentation TWs pumps                                |   $M     _      _7.4                     9 9
Irrigation research & training Inst                                       1                       1
lWater Users' Assocations                                  I          I                  I
[ Watercourses lined                                           No            1500                   1,435
I  WasXWu'uU-bfi .viuabili+sd                              |   No            20v         1           265
WUAs formed                                              |  No    |       1700                    1
W.tercnhlse h.,d^ ,.A nuPr *o WTA                           No    I       1700                    754
llnstitutional Support 
Consultants & studies                                    I $'000  1       1.600       1           1_997
InsiuinlS         i                                        I $00I           1,0          I           .99
Study tours                                             I $'000            100o                    7
-16 -



Indicator/Matrix                   Unit   Projected In SAR  Actual atest Estmate
Training
Cost                                           1S000           200                  19
Trainees                                          No.                             13,422
Research a development
Drainage collector design                         Study                             0
opflna_L W A _fl.Atfl                              .A.  _________________a_______________
Equlpment & vehles
I  rnmmlters                                         N            o                    f
-Mainro                                                          I                   0
Jeeps                                              No           208                 230
Pick-up trucks                                     No            0                   30
Cars                                               No           36                  14
Motorcycles                                        No   |       100                  0 
Buses                                              No            2                   2
Tip trucks                                      I  No           50        1          15_1
Special tractors                                   No            5                   0
Excavators                                      I_NO_1 iUo____
Graders                                          _  _No_ _      20
HID Offce buudiug                                   .
-17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    [ Actual/Latest      Percentage of
I   Estimate         Estimate          AD praIsal
Project Cost By Component                 US$ million      US$ million
Rehabilitation                                              87.8             99.79           114
Modernization                                              184.1            162.63            88
Improving Operations and Maintenance                       177.7            199.15           112
institutional support                                       3 J.a            1Z.8      j      3
Total Project Costs                                        483.4            474.37            98
Total Financing Required                             I      *8- A7437                         9 8
Note: All costs include contingencies and as reported at the time of ICR mission
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category        ICB        LCB       Consult.      Other        N.B.F.       Total Cost
|___ ___  |_ _  Services  |
i . Lana                                                                          .               .
2. Civil Works                  51.3      197.1                    49.2                        297.6
3. Vehicles/Equipment                                                                               L ._  1  1  t  t  3.5
3.1 Vehicles                  2.8                                0.7                          3.5
(2.3)                              (0.5)                        (2.8)
3.2 Equipment                13.6       4.                                                   17.7.
(10. 9)    (3.7)                                           I    (14.1) 
4- Technical Assistance     j(09 
#.I ruuicy Suppuri                                    0.7
(0.7)                                     (0.7)
4.2 Implem. Support                                   1.2                                      1.2
(1.2)                                     (1.2)
4.3 Capacity Building                                 1.7                                      1.7
1    (1.7)     _            _ _  __(1.7)
5. Increm. oper. costs                 I         I            j    28.0          127.4         155.4
5. Increm. o                    I             I            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tr   I  to r
I               |          I         |     ~      ~~~~~~~~         ~     ~   ~~~~ I  k8.0)  I  I  (8.6) I
|Total                      |   67.7   | 201.2   |     3.6     |    77.9    |    132.9    |     483.3 
!                    !  (59 4)  ! (165 3) !(59   6)    1   (29.7)   !!                  (258)     !
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective anounts to have been financed by IDA.
- 18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category        |                  Procurement Method'                            Total Cost
|                             |      l!CB I               MNCB   I[Oher            N.B.F.   1                   l
1. Civil Works               l                l                l              1            t 
il) I r   fl I                                                                                 nA l( V.11)
B.3, B.5
b) V... B. A                                                                                  (93 .
c) PartC                                                                                      (33.72)
Consultant Services and
. Incremental Operating      |                I                               1 |          |     (3-56)         1
|Total                        l                 l                l              l            t (343.59)
Note: No other ,Ita are available tn comnlete thiq table nf prniect nosts hv nrnocurement arrangement other than the total MDA
disbursements by expenditure category shown.
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. Ali costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending
project funds to local government units.
Project FinanCinei byi Comn       ennnt tIn I I   mrlI!ln aquivalentI)
!        ~1Component          Apprsalsa! Estimate       1     ArtnaIIatestlmntp           I Pereentane fAnnra          !
I Bank /b T Govt. /b I Total /c 1 Bank     I Govt.    I     Total   Bank    I Govt. I Total    I
RehabJ                                        257.61     177.96     84.46       262.42                         102
.L-oq,-"1                       1          1 191.24   1  I!7.     I 181.6  1     O15 I                    11 LA
;:z^n         azo e_              1_nnnrt       'A 1 A   1 119     1  I      1R    190 QI_I1 R 1_n           T7 K
TnUtl Prnip't   net   1  25R 0   1 225 4    1 4R8340     2066     1 267 74   1  47417    1         l 1       98 l
Notes:
a/ Data were not available to disaggregate the rehabilitation and modernisation components.
b/ SAR did not provide the cost table showing project costs by component and financier.
c/ SAR did not provide the cost table by component of total project costs inclusive of physical and price contingencies.
Accordingly contingencies by component have been allocated in proportion of total baseline costs by component.
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Present v alue of rlows and Economic Rate of Return tER, j
Item                          Appraisal /a                      | Latest Estimate (ICR) /b
Beneits (RKs mllion) ic                                   ZO,U I1                     14,/35
Costs (Rs million) /c                                     18,821                      12,702
Ne. BenefbI - Np%r v km mMIUon)ic                        '7,190                        2,036
ERR                                        l18%                               l14%
K    From SAR irnfated t* -A e )nnd l 200 p;_e f L 7) ,  Table I )
b/ From Working Paper 3, Table 10.
cl At 12% discount rate end 2001 prices.
The mamn reasons that the re-estimated ERR and NPV of the project are lower than those estimated at
appraisal are: (i) the benefits have been re-estimated 43% below appraisal estimates; and (ii) the
re-estimated costs are 33% lower than those estimated at appraisal.
Project Component              |       Net Present Values                  ERR
II R'millinn end 2001 nrieci                    MM       l
Be__ _ _ __ Benefits I Costs  [Net Benefits  _  _ .
Canal L ining, Lmnprovements to Canal Rtnintnreq I  IS 644  I 6,Rnn  I  -I1 56 
and Improved Canal Operational Efficiency         I                                                  l
Water Course Lmining and Formation of Water  4,373    I,869   1    2-04                27
Users Associations                                               l 6l I1
Flood Protection and Drainaee Imnrovement   4.719  1 4.032         687
,~~~~~~~~~ r                             ,    . ~     .  . _ _ _ _   .1.        _
sT-uhnikninul Rnrvnus
Scenario                             SAR                                ICR
NPV (Rs'mill)        ERR (%)        NPV (Rs'mlfl) i    ERR (%)
1. Collapse after 5 years           nc                40                8,422            242
2. Collapse after 10 years            nc               14                4,025            36
3. Collapse after 15 years _         nc                8                 1,530            19
All NPV's are in Rs million year end 2001 prices discounting at 12%.
nc = not calculated
- 20 -



Annpe A fank Innuite
(a) Missions:                                                            ,
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2, Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
|  entificationleMonth/iear   Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
I dentification/Prenaration  IIII
December 1991               2    2 Economists
Februarv 1992               4    Engineer. Economist. Institutions
Specialist
August 1992                    1 1 Economist
August-November              I   I Engineer
1992
November 1992                1   1 Environmentalist
March-Anril 1992            4    2 Engineers; 2 Economists
Appraisal/Negotiation
July 1993                   5    1 Institutional Framework
Splst, 2 Water Res. Splsts, I
Financial Management Splst,
I Construction Specialist
September 1993              2    2 Management Information
Splsts.
September 1993              I    I R&R Splst
|Supervision
March - April                I   1 MIS Splst
1994
September 1994               4   3 Irrigation Engineers, I   |         S
Procurement Specialist
March 1995                   3   3 Irrigation Engineers             S             S
November -                   S   3 Irrigation Engineers, I          U             S
December 1995                    Procurement Specialist, I
Sociologist
February 1996                3   2 Irrigation Engineers, I          U             U
Construction Splst
May 1996                     5   2 Irrigation Engineers, 2          U             U
Construction Splsts, I Farmer
l                 l              l U~~~~~~~~~~rganizations Spist  
June 1996                    5   2 Irrigation Engineers, 2   |                    U
Construction Spists, 1 W UA
Spist
September -                  7   2 irrigation Engineers, i          S             S
October 1996                     Construction Splst, 1
Procurr.Lr.: 0 lat, I Socioogis,
1 WUA Splst, I R&R Splst
1997                             Procurement Splst, 1 Sociologist,
I WTIA Splst, ! R&RSplst
July 1997                    1   1 FOT Splst
Deceber     7 19                 3 T,,rn        e    !              S
|Procurement Splst, 1 WUA SpIst,
- 21 -



I A          n.s
May 1998                     6   2 Irrigation Engineers, I Water    U             S
Agronomist, I Construction Splst
Nov-mber 998                 7    1 Irrigation Engineer, 1 WAPr     ITU           U
Res. Splst, I Operations Advisor,
2 Envt. Snlsts I Procurement
Splst, 1 Constuction Splst
May 1999                     7   2 Irrigation Engineers, Envt.      S             S
Splst, I Economist, 1
Procurement SpIst, I Farmer
Organizations Splst, I
Institutional Splst
October 1999                 2   2 IrrigationEngineers        I
October -                   10    I Irrigation Engineer, I Water  |   S           S
November 1999                    Resources Splst, I Sociologist, I
Procurement Splst, I Financial
Management Splst, I Drainage
Splst, I Agriculture Splst, I
Consruction Spist, 1 Economist
December 1999    |                 IrrigationEngineer
March 2000       j           2    1 Irrigation Engineer, I
I              i Economist
April 2000       J           2   2 Irrigation Engineers
May 2000                    10    I Irrigation Engineer, I Water     S            U
Res. Spist, 1 Farmer
Organization Splst, I Drainage
Spist, i Economist, i
Construction Splst, I
I          |  rcuLe .....  en; Sp:sI  A
rLU-64LIMLIMIL ajiIbL, IL %LUIU
Splst, I Envt. Splst, I Sociologist
A%Lug-s:00 1%V               4       l   onEn^e 
Agriculture Splst, I WUA Splst
1,u-V~uau- LUU        b       e  ; 2000 1  1       1 T-aa- nnee;  I  S            iT
December2000     |           3    1 Irrigation Engineer,      |      S             S
l          l lEvo1. &nor.-iSt 1 1. ,, IA Ips 
May 2001                      7   I Irrigation Engineer, 1
I         I svo-"or,Jflfl*iOI, S1 ,o.tn..m Sp!t, al 
I Financial Management Splst, I
l          l F_~~PrmE er Org_iqtnon Sp!nlr I 
|          | ~~~Construction Splst
Novemh^r _001                     I S rriatinn Rnoinr 1
I Financial Management Splst, 1
Social Development Spist
November -                   5    2 Economists, I
Denemhbr2001                      Awrciiltunst- I             1             1             1
Construcfion Splst, I FOT
-22 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle  |               Actual/Latest Estimate
__o Staff weeks            US$ (00o)
Identification/Preparation              165                      281.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                  65!5                      123.2
Sunervision                          294,34                     445.65
ICR                                    13.4                      90.14
Tota!                                538.24                     940.29
-23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=!Eiah 5RT J=1ihQtqtmtiai1 M=Modeqt N=NWoalivioh NA=Nnt Annhipblp)
Rating
R Macrofpolicies                        n  H Osu SU   A n A N   A.A
Oi Sector Policies                     O H  OSU*M      O N  O NA
Ol Ph.ysical                           O H  * SU OC M  ON ,A O rN,A
O Financial                            O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
M   -in-ti-aion  nDelo-mnO"t           0 H 0 SU SM     N) At r NA
Oi Environmental                       O H  OSU*M      O N  O NA
Social
F PnvPrtv Rpdurtinn              O H  OSU     M  ON   O NA
Oi Gender                        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
LO nther (Ple,ase specpifu)      OH   O SU O M   ON   n MA
Li Private sector development          0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
Ol Public sector management            0 H  0 SU    M  ON   OANA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
-24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(H 1 rlit6ly OabIMAWo, S=Satisfac:ory,           PnU=U,atiisfc.r, F  t=Hinnly U.-atisfactoryj
6 ! Ba nk p-1e wi-o -rmanc                       a.
Fn Lendincr                                     OnHs n        *  iU  n HI,
rI Supervision                                   OHS * S      0 U   O HU
OI Overall                                       OHS OS      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                          Rating
OI Preparation                                   OHS OS       0 U   O HU
Oi Government implementation performance         0 HS * S    0 U    0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
Oi Overall                                       OHS OS       0 U   O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
i. Wor1king Paper 1 - inigation and Drainage
2. Working Paper 2 - Water Course Lining and Water Users Associations (WUAs)
3. Working Paper 3 - Economic Costs and Benefits
4. Implementation Completion Reporting and Supervision Mission of the World Bank. Govt. of Haryana.
Haryana WRCP. HID November 2001
5. Status Report on Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project. HSMITC. November 2001
6. Participatory Irrigation Management in Haryana under WRCP. A presentation by S.P.Singh, Chief
Engineer HSMITC
7. Participatory Irrigation Management in Haryana. PIM Case Study India (Haryana). Sixth International
Seminar on Participatory Irrigation Management, Beijing, China October 21-26, 2001. R.K.Ailawadi
and R. Bansal
8. Participatory irrigation Management under WRCP in Haryana - An Evaluation. Arun Kumar HSMITC
November 2001
9. WRCP. Ouarterlv Prouress Report ending September 30. 2001. Monitoring Cell. HID
10. Rehabilitation of Water Course Outlet 19782-T.C. Sarangpur Minor. WRCP. HSMITC
I . Modernisation and Rehabilitation of Water Course Outlet RT) 40750-R Adampur Distrihutarv WRCP-
HSMITC
12. Modernicsation (Lining) of Water Course Outlet RD 47000-R Rana DistrNbutary. wCrp. HSMITC
13. Progress Report (World Bank Mission November, 2001). Agricultural Intensification Programme
fA-  Ul1DI'M Fnna     t f A-4-It-
~L .lIdie L. VT .tt   ,. _M ..en v.flfl .  Are.
14. Draft State Water Policy. HID
1 C  T-TT-D1,V_Ly
I ..J* .LU1 LUUV L AIi  AVWP.f0   MI V11,  AVL 1 L
16. Guidelines, Bye-Laws, MOU for Formation of Water Users Association. Haryana Irrigation Research
-- A2 ~         T     f..TTTT I AT\
WiLl 1Vi&UMg1ZUWL 111IbULULM kKrLLAvU)
17. Progress Report from HIIRTI to HIRMI. HIRMI, November 2001
18. Achievements of PIMi Programme in HIRTIIHiRMi. iIRMI, November 2001
19. Replacement of Head Regulator RD 88588 Sirsa Branch D/S Budhera Complex. WRCP, HID
20. W.R.C. Project. Construction Division No. 26, Jind, HiD
21. Brief note for Rehabilitation of Munak Canal from Head to Tail, HID
22. Efforts of Water Conservation Mission. Presentation made to the Chief Minister, Haryana by A.
Kumar, HSMITC
- 26 -



A ddiff*aI Annex 0 B    r     '      u
JAUUIIIUUuI i-AIUHX 0. DMUFFrUWCr S JMVlIIUMLIUil
1. Bac;ground
In the water sector in Haryana, irrigation infrastructure was well developed through a series of projects
such as Haryana irrigation Phase I, II & N iw^Mvir etc, Dut it was feit necessary to consolidate and resort to
better management practices and it was with this idea that Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project
(HiWKRCP) was conceived. HiWRKCP was conceptualized after four studies, i.e. Institutional, O&M, Water
Resources and Sectoral Environment Assessment. The HWRCP envisioned reforms in water sector thus
bringing in a new concept in management in this crucial sector in Haryana. The salient features of the
project are as under:
Date of Agreement                  April 6, 1994
Total Project Cost                 Rs. 18582.5 M
Funding Agency                     International Development Agency (IDA) and Govt. of Haryana
Funding                            State Share- Rs.8665 M
External credit - IDA              SDR 187.3 M or US $ 258 M
2. Design
The primary development objectives were (i) Introduce water resources planning and management which
addresses current and future inter-sectoral needs; (ii) Enhance agricultural productivity and diversification,
and improve equity; (iii) Assure sustainability of environment; and (iv) Improve HID's capabilities in all
water related functional areas. The project was designed to improve the irrigation distribution network,
drainage system and bring in wide ranging reforms in terms of planning, management and related
institutional capacity and policy changes.
In terms of physical works, the state had a well-developed canal network and drainage system and also had
an established system of equitable distribution of irrigation water but needed to be consolidated and become
self-sustainable. There were a number of constraints in full capacity utilization of the system, which
resulted in less agricultural productivity. The project design included construction of new structures such
a Hnthiniciind Bsrrncge, Link Channne! Pnthrnln TDam Onttin Weir etr. mndrPMi7atinn wnrke re-hnhilitatinn
of existing systems, upgraded O&M of distribution system etc.
The institutional development component included development of state water plan; creation of a computer
bwased lAM4 xiet,cn tpm  f"jin4y; e .rp.1r%m.Pnt nf vxper+ev in, tb.A fAIA ofp"virmnmpnt PDR,T sn.djrE   -hich
were fairly new to the Haryana Irrigation Department. The policy reforms designed included restructuring
of H&-ja&a                   V .-;gation Department on munctiona basis; revision of water rates in a phased manner for full 0
& M cost recovery; participation of stakeholders in irrigation management etc.
The scope of the project was limited to the gravity irrigation areas of Bhakra and Yamuna Canal
Corn   ~-.d-oI.adcoeed' arpct of -LesA .-1o cor...-nAn- Toweve-__   11._e Txlso ofzue
Irrigation Command area from the project has -become a source of weakness in water resources
management in 'uIlese aeas. Ai eUw corncptin LI ugaiUn manageiiMCU was Uesigned, which IeU w iuUai
problems in implementation due to lack of knowledge and experience among the implementation staff in
such wide-ranging reforms. Tne procurement procedure was new to tme department ana lea to delays In
procurement decision during the initial years. The main benefit perceived from HWRCP was that the
project would consolidate the irrigation system, make the system responsive to the demands of the
beneficiaries, improve equity and quality of delivery, make it self-sustainable and protect the environment,
which was appropriate from the state's perspective. The physical features and supporting institutional and
policy supports envisaged in the project design were rightly included to achieve the development objectives
- 27 -



nf the rn;pipt
A Tmn1amen*nt*ion
Haryana Irrigation Department faced a number of problems at the initial stages, the main being a lack of
,,,,Aotnd . Aing ar.A .ii,aranesc abohuit fhp nrnioet conc-pt a   the l.pnnting st, and delay in
finalization of procurement procedures following the Bank's guidelines The project faced other problems
oVer whLicu treuv, waso Lon %luuUi, sLuch a3 LIjJI,oodUsJ.1L L 11UUa VI L77.) £LiU 19770, LrU1U11, UI auIJW.Av IiI
the implementation of physical works. However, after initial setbacks, the progress picked up due to some
concrete steps taken up by the Hari-aa IrUrgation Depaurtent, wiut Ute help anud g-uidauce of tue Wor-ld
Bank. The performance of the project was reviewed at the time of Mid Term Review (MTR) and revised
targets were fixed keeping in view the past results and future perspectives.
Tne original cost of various components of uie project was based on rough cost estiMate and there were
wide variations in costs at the time of detailed estimation. At the time of MTR, the cost aspect was also
reviewed and fresh cost analysis was carried out. Tne new targets and the cost thereof at the time of MWiR
reduced this gap substantially. The project components cost after the MTR was more realistic and targets
appeared achievable.
4. Results
The implementing agencies did face a few problems in the initial stages mainly due to new procurement
procedures. During the project implementation, financial constraints also hampered the pace of progress.
This was due to change in States financial policies coupled with the additional burden of the award of Pay
Commission recommendations. Despite these constraints, implementation of the physical aspects and
management of financial aspects has been satisfactory The implementation of software aspects of the
project was rather slow mainly due to the fact that the implementing agencies had lack of resources
particularly in tenns of human resources and institutional shortcomings. All the implementing agencies of
the project geared up for the challenge and have contributed significantly in the project. The results of the
project in various fields of the project are summarized below:
Development Obiectives
Looking back at the project period and assessing the achievement of purpose, the first and the logical
comparison would be with reference to Development Objectives of the project. The achievement on this
count indicates its fulfillment to a great extent. Rational analysis of DO vis-a-vis achievement brings out
the following conclusions:
r Deveinnment Obiective                 lAchievement
t DO#I-Introduce water resources planning and  The State Water Plan has been developed, which is a tool to manage
management, which addresses current and future future planning process in the water sector takine into account the
inter-sectoral needs.                   inter-sectoral needs.
DO#2-Enhance agricultural productivity and  Participation of stakeholders in management of water resources
diversification, and improve equity.    launched at tertiary level, and introduction of Agriculture
Intensification Program in 1997 after MTR had resulted in
increased productivity at the farm level and higher farm incomes.
DO#3-Assure sustainability of environment.  Establishment of Environment Cell in HID and adoption of
Enviromnental Policy by GOH has generated awareness in HID
towards the necessity of integrating environmental concems in the
I project design.
DO#4-Improve HID's capabilities in all water  Institutional Reorganization (functional); introduction of modem
| related functional areas             | MIS & communication system, led to enhanced capacity building in
water resources planning & management.
- 28 -



Intesrated Water Resources Manasement
For Integrated Water Resource Management and to harmonize inter-sectoral and intra-sectoral issues of
water management, the State of Harvana has moved ahead in forming State Water Resource Council with
the Chief Minister, Haryana as its Chairman and Ministers and Secretaries of the relevant Departments as
members. The State Water Resource rouncil, the policy making body, is bharcked up with Water
Conservation Mission as the 'acting arm' with Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, Haryana and
S e eMi+es of +Vuhe rel ev-ani nleprenfns - Ch r   A andmr,r, rhcA1t-ively. T- nrao- -   Ircr.o 1
support and assistance, a special Water Conservation Cell has been formed under the Chairmanship of
Secre'L.-;, 'rU-;ga.fVL1 inU the llalyaUa I -;gationL Dep&Jau11ent.
Sustamaoiuly
The state is moving towards financial sustainability in the water sector and since 1994 water rates have
been more than tripled. Tne last revision itself raised the rates by almost 45% on an average, and most
significantly, rationalizing of water rates by reducing categories to only six. The realization of water
charges is extremely good, almost entire demands are realized. According to HiD3's estimate, the current
cost recovery is more than 90% of O&M costs, a process leading towards sustainability of the investments.
Constitution of a State Water Tariff Regulatory Authority to look into the issues of water rates and
self-sustainability is under consideration.
Beneficiary Participation
During the project implementation, it was experienced that the component of lining of watercourses
provides direct benefits to the farmers, though other components also have a collective impact. But in
watercourse it is more pronounced, direct and significant in terms of equity, efficiency, saving of seepage
losses, reduction in travel time etc. This has a great impact on the agriculture production and leads to
poverty alleviation as majority of the beneficiaries are small and marginal tail end farmers.
The benefits are enhanced with the turning over of irrigation management to stakeholders at watercourse
level= A delayed be,inning of the nrocess did not dither its exnansion but the voluntary anproach restricted
it to the tertiary outlet level. This has led to a new perspective to take up the works of modernization and
rFhnhiitntinn of wqtPnrr-riAeQ qtnteuwide with henpAfinrv'q nomnlete involvernent to dip-ve mnYimllm
benefits. The encouraging results of participation of stakeholders at tertiary level have entailed the need to
tke, tb;0 cncep.at tno hi eahnr,/eovnnAony by9-rn1nn4na1 fnr.na,.;onnc ie *h-e Akstrln,ta, !-ve!.
In the .+ t .. azrea, 2055 vs UT TAhave beenu fo..I.I. tril%Decem-b:3, 201, ')A   to vv- ' o h M   VV754A l,T A . h-v
been turned over to WUAs for management after completion of rehabilitation works and joint walk through
sur-vey of completedd wvorL- -WIU: U beneficiay VV I.TTA. 1-us IrL- I.-l angiL- of ir.igstion at b wuue
level has been transferred to stakeholders covering more than 160,000 hectares area. Lining of 1700
watercourses (1435 moderniz ation and 265 renabilitation) complete under the project, and these are in the
process of being transferred to WUAs after necessary joint walk-through survey of completed works.
Environment
Haryana irrigation Department established an Environment Cell at head-quarters, which is manned by an
Executive Engineer and is under the direct control of the Engineer-in-Chief (EIC). The Cell achieved a first
in this region, when developed an In-house Environmental Policy for Haryana Irrigation Department. The
policy has been approved by the -Council of Ministers and takes care of environmental concerns of water
resources development and management. The Cell has also acquired the skills of environmental appraisal of
the water resources projects, and all projects are being appraised for environmental screening following the
- 29 -



provisions of the Policy.
Benefits in Irrigated Area
Development of water resources in Haryana has had benefits for increase in irrigated area and this is more
pronounced in the initial stages of develoDment process. Over the vears a number of proiects were taken up
and when HWRCP was launched the irrigation system was well established. It is sigificant to note that
even in a well-etablished canal svqtem- the nverall incre.se in area irrigated has been 8.45% d ring the
project period of HWRCP. However, the increase in area due to savings in water losses is particularly
irnnpornssip in the uwest~ Iitr:cta iundPr the Rh,srn ptcv,rLn,,k wxher~ fnrmsati^vn of JTTAa and liing oy f
watercourses has ushered in the concept of participatory irrigation management and considerable savings in
cost as well as of cnscrce ateor re-ces.
5. Borrower's Performance
The perfonnance of borrower i.e. the State can be termed as satisfactory so far implementation of the
project is concerned. lne impleimentng deparurenis have risen to the need of tue project and given tne
desired result despite initial setback during the launching period. A brief on various aspects is given below:
Poruwy RefoViu
The main reform i.e. the merger of HID, HSMITC & CADA could not take place but there are other
noteworthy maor poicy reforms such as in-house enviromnentai policy for Haryana irrigation
Department, policy guidelines for fornation of WUAs, Draft State Water Policy etc. The difficulty in the
merger as envisaged in the design of the project was that the three organizations are totaliy diferent as nrst
being Government department, second govemment undertaking and third being a society working primarily
with GOI aid.
Financial Progress
Financial progress was rather slow at the outset of the project but picked up midway. Ending December
2000, Rs 9472 M were spent against the provision of Rs. 13620 M, this being 69%. For extension portion
the provision was Rs. 2530 M and the progress was Rs. 1989 M, which was 79 %, (likely to increase to
100 % once all pending liabilities are cleared and reimbursed), indicating the fast pace at the last leg of the
project. Cumulative financial progress ending December 2001 was Rs. 11461 M i.e. 84 %. The
percentage achievement might touch the figure of 88 % once all pending liabilities are cleared and
reimbursed. Thus it can be concluded that financial progress was satisfactory.
Land acauisition
Haryana lrrigation Department has adhered to the sound land acquisition procedures as laid down in the
relefv.ant L-nd Acquisition Ant Adequiate compensation has been pnid to the persons, whose land has been
acquired at market rates through an elaborate system of evaluation of price. There has been only one case
of Project Affected Peo ns; m TR,hm.c PxAxPc wer s ci,Dne,,x- nff,enc+eA b-esdes of'er...-g Jobs.
Tg:a:plementadon of 1PIiiaub4J1U- --AU on J and A L.1U41 vJIJ-U
Performance in implementing the Rehabilitation and Modernization components had been excellent The
works under uhis coiponent were plawnue anu eAcCuteu wiwn proper quality contnuvi mcasures. I Re
expertise of the department in execution of civil works has always been good and duly recognized and
appreciated by the missions of the w'orid Bank.
Beneficiary Participation
Participation of stakeholders was not envisaged in SAR in a focused manner, although its presence in the
- 30 -



state in existing system was acknowledged. This concept was initiated in real sense only in 1998 with the
approval of Model Bye laws and Memorandum ofLUnderstanding. The concept picked up momentum at
the later part of the project with statewide launch of the program. The concept got the necessary impetus
with the active involvement of Agriculture Department as the third partner in the partnership of WUA and
Haryana Irrigation Departnent.
Human Resources Development
The project has helped this sector in terms of human resources development to quite an extent The
department responded well to the initial restructuring by creation of specialized distinct units for water
services and construction activities. Other activities such as development of State Water Plan,
Fnvironment Cell, Computer Cell[ C.ordinati.n U nit etc. hav e Gnntrihlted grpatly for hlrman resources
development. Although provisions of the project for MIS and computerization could not be completely
eP,vijited yet it has he.pedA ;in p,rp,tinrg g-wnmvnpr ltowe1   x,whi4h wldn1 iiave wa, for fnto,l crt.,o* I
of the department in near future.
Coordination
tIL e pe.J-LIuuLLa4U. of UIV Iiml1UVLnenUUg agencies can aUbe UV, b UU.ULUZ  LU Ui co iUUU LUUIULLLULL VI UUIMMUL
units engaged on different activities. The concept of a separate independent coordination unit has
contributd towards beter performancc, as ths unit was carying ouT all the jobs of colection of dama from
implementing agencies and this unit interwcted with all outside agencies.
6. Performance of the Bank
Supervision Mission
The World Bank supervision missions have been taking place at regular intervals and it is felt that initialy
there was a gap in communication. This was removed as the project progressed and of late an excellent
workable partnership between implementing agency and the World Bank has emerged. The supervision
missions have been quite useful for the state particularly in dissemination of information, data, knowledge,
adjustments and improvements in the project.
Team Composition
The HWRCP supervision missions had a unique feature that they comprised of specialists in all related
fields of water sector. The teams on the missions have always been weli balanced and as per the needs of
the state at a given time.
Role as Facilitator
It is felt that the World Bank missions have played the role of facilitator rather than the regulatory agency,
whinh haq had a healthv imaret oin the impnleimenting arcienre The tendeimv *f the micsinns has heen tn
work as a team with the line staff and as a facilitator.
Timely Approvals
IMost of L'e appivv YlsLI req "LDeBa we1re 0wO1s  mu oun U.LLLV IUU U1:Any 0JqJuva'. anU Uha-i
contributed greatly towards the healthy progress of the project. The department has had no instance of any
d'elay  OinxUUUof WUo" rLI 4%ULUIL uI Uofidy ofI Ul BDUaLn apprlVals.
Leaming and Shanng Sessions
Another important impact of the bank missions has been on interactive sessions with the implementing
agencies. Tnese sessions have proved to be a great leaning experience for the staff as the World Bank
missions always had specialists in all relevant fields and have provided the officials a wider perspective by
- 31 -



sharing knowledge and experiences elsewhere. Comprehensive interaction with the staff of implementing
agencies has helped them to a great extent in developing skills in those specialized fields.
7. Lessons Learnt
On conclusion of HWRCP, a number of lessons have been learnt, which can mainly be listed as follows:
1. Continuity of senior staff at the policy and decision making level is essential for good performance of
the project. Quick turnover of staff delays implementation and affects the performance of the project.
2. Participation of beneficiarv farmers and other stakeholders in planning, implementation and monitoring
ensures transparency, accountability, reduction of costs and better management of
rehn_bilitntpfl/mo.rni7i7d infi ninwtiir
3. Realizing and understanding the necessity of an integrated and holistic approach in planning and
...anagement of water resow-res. has been the halLmarlk of fthe propt A!! fiitirp nrnipirt in, the wanter
sector should be planned with a holistic approach, taking into consideration the needs of all
s'akeholders and user of water.
4. Haryana Irrigation Department needs to focus on enhancing the skills of technical staff through
iainings, higher studies, study to-urs etc., keeping in -viw tLe advance technologies and maagement
practices being developed in the water sector.
5. For better performance in tie implementation of a project, it is essenuial to pro-vide at the o-uset.
in-depth information and knowledge on every aspect of the project to the implementation agencies and
line staff through a series of workshops, seminars, training programs etc.
6. There is a need to expand the concept of PIM to higher hydrological formations for enhancing the
financial viability of WU-As. This could be achieved by preparing a comprehensive plan duly
complemented with necessary policy and legal framework/amendments to facilitate implementation and
consolidation of benefits. Further active involvement of stakeholders in planning, prioritization, water
rates structure regulation etc. would also pave way for efficiency and better management.
7. There is a need to establish an effective data collection and data sharing system,, which could be
combined with the dynamic State Water Plan.Establishment of a comprehensive MIS supported by a
central data collection and processing unit, would enhance the efficiency. This would also facilitate
monitoring, review and adjustments in planning and implementation.
8. Integration of agriculture in irrigation management is essential for achieving the goal of higher
agricultural productivity. This has proved to be an excellent -tool for motivating the beneficiary
farmers towards better water management, crop diversification and higher crop productivity, and
should form an integral part of any future planning in irrigation sector.
9. Farmer led extension approaches are most effective methods of disseminating knowledge to other
farmers, and also usRhering cronp diverSification in a big way=
10. External monitoring and evaluation is necessary to identify lapses and take timely corrective actions
during the course of thke project.
8. ruture vision
With the experience gained during the execution of HWRCP and the recommendations of the Workshop on
Water sector Reform-ns in Har-yana'; Ute Haryana Irrigation DepaULrment has developed an action planl for
the proposed activities. A Concept Paper has been developed on the subject, which would usher in
revolutionary and sweeping reforms in water sector in the state. Tne state is worKing on preparaution oi a
framework for the new project in line with the concept developed, which would go a long way in bringing
about revolutionary changes in this crucial sector of the state. T-nis when achieved, would benefit not only
the water sector but other sectors as well.
- 32 -









WMAGING
Report No.:        24218
Iype:     i;



