Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL lSE ONLY
(7                                       xVt/2&   9  . -' /
Report No. 12813-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPC72T
INDIA
HARYANA RATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1994
MICROGRAPHICO
Report No:         12813 IN
Type: SAR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currenz Unit - Rupees (Rs.)
US$l = Rs. 31.51/
FrI.gAL YxmA
Government of India, State - April 1 to March 31
WRIrMSWr pNp    URE IMETRIC SyS) 2/
1 Meter (m)                             = '.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                          = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)            = 810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
I million acre-feet (MAP)                = 1,235 Nm3
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC)    = 28.32 Mm3
1 cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) = 0.028 Mm3 per second (cumec)
I cfs                                    = 102.9 m3lhr
1 ton                                    = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
SEAAON$
kharif      Monsoon season
rabi        Dry/Winter season
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.  Conversions in
this report have been made at US$1.00 to Rs. 31.5, which represents the
projected exchange rate over the disbursement p'riod.
2/    The Metric System has been used in most cases   However, India is still
in the process of transition to the metric system; non-metric units are
still widely used, and were also used in this report in cases in which a
conversion to the metric system may confuse the reader.



FOR 0MCUL US ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATW         Augmentation -.jewell
AU          Administration Unit
BC          Bhakra Canal
CADA        Command Area Development Authority
CE          Chief Engineer
CEC         Chief Engineer Coordination
CU          Construction Unit
CWC         Central Water Commission
DIT         Direct Irrigation Tubewell
DPU         Data Collection and Water Resources Planning Unit
DRU         Design and Research Unit
EIC         Engineer-in-Chief
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOH         Government of Haryana
GOI         Government of India
HA          Hectare
HDOA        Haryana Department of Agriculture
HDOE        Haryana Department of Environment
HDOFi       Haryana Department of Fisheries
HDPH        Public Works Department (Public Health; also known
as the Haryana Department of Public Health)
HID         Haryana Irrigation Department
HSEB        Haryana State Electricity Board
HSMITC      Haryana State Minor Irrigation Tubewells Corporation
HSPCB       Haryana State Pollution Control Board
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
M          Million
MC          Municipal Councils
MIS         Management Information System
NGO         Non-Government Organization
NPV         Net Present Value
NTPC        National Thermal Power Corporation
NWMP        National Water Management Project
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PBC         Planning and Budgeting Committee
QA          Quality Assurance Office
SAU         State Agricultural University
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
SWP         State Water Plan
SWRC        State Water Resources Committee
WRU         Water Regulation Unit
WSPS        Water Services Policy Support
WSU         Water Services Unit
WUA         Water User Association
WYC         Western Yamuna Canal
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



HAA  WATER RESOURCE CNS LIDATION PROJECT
Draft Staff Aprpaisl Report
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I.    WATER RESOURCES SECTOR
Water Resources in India   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Development Priorities   ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..    1
The State of Haryana   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Experience with Past Bank Lending  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
II.   THE PROJEi'
Rational,; for IDA Involvement and Origin   . . . . . . . . . .  5
Project Objectives and Design  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Project Investments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Rehabilitation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Modernization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Improved Operation and Maintenance   . . . . . . . . . .  9
Institutional Support    .......... . 10
Policy Reforms   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Institutional Reform   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Beneficiary Participation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Groundwater Regulation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
State Water Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . 15
Expenditure Priorities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Power Sector .................... . 16
III. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND DISB-URSEMENTS
Project Costs and Financing ................ . 16
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Retroactive Financing and Special Account  . . . . . . . . . . 20
Accounts and Audits  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... . 20
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONt AND MONITORING
Organization and Management  ... .       .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .   . 20
Training and Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Monitoring and Evaluation  ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Project Reviews and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
V.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Project Benefits and Justification   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Economic and Financial Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Environmental Impact and Land Acquisition  . . . . . . . . . . 25
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ...................                     . 27



Annex 1     Project Costs
Annex 2     Policy Reform Program
Annex 3     Haryana Irrigation Department:  Institutional
Modifications
Annex 4     Institutional Support
Annex 5     Rehabilitation Component
Annex 6     Modernization Component
Annex 7     Technical Specifications
Annex 8     Improved Operation and Maintenance
Annex 9     Communications and Computer System
Annex 10    Cost Allocation Recovery and Program Funding
Annex 11    Farmer Participation in Irrigation Management
Annex 12    State Water Plan
Annex 13    Environment and Land Acquisition
Annex 14    Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 15    Procurement
Annex 16    Supervision and Implementation Plan
Annex 17    Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 18    Documents Available in Project File



WATER RESOtIRCES C NR0LIDATION PROECT
I.    CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, Acting by its President.
szecuting  Agency:    The State of Haryana.
Amount:                  IDA Credit SDR 187.3 million
(USS 258.0 million equivalent).
Terus:                   IDA:  Standard with 35 years maturity.
Co-Lending  feozs:    Government of India would make the proceeds of the
Credit available to the State of Haryana (GOH) under
standard arrangemer.ts for developmental assistance to
the States of India. GOI would assume the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description: The project would be a sector investment loan,
financing an agreed state-wide program to improve the
water distribution and drainage systems, and upgrade
institutional capacity for water management and
planning. The project would emphasize the re-ordering
of the state's public expenditure priorities,
supported by institutional and administrat mre reforms
and policy adjustments. The project would finance the
following investments under the areas of the Bhakra
Canal system and Western Yamuna Canal system
(including Gurgaon Canal) of the state: (a)
rehabilitation of the existing canal and drainage
systems, and selective lining of canals and
watercourses; (b) w       inn of canal and drainage
systems and watercourses, replacement of the
Hathnikund Barrage, and construction/extension of
minors; (c) upgraded 2peration and maintAnannA (°&MN
of the water distribution and drainage system; and (d)
inntituttonal trengthening to support administration,
data collection, planning, design, beneficiary
participation and formation of Water User
Associations, research and training. Investments
would be supported by reforms to reorganize the
Haryana Irrigation Department (HID). O&M standards
and procedures would be adjusted to improve irrigation
efficiency and services to all consumers, enhance
productivity levels, and implement full O&M cost
recovery. A water policy framework would be developed
through multi-use water resource planning and
formulation of a State Water Plan.
Project  5enef its:    The main expenditures under the project -- rehabilita-
tion, modernization, and improving O0M -- would



enhance operational efficiency, and result in improved
water use, improved irrigation and higher valued
agricultural production. Economic benefits would also
result from reouced losses due to recurrent flooding.
As importantly, the project would assist the state to
transform HID from a construction and irrigation
oriented agency into a specialized water resource
management institution, and improve the ins3itution's
financial viability. The policy reforms would help
GOH and the private sector to allocate resources to
higher priority investments in water resources
development.
Project Risks:           There are three main risks to the project.  The first
risk relates to implementation of the large investment
program within an agreed period of time. In the past,
HID has demonstrated the ability to implement large,
complex projects to high standards. To help maintain
the past high standards, &A internal project Quality
Assurance Unit would be established in HID during
project implementation. The second risk is associated
with HID's capabilities to sustain the proposed higher
standards of O&M of the canal and drainage system.
HID will reorganize the presently fragmented 0&S
functions and the existing 0&M units will be
strer.gthened ana better funded at all levels. Annual
disbursement of project funds will be linked to
expenditures and performance of O&M in the previous
year. The third risk is related to GOH's capabilities
to implement and sustain the proposed changes in O&M
funding, and cost recovery of agricultural power and
water services under the project. The cost recovery
program is l .aked to an administrative reform through
which a new unit in charge of programming and
budgeting, program tracking, cost accounting and
service cost allocation would be created. Annual
disbursements of project funds would also be linked to
cost recovery. A specific action plan, agreed at
appraisal, will be monitored closely during
supervision to help minimize project risks.



atorat.  PROnOat t¶!aatil:
C=ntune t                 Qleal Foraign Total           Lna  Foreigm ?ntal
---- Rs M  ------              ------- US$ m ------
Rehabilitation           2431.3   108.9   2540.2       77.2       3.5      80.6
Modernization            4949.3   230.5   5179.8    157.1         7.3    164.4
Improved Operation
& Maintenance            5560.4    165.9   5726.4    176.5        5.3    181.8
Institutional
Support                   947.4     89.9   1037.2      30..       2.9     32.9
Total
gageline Cnsat         138aB&_     595-2  144B3, 6    z4409      18_§.   g59§ -
Physical
Contingencies            1104.5     74.5   1178.9      35.1       2.4      37.4
Price
Contingencies            2735.9    184.0   2919.9    -15.1        1.3    -13.8
CQaI
TotalLoal                                Fro S 
Pro iert Costs         1721211    8i36 AS 2-          .460.      22.51   .49-4
~±fl~±Ug21*Af:
----------- US$ Million -----------
GOH                                   224.7         0.7               225.4
IDA                                   23.61        21.1               259-0
Total                           460-9        22_i               453-4
TDK F4snal Year
(US$ million)
94      95      96      97      98      99      2000
Annual            25.8   38.7   51.6   43.9   38.7   33.5           25.8
Cumulative        25.8   64.5   116.1  160.0  198.7  232.2    258.0
Poverty Category: Not Applicable.
Bconomic Rate of Return:   18%
MAP: IBRD No. 25512 - INDIA: Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project
1     Including taxes and duties of US$11.6 million.



1    WATER uZO    S SECTOR
Wter Remnurema in India
1.01         ntrournt'4o.  Water is an increasingly scarce reseurce in India,
and its management in terms of physical, economic and environmental needs is
critical to overall economic development. India's limited water resources are
distributed unequally, both spatially and temporally. Development of
groundwater and surface water is reaching physical limits in many states,
particularly in the northwest. The intrlinked nature of surface and
groundwater further complicates the problem: exploitation of each affects the
availability and development potential of the other, and conjunctive planning
of these resources is essential. Water resource development is also
constrained by riparian rights of neighboring states and countries.
1.02        Com;eting        f Watex.  Irrigation is the largest user of water
in India (about 93% of present gross water use). However, the National Water
Policy of India (Ministry of Water Resources, 1987) gives the first priority
to the provision of domestic water supplies for urban and rural populatL.ons
and assuring *iater supplies for livestock. Competing demands arise from
industry, thermal and hydro-power, fisheries and navigation. in addition,
minimum flows on rivers for flushing pollutants, dilution of waste water, and
other environmental concerns limit the operation of facilities. The Central
Water Commission (CWC, 1988) estimated that community needs would double, and
industrial and power requirements would increase almost seven-fold, by 2025.
While the total water demand from community use (forecast to be 40 BCM/yr in
2025) is not high compared to the total water resources (930 BCM/yr in 2025),
localized and regional demand can lead to severe shortages, particularly for
urban areas. Thus, in future, competing uses are likely to limit the water
available for agriculture and irrigation, particularly near major metropolises
and in dry regions. These increasing demands could also force fundamental
changes in irrigation systems, cropping patterns and water use efficiency.
1.03        Agr{U]ture ant Trrigation in India.  Agriculture is a key sector
in India's economy, contributing about 35% of GDP and employing 65% of its
adult population. Annual agricultural growth has been modest at 2.6% p.a.
over the last two decades, and performance of the sector has been
dsteriorating. India has a land area of 3.27 million km2 of which about 40%
is cultivable. and 20% is irrigated. Irrigation has been the major source of
agricultural growth, and the pursuit of India's goal of food self-sufficiency
has been based on massive investment in irrigation. The potential of
irrigation, however, has been constrained in India by inadequate attention to
comprehensive planning and system needs, and signif '.:nt issues must be
addressed to maintain and surpass past contributions - agricultural growth.
Developent Priorittes
1.04        Development plans of the Government of India (GOI) and State
governments give priority to alleviating poverty and creating employment,
particularly in the rural areas. While per capita income has increased by
about 2% per annum to an average of about US$300, the impact on improvement in
the standard of living of the poor or in reducing under-employment has not
been significant due to rapid population growth. Of the total population of
over 850 million, an estimated 280 million (33%) live Lalow the poverty line.



About 75% of the population lives in rural areas, depending directly or
indirectly on agriculture.  One-third of the agricultural labor force are
women, and agriculture is the main source of employment for women in rural
areas. Thus, the performance of agriculture, and irrigation, is intrinsically
linked to poverty alleviation in India.
1.05        GOI's long-term strategy is to stimulate agricultural growth and
promote rural development through improved water and land management, enhanced
efficiency of irrigation and drainage networks, strengthened research
se--vices, increased attention to environmental protection, and improved rural
infrastructure. Investment programs to address these elements and to
reestablish growth are of high priority in the Eighth Five Year Plan (1992-97)
of GOI and state governments. Equitable distribution of the benefits of
growth and sustainability of the resource base is also emphasized. The
proposed project has been designed to assist the state of Haryana in pursuing
its development goals through increased efficiency in utilizing and managing
water resources.
Thg Stat_ of HaryAna
1.06        Geri-al Featureas. Haryana is situated in north-west India (IBRD
Map No. 25512). One of the smallest states in the Union, Haryana covers an
area of about 4.4 M ha, of which 3.9 M ha is arable. Per capita income in the
state is among the highest in India and has been growing at a rate of about
12% annually in recent years. The state has a population of about 12.8
million, and 78% of the population is e-.ployed in the rural sector.
Agriculture is the dominant sector of the economy: its share of State
Domestic Product (SDP) is about 43.8% (1984/85-1986/87), while the growth of
SDP originating in agriculture was 3.7% over the last two decades.
1.07        Water Resonrcea.  Haryana is mostly arid or semi-arid, with
limited rainfall ranging from 300 mm in the south-west to 1100 mm in the
north-east. There are no perennial rivers running through the state, and two
thirds of the area is underlain with brackish water, with rising water tables
and inadequate natural drainage. The state receives water from the Sutlej and
Yamuna rivers. According to the Indus Waters Treaty (1960), India has
unrestricted use of the Ravi, Beas and Sutlej rivers for irrigation and other
uses, and the right to utilize the natural channels of the rivers for disposal
of drainage effluent. on the Yamuna, water sharing is governed by the 1954
Agreement at Tajewala Headworks between the states of erstwhile Punjab (after
1966, parts of Punjab were constituted into Haryana) and Uttar Pradesh.
Haryana will receive additional waters when the Sutlej-Yamuna Link Canal and
the Thein dam are completed.
1.08        The available surface (about 9Bm3) and sub-surface (about 5Bm3)
water resources in Haryana have been almost fully developed. Two major canal
systems (a 12,100 km long network) distribute surface waters: the Bakhra
Canal (SC) System which is fed from the Indus basin and the Western Yamuna
Canal (NYC) system which receives supply from the Yamuna river. Construction
of the WYC began in the year 1850 and the BC in 1952. The Tajewala Headworks
diverts up to 487 m3/s water from the Yamuna to the NYC. the structure is



over 120 years old, and needs modernization. The performance of the canals
have deteriorated also over time, mainly as a result of insufficient funding
of operation and maintenance. Groundwater development ass progressed rapidly
and there is limited scope fox further groundwater utilization. There are
more than half a million private wells in the state, and about one thousand
functioning public irrigation wells. The network of interlinked canals of the
two surface water systems distributes water to the main users as follows:
irrigation (92%), municipalities (5%), fisheries (1%), industry (1%) and power
(1%). The direct availability of water to irrigation is projected to fall
substantially in the future as municipal anC. livestock demands rise in
response to increasing population. Particularly, urban demand for water is
expected to increase many-fold, which could further exacerbate localized
shortages. Over the next fifty years, increased demand of water for power is
expected to be 11%, with fisheries and industry claiming 8% and 4%. Thus, in
future the demands on the state's water resources will far exceed any possible
increases in water supply.
1.09        AricUltUre and Irrigation I.  Along with Punjab, Haryana
led India's Green Revolution, the two states together contributing almost 70*
of the total foodgrain procurement of GOI. Yields of most major crops are
high, and average foodgrain yields are 30-40% higher than the all-Incia
average. The cropping intensity in Haryana is about 149% (1980-83) and is
limited by irrigation supplies. About 75% of the state's arable land is
served by irrigation canals in the BC commands (1.2 Mha), the WYC commands
(1.1 Mha) and the lift areas in southern Haryana (ultimately 0.5 Mha). Present
surface water irrigation intensity averages about 60%, reflecting the limited
availability of water supplies for the system. The state is reaching its
limits of agricultural expansion: future gair.s from Green Revolution
technology are not likely to mptch past performance, scope for further
development of new irrigation is limited, past investments made in irrigation
infrastructure are deteriorating, and problems of water-logging and salinity
are increasingly evident.
1.10        nra4naga. Naterlhaglng and salinity. In large parts of Haryana,
the impact of irrigation over many decades has caused the groundwater table to
rise, now near or at the root zone in many areas, resulting in severe problems
of waterlogging and salinization. In these areas, crop yields have declined
significantly, and the sustainability of India's most productive agricultural
area is threatened. Already, water-logging problems have developed on about
250,000 ha of land in northwest India, and it is foreseen that some 3 Mha may
be in jeopardy over the next 30 to 50 years. The incidence of flooding also
increases as the water table approaches land surface. The 3,800 km long
drainage network, constructed over a period of 36 years from 1952 to 1988 in
Haryana, drains 24,000 km2 of land but has not been maintained effectively,
resulting in extensive village flooding and major agricultural losses.
1.11        Power.  Agricultural users receive large power cost subsidies,
resulting in inefficient use of power and overdrafting of groundwater.
Haryana is one of the few states that charge the GOI minimum recommended rate
of 50 pai-a/kWh for all metered pumps. However, on average the Haryana State
Electricity Board's (HSEB) tariffs cover only about 60% of its cost of



delivery; agriculture represents about 46% of the power sold but contributes
only 11% of HSEB's revenues. For private tube-wells, of which about 32% are
metered, HSEB charges a minimum tariff of Rs 20/ HP/month on metered connec-
tions while the charge should be about Rs 32/HP/ month for minimum returns.
The flat rate for unmete-ed connections is Rs 35/ HP/month, while the Rs
0.50/kwh flat rate equivalent is estimated to be Rs 42/HP/month. For public
tubewells (all metered) the total arrears to HSEB amounted to about Rs 2.7
billion by March 1993. The GOH subsidy to agriculture is oaly partially
compensated through budgetary transfers: in 91/92, HSEB received only Rs 400
million cover its accumulated shortfalls. Thus, policies on pricing of power
to agricultural users aggravate and reinforce the problems in both 3ectors.
1.12        water U easur6es  MgenCiaa.  The HarDyana Irrigatl2n 2lnarXtmeS  (HID)
haa the primary responsibility for mzanaging the State's water resources and
providing essential services in the sector. HID manages the distribution of
irrigation water in the main canals, distributaries and minors, up to the
water ct..rses, and operates and maintains all related facilities.  HID also
provides domestic and irrigation supplies in Lift Comnands in the southern
parts of the state (see para 2.19). HID provides facilities to protect
agriculture and urban/ village areas from flood damage, removes at  manages
disposal of stormwater, provides sub-surface agricultural drainage -n saline
and waterlogged areas of the state, and disposes wastewater discharged into
canals. Through the extensive canal system of the state, HID supplies munici-
palities and villages, industry, power plants, fisheries, horticulture and
other miscellaneous categories, and conveys bulk water supplies for the Union
territory of Delhi and to the State of Rajasthan. Two other agencies execute
developmental works in the irrigation sector:  the Harvana Stat: Minor TrU4g-
ation Tunewell Corporatio  (USMITC) was established in the 1970s to carry out
public sector groundwater development and water course lining, and the Cammand
area Qevelopment Authority (CADA) was established to perform lining of water
courses in newly developed areas where irrigation utilization is lagging.
1.13        The structure of HID reflects historical work priorities and
methods.  Further specialization is needed within the organization to reflcot
the quite distinct and separate needs of resource planning, design,
construction, and O0M. Similarly, administrative and regulatory
responsibilities and functions are scattered among a number of units. The
situation is further complicated by the overlap of functions between HSMITC
and CADA. There is a lack of continuity of staff in any position, and of
incentives for improved staff performance. Management procedures require
better definition, and the mechanisms to develop, manage and monitor HID's
programs and budget can be improved. The -agnitude of the demands in the
various areas and the complex situation ii .hich HID must operate demand a
fresh examination of alternatives to its current institutional ar.angements
and the associated policies and procedures applied to its daily work.
Iieprience with Past Rank LenJiin
1.14        RXperience in India.  India's agricultural development efforts
have attracted substantial support from the Bank Group. To date, 130
agricultural projects in India have received US$10.2 billion equivalent of



- 5 -
IBRD/IDA financing (81% IDA and 19% Bank), the majority of which has been for
irrigation. Projects have also included: agricultural support services
(credit, research and extension); commercial agriculture (seeds, fisheries and
agro-industry); forestry, watershed and resource conservation: livestock
development and drought assistance. The objectives of Bank involvement in
Indian agriculture have been to expand and modernize the infrastructure
supporting sectoral growth, strengthen the institutions rerving agriculture,
increase the production of high value commodities, and introduce sustainable
land management systems affecting rainfed agriculture. Common problems in
agricultural projects have been: (a) delays in project mobilization and
procurement; (b) poor quality civil works; (c) institutional weaknesses: and
(d) insufficient local funding.
1.15       Earience in Haryan&. Two irrigation projects have been funded:
the Haryana Irrigation Project (Credit 843-IN, 1978-83), and the Haryana
Irrigation II Project (Credit 1319-IN, 1983-92). These projects provided
support for lining parts of the canal system and water courses, improvement of
rural roads, improved marketing facilities and water supply to rural
communities. More recently, Haryana has been included in the National Water
Management Project (NWMP). Past implementation experience is fairly
satisfactory. Both Haryana I and 1I were successful in meeting their primary
objectives, and major project components were executed to good engineering
standards. The PCR of the second project (November, 1993) notes the state's
ability to execute a large volume of civil works to high standards, and
estimated an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 17%. However, the PCR also
noted the growing burden of O&M in relation to an inadequate budget, pointing
out that maintenance of project works was crucial to project sustainability.
There were also problems in project flow of funds. It highlighted the
following 'issues for the futureO: (a) the difficulty of inducing change
(technical or organizational) into the department; (b) the impact of competing
water demands on agricultural availabilityp (c) lack of continuity in key
posts within the department; and (d) the interstate drainage problem, and
measures for its solution. Finally, the PCR emphasized the need for a
realistiu time schedule for future projects: Haryana II (credit of US$300
million) was executed with a four-year overrun from original schedule. These
lessons, together with GOH's proposals to improve planning and management of
water resources in Haryana, are central to the proposed Haryana Water
Resources Consolidation Project (WRCP). This project was prepared jointly by
GOH and IDA in 1992-94. The project was preappraised in July 1993 and
appraised in October-November 1993.
TIT THE PROECT
Rationale for IDA Tnvolvement and Origin
2.01        The Bank's new strategy for water resources management (Water
Resources Management, September 1993), proposes an agenda of policies and
institutional reforms that will utilize market forces and strengthen the
capacity of governments to carry out their essential roles in resource use and
planning. The need for the adoption of a comprehensive framework for
analyzing policies and management options regarding water scarcity, efficiency



- 6 -
of service, allocation of water and environmental damage is highlighted. The
proposed project represents a significant first step towards this new
strategy. In Indial, water development and irrigation is planned and
implemented at the state level, requiring a state-by-state approach, with
WRCPs as the main vehicle for Bank support. The Bank is one of the few
institutions that could provide the necessary continuity of support required
to pursue the state's long-term strategy in water resource development. The
Bank also has a strong interest in supporting initiatives that would promote
similar policies across states for developing water resources, as this would
lead to more rational use and allocation of water in the national context.
2.02        Water Resogures Policy.  Consistent with the Bank's strategy,
under the WRCP, GOH proposes a shift in emphasis from investment in new
facilities towards improved water management, institution building and policy
change. GOH's policy supports the provision of water for productive
activities, drainage and flood control, and potable water and sanitation, in
an economically viable, environmentally sustainable, and socially equitable
manner. The policy pursues the following elements for success: (a) strong
institutions for improved water management, public investment programs, and
drought planning; (b) greater role for efficiency incentives, financial
discipline, and cost recovery measures; (c) adoption of technologies and
management approaches that increase the efficiency of water use and
allocation; (d) priority attention to the water needs of the poor; (e)
decentralization of responsibilities; (f) beneficiary participation and
formation of Water User Associations (WUAs) to improve water resource
management, service delivery and cost recovery; (g) protection, enhancement
and restoration of water quality; and (h) upgrading skills for planning,
analysis and management.
2.03        Seotoral Strategy for India.  The India Irrigation Sector Review
(ISR) identified four priority areas of action, which are consistent with
GOH's policy as well: (i) instit1jtinal development to upgrade management
capability of water resource departments through improved functional
responsibilities, institutional accountability, and participation of farmers
and the private sector; (ii) redefined p1bl$c expenditure grioriti4s --
emphasizing the performance of existing schemes, enhanced operation and
maintenance, and completion of viable incomplete projects, rational cost
recovery policies, and prioritized allocation of budgetary resources; (iii)
ltisenctoral water resources policy and planning using river basins as
planning units; and (iv) iMroved technical gerformance of water service
delivery for water management (including irrigation), system operations and
maintenance, and environmental management. These priority actions form the
basis of the proposed project.
1     The foilowing main documents detail the evolution of the Bank's strategy
pertaining specifically to India: India, Irrigation Sector Review (December,
1991, Report Number 9518-IN); India Public Expenditure Review (Agriculture
Report, SA2AG, Draft, May 1993); and Proposed World Bank Operational Strategy
for Indian Irrigation (SA2AG, October 1991). The strategy is also supportive
of and consistent with the Asia Water Resources Study (Draft 1992).



- 7-
Project Objectivea and DesiM
2.04        The primary objectives of the proposed project  ould be to:  (a)
introduce water resource planning (including contingency planning for
droughts) and management which addresses current and future inter-sectoral
needs; (b) enhance agricultural productivity and diversification, and improve
equity; (c) assure sustainability of the environment; and (d) improve HID's
capabilities in all water related functional areas.
2.05        Taking into account lessons learnt from past Bank projects in the
state, the proposed project is designed to contribute to these objectives by
helping GOH put in place a comprehensive, sustainable, water resource develop-
ment program for the state. The state's capacity to implement such a program
would be based on three closely interlocking and interdependent elements: an
organizational structure designed and staffed to address the activities to be
taken up in the near and longer term, a water resources development plan which
provides the general framework within which future water development in all
sectors must be analyzed, and a program and budgeting process which reflects
the schedule and balance of future investments to fit the available funds.
The state's public expenditures in the water resources sector would be re-
oriented towards sustaining past developmental efforts, and promoting growth
enhancing investments for the future. The project would support this strategy
by providing investment funds supported by policy reforms.
Project Description
2.06        The project would be a sector investment loan, financing an agreed
state-wide program (to be imolemented over six years) to improve the water
distribution and drainage syatems, and upgrade institutional capacity for
water management and planning. The project would finance the following
investments under the areas of the Bhakra Canal system and Western Yamuna
Canal system (including Gurgaon Canal) of the state: (a) rehahil4tat4nn of
the existing canal and drainage systems, and selective lining of canals and
water courses; (b) m  arizat'4n of canal and drainage system and water
courses, construction of the Hathnikund Barrage, and construction/extension of
minors; tc) upgraded ooeration and maintenance CO&M) of the water distribution
and drainage system; and (d) insti-utional support for administration, data
collection, planning, design, beneficiary participation, research and
training.  Project investments have been carefully selected from a larger
program of investments, according to the priority needs of the state's water
management system. Investments would be supported by fundamental reforms to
reorganize HID, including integration of selected RSMITC and CADA activities
with HID.  O&M standards and procedures would be adjusted to improve services
to all consumers, enhance irrigation efficiency, increase productivity and
diversification, and introduce full O&M cost recovery. Beneficiary
participation would be facilitated and policies and procedures for formation
of WUAs implemented. A water policy framework would be developed through
multi-use water resource planning and formulation of a State Water Plan (SWP),
including contingency planning for droughts.



-8-
rQoiect Investment 
2.07        Rehabilitation  uRS880-6 million. 18% of base cost. Annex 5).  The
primary objective of the rehabilitation component is to invest in one time
repair and rehabilitation of the existing systems, to address the problems of
the backlog of deferred O&M and bring the system back to acceptable performing
standards. This would also encourage beneficiaries to pay for the cost of
improved water delivery and facilitate the turnover of system maintenance to
WUAs. Implementation responsibilities for this component rests with the
Construction Unit (CU) and Design and Research Unit (DRU). Details of the
component are in Annex 5. The following works would be funded (lift commands
have been excluded from the scope of this project, see para 2.19):
(i)   Canal Systam rehabilitation (US$42.5 million) including:  (a)
replacement of deteriorated lining of the main canals (1.5 Mm2); (b)
silt clearance and bank strengthening (13 Mm3 earth work); (c)
replacement of about 300 masonry structures and repairs to about 6000
masonry structures; and (d) repairs to buildings;
(ii)  nrajnage S:ystem rehabilitation (US$24.6 million) including:  (a)
resectioning of about 2,300 km of the existing drainage system: and (b)
rehabilitation/replacement of 700 masonry structures across the drains;
(iii) River Control Works (US$4.1 million) includes rehabilitation of about
900 km of embankments and about 500 spurs;
(iv)  WatCr_Our.se rehabilitation (US$3.0 million) of about 200 existing lined
water courses (length 425 Km), including lining of about 70 km and
repairs to damaged structures. At negotiations an assurance was obtained
that HID shall select water courses for rehabilitation only after
beneficiaries served by the water course have been organized in WUAs;
(v)   Augmentation Thihpewells (ATWa) and nlreAt Trrigation Tubewells  nTTlTs):
rehabilitation (US$6.3 million) of selected ATWs and DITs managed by the
public sector, including their electromechanical equipment (the support
for DITs would be in the context of a rapid program of privatization or
closure). At negotiationg, an assurance was obtained that the selection
of ATWs and DITs would be in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA
(see Annex 5, paras 15 and 17);
2.08        Modernization WtSS164.4 million. 36% of hase nost. Annex 6).  The
main objective of the modernization component is to upgrade assets of HID.
Modernization of facilities can lead to substantial water savings, and better
control of water delivery. Improved regulation of water flows encourages the
adoption of modern farming systems. Implementation responsibilities for this
component rests with the CU and DRU (see Annex 6 for a detailed description of
the component). Investments would be in the following areas:
(i)   Modernization of Canal System (US$ 47.1 million):  new lining of about
60 irrigation channels, 25 in the WYC and the rest in BC. Parts of
these systems that have been lined under Haryana Irrigation I and II



- 9 -
projects, and under the ongoing NWmPt are excluded from the project;
(ii)  Modernization of Augmntation Link Feader Canal in WYC System (US$2.1
million): constructing a link channel (about 24 km) of Augmentation
Canal to feed Kheri, Budha Khera, Old Nardak and Karnal Distributaries
of WYC, including remodelling the existing intermediary channels and the
Augmentation Canal;
(iii) Modernization. of Wattr coures (US$56.1 million) including lining of
1500 unlined water courses (550 in WYC and 950 in BC) of a total length
of about 7000 km. Priority would be given to modernization of water
courses where farmers are willing to form WUAs,
(iv)  Hathnikuind  arrage and Link Channel (US$51.2 million).  A new Barrage
would be constructed across the ramuna river at Hathnikund, about 3 km
upstream of Tajewala Headwork, to replace the Tajewala (US$43.9
million). A Link Channel would be constructed to connect the new
barrage at Hathnikund to the NYC (US$ 7.3 million). It would be a
condition of disbursement against the construction of Hathnikund Barrage
and Link Channel that the interstate agreement on sharing the waters of
the Yamuna river is signed between the riparian states;
(v)   Construction/ Extension of Minors (US$7.9 million): extending existitq
minors and constructing new minors in 40 locations spread over the
command of the two canal systems. T:,is component would depend on
completion of the SWP to determine water availability.
2.09        Tmproved O&M (USAl81l8 million  40s of base Cost. AnnQx A1.  The
main objective of the O&M component is to improve service delivery performance
to all users and moving over time to price water services at cost.  Funding
for O&M would be directly linked with service cost recovery for O&M from all
users (see paras 2.17-2.19). Services provided by HID would be managed by two
Water Services Units (WSUs), the Western Yamuna WSU and the Bhakra WSU,
bringing under one line of management the presently fragmented operations and
maintenance functions (see Annexes 3, 8). Modern management systems in the
areas of planning, programming and budgeting, monitoring and recording, asset
and maintenance management and financial management at the center would be
introduced. Computer based real-time management would assist canal operations
and enhance operational decision making, system monitoring and analysis of
performance (see para 2.12).
(i)   Canal System maintenance (US$113.2 million) including:  silt clearance
and bank strengthening (47 Mm3 earthwork); (b) lining repairs (about
890,000 m2); (c) weed clearance (90 Mm2); (d) maintenance and repairs of
about 20,000 structures; (e) maintenance of 32 pump houses;
(ii) Drainage System maintenance (US$37.7) including: (a) internal silt
clearance (22 Mm3); (b) maintenance of about 2,400 structures; (c)
maintenance activities on about 150 pump houses.



- 10 -
(iii) ft{ver Cpnt,Q1 N-X   (US$8.9 million) including: (a) maintenance on a
total of 915 km of embankments; (b) maintenance of about 900 structures;
(iv)  Wator Curnie maintenance (VS$13.1 million) including: (a) repairs to
lining of 30 km of water course; (b) earthworks on 30 km; (c) nakkas and
culverts on 10 km;
(v)  aYgntatiC   n Tuhewglls (US$7.4 million) includes maintenance of
groundwater pumping installations of the ATWa.
(vi)  mairtenance of infrastructure of the H x=na Trigaign R&arch_a"
=uai,ing in*t{tute. Kurukahet  (US$1.5 million).
2.10        TnAtitutia Su=nort ttJRS32-.i 7% of hasp nnMt- Annew 4i. This
component could support the major institutional and administrative reforms
undertaken by HID and proposed under the project (see paras 2.15, 2.16). Four
main items comprise the component: (i) institutional strengthening; (ii)
planning and data collection; (iii) training; and (iv) research and
development.
ti)      tttutional Stren^therdng provides technical assistance and training
for institutional and administrative reform, groundwater regulation,
environmental management and beneficiary participation and WUA formation
(see para 2.11). Funds would also be provided to establish an
information and communications system, and to upgrade computer capacity.
Investments would also cover civil works for office and housing
construction.  Thplentation royonRihlities:   Engineer-in-Chief
(EIC), Chief Engineer Coordination (CEC), Administrative Unit (AU), CU,
Water Regulation Unit (WRU), Water Services Policy Support (WSPS);
(ii)  Planning and Data Collection would finance technical assistance for
hydrological data collection, SWP preparation and updating, and project
planning. Investments would also include specialized equipment for
discharge measurement and a groundwater laboratory. A management
information system (HIS; para 2.12) would also be introduced.
Imp1.ementation renponsibiletlee:   EIC, CEC, AU, CU, WSU0, Data
Collection and Water Resource Planning Unit (DPU), DRU;
(iii) x=ain±mo would be provided to orient staff with agency policies, proc-
edures and functions. Routine and specialized training would be funded
for O&M staff and support staff. Also, training staff of RID and inter-
ested farmers in areas related to system turnover and formation of WUAs
would be financed.  Implntatinn res         hilities:  RIC, AU, WSU;
(iv) Research and Develomeant would cover: (i) research on drainage
collector design; and (ii) research on sprinkler and drip irrigation.
Investments for research and development would include technical
assistance, civil works on drainage collectors, sprinkler and drip
irrigation equipment.  Implementation resmoplnhilitisa:   EIC, CU, DRU.



- 11 -
2.11        To support increased hemIreiarx *nrtitr -ion in maintenance of
water courses on an initial pilot basis (see para 2.20, 2.21), funds are
provided for training of HID staff and farmers, contracts with training
institutes and NGOs, and study tours, both nationally and internationally for
staff and farmers (Annex 11 provides details).  At naggL±aFLona, an assurance
was obtained that any NGOs contracted under the project would be selected
according to criteria agreed with IDA (Annex 11, Attachment 1). The WSPS
would be responsible for the guidance of the turnover program, and the EIC,
CEC and WSUs would be responsible for its implementation.
2.12        A ce=GutaX based MIS aystem (Annex 9) would be established to
support HID's operational activities. The design would support distributed
processing, hardware, software, connectivity and a communicetion network2.
The information system would include data on hydrology, meteorology, crops,
population, water service deliveries, budget, program tracking, cost
accounting and allocation, water accounting and flood forecasting. A mainframe
central computer and approximately 500 (486) personal computers to cover the
staff offices and field units would be installed. A statewide communication
system would be established, and the radio network would be strengthened to
facilitate hydrological data collection.
2.13        For the above components, vehicles and equipment will be purchased
including: (a) 296 light vehicles and trucks comprising jeeps (208), cars
(36), motor cycles (100), buses (2), and tipping trucks (50); (b) heavy equip-
ment includes specially equipped tractors (5), hydraulic excavators (10), and
road graders (20). Office equipment would also be provided under the project.
Policy Reforms
2.14        During project preparation, GOH initiated major policy reforms to
provide the necessary framework to achieve project objectives. The reform
program includes: (a) reorganization of HID, CADA, and HSMITC into a unified
agency with specialist functions; (b) annual programming and budgeting, with
an agreed prioritization for allocation of funds; (c) full budgeting and
funding of O&M expenditures; (d) full recovery of O&M costs from beneficiaries
of services provided by HID; (e) preparation of the SWP and implementation of
its recommendations; (f) providing beneficiaries with options to operate and
maintain facilities; (g) rigid groundwater management and a water
rights/licensing system for all water supplies; and (h) staff specialization
and continuity, and increased delegation of authority. At negotiations, the
detailed Policy Reform Program proposed by GOH was submitted under a Letter of
Development Policy, as presented in Annex 2, Attachment 1. The basis for the
reforms is as follows.
2.15        Instittinonal Reform (Annex 31. During project preparation, an
in-depth internal review of HID was undertaken, as well as a review of the
appropriate role of HID in relation to HSMITC and CADA. The resulting
2     HID plans to introduce in future the Supervision Control and Data Aciuisition
System (SCADA) which would provide safe reliable and accurate informai.ion on
water deliveries and enable real time management and control of canal systems.



- 12 -
recommendations have been consolidated by GOH into an action plan for
institutional reform involving organizational, procedural and policy changes
to which HID is committed. Consistent with the recommendations of the
institutional review, a State Water Resources Committee (SWRC) has been
created, chaired by the Chief Secretary and including secretaries from all
concerned Departments (Irrigation and Power, Agriculture, Industries, Urban
Development, Forestry, Fisheries, Planning, etc). The Committee was
constituted to give policy guidance on water use and allocation issues, and
ensure that conflicting inter-sectoral demands are dealt with in a rational
fashion, noting future needs as well as current demands. A Water Regulation
Unit (WRU) has also been established under the Secretary of Irrigation and
Power. HID's name would be changed to Haryana Water Resources Department to
reflect correctly its broad mandate.
2.16        As part of HID's organizational chanres, the following specialist
Staff Offices would be established under the EIC, with regulatory and advisory
functions for sectoral management: (i) Programming and Budgeting Comm5ttee
(PBC); (ii) Chief Engineer Coordination (CEC); (iii) Environmental Affairs
(EA); (iv) Water Services Policy and Support (WSPS); and (v) Quality Assurance
(QA). Line Units with operational responsibilities would be established for:
Administration, Data Collection and Water Resource Planning. Design and
Research, Construction, and regional Water Services. New responsibilities
have been established within this framework, including state water planning,
project and drought planning, administration, programming and budgeting,
quality assurance and environmental affairs (see Annex 3 for institutional
modifications and responsibilities). Policy changes include prioritized
allocation of funds, utilizing the SWP as the basis for confirming investment
viability, full cost recovery of O&M, and changes to personnel policy.
procedural changes include, inter ali4, annual and long-term programming and
budgeting, and program tracking, cost accounting to provide the basis for
allocation of O&M costs among services and for financial monitoring (see
Annex 3). HID has initiated the publication of an Annual Report which details
their work program, budget, plan and non-plan expenditures, and performance
against targets, and its publication would be continued under the project.
2.17        operation and Maintenance (O&M. Annex 81.  In preparation for this
project, the status of all existing facilities was reviewed in detail and the
estimated annual O&M needs of the system defined. Some thirty thousand
structures were involved, together with thousands of kilometers of river
channels, canals, water courses and levees. The information thus assembled
has been computerized as a means of planning and programming future O&M works
as well as providing a monitoring mechanism for retrospective analysis. HID
proposes to link O&M funding to recovery of O&M cost: over the project
period, the aank's financing for O&M would decline, while cost recovery from
all users would increase correspondingly to take up the responsibility of O&M
financing (see para 2.18, 2.19). Thus, HID is committed to two fundamental
and interlinked reform objectives with regard to funding O&M: frat, it is
committed to finance fully the needed levels of O&M expenditures, and 9sgQnd,
to fully transfer the budgetary burden of O&M to all users over the next six
years. The O&M activities of HID would thus become self-supporting, and allow
reallocation of scarce public funds to other developmental works. The



- 13 -
reorganization of HID, as set out in Annex 3, would also lead t. improvements
to the O&M structure: the two units formed with geographical responsibilities
for all O&M of irrigation and drainage facilities in the Yamuna commands and
the Bhakra commands, respectively, would be exclusively responsible for all
O&M functions of HID. This will allow shared equipment between all works,
better work scheduling, and allow more specialized attention to the O&M
function. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that, beginning April 1,
1994, and every April 1 thereafter, GOH would fully budget for the works
portion (in current prices, see Annex 2, Attachment 2) of the following year's
O&M expenditure, which is based on the detailed work program of HID.
2.18        Cost Recooery (Annex 10).  HID provides water supply and drainage
services to farmers, municipalities, industries, government departments
(Forestry, Agriculture, etc), out-of-state users (Delhi), and commercial
enterprises. The charges for these services vary, reflecting the different
level of priority of service provided. In addition, as is common in India,
charges also reflect an element of 'ability to pay". Water provision needs to
be more cost effective, and its utilization improved. To this end, with the
exception of areas in the south of the state (see para 2.19), GOH has taken a
policy decision to raise charges to all users so as to recover fully O&M costs
by the end of the project period. Present proposals envisage an approximate
doubling of agricultural rates, and larger increases to other users over the
project period. The cost accounting system described in Annex 10 would
provide a more accurate and detailed breakdown and allocation of costs, and
allow further refinement of charges over time, as well as basic information
required for the proposed turnover of facilities to users. It is currently
estimated that beneficiary contribution to the project through improved cost
recovery would be about US$165 million (about 34% of total project cost).
2.19        GOH provides a subsidy in the provision of water in the lift
commands of backward and drought affected areas in the south of the state.
The bulk of this support provides villages with water for domestic purposes,
including drinking and washing, filling village ponds, and livestock watering.
Water is also provided to subsistence agriculture for a small area (2% of the
irrigated area). The provision of subsidized water (household supplies and
water for livestock) is viewed by GOH as a social necessity to stabilize the
livelihood of the existing population in these semi-desert areas, avoiding the
costs of temporary and permanent migrations. Under the project, the emphasis
would be on promoting financial self-sufficiency of 3 Mha of irrigated land,
and the 50,000 ha in these backward areas are not targeted for full cost
recovery. At nA2 tiatinsnt, an assurance was obtained that full cost recovery
of O&M from beneficiaries, with the exception of lift comnands, would be
phased in as follows: 30% by April 1, 1995; 50% by April 1, 1996; 60% by
April 1, 1997; 80% by April 1, 1998; and 100% by April 1, 1999.
2.20        Beneficiary Participation (Annex 11).  It is the policy of GOH to
reduce HID's involvement in system O&M, and pass this responsibility to
beneficiaries as appropriate. The existing Canal and Drainage Act, based on
the Northern India Act of 1873, provides for a clear role of the farmers in
operating and maintaining the water course (the lowest common channel, which
serves an area of 100-300ha). Traditionally, HID was responsible for



- 14 -
maintaining facilities above the head of the water course and farmets were
responsible for maintaining the water course. However, as water course lining
has progressed, the Department has de facto taken over the 06M responsibi-
lities. Under the project, GOB would promote turnover of maintenance to
beneficiaries organized into WUAs. The approach would be progressive and
voluntary, noting that the present system of aWxatSew is working satisfac-
torily and should not be disturbed (see Annex 11), while giving farmers the
option of assuming full responsibility for g4intAnannA of water course or
higher level channels in exchange for relative reductions in water charges,
given that water charges are expected to rise overall for irrigation services.
Also, priority would be given to rehabilitation and modernization of water
courses where farmers are willing to form associations and take over mainten-
ance responsibilities. GOH would undertake an irnformation and public
education program to advise farmers and users of the benefits of the new
policies, using experienced NGos as appropriate.
2.21        Turnover of system maintenance would be on a pilot basis to
confirm the key mechanisms that ensure success, and to demonstrate to other
farmers the benefits of farmer managed systems. GOH intends over time to
expand farmer involvement to cover more geographical areas, and at higher
levels of the system. GOH would organize a project council with farmers'
representatives to advise HID of their needs and preferences, desired
improvements in service delivery, and possible problems. GOH also intends to
recover some part of rehabilitation cost from farmers in the future, as the
benefits become more apparent; this, however, is not seen as a viable option
at this time. GOH will define its policy on turnover by December 1994, and by
June 1995, set out the rules and procedures that would govern maintenance of
water courses taken over by farmer groups (see Annex 2, Attachment 1). By
December 1995, areas would be selected for turnover activities, and training
initiated to promote the approach.   Any rehabilitation of infrastructure
would be carried out and formal turnover would take place by June 1996, prior
to the Rabi irrigation season. Thereafter, performance would be monitored in
the pilot areas to assess farmer response and replicability. Annex 11
describes the details of the program for system turnover and WUA formation.
Irrigation turnover would be formulated within a framework of policies and
responsibilities being developed for all services. It would be important to
assure consistency with flood control and drainage distribution.
2.22        Ground Water Regulation and Legialation.  In Haryana, the water
table is either rising or in overall balance (where the salinity is not
severe) as a result of conjunctive use of ground water with surface supplies.
Elsewhere where fresh, the water table is falling, often rapidly (O.5m/yr) as
farmers, cities, villages, and industries exploit the groundwater from private
and public tubewells. The falling water table is a matter of considerable
concern. Over exploitation threatens the quality of the resource--the lower
level aquifers are generally more saline, and significant differences between
fresh and saline areas induce intrusion of saline water. In some areas,
unexploited water must be retained for village use. To address this problem,
GOH proposes to introduce legislation to control groundwater development and
exploitation. Current controls are limited to a restriction on institutional
credit in areas where the water table is falling, which does not prevent



- 15 -
development by those able to invest from their own resources, or over-pumping
from existing wells. The proposed legislation will be a modification of the
India Model Law making enforcement more rigorous and increasing penalties for
violations. A system of water use license would be used: all new groundwater
pumps, both private and public, would require licensing in areas of
groundwater overdraft. Procedures for regulation would be defined upon
finalization of the legislation. The WRU would oversee the process.
2.23        state Water Plan (Annex 121.  With demands increasing in the
domestic, industrial and commercial sectors (plus substantial existing
shortfalls in supplies to the Union Territory of Delhi), future allocations of
water among users will require careful attention (see para 1.08). During
project preparation, a water resource computer model was formulated to analyze
water allocations within the state, the effect of modernization works, and
impact on groundwater. In parallel, projections of water demand over the
coming 25-50 years were made under the guidance of the newly created SWRCI.
Storm drainage, flood control, agricultural drainage, drought protection,
water management and environmental protection will play a major part in the
state's water resource management. The model would be able to test future
scenarios by mid-1994. The SWP would be finalized addressing: (i) land use
plans; (ii) demographic projections; (iii) water resources; and (iv) financial
capacity (see Annex 12). It would project conditions at 10, 25 and 50 year
time horizons, to be updated at five year intervals. It would not only guide
programs and projects but also enable enforcement of regulatory measures. The
detailed Water Plan would be completed by October 1995. New investment needs
in drainage in the state would be addressed through the Northwest India
Drainage Study, which is likely to continue with bi-lateral assistance, to
produce a consistent package of short-, medium-, and long-term measures fot
implementation. The results of the Study would be coordinated with the SWP.
2.24          nndfture Priorities.  Under the project, public expenditure
priorities would be reoriented to rationalize the use of scarce financial and
physical resources. GOH proposes to allocate public expenditures with the
following priorities: (i) activities supporting the reorganization and
administrative reform of HID; (ii) O&M of existing facilities; (ii:)
rehabilitation of facilities; (iv) modernization of canals, control
structures, and water courses; and finally (v) construction of new facilities.
This prioritization would be reflected in an annual work program, which is an
essential element of the project. By restricting activities to those that can
be funded in the above sequence of priorities, it would be assured that
deterioration in facilities dnie to poor O&M and diversion of funds to new
works would be prevented. In addition, a direct linkage between cost recovery
and the investment program would be established, since shortfalls in cost
recovery would reduce funds available for other activities, including new
investments. Finally, the process would ensure that data collection, planning
and design activities are properly phased in relation to the work program,
thereby maximizing the returns from project investments. This reorientation
of public expenditures would help rationalize the use of scarce resources.



- 16 --
2.25        Power Sentor. To address the issues of the power sector (para
1.11), during project preparation HID prepared an action plan to: (i)
eliminate by March 1996 the full arrears to HSEB due to services provided to
HID and HSMITC; and (ii) prevent future recurrence of arrears. For full cost
recovery, HSEB would raise agricultural power tariffs to the public sector to
Rs 1.42/kWh in 94/95, and continuously escalated at 12% thereafter. In
addition, GOH would reimburse HSESB fully for the increased costs incurred in
delivering power to irrigation (in the public sector) to the extent of the
difference between the new, higher tariff in force and the cost of power
delivery. Adjustment of power charges for the private sector is under
consideration as part of the overall power sector reforms, and GOH aims to
increase the flat-rate tariffs to the equivalent of the GOl recommended
minimum tariff applicable to metered users. Raising the current metered rate
to the private sector could be addressed through determining a regional power
tariff (this option, however, is beyond the scope of the project). The
project thus addresses an important need for correcting imbalances in power
use, and consequently water use, in the state. The Policy Reform Program
(Annex 2, Attachment 1) sets out the details and timeframe of GOH's policy on
power sector reform.
2.26        The proposed reforms are integral to GOH's strategy for
development of its water resources. GOH has confirmed its commitment to
carrying out the Policy Reform Program (which includes institutional reform,
O&M, cost recovery, system turnover, and power sector reforms) following the
proposed time schedule (see Annex 2, Attachment 1) and would review annually
with GOI and IDA its progress in implementing the reforms and evaluating their
contribution to GOH's strategies for the sector.
TIT_ COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND DISRURSEMNTS
Proiect Costs and Financing
3.01        PrQject Costs.  Total project costs are estimated at US$483.4
million equivalent, including physical and price contingencies, and US$11.6
million in local taxes. The direct and indirect foreign exchange is estimated
at US$22.5 million, or 4.7% of project costs. Physical contingencies were
applied to baseline costs at the rates of 25% for civil works of the
Hathnikund Barrage, 15% for all other civil works, 15% for equipment and 10%
for vehicles. Price contingencies of 2.5% for 1993 and thereafter were
applied to the foreign exchange component. For local costs, price
contingencies were added at 7.0% in 1994, 6.5t in 1995, 6.0 in 1996, 5.5& in
1997, 5.0% ir. 1998, and 5.0% in 1999. Detailed project costs are in Annex 1.



-17 -
ProEet Cost  wmnryary
compgat                         J^n.rA1 Parrign Tetal    LflQa1 Pt rA*gn 'N*a1
--- Rs M          --------    US=SM-
Rehabilitation           2431.3    108.9    2540.2     77.2       3.5      80.6
Modernization            4949.3    230.5    5179.8    157.1       7.3    164.4
Improved Operation
& Maintenance            5560.4    165.9   5726.4    176.5        5.3    181.8
Institutional
Support                   947.4     89.9    1037.2     30.1       2.9      32.9
^^ael1 n Castq    138P8^5    5952   14L136      44S  a8~ a          4A
Physical
Contingencies            1104.5     74.5   1178.9      35.1       2.4      37.4
Price
Contingencies            2735.9    184.0   2919.9    -15.1        1.3    -13.8
rnlaoit cet a          127722_g    8536   1U5SZ.5    460-       22.i    lILA
3.02        Prnie-t ?rinanri-ng.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$258.0 million
would finance about 55% of total project costs net of taxes, or 53.0% of total
costs including taxes. It would finance 97% of the direct and indirect
foreign exchange costs and 51% of local costs. GOH's contribution would be
US$225.4 million equivalent, as shown in the following table. Out of the
total GOH funding, about US$165 million would be contributed by beneficiaries
in the form of cost recovery.
      --- USS Million -----------
=GOH                                  224.7         0.7         225.4
IDA                                   236.1        219          258.0
Total                           460.8       22.6         483.4
The Credit would be made available to G00  on standard terms and conditions and
on-lent to GOH under standard arrangements for developmental assistance L_o the
states. At n oaAtionA, an assurance was obtained that GOI and GOB shall
implement a system satisfactory to IDA for channelling the funds required for
the project to the project entities. An understanding was reached at
n*u=toa±L.nt that GOl would release about three months' anticipated project
expenditures in advance to GOH (in accordance with the amounts established in
the Annual Action Plans, para 4.06), and that upon receipt of funds from GOI,
GOH would transfer such funds, together with its quarterly counterpart
contributions, immediately to the project accounts of HID.
Pronurartnt (Annex l5
3.03        Land (USSS 5 M!.  Land would be acquired for the Hathnikund
Barrage, Link Channel, Feeder Channel and modernization/ extension of minors.
GOH would finance all land costs.
3.04        Civil Works (USS297.7 M).  With the exception of the Hathnikund
Barrage, civil works are scattered and spread throughout the project area, and
would not attract foreign bidders. Works would be procured following
international or local competitive bidding (ICB/LCB) or force account



- 18 -
procedures as follows: (a) I= (US$51.3 M): civil works for Hathnikund
Barrage would be procured through ICe procedures satisfactory to IDA: (b) J=
(US$191.1 M): would include civil works for canal, drainage and water course
rehabilitation, modernization and maintenance; (c)  wE-ea Acrcunt (US$49.2 M):
would include all small civil works contracts valued at USS 10,000 equivalent
or less. For all civil works procured under LCB/1CD, contractors would be
respoasible for procurement tif all materials, including cement a4cd steel.  If
GOH supplies construction materials, this would be considered as reserved
procurement and the estimated cost of such materials thus supplied would be
excluded from Bank financing (see Annex 15).
3.05        Vehlel. ZqUipmnt And MAtArials (US$21.2 ML. These would be
procured as follows: (a) vehicles (US$3.5 M) -- the immediate requirement of
vehicles would be procured following local shopping procedures up to an
aggregate of US$0.7 M. The balance requirements would be bulked and procured
following ICB procedures; (b) heavy equipment (US$4.1 M) and computer
equipment including software (US$9.3 M) would be procured through ICB: (c)
other equipment (US$4.1 M) available locally and readily serviced through
local facilities would be procured through LCB.
3.06        TAchnical Assistance (USS3.6 M.. Consultancy services (US$3.2 M,
of which overseas US$1 M) would be contracted on terms and conditions in
accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency, published by the Bank in
August 1981. Other technical assistance including training, contracts, etc.
estimated at US$0.4 M equivalent would be carried out either by HID or
agencies with relevant experience and subject to approval by IDA.
3.07        Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for all
procurement under ICB/LCB. For comparing foreign and local bids in ICB, both
for civil works and equipment, the qualifying domestic bidders would be
allowed a margin of preference in accordance with the provisions of paras 2.55
and 2.56 of Bank's Guidelines.
3.08        Tncremental Qperating Cost (USS155.4 M). The Credit would support
incremental operating costs for vehicles, equipment and energy on a declining
basis. GOH would finance all staff costs.
3.09        R9view of Contracts.  All contracts for civil works and equipment
valued at US$ 200,000 and above, and all consultancy contracts valued at US$
100,000 and above as well as first five contracts, both for goods and works,
irrespective of the value would be subject to prior IDA review. All other
contracts would be subject to random post review in the field by visiting
missions. This will result in about 50% of the project procurement being
subject to prior review. The nature of the project, consisting mostly of
works which have been successfully implemented under past Bank projects in the
state, is such that a hi-her level of IDA rev4ew would not have a significant
impact on procurement quality.



- 19 -
3.10         The proposed procurement arrangements are sumnarized below:
uimary nf Prgo6sAd POQUrAMnt Aana             ta fSg if eivalent)
Consulting
protect Rlment            L   Sarv±ca.    Other    mm                    RIA1h
1. Land                                                          5.5       5S.5
2. Civil Works             51.3    197.1                49.2              297.6
(46.2)  (162.1)             (20.6)            (228.9)
3. Vehicles/Equipment
3.1 Vehicles             2.8                          0.7               3.5
(2.3)                       (0.5)             (2.8)
3.2 Equipment           13.6      4.1                                  17 7
(10. 9)   (3.2)                               (14.1)
4. Technical Assistance
4.1 Policy Support                         0.7                          0.7
(0.7)                        (0.7)
4.2 Implementation
Support                                1.2                          1.2
(1.2)                        (1.2)
4.3 Capacity building                      1.7                          1.7
(1.7)                        (1.7)
S. Incremental Operating Cost                           28.0    127.4    155.4
(8.6)             (8.6)
TOTAL                      67.7      201.2    3 6       77.9    132 9    483 3
(59.4)  (165.3)   (3.6)     (29.7)            (258.0)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__------------
Note:Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding: LCB: Local Competitive Bidding:
Other: force account, direct contracting, local and international shopping.
A schedule of procurement actions is given in Annex 16, Attachment 3.
Dhrsemmnt_ I Annex 1171
3.11         The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against:
(a)   90% of expenditures on civil works for rehabilitation and
modernization of canals, drainage systems, water courses, ATWs and
DITs; all expenditures on civil works for improved O0M would be
financed on a declining basis as in (d) below:
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of ex-factory costs, or 80%
of expenditures for locally procured vehicles, equipment and
furniture;
(c)   100% of expenditukes on technical assistance, training and
contracts;
(d)   For incremental operating costs:  90% of expenditures on recurrent
costs covering the period through March 31, 1995, 35% of
expenditures from April 1, 1995 through March 31, 1997, and 10% of
expenditures thereafter.



- 20 -
3.12        Disbursements against expenditures on contracts for consultants
and training exceeding US$100,000, and on contracts for civil works, vehicles,
machinery and equipment exceeding US$200,000, would be fully documented.  For
all other expenditures, IDA would disburse against Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs). Supporting documents for SOEs would not be submitted to IDA, but
would be retained by GOH and be available to IDA staff during supervision.
RAtroactive Finanoina and Special Account
3.13        To expedite project startup, IDA would finance retroactively
project expenditures incurred after March 1, 1994 to the date of Credit
signing, up to a limit of SDR 7.3 million (US$10 million equivalent), provided
that procurement procedures acceptable to IDA were followed. Expenditures on
vehicles and equipment, consultancy services, training, other preparatory
activities and incremental operating costs would be eligible. To facilitate
IDA disbursements, a Special Account in US dollars would be established in the
Reserve Bank of India with an initial deposit of up to US$8 million. This
deposit is based on estimates of the project's financing needs and projected
IDA disbursements (Annex 17). The project Completion Date would be June 30,
2000, and Closing Date of the Credit would be December 31, 2000.
Accounts and Audit
3.14        Project accounts would be maintained by HID. The accounts would
identify all project transactions on an on-going basis, including
contributions from GOH, GOI and the Credit. Assurances were obtained from GOl
and GOH at nggotiationa that: (i) project accounts, including Special Account,
would be maintained and audited annually in accordance with sound auditing
standards consistently applied by independent and qualified auditors
acceptable to IDA; and (ii) certified copies of the annual financial
statements and SOEs together with the auditor's report, which would comment
separately on the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA no later than nine months
after the close of each fiscal year.
TV.  P2ROJECT I   ENTATTON AND MONTTORTW
0rganimation and Management
4.01        The proposed project would finance part of the state's agreed
program in water resources for the next six years, and would be implemented
and managed by the Engineer-in-Chief (EIZ), HID. Project guidance responsi-
bility would rest with the Secretary, Irrigation and Power, who would
coordinate with the SWRC, the WRU and the EIC. The EIC would be supported by
the PBC, and the Offices of the CEC, EA, WSPS and QA.  Implementation
responsibilities for the rehabilitation and modernization components would
rest with the CU and the DRU. The project activities under O&M would be
carried out by the BC and WYC Water Services Units. Institutional support
activities would be mainly carried out by the AU, and other specific line
units (see para 2.10).  The implementation arrangements are described in
Annex 16, and a matrix of organizational and management responsibilities is in
Annex 16, Attachment 1 (for organizational chart for HID, see Annex 3).



- 21 -
Training and Tefhninal Assistance (USS3 6 million)
4.02        Training under the project would build skills in the areas of
computers, financial management, including budgeting and cost allocation,
programming and scheduling, personnel management, water resources planning,
and operations and maintenance including water operations, construction,
supervisor training and heavy equipment operation and maintenance. Training
would also focus on the social aspects of beneficiary motivation, WUA
formation and organization, using NGO expertise. Given the extent of change
proposed under the project the requirement for technical assistance is
extensive. This assistance will be provided by a mix of international and
national consultants in the areas of organizational reform, groundwater
management, environmental management, state water planning, hydrological data
collection and management, administrative reforms, computerization and
communications, real time operations of water systems and asset and
maintenance management, and turnover policy and regulations. Funds would be
provided for national and international study tours. Technical assistance
funds for institutional strengthening, beneficiary participation and
environmental management are detailed in the relevant Annexes.
Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 16)
4.03        Physical and financial monitoring of project progress would be the
responsibility of the CEC. An implementation schedule is provided in
Attachment 2 of Annex 16; a schedule of procurement activities is in
Attachment 3. Data on key project indicators, would be collected and analyzed
regularly to asness progress, exercise control and identify possible problems.
These would include: implementation of HID reorganization and effectiveness of
operation within the new structure, preparation and updating of SWP and
implementation of its recommendations, agricultural growth and crop
diversification, delivery of water and improved services, cost recovery from
users, water savings, formation of viable WUAs, water-logging and salinity,
and project planning, programming and budgeting (see Annex 16, Attachment 5).
HID would commission baseline surveys funded under the project covering the
following aspects: agriculture and income data; irrigation data; water use,
delivery, and hydrological data; beneficiary participation and WUA activities;
etc (see Annexes 4, 16).
4.04        At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that GOH shall (i)
under Terms of Reference (TOR) agreed with IDA, carry out, not later than
January 31, 1995, a socio-economic baseline survey for various aspects of
water resource use, management and delivery services; (ii) furnish the
findings of such survey to IDA for its review and comments; and (iii) use such
results to monitor the development impact of the project. Responsible
implementation units would submit quarterly progress reports to the CEC. The
reports would not on'v quantify and compare progress with the action plans and
the Staff Appraisal Report, but would discuss the reasons for progress or lack
of progress for each component, and propose measures to resolve any problems.
The EIC, in coordination with the PBC, CEC, EA, WSPS and QA, would prepare a
comprehensive progress report every quarter for submission to the Secretary.
HID would also maintain quarterly progress reports to track the performance of



- 22 -
turnover activities and provide to IDA such information as may be required as
part of its consolidated project progress report (see para 4.06). These
reports would also cover implementation of the reform measures and how they
have contributed to GOH's sector strategies.
4.05        The CEC would also prepare an annual work program and budget,
providing documentation on the following: (a) description of each year's
works, schedule of activities, staffing requiremests and distribution of
responsibilities; (b) proposed expenditures (including consultant and
training), compared to previous year's actual expenditure; and (c) financing
plan and source of futads (including GOH contribution). Each annual budget
should detail: (a) midjor contracts for civil works exceeding US$200,000 and
for ICB for goods; (b) list of schemes turned over in the previous year, and
proposed schemes for the next year; and (c) details of revenue budget showing
charges for preceding year, amounts collected, and proposed future charges, by
customer group or service. The QA Office under the EIC would evaluate and
make recommendations for corrections for project activities.
Pro5ect Reviews and Reporting
4.06        HID would be responsible for the internal reporting requirements
of the State and GOI, and for preparing an annual work program and budget for
submission to IDA (see para 4.05). HID would prepare Annual action Plana to
assist project planning and implementation, and supervision by IDA. These
would also facilitate flexibility year-to-year in amending project components
(or possibly, in accordance with IDA's procedures, introducing new components)
based on implementation experience. The action plans would review for each
project component and responsible unit the past year's achievements in terms
of physical and expenditure targets, by quarter, and include a work program,
and revenue and expenditure budget for the following year. The Annual Action
Plan would also provide details of when and how the policy reforms to be
implemented the following year would be carried out. The Office of
Environmental Affairs would review each Annual Action Plan from environmental
points of view. At nea*tiatiUns, an assurance was obtained that by March 31
each year, starting 1995, GOH would provide to IDA for its review and comments
a copy of its approved Annual Action Plan, including work program and revenue
and expenditure budget for the following year, and thereafter implement such
Action Plan. At ne2otiation, an assurance was obtained also that not later
than June 30, 1997, GOH would carry out, jointly with GOI and IDA, a detailed
mid-term review of project progress and possible need for adjustments to
components, implementation arrangements or reforms, and thereafter implement
its recommendations. HID would furnish to IDA every six months a consolidated
progress report in such content and detail as IDA may require, including a
summary progress report on turnover of system maintenance to beneficiaries. A
Project Completion Report would be prepared by HID on the basis of IDA's
guidelines no later than six months from the Closing Date of the Credit.



- 23 -
V    .ENFITSN. JUSTIFICATI OND RISKS
Project Benefits and Justification (Annex 141
5.01        Project Benefits.  The project would generate substantial economic
benefits in the short- and long runs. Of the many benefits the project would
generate, two are quantified for the economic and financial analysis. First,
the project would achieve an increase in surface water supplies by reducing
seepage losses and increasing the carrying capacity of major canals. Second,
the project would improve flood control by rehabilitating and augmenting
maintenance and management of the existing drainage structures and river
control works. Previous experience suggests that investments in improving the
performance of existing surface irrigation systems are economically viable.
In addition, the project would generate long-term benefits which are difficult
to quantify, including improved water supplies for non-agricultural uses,
reduction of water-logging and salinity, and improved groundwater protection.
5.02        irrigation Benefits.  At full development in year 2000, project
investments would directly increase foodgrain production by 184,000 tons per
year and generate a net incremental benefit of Rs 1,498 million (in constant
1993 Rs in the year 2000). Project activities would increase surface water
supplies by 950 Mm3 per year, by reducing seepage losses and by increasing the
safe carrying capacity of major canals. This would help expand irrigation to
155,000 ha of presently unirrigated land in the Bhakra and WYC commands. The
project would increase labor productivity and incomes of a large number of
farm families who previously had no (or limited) access to irrigation. Lining
of water courses also increases the equity of water distribution within the
water course between farmers at the head- and tail-end of the field channel.
5.03        Flood Control Benefits.  The annual incremental flood control
benefits of the project are calculated as Rs 1150 million annually from
reduction in expected annual flood damage. It is assumed that rehabilitation
and proper maintenance of the drainage system and flood control works reduces
flood damage to agriculture, housing, irrigation and infrastructure by 50%
annually (see Annex 14).
5.04        Non-=uantifiable Benefits.  In addition to the above quantifiable
benefits, rehabilitation, modernization and improved O&M would lead to
relieving water shortages to agriculture due to breaches in canals, thereby
resulting in improvements of yields. Improvements in water supplies to
municipalities and rural areas for drinking water would also be achieved, with
concurrent health and sanitation benefits. Wastewater discharge is accepted
currently into the canals which is often the source of drinking water, causing
health hazards: under the project, the comprehensive water quality monitoring
network would enha -e water quality management. Water deliveries for
industrial purpose. 3uld also improve. Modernization of canals and water
courses limits the rise af the water table, and reduces waterlogging and soil
salinization which can reduce crop production and yields up to 13%. Finally,
the project supports regulation and enforcement to sustain groundwater levels.



- 24 -
Economic and Financial Analysis (Annex 141
5.05        EconomiC analysis.  Project investments, incremental O&M costs,
and benefit streams are presented in Annex 14, Table 9. The economic analysis
has been calculated for total project costs excluding the investments for the
replacement of the Hathnikund Barrage and extension of minors (the Hathnikund
Barrage is analyzed separately; see Annex 14). The following assumptions are
made: (i) all costs are in constant end 1993 prices: (ii) project benefits
and costs extend for 30 years; (iii) benefits derive from incremental crop
production and reduced flood damages; (iv) incremental 00M expenditures remain
constant over the 30 years; (v) Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC) is 12%; (vi)
project implementation is over 6 years.
5.06        ERR and Sensitivity Analynis.  The overall Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) of the project is estimated at 18%. The Net Present Value (NPV)
discounted at 12% (to 1993) is Rs 4062 million. Increased surface water
supplies generate 56% and improved flood control 44% of total benefits.
Different scenarios have been tested which are described in Annex 14.
Overall, the project is robust to significant changes in costs and benefits:
benefits would have to drop by 27% or costs increase by 38% for the ERR to
fall to 12% (or NPV fall to zero). The ex-post performance evaluation of past
projects in the state support these conclusions.
5.07        Finannial Analysis.  The main revenues for HID originate from
water charges to agriculture, industry and municipal water users. HID's
expenditures have increased rapidly in recent years, whereas revenues have
decreased in real terms. In 1993/94, about 80% of HID's recurrent
expenditures and all investments have to be financed by GOH. The past decline
in revenues has not only deepened the financial deficit but has also created a
situation where HID could not fully maintain the existing irrigation and
drainage system. A major objective of the project is to achieve full cost
recovery for all recurrent expenditures for operation and maintenance by the
year 2000. HID has prepared a detailed cost recovery program which is based
on changes in three important fields due to project activities. First, non-
plan expenditures for O&M of the conveyor system would increase considerably
as compared to the without-project situation, resulting in improvements of
HID's services. Second, total revenues from water charges would increase
about 10-fold over the project period due to HID's efforts in improving cost
recovery for its higher quality services. Third, an increase in revenues from
the irrigation sector can be expected as system modernization and
rehabilitation leads to water savings, and consequent increase in area
irrigated and revenues from water charges.
5.08        Results and Sensitivity AnalysiA.  The project would generate a
net financial benefit to GOH in terms of reducing HID's budget deficit by
about Rs 3600 million over the next six years (see Annex 14). Whereas in
1993/94 expenditures would exceed revenues by Rs 730 million, six years later
the trend is reversed and revenues will slightly exceed non-Plan expenditures
by Rs 77 million (however, GOH would have to continue to finance all net
investments in the irrigation system). Sensitivity analysis shows that if
cost recovery is 10% less than that anticipated, total benefits would be



- 25 -
reduced by 15%. If total non-plan expenditures would increase by 10% over the
six year period, total benefits would be reduced by 20%. Assuming that the
increases of water charges are delayed by one year, total benefits would be
reduced by 37%. The improvement of the financial status of HID depends
greatly on the timely introduction and full recovery of future water charges.
Pro6ect Risks
5.09        There are three main risks to the project.  The first risk relates
to implementation of the large investment program in a timely manner. In its
past two projects, HID has demonstrated the ability to implement large,
complex projects to high standards. The funding size of the proposed WRCP is
about the same as Haryana 7T, while implementation period has been extended.
To help maintain the past high standards, during project implementation an
internal project QA Unit, supported by an external consultant, would be
established in HID (see Annex 3). The second risk is associated with HID's
capabilities 1:o sustain the proposed higher standards of O&M of the canal and
drainage system. Throughout the preparation process, HID's commitment to
focus on O&M has been strong. HID's reorganization would bring the presently
fragmented O&M functions under one line of management and the existing OM
units would be strengthened at all levels.  Moreover, annual disbursement of
project funds would be linked to O&M expenditures and performance of each
previous year (see Annex 8). The third risk is related to GOH's capabilities
to implement and sustain the proposed changes in OaM funding, and cost
recovery of water services under the project. The success of the cost
recovery program is particularly associated with the provision of HID's
services. This risk would be minimized by GOH's commitment to emphasize
pricing policies and financial accountability in the water sector. The cost
recovery program is linked to an administrative reform within HID which would
be completed prior to the commencement of the project. A new unit in charge
of programming and budgeting, program tracking, cost accounting and service
cost allocation would be created. Annua' disbursements would also be linked
to cost recovery. A specific action plan has been agreed at appraisal which
would be monitored closely during supervision to minimize project risks.
Environmental Impact (Annex 13)
5.10        The main environmental concerns which would be addressed under the
project include water quality protection, waterlogging and salinity problems,
groundwater over-exploitation, drainage and flood mitigation. A Category A -
Sectoral Environmental Assessment has been completed for the project (August
1993) which concludes that the WRCP sub-projects and activities would have no
adverse environmental impacts. The project, through improved water planning,
water distribution, drainage and better capabilities for measuring
environmental inputs, would have a beneficial impact on the environment. An
Office of Environmental Affairs (EA) would be established in HID to develop
expertise in environmental planning and management, and environmental
assessment. The Office would also oversee water quality monitoring, and data
collection and processing. The Office would maintain an environmental action
plan based on its environmental assessment activities and in coordination with
the WRU, the WSPS, and the recommendations of the Northwest India Drainage



- 26 -
Study and SWP. The main responsibilities of the EA are in Annex 3, Attachment
2, and liaison requirements with other State authorities is in Annex 13.
5.11        Land AnuQainatin (anngxt 13k.  There are no on-going or anticipated
future R&R issues related to project activities. Limited land acquisition
would be necessary, usually as a small proportion of land holding. No
instances where an individual's entire holding would be acquired are
anticipated. Field interviews suggest that farmers are willing to allow land
acquisition for construction of channels and minors alongside their lands, due
to the improved agricultural benefits that project activities would allow.
Land acquisition procedures would have the following elements: (i) all land
acquisition under the project would take place under the Land Acquisition Act
of 1894, amended in Haryana in 1984; (ii) the rate for the different classes
of land (irrigated, cultivable, non-cultivable) would be determined according
to the prevalent market rate plus an additional amount (at present 30%) for
compulsory acquisition; (iii) compensation would be paid prior to possession;
(iv) landowners would be compensated for any other loss such as standing crop,
buildings and trees; and (v) land acquisition shall be completed prior to
award of works contracts. Present compensation procedures are clearly defined
and satisfactory. For the proposed Hathnikund Barrage, no resettlement of
population would be involved, and about 158 ha of land (49 ha in Haryana and
109 ha in Uttar Pradesh) are needed, affecting 24 persons. Part of this land
has already been acquired; about 100 ha remain to be acquired. Haryana has
paid an amount of Rs 1 million to GOUP as an advance for acquiring the land in
UP. The construction of the Western Yamuna Link Channels would involve
acq %.sition of 54 ha land (all in Haryana, of which about 18 ha have been
acquired), affecting 12 persons. The alignment of the channels are such that
they do not pass through villages or habitation. It would be a nnnditsmn for
t44Rh,rR.em1 for the Hathnikund Barrage and Link Channel component that all
land acquisition would be done following procedures acceptable to IDA as
outlined above. For the construction of the Feeder Channel (length 24 km and
having maximum width of 30 meters), about 20 ha of land would be required in
narrow strips, affecting 110 persons. For the extension of minors, small and
scattered amounts of land would be required in narrow strips. At
nDlggtatlong, an assurance was obtained that GOB would implement a program
satisfactory to IDA for the acquisition of land required for the project.
Annex 13 provides a detailed discussion of land acquisition norms,
requirements and status for project activities.
5.12        Prnogram n Objetive Catggo.  The project is directly relevant to
the Bank's anti-poverty strategy. The project would improve the incomes and
living standards of small and marginal farmers through improved and equitable
distribution of water for irrigation and domestic use. Farmer participation
in irrigation management, which had declined in the recent past, would be
reinstated through the project with the formation of WUAs. For the urban
poor, the project would provide water services for their expanded future needs
through improved planning and management of water resources. Domestic usage
of water is almost entirely governed by women, and the project would benefit
women through increased availability of water for domestic use.



- 27 -
VI.- AEEMU NTS AND RECONDATTON
6.01 At negotiations, GOH submitted: (a) its detailed Policy Reform Program
(which includes institutional reform, O&M, cost recovery, system turnover,
groundwater and power sector reforms) under a Letter of Development Policy, as
presented in Annex 2, Attachment 1 (para 2.14); and (b) an action plan to:
(i) eliminate by March 1996 the full arrears to HSEB due to services provided
to HID and HSMITC; and (ii) prevent future recurrence of arrears (para 2.25).
6.02  At negotiations assurances were obtained:
a)    from GOH that, beginning April 1, 1994, and every April 1 thereafter,
HID would fully budget for the works portion (in current prices, see
Annex 2, Attachment 2) of the following year's O&M expenditure, which is
based on the detailed work program of HID (para 2.17);
b)    from GOH that full recovery of OM cost from beneficiaries, with
exception of lift commands, would be phased in as follows: 30% by April
1, 1995; 50% by April 1, 1996; 60% by April 1, 1997; 80% by April 1,
1998; and 100% by April 1, 1999 (para 2.19);
c)    from GOH that it shall:  (i) under TOR agreed with IDA, carry out not
later than January 31, 1995, a socio-economic baseline survey for
various aspects of water resource use, management and delivery services;
(ii) furnish the findings of such survey to IDA for its review and
comments; and (iii) use such results to monitor the development impact
of the project (para 4.04);
d)    from GOI and GOH that they shall implement a system satisfactory to IDA
for channelling the funds required for the project to the project
entities (para 3.02);
e)    from GOH that selection of the ATWs and DITs for rehabilitation would be
in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA (para 2.07);
f)    from GOH that any NGOS contracted under the project would be selected
according to criteria agreed with IDA (para 2.11);
g)    from GOH that by March 31 each year, starting 1995, GOB would provide to
IDA for its review and comments a copy of its approved Annual Action
Plan (para 4.06);
h)    that not later than June 30, 1997, GOH would carry out, jointly with GOI
and IDA, a detailed mid-term review of project progress and thereafter
implement its recommendations (para 4.06);
i)    that GOH would implement a program satisfactory to IDA for the
acquisition of land required for the project (para 5.11);



- 28 -
j)    from GOH that HID shall select water courses for rehabilitation only
after beneficiaries served by the water course have been organized in
WUAs (para 2.07); and
k)    from GOI and GOH that: (i) project accounts, including Special Account,
would be maintained and audited annually in accordance with aound
auditing standards consistently applied by independent and qualified
auditors acceptable to IDA; and (ii) certified copies of the annual
financial statements and SOEs together with the auditor's report, which
would comment separately on the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA no later
than nine months after the close of each fiscal year (para 3.14).
6.03        An understanding was reached that GOI would release about three
months' anticipated project expenditures in advance to GOH (in accordance with
the amounts established in the annual action plans, para 4.06), and that upon
receipt of funds from GOI, GOH would transfer such funds, together with its
quarterly counterpart contributions, immediately to the project accounts of
HID (para 3.02).
6.04        Conditions of disbursement.for Hathnikund Barrage are:  (i) the
interstate agreement on the Yamuna river between the riparian states of
Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi was signed (p.ra
2.08); and (ii) the required land acquisition was done following procedures
acceptable to IDA (para 5.11).
6.05        With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of SDR 187.3 million (US$ 258.0 million equivalent) on standard
terms with 35 years maturity.



lrAia
verysa, MaRC Project
mrjeoat C.t &aary
EU. M41t1Ion                                  ratt  .4X4O,
9     tSTotal                                  *     O Tot l
Foreign    bass                                Foroign    II.:
LtaL  Znze TsaL. 5Khna   L   &a mnn  W*5al zCohM  W
Zastitutional Su£ ort                   947.4     89.9  1,037.2         9         7     30.1      2.9      32.9         9        7
Modernization                         4,949.3    230.5  5,179.6          4       34   1S.1        7.3    164.4         4       36
Rehabilitation                        2,431.)    108.9  2,540.2         4        IS     77.2       3.5     80.6         4       1.
Iproving CperatioAs A maintenane   oZ         . ..      ..L.224         a        *0 ..±l"   ..      1 .     Sa..    l           *0
Total 3SaUn  0o0                        13,S86.5   '95.2 14,483.6           4      100    440.9      18.9    459.8         4      :00
EPy.Seal Contingencies                 1,104.1     74.5  1,178.9         6         a     35.1      2.4      37.4         6        8
Prig*  <:t1dq*uCeO8                   2-71soo9S,9 _18     2,10       _            20  i1.           1A X  X  ]            o       .I
tot   83016  Gums                       17,720.8    853.6 18,S82.5          5      128    460.9      22.S    403.4         s       lOS
"*4Dec 22 h1*42s;6 1993
i-l Project Cost  ssa t Y



11e" UK0 Project
smes"t"ve _OOWAM  kV    6Me - 104010 _01000   oaftlese.tes
MS$ willievb
Imrvng
OperatlOS
maatlttmatl..
ftaketitat A"otm
A.  f.b0   a0_
Caeoultet. local                   1.0           1                         0 °    .2
c.aoclam. Interna.tioal            0.0             -             -         0 1  1.0
stu*y tors. ltag eUO.l             0.1             -                       0.0  0.1
Sraiw   leve                      -A.            a  ^6                     6- P   -I
bW4   W d1.e  A&MlosOm                2.1           1.2                       0.2  3.6
*.1005                                              5.4           0.1           -  5.
Uatmld  Uezg                         -          51.)             -           - 51.3
W@dstviat0                         1.          105.7             -           - 109.0
RebakAllttin,                                                    S    71.2      11.2
Opattlon & Utateas"                  -.                                       La .'AL
_bdt el civil                         3.          157.0          71.2         4.2 297.7
D; wh101.                             0.4           0.4          t0.7         2.0  1.5
C_t4                               0 9.0                         -         0.1  9.1
mlatrw                             0.2                    -                  -  0.2
cavat                                -             -             -          . 
Trects0
9405 Ggdgel-                                                     .         2.2  2.2
fthee vopl_ e                                      4                           -A.&
t0441  _sMmst a""                        I5.5        1I6.4           71.1        72.7 327.0
tt. _b.mUe.6  ceo"t
A. VYbal.s                            0.5           0.3           0.0         3.0  5.5
B. Sqmwat                             0.5           0.6           1.5        11.2  13.0
c. ttff                              IT.           1.0            7.3        05.6 127.4                                                                                                 0
toL" 3        009                         33.0         1.1            07.0       177.7 403.4
TUUt                                     I.1           5.6           2.3         2.6  11.6
teorselu. t ebh&&                        3.3          S.2            4.2         5.9 22S5
V.d b.C 22 11s42:32 1993
6-1 bxp*dltur Account& by coapouota - Total* Includlg Contingenie



Indi-
UazVn  tmc Pto5.ct
Px.Se.t cowea_s by Tm
9eeot                                                  git.1 *7 X19 ] 9,  1P OSII   t itE7
Znatitut1onAl UWport                  221.6   263.1   249.S    104.0    99.3    99.3  1.037.2    7.0    8.4    7.9   3.3    3.2    3.2  32.9
NoderaitatiOn                       1,062.2  1,244.4  1,162.1    645.8   529.6   S13.3  S,179.8  33.7  39.5  36.9  20.5  16.8  17.0  164.4
Rab51itution                          593.2    603.7   465.)    370.1    34S.6   162.2  2,S40.2  18.8  19.2   14.8   11.7   11.0    5.2   80.6
IProving Operations G faintenanc  ..A1=  .LA*LA  ..2RAL.3. , .iUL. .. 6-2 . l.-  .L22&    22  12.A  ..                    __2"    2*-   2L.1 R..*1a
w1 aMlZ     a*                        2,769.3  3.119.2  2.885.4  2,060.1  1.914.7  1,7)1S.0 14,483.6   07.9 99.0   91.6   65.4   60.8   SS.1  459.-
Ibyacal Conticaa                       260.4    308.6   280.4    132.3    110.S       86.7  1,178.9    *.3   9.8    8.9    4.2    3.5    2.8  37.4
rtlaa Conettgemie
*d latta
Local                              100.8   3)8.0   520.0    512.2    601.3    617.4  2,729.6    3.2  10.7  16.S   16.3   19.1  20.9  86.7
Foreign                              1- 7S-L.         1-         1-       7-   s    A      10- 5  *°-1 __0    __^       0     _A       6      1A 
fbo*oe  Zatlutios                    102.6    34S.0    130.3    518.2    608.4    i64.9  2.769.4   3.3   11.0  16.8   16.5   19.3   21.1   87.9
Devaluation                           11.4     30.5     41.1      21.6     23.0    22.9   ISO.S  -6.7  -14.7  -20.1  -18.6  -20.2  -21.1 -101.8
Subtotal Price ftiaftg.nci         .711.   .2LL R  7 e4 .siLA .A1L. ..7.*2  ...LSIL  -.-.                  .  .7            -2.1 __aL  -...L    -21-2
IOtA  bMA30  GM&                       3,143.6  3,003.)  3.737.2  2,732.2  2.6S6.7  2.S*5.S 10,S12.S  92.7  101.1  96.8   67.1   63.4  17.8  493.4
Tax**                                   79.4    113.0    103.2      SO.3     47.8    42.1    434.2   2.4    3.2    2.7    1.2    1.1    1.0   11.6
Por*aga nucagc                         1S4.7   222.5   211.4        *4.1     90.0     91.0   053.6   4.6   6.1    S.S    2.3    2.1    1.9  22S.
W" .c 22 U1:421)1 1993
1-
7-1 Proect C       _~mee  by Ter                                                                              F



- 32 -
Page 1 of 4
HARYANA WATER RESOtURES CON OTLDATION PROJECT
POLICY REFORM PROGRA?"
Objecttlve of thA Reform Program
1.    The complex issues of increasing inter-sectoral demands facing the water
resources sector points to the critical need for formulating a comprehensive
framework for the management, planning and utilization of the state's scarce
resources. Institutional development and reorientation of expenditure
priorities are essential elements of an improved water development policy for
the future needs of Haryana. The primary purpose of the proposed Water
Resources Consolidation Project would be to tackle the broad issues facing the
water resources sector and to promote development in an efficient, equitable
and environmentally sustainable manner. Activities must be balanced and
responsive to emergirg needs and resource availabilities, and generally
acceptable standards and improvements must be promoted throughout the state.
The Government of Haryana (GOH) has identified the following main objectives
in framing its strategy for the sector:
(a)   introduce water resource planning (including contingency planning
for droughts) and management across all uses of water;
(b)   enhance agricultural productivity, encourage diversification and
improve equity through improved canal and drainage infrastructure;
(c)   assure sustainability of the environment: and
(e)   improve the Haryana Irrigation Department's (HID) capabilities in
all water and related functional areas.
2.    To provide the necessary framework to achieve these objectives, GOH has
initiated major policy reforms in the sector. The reforms address issues
regarding the efficiency of the institutional and administrative framework
(including personnel and management procedures), improvement of the water
services provided by the public sector through enhanced O&M, improvement of
water resources management, planning and utilization, involvement of
beneficiaries in water related activities, and the efficiency of power use in
public sector water exploitation. GOH proposes to implement further changes
during the project.
3.    GOH's reform program provides the basis for proposed project investments
and expenditures in all areas of HID's activities. Public expenditures would
be reoriented towards support of fundamental institutional changes and growth
enhancing activities in accordance with the following priorities: (i)
activities supporting the reorganization and administrative reform of HID;
(ii) O&M of existing facilities; (iii) rehabilitation of facilities; (iv)



- 33 -
hnn*x 2
Page 2 of 4
modernization of canals, control structures, and watercourses; and finally (v)
construction of new facilities. A direct linkage between cost recovery and
the investment program would be established, and shortfalls in cost recovery
would reduce funds available for other activities, including new investments.
The allocation of water across all activities would be governed by the cost
recovery reforms and pricing measures proposed by GOH, thereby improving the
efficiency of resource use.
rocus of Reforms
4.    Consistent with its objectives, reforms would be carried out in the
following areas: (a) reorganization of HID, CADA, and HSMITC into a unified
agency with specialist functions; (b) staff specialization and continuity, and
increased delegation of authority; (c) annual programming and budgeting, with
an agreed prioritization for allocation of funds; (d) full funding and
budgeting of O&M expenditures; (e) full cost recovery of O&M costs from
beneficiaries of services provided by HID; (f) preparation of a State Water
Plan and implementing its recommendations; (g) rigid groundwater management
and water rights/licensing system for all water supplies; and (f) providing
beneficiaries with options to operate and maintain facilities themselves.
5.    Reforms carried out by GOH and proposed for implementation under the
project constitute the Policy Reform Program. The Program comprises specific
reforms or actions, which are set out below and also presented in the attached
matrix (Attachment 1). The matrix presents the reforms under four headings:
Issues, Policies, Strategies and Actions. GOH submitted its Policy Reform
Program to IDA under a Letter of Development Policy as a condition of
negotiations. Some reforms are covenanted directly and are included in the
Project Agreement. GOH has confirmed its committment to carrying out the
Policy Reform Program as set out in Attachment 1 and would review annually
with GOI and IDA its progress in implementing the reforms and their
contribution to GOH's strategies for the sector. The Policy Reform matrix
would be attached to the Minutes of Negotiations and cross-referenced to the
legal covenants.
Speoiffio Raformn
6.   Under the Policy Reform Program, GOH will:
a)    by April 1, 1994, cause HID to: {i) finalize its new organization
structure and staff levels; (ii) finalize unit responsibilities for the
new organizational structure; (iii) prepare position descriptions under
the new structure; and (iv) finalize the basic implementation schedule
for the institutional reform;



- 34 -
Anngx 2
Page 3 of 4
b)    by April 1, 1994, cause HID to establish Staff Offices for:  (i) Ground-
water Regulation; (ii) Water Services Policy and Supportl: (iii) Environ-
mental Affairs; (iv) Chief Engineer Coordination; and (v) Budget and
Program Tracking; and Line Units for: (i) Water Resources Planning and
Data Collection; (ii) Administration; (iii) Design and Research2; (iv)
Construction; (v) Yamuna Water Service; and (vi) Bhakra Water Service;
c)    by Dec. 31, 1994 cause HID to take on the activities of HSMITC relating
to Augmentation and Direct Irrigation Tubewells3, and of HSMITC and CADA
relating to watercourse lining, depending on GOI's continuing the grant
element against the schemes under CADA;
d)    (i) by December 31, 1994, delegate the authority for personnel action to
HID; and (ii) by June 30, 1994, cause HID to implement a plan: (a) to
develop specialized technical staff through rotation & choice of field
and (b) for staff housing & incentives benefits;
e)    cause HID to (i) by December 31, 1993, adopt programming & budgeting of
all its activities; (ii) by April 1, 1994: (a) initiate program work
task & expenditure tracking & management; (b) introduce a cost account-
ing system to record costs by projects and introduce service cost allo-
cation to estimate charges by users; and (c) computerize its maintenance
scheduling & records; and (iii) by December 31, 1994, computerize its
operations scheduling & records & its management action & records;
f)    from April 1, 1994, cause HID to:  (i) assign the full funding of O&M as
the first charge on HID's budget; and (ii) budget annually for full
funding of the works component of O&M costs (in current prices), in
Attachment 2;
g)    cause HID to (i) phase in full cost recovery of O&M expenditures for all
services as follows: 30% of full O&M cost by April 1, 1995; 50% of full
O&M cost by April 1, 1996, 60% of full O&M by April 1, 1997, 80% of full
O&M cost by April 1, 1998 and 100% of O&M cost by April 1, 1999;
h)    cause HID to: (i) recover full capital cost of new investments from
users, excepting agriculture, from January 1, 1994; and (ii) in case of
1     This unit would be responsible for designing and implementing the program for
turnover of system maintenance to beneficiaries, tracking the progress of the
program and expanding its scope as the results warrant (para 6.i). See Annex
12 for details.
2     This unit would be mainly responsible for implementing the research activities
funded under the project, see Annex 3,4 for details.
3     The rehabilitation of the Direct Irrigation Tubewells (DITs) would be
undertaken only on the condition that these would be handed over to
beneficiaries for operation and maintenance or otherwise divested from the
public sector. DITs that cannot be made viable would be shut down.



- 35 -
Annax 2
Page 4 of 4
agriculture, HID may, over time, recover part or all of the capital cost
of new investments;
i)    (i) by October 1, 1995, cause the Water Resource Planning & Data
Collection Cell to prepare a State Water Plan (SWP), and thereafter
implement its recommendations. Thereafter, the SWP will be periodically
reviewed & updated, at intervals no less than five years; and (ii) by
June 1, 1994, introduce a groundwater legislation based on the model
Bill of GOI;
J)    (i) by January 30, 1994, issue a policy declaration describing the
government's intent of turning over system maintenance to beneficiaries:
(ii) by December 31, 1994, define the details of its policy on system
turnover and submit it to the Bank for comments; (iii) by June 30, 1995,
define the rules & procedures to be adopted in system turnover and
formation of water user associations (WUAs); (iv) by December 31, 1995,
initiate training & sensitization programs to promote turnover, & select
pilot areas where farmers are interested in participation; and (v) by
June 30, 1996, turnover system maintenance to beneficiaries; GOH will
carry out any required rehabilitation of such systems prior to turnover;
and
k)    (i) include in the 94/95 and 95/96 budgets, amounts to eliminate the
arrears to HSEB from HID and HSMITC; (ii) by March 31, 1995, cause HSEB
to raise agricultural power tariffs to the public sector to Rs 1.42/kWh,
and increase the rate at 12% annually thereafter; (iii) if the above
tariff does not cover HSEB's cost of delivery to agriculture (public
sector), will compensate HSEB for any difference between the new, higher
tariff in force and the cost of power delivery; and (iv) cause HID to
budget for future increases in power costs as charged by HSES to HID and
HSMITC.
7.    The proposed project would assist GOH put in place a comprehensive,
sustainable water resource development program for the state consistent with
the above reforms. The state's ability to implement such a program would be
based on three closely interlocking and interdependent elements: an
organizational structure designed and staffed to address the activities to be
taken up in the near and longer term, a water resources development plan which
provides the general framework within which future water development in all
sectors must be analyzed, and a program and budgeting process which reflects
the schedule and balance of future activities among the various units of HID
prioritized to fit the available budget funds. The reforms, together with the
investment program under the WRCP, would assist Haryana in achieving increased
growth and improved equity in an economically viable and environmentally
sustainable manner.



- 36 -
-A.ttacEunent -1
Page 1 of 4
No.    102 ./Special                                    Dated    5.2.   194
From        J.K. Duggal,
Financial Commissioner & Secretary,
Govt. of Haryana.
Irrigation & Power Departments,
Chandigarh
TO          Mr. Heinz Vergin.
Director India Department.
The World Bankl
Washington, D.C.
Subject:    Water Resources Consolidation Project
Policy Reform Project
Govt. of Haryana has been implementing various programmes and schemes relating to
Water Resources Development as per the National Water Policy. While this Action Plan had
proceeded with varying success, the normal action of LD. (proposed to be re-named as Water
Resources Department) regarding operation & maintenance of vast canal and drainage net work in
the State had been continuously declining. To meet the challenges ahead in this regard substantive
reforms are contemplated in the organizational structure so as to utiLise the available resources for
opertional benefits.
After considering various aspects of the irrigation set up in the State. and the National
Water Policy, the Govt. of Haryana has approved the proposed sector reforms as detailed in the
attached policy matrix, which synchronises with the main action to be undertaken in order to
operate the above mentioned study.
Financial Commissioner &
Secretary, Govt. of Haryana
Irrigation. & Power Deparanents
Chandigarh
I1.    Mr. J.R. Malhotra, World Bank Mission
70 Lodhi Estate, New Delhi
2. -  Mr. J.P. Gupta, Engineer-In-Chief
Irigation Department, Haryana, Chandigar



HARYANA WATER iQUUB            C.ONSOUDAON PROECT
PROPOSED §EMBBMREFO
ISUES                   POLICY                       STRATEGY                            ACTIONS
1. Institutional        Increase institutional capacity &  - implement institutional reform to    by Apnl 1. 1994, HID shall:
Framework              Improve organizational        reorganize HID into a specialized water i) finalize its new organization structure and staff levels;
structure to better manage   management and policy instituffon.    ii) finalize unit responsibilities for the new organizational
the State's water resources                                      structure;
iiI) prepare position descriptions under the new structure;
and
lv) finalize the basic implementation schedule for the
institutional reform.
- establish regulatory and advisory  by April 1, 1994, HID shall establish staff offices for
functons separated from day-to-day   i) Groundwater Regulation;
operational acftvities under staff  ii) Water Services Policy and Support;
offices.                           iii) Environmental Affairs;
lv) Coordination Chief Engineer, and
v) Budget and Program Tracidng.
- establish operational functons and    by April 1, 1994, HID shall establish rine units for
responsibilifies                   i) Water Resources Planning and Data Collection;
under line units                   il) Administration;
iii) Design and Research;
lv) Construction;
v) Yamuna Water Service; and
vi) ihakra Water Service.
- bring all water resource related  by Dec. 31, 1994 HID shall take on the actvities of: (i)
activities under the auspices of HID    HSMITC relating to Augmentation and Direct Irrigation
Tubewells; and (ii)HSMITC and CADA relating to
watercourse lining, depending on GOI's contnuing the
grant element against the schemes under CADA.
0
o % 
v 11S



Enhanoe staff benefits &     - Authodty for selection, pla¢ement &  i) by December 31, 1994, GOH will delegate the authority
specIaizatIon to Improve long-  dscipline of oftfTers would be  for personnel action to HID.
term efficiency of staff    transterred to immediate superisors.
- Staff will be exposed to different    i) by June 30, 1994, HID will implement a plan to develop
positions & fields of specialization &    specialized technical staff through rotation & choice of
allowed a choice of technical feled.    field.
* Compensation will be provided for   i) by June 30, 1994, HID will implement a plan for staff
Inadequate salary or housing in    housing & incentives benefits.
backward locations or fields.
Improve management           HID's activitfes in its vadious functional i) by December 31, 1993, HID will adopt programmning &
procedures to better plan,   areas will be subject to program &  budgeting of atl its activities.
finance & monitor the        budget development & traceng, cost  i) by Apnl 1, 1994, HID will a) initiate program work task &
Department's activities     accounting principles, & detailed   expenditure tracmng & management; b) introduce a cost
information management.           accounting system to record costs by projects and
introduce service cost allocation to estimate charges by
users; and c) computerize Its maintenance scheduGlng &
records.
iit) by December 31, 1994, HID will computerize its
operaifons scheduling & records 8 Its management action
& records.
2. Water services     Improve O&M of existing &     * All O&M expenditures would be fully  i) HID will, from April 1, 1994: a) assign the fun funding of
proviceed by the public  future facilties           budgeted in the annual budgets to    O&M as the first charge on HID's budget; and b) budget
ector                                               ensure availability of funds for service  annually for full funding of the works component of O&M
Improvement & revenues would be    costs.
dedicated to the Department
Improving cost recovery for    - O&M coStS will be recovered from all  i) HID wil phase in full cost recovery of O&M expenditures
services                    sectors for aN services, existing &  for all services as follows: 30% of full O&M cost by April 1,
future, except lft command areas.  1995; 50% of full O&M cost by April 1, 1996, 60% of full
O&M by April 1, 1997. 80% of full O&M cost by AMen I,
1998 and 100% of O&M cost by April 1, 1999.
- Capital costs will be recovered for all  i) HID will, from January 1, 1994, recover full capital cost of  (Ki
new investments                    new investments from all users, except agriculture.
ii) in case of agriculture, HID ray, over time, recover part    o
or all of the capital cost of new investments.       IMP7
v H 



3. Water Resourcea     Improve management, planning  - Prepare plans for water resource use  I) by October 1, 1995, the Water Resource Planning & Data
& utilization of the State's  on an on-going basis               Collection Cell will prepare a State Water Plan, and
Water Resources                                                  implement Its recommendations. Thereafter, the SWP will
be periodically reviewed & updated, at intervals no less
than five years.
- Implement & enforce groundwater   ii) by June 1, 1994. GOH will Introduce a grc.undwater
regulation & legislation           legislation based on the Model Bill of GOI.
4. Beneficiary         Increase the Involvement of    - Beneficiary responsibility for   I) by Janua,y 30, 1994, GOH will issue a policy declaration
Participation          farmers & beneficiaries In    maintenance of water courses would   describing the govemment's intent of tuming over system
maintenance activities to    be promoted.                        maintenance to beneficlaries.
promote efficiency & ownetship                                   ii) by December 31, 1994, GOH will define the detaRs of
through system turnover                                          its policy on such tumover.
Iii) by June 30, 1995, GOH wil define the rules &
procedures to be adopted In tumover of systern
maintenance and formation of water user assocations
(WUAs).
lv) by December 31 1995, HID will nitiate training &
senstization programs to promote turnover, & select pilot
areas where armners are Interested In participation.
v) by June 30, 1996, HID wUl formally tumover system
maintenance to famers and WUAs; GOH will carry out any
required rehabilitation of such systems prior to turnover.
5. Power               Improve the economic &        - Erlminate all past afrears of HID &  i) GOH will include In the 94J9S & 95/96 budgets amounts
finance viabiiity of power    HSMrTC.                            to hlly eliminate the arreas to HSEi from HID & HSMITC.
supply service.
- Implement full cost recovery of  i) by March 31, 1995, HSEB will raise agricultural power
power in publicly provided water   tariffs to the public sector to Rs 1.42/kwh, & continuously
services                           increase the rate at 12% annualy thereafter.
ii) If the above tariff does not cover HSEB's cost of
delivery to agriculture (public sector, GOH will compensate
HSEB for any difference between the new, higher tariff in
force and the cost of power delivery; and
IN) HID wil budget for future increases in power charges by  >
HSEB.                                                 co
OQC



-                                  Annex2
Attaghment2
Page 1 of 1
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOUDAJION PROJECT (WRCP)
IMPROVING OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
TOTAL PROJECT COST
A: BASE COSTS
Total
(Rs millon: 94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    T
WORKS                       430.30   546.10   546.51   479.33   479.38   477.34  2958.76
ESTABUSHMENT                462.38   462.43   463.37   463.32   463.19   463.27  2777.96
TOTAL (Base Cost)           892.68  1008.52  1009.88   942.65   942.58   940.61  5736.72
B: TOTAL COSrS (in current prices)
WORKS                       460.42   622.30   660.14   610.84   641.45   670.65  3665.82
ESTABUSHMENT                494.75   526.96   559.71   590.43   619.79   650.88  3442.52
TOTAL (current cost)        955.17  1149.26  1219.85  1201.28  1261.24  1321.54  7108.34
Note: Local hnflaion from April 1. 1994 to March 31.1995 Is 7%, and In the foilowing yewrs 6.9% 6.0%. U% 6.0%. .0% respectIvely
Wortks in year 94/95 and 96/96 include Investments for heavy maintenance equipment and vehicles



- 41 -                             AQUKAz
Page 1 of 8
HARXA WATPER RESOURCES CONX0LIDATIOM PROJEC?
HARYANA IRRIGATTON DEPARTMENT*  INSTITUTIONAL MODIFICATTONS
Introducti2n
1.    Conditions are changing rapidly in the traditiot.al areas in which the
Haryana Irrigation Department (HID) has been engaged in the past. The
magnitude of the demands in the various areas and the complex situation in
which HID must operate demand a fresh examination of alternatives to its
current institutional arrangements and the associated policies and procedures
applied to its daily work. Further specialization is needed within the
organization to reflect the quite distinct and separate needs of resource
planning, design, construction, and O&M. Similarly, administrative and
regulatory responsibilities and functions are scattered among a number of
units. The situation is further complicated by the overlap of functions
between HSMITC and CADA. Management procedures require better definition, and
the mechanisms to develop, manage and monitor HID's programs and budget can be
improved. During project preparation, an internal review of HID was
undertaken, as well as a review of the appropriate role of HID in relation to
HSMITC aid CADA. The resulting recommendations have been consolidated by GOH
into an agreed action plan for institutional reform involving organizational,
policy and procedural changes. This Annex details the institutional
modifications proposed by HID. Charts 1, 2 and 3 in Attachment 1 depict the
organizational structure for HID. Func-tional statements of activities of the
various units is outlined in Attachment 2. Attachment 3 provides a sample
program and budget statement to assist HID in defining actual statements
during implementation. Terms of Reference for consultants to be contracted
for programming and budgeting, and for cost allocation and cost accounting,
are in Attachments 4 and 5, respectively.
2.    Responsibilities of HID.  HID has the primary responsibility for
managing the State's water resources and providing the essential services in
the sector. The service responsibilities include: ti) providing bulk water
supply to urban, village and farm service areas and forestry preserves; (ii)
distributing irrigation water in service areas not operated by the farmers:
(iii) providing primary services for storm and agricultural drainage; (iv)
collecting drainage within the farm service areas; (v) providing flood
protection as justified; and (vi) maintaining river channels and enforcing
restrictions on the use of the channel lands. Related to these service
responsibilities and its broader responsibilities as the lead department in
managing the state's water resources, HID prepares and maintains the State
Water Plan (SWP) for the guidance of all government and private activities.
The Secretary Irrigation and Power regulates groundwater uses and monitors
adherence to the regulations as issued.
Functional focua of Activitias
3.     HID has initiated the consolidation of its various present and
anticipated future activities into a limited number of functional areas. This
would allow more orderly planning and budgeting of all its programs,



- 42 -
Annfix-a
Page 2 of 9
accountability for performance, specialization of staff, efficient use of
personnel and equipment and improved planning for future changes in the
workload and the means to execute that work. Modern communications and
computer applications in all areas of work facilitate radical modifications.
4.    Adr4,4m,.n.  The administrative activities which support MID
management and the line units would be grouped into a functional area. This
would allow orderly, well managed assistance to be rendered to the various
units and remove all distracting tasks from the line units inconsistent with
their main responsibilities, while focusing accountability for this support
under one manager.
5.    natA C1.tgnign. AnalMin anA        eminstio. Basic hydrological,
meteorological and groundwater data are essential to comprehensive water
resources management, including all of HID's activities. Meteorological data
is collected by the India Meteorological Service; however, information on the
quantity and quality of the state's surface and ground waters and the analysis
and diasemination of this data is a primary responsibility of HID.
6.    kJanning. Planning would include the preparation and maintenance of
the SWP. This document would serve as the firm guide to government and
private sector actions and investments within the state. It would be updated
at least every five years to reflect changes in basic data, new commitments
and agreed future programs and projects. Planning also includes the
preparation of plans for projects and programs to meet the service
responsibilities of KID. An additional assignment of increasing importance as
Haryana reaches the limits of its available water is the preparation and
maintenance of state-wide, regional and urban drought plans.
7.    Desnan and Raasareh. The future infrastructure needs in the water
sector call for significant design work, particularly to expand agricultural
drainage and urban services. Rehabilitation/modernization of existing
facilities would be a continuing design load for the immediate future. All
such work, including the related field investigations and the preparation of
specifications fall in this functional area. Minor design of routine
maintenance work would fall under the services function. Research to resolve
technical problems in carrying out the service functions of HID fall under the
design and research functional area.
8.    Canst-nrt.on.  All new construction and rehabilitation/modernization of
existing facilities entailing significant quantities of earthwork or lining,
reconstruction of the channel sections, or strengthening or alteration of
structures falls under the construction functional area. This would include
the final assembly of bid and contract documents, pre-qualification of
bidders, administration of contracts, processing of claims and
inspection/acceptance of completed work. Thus, all work required to complete
a fully satisfactory facility for hand over to the service units would fall
within the construction area and be funded as capital expenditures. Routine
repair and maintenance would fall under the service functions.
9.    WAtnr Rervi6ee. All water related services provided by HID are grouped
under one functional area. As mentioned earlier, providing these services is
the most important responsibility of HID. Since all these services entail



-43 -                            Annam I
Page 3 of 8
common technical skills and overlap geographically, the operations and
maintenance lO&N) of fac'lities, regardless of the type of service -- supply,
collection, flood protection, etc. -- would be managed in common by one unit.
This would greatly increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the respective
service entities.
10.   RrgulatoQ.  In addition to the above activities, the regulation of
groundwater use is an important activity in the sector. In six districts in
the State fresh groundwater basins are being overdrafted. Presently there are
460,000 private wells in the State; a 50% increase in the last ten years. In
addition to these private wells the government operates 1545 irrigation wells
and 1643 augmentation wells. Continued groundwater overdraft can lead to
intrusion of saline water into fresh groundwater aquifers and the loss of good
agricultural lands. This has occurred in an area of Pakistan. If these lands
go out of production, it would be difficult to reclaim them, because large
amounts of water are needed to flush salts from these lands; water which the
State does not have. Furthermore, this would literally drain the primary
water supply to meet extended drought emergencies.  The definition of
procedures to control over-exploitation of groundwater, introduction of
associated rules and regulations and enforcing of groundwater use regulations
is the only important regulatory function within the Ministry. Surface water
quality monitoring and regulation of its use for different purposes are
becoming an increasingly important need in the state. These are essential
functions in effective water resources management.
11.       HID is being restructured to reflect the functional grouping of its
activities and take advantage of the inherent efficiencies and increased
capabilities thereby offered. Consistent with the recommendations of the
institutional review, a State Water Resources Committee (SWRC) has been
created, chaired by the Chief Secretary and including secretaries from all
concerned Departments (Irrigation and Power, Agriculture, Industries, Urban
Development, Forestry, Fisheries, Planning, etc). The Committee was
constituted to give policy guidance on water resource issues and ensure that
conflicting inter-sectoral demands are dealt with in a rational fashion,
noting future needs and projections as well as current demands, taking into
consideration the results and recommendations of the State Water Plan. A
Water Regulations Unit has also been established under the Secretary of
Irrigation and Power for defining and advising on regulation and legislation
pertaining to groundwater, and enforcement of the same. In accordance with
the principle of separating the HID operating units from the regulatory, under
the reorganized structure, HID functions would be carried out by "Staff"
offices and various "Line" units. The staff offices would have regulatory and
advisory functions, while the line offices would be responsible for
operational activities in the previously defined functional areas. Details of
the responsibilities of the staff offices and line units are in Attachment 2.
12.   Rtaff Offices.  The following specialist Staff Offices under the HID
Engineer-in-Chief (EIC) would be established, with regulatory and advisory
functions: li) Programming and Budgeting Committee lPBC); Cii) Chief Engineer
Coordination (CEC); (iii) Environmental Affairs (EA); (iv) Water Services
Policy and Support tWSPS); and (v) Quality Assurance (QA).



- 44 -
Page 4 of 8
13.   Chief Engineer Coordination (CICI: Four cells would be in place to
perform the functions of the staff office under the CEC: (i) Legislative
Liason; (ii) Public information; (iii) Legal and Vigilance: and (iv) Budget
and Program Tracking. The overall functions of the Office of the CEC are: to
assist the EIC in management of the Department; to provide legislative liaison
between HID and GOH; to adminiser HID's public relations program; to provide
legal and vigilance services; to manage HID's budget, program and program
tracking activities; and to act as Secretary of HID's PBC.
14. Rnvironmental Affairs Office IEA): The Environmental Affairs Office,
reporting to the EIC, would be responsible for: providing environmental
assessments for Departmental activities to satisfy state law and lender organ-
ization requirements; preparing environmental clearance documents, and
processing these with clearance authorities and lending institutions; develop-
ing environmental juidelines to be used by HID; assisting the Construction
Unit (CU) and Water Services Units (WSUs) in meeting environmental regula-
tions; reviewing water resource planning studies, designs and O&H programs to
ensure proper consideration of environmental regulations; assist-l.ng WSUs to
maintain the quality of water delivery; providing environmental staadards and
information to line units; conducting environmental public relations for HID;
maintaining a library of environmental information for staff use; and provid-
ing reports to management concerning activities of the EA.
15. Water Servictes Policy/ Support office (WSPSR: The responsibilities of
the Water Services Policy/ Support Office are: to assist the development of
water service policies of WSUs; to assist the formulation of the cost recovery
program (mechanisms and amounts); to define policies and procedures for
guiding the program for turnover of system maintenance to beneficiaries (the
EIC, CEC and WSUs would be responsible for implementing the program,
monitoring its progress, and designing means for its effective replication);
to assist in the development and updating of generic O&M guidelines for the
WSUs; to assist development of computer applications for O&N; and coordinate
the WSUs' activities with headquarters offices.
16.   Oualit, Assurance (OA).  A Quality Assurance Office (QA), reporting to
the Engineer-in-Chief, would be be established in HID. It would serve as the
focus of a Quality Assurance Program which would be instituted to oversee
quality assurance of HID's activities. This would be accomplished through an
ongoing examination of completed projects and activities in progress, the
identification of deficiencies, the formulation of remedial measures, and
importantly, the diligent application of those remedial measures. All
managers and staff would participate by making suggestions and helping
implement improvements. The purpose of the QA is to identify primary
procedural and support deficiencies and devise solutions in terms of formal
policies, procedures, statement of practices, standards and specific staff
training. The QA staff would consist of three highly experienced engineers
who, in combination, have in-depth knowledge of planning, field
investigations, design, construction, operations and maintenance.
17.   Line Units with operational and implementation responsibilities would
be established for Administration, Data Collection and Water Resource
Planning, Design and Research, Construction, and regional Water Services.



- 45 -
Annax 
Page 5 of 8
18.   ad*  ntAtration unit IAU .  The AU would support all HID units, removing
the many activities from their responsibilities that are otherwise
inconsistent with the primary tasks of the units. Personnel, training,
finance, revenues, accounting, procurement of materials and equipment, general
computer services, and the motor pool would be the primary areas of
assistance. Also, AU would manage all real property not intimately a part of
the service facilities and would be responsible for the acquisition of all
right-of-way requested by the Construction Unit for new facilities.
19.  Data Collection and Water Rsgurces Planning Unit tDPU).  Data
collection, analysis and dissemination, and water resources planning would be
grouped under the DPU. This would include quality and quantity information
regarding the state's surface and groundwater. Information would be promptly
published and made available to all government and public entities and
individuals. The DPU would: (i) prepare and update the SWP; (ii) design and
evaluate project investments and plans; and (iii) prepare contingency plans
for drought relief. The interlinkages of the unit's functions would permit
efficient use of limited specialty staff and better assurance that all plans
are kept current and reflect the latest information.
20.   Design and Research Unit IDRU).  All design of new facilities and major
rehabilitation/modernization of existing facilities would be assigned to DRU.
Increased technical quality of the work would be achieved through establishing
specialty civil engineering, mechanical and electrical engineering,
specifications, geological and field investigations sub-units within one unit.
Any research into new design or construction methods would be conducted by
this division. Project research activities in drainage collectors and
sprinkler and drip irrigation would be implemented by the DRU.
21.   Construction Unit (CU).  The construction of all new facilities and
major rehabilitation/modernization of existing facilities would be the
responsibility of CU. A headquarters sub-unit would process contract
documents, determine the qualifications of bidders and assure statewide
consistency in contract administration and claims processing. Additionally,
the central materials testing would be assigned to this office. Field circles
headed by a project engineer would be established where warranted by the
locale's construction load. When the construction load reduces, the field
circle would be relocated or disbanded. Each field circle would have an
office engineering sub-unit to provide plan reviews, project claims proc-
essing, surveying, and quantities/payment processing. The field engineering
sub-unit would be responsible for overseeing the contractor's construction
progress, inspecting work and providing the needed daily controls. A project
testing laboratory would support the field engineering sub-unit. The CU, in
consultation with DRU and the involved WSUs, would be responsible for
identifying the land needs and conducting the necessary surveys.
22.   water Services Units IWSUsL  Under its new organizational structure,
the HID statewide water sector services would be provided by two regional
units -- the Yamuna Water Services Unit and the Bhakra Water Services Unit.
Both would be similarly structured differing only in the degree of special-
ization in items such as pumping and the number of circles and sub-units. The
two units would be assisted by the earlier noted WSPS staff office that
reports to the EIC. The O0M activities of the WSUs would be linked to the



- 46 -
Page 6 of 8
cost recovery program under the guidance of the WSPS, and also to the
beneficiary participation and system turnover program of GOH. Each services
unit office would have unit support, heavy maintenance and administrative
sub-units and several service circles. Each circle would have support with
field O0M sub-units, all stationed strategically to efficiently carry out the
unit's O&M activities. Small field crews would be stationed where ongoing
routine tasks would call for year-round activities. Again, the introduction
of improved communications, computers and expanded means of transport would
reduce the current number of offices and staff assigned to 06M tasks. The 0M
activities of HSMITC related to the lining of water courses and Direct
Irrigation Tubewells would be integrated into HID's functions.
23.   cr4Undwat-r Ragulation. A Water Regulation Unit would be attached to
the Secretary of Irrigation and Power to manage, monitor and enforce a
regulation program. Measures would be recomsended under the project to help
protect the State's groundwater resource, including the following:
(i)   Development and implementation of an education program to inform
farmers of the danger of groundwater overdraft leading to the loss of
farm lands:
(ii)  aevelopment of facilities to recharge the groundwater basins with
surplus water during flood season; and
(iii) Development of regulation program. Regulation measures can consist of
restricting the drilling of new wells, restricting pumping during some
years or in some months of every year, increasing power rates for
pumping, or development/ implementation of a licensing program.
24.     Under the project, GOH is introducing legislation to control ground-
water development and exploitation. Current controls are limited to a
restriction on institutional credit in areas where the water table is falling,
which does not prevent development by those able to afford to invest from
their own resources, or over-pumping by existing wells. The proposed legis-
lation would be be a modification of the India Model Law making enforcement
more rigorous and increasing penalties for violations. Procedures for
regulation would be defined upon finalization of the legislation.
Policy and PrggdUral Changs for Reganizatfon
25.   To assist in the transformation and reorganization of HID, the
following policy changes have been initiated, and would be further implemented
under the project in the areas of personnel and management procedures.
26.  Staff Beadjuatmnt and Levels.  Types and numbers of positions for the
new functional organization to be implemented by HID are being established
according to the functions and workload for each organizational unit. This
staffing pattern would be filled mith employees from HID's existing staff. A
few positions require staff with upecialities not now present in HID. These
staff would be recruited or seconded from sources outside of HID. A plan
would then be developed to deal with the remaining surplus staff. Any
projected s1,ort duration peak workloads or specialized expertise, not
available in HID, would be secured by contract.



- 47 -
Page 7 of 8
27.   Staff Speciali2ation/Rotation.  A plan to develop specialized technioal
staff would be implemented. The plan would consist of rotating newly employed
engineers through positions in the fie'ds of project planning, design,
construction, and operations and maintenance during the part of his career
when he is advancing from Junior Engineer to Executive Engineer. At that time
he would be given a choice of a technical field in which he wishes to
specialize, and he would remain in that field for the remain.der of his career.
28.   Position Desgriptions/SeotiOn Oualifinations.  For all positions, the
current description of the qualifications for filling that position would be
further developed. The description would include the technical skills required
and the required number of years of experience in the technical discipline
for the job (for example, 10 years total experience in design, 5 of which
must be in the last 5 years of the employees work experience). The position
descriptions would outline the specific tasks of the position.
29.   Camnensation. To encourage employees to take certain technical
positions or to take positions in difficult geographic locations, incentivo,s
would be provided. Furthermore, where government housing is unavailable, the
employee would receive a housing allowance adequate to obtain housing equal to
normal government housing where it is available.
30.  Time in Position - Chief Engineers.  To obtain some form of longevity
in top imanagement positions, it would be mandated that employees promoted to
the position of Chief Engineer must remain in that position for at least one
year.  For those employees with seniority for promotion to Chief Engineer who,
if promoted, would be in the Chief Engineer position for less than one year,
because of the mandatory retirement age, would be promoted to the Chief
Engineer level, but wouid continue in their existing Supervisory Engineer
position until retirement.
31.   Delegation of Authority.  The Bank has recommended to the state
government that the authority for personnel action in respect of staff be
delegated to the HID.
32.   Tral±n±ng. The training program would be revised as follows:
(i)   Revise existing orientation training course by reducing the number of
topics from 22 to only the number of topics relating to HID's mission.
(ii)  Establish training courses for the main disciplines in HID (Planning,
Design, Construction, and Operation and Maintenance). These courses
would be designed by line managers in these disciplines.
(iii) Establish. a computer training program consisting of an orientation
course for managers, an orientation and operations course for technical
employees, and an orientation and operations course for administrative
-ersonnel.
(iv)  Develop a management/supervisory course for Class I Officers including
the topics of supervisory skills, work scheduling and tracking,
communication skills, personnel management tasks, etc.
3anagEent Proceditret
33.  Program and Budget Delp't.Initially the projects and activities



- 48 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 8
in the HID program would be scheduled annually and over five and fifteen year
plan periods. The costs and timeframes for these activities would be
scheduled under the following functional items (Data Collection/Processing and
Water Planning, Design, Construction, and Operation and Maintenance). The five
and fifteen year plans would be adjusted annually according to the progress of
the previous year. Presently funds are received from the State Finance
Minister monthly via a Letter of Credit based on the previous month's
progress. Under the project, funds would be released quarterly so that HID's
program can be managed more effectively and efficiently.
34.   Program Tracking.  The following procedures would be considered for
program work task and expenditure tracking and management:
(i)   Allocate funds on a quarterly basis to HID managers so they can plan
their work activities.
(ii)  Retain flexibility in budget allocations to allow transfer of funds
from one work program to another as required
(iii) Develop a simple format for obtaining work progress information. This
format would be completed monthly, or more often if required, by line
function managers involved in data collection and water resources
planning, and O&M, and submitted to the CEC. This format would be
completed weekly by line function managers involved in design and
construction activities, and submitted to the CEC. Program management
staff would also keep in touch with line managers by telephone between
monthly and weekly report submittals to keep abreast of key program
elements and any significant new information.
(iv)  Program management staff would evaluate the work progress information
and identify any problems in program accomplishment. Reporting line
managers, jointly with program management staff, would also develop
recommended fund and personnel transfers as required from projects
which are behind schedule to projects which are ahead of schedule.
(v)   Monthly, or more often if serious program deviations occur, the EIC
would meet with his Chief Engineers to review program progress,
identified problems and recommended solutions developed by the line
managers and program management staff. Program changes would be made
as necessary.
35.   Cost Accounting.  A cost accounting system would be developed in which
all organizational units would record the costs of their activities by
project. For example, the Planning Unit would record the costs of their
activities (hydrology study, economic analysis, etc.) for a new drainage
project, rehabilitation program, etc.; the Design Unit would record costs for
each project for its activities; the Construction Unit would record costs for
each complete system component; and each O&M office on the Bhakra and Yamuna
canal and drainage systems would record the costs of their activities
(desilting, road maintenance, weed control, etc.).



HtRYIAWAIERPESURCS CONSOUDATION  KlT
ND STAFF ANDIFUNCTSALLINIT
Note: State Water Resouwces Comnuittee.                                               CARTI
Chaired by Chief Sectaty. to coordinate and
guide inter-sectoral water resource issus,
see para 1.
I    Si:CRETARYOFIRRIGON
ANDP_WER
Water
| Reguabon
I       ENGINEEN INCHiEP
l                   |              |~~~~~~~~~~ Regtdain 
|  udgedoc  Comminee            Che   E|km                                                                      Monitorng 
Environmental               Water Services
LogNislativpe                                          I Aflairs  Policy/Support
NOTE: See Chart No. 3
| Public    {for detils
InWomaflon ]
Lrsgal and                                      Quality Asswance
_   Vigilance                              _           ObFce
_ iudgeUProg7ram
_Prop a Tradking                                                                                                                >
t ar
l  l           l                        l                         l                         g             fD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3  ¢
Administration          Water Res Planning            Design a               Construction             Yamuna Water              Bhakra Water       O  tt X
Unit                 & Data Unit              Researct Unit                   Unit                Services Unit             Services Unit     Li   I )
Chief Manager             Chief Engineer            Chief Engineer           Chief Engineer           Chief Engineer            Chief Enginr



[                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHART NO 2
.     HID NON-WATER
Adtiistraton                    Waer Resource                  Design & Researwch                 Cons"on                          SERVICE UNITS
untPafn   r UnitConitruto
Chief MAanager                 PChiefn UngitU                                                                                   NOTE: Yamua and OBakra
Unit  Chief Engineer           chw Engineer                     Chief Engine                   Waer Seriee Units are
._                               i .    .                rJetaled on Chant No. 3
personn  a          i            State Water                    C_vi Engneer                         Cirle              Reht     Iadr s
Training                           Planrs                                                                                    s         a
ReOW prope"t                        Projec                         twiEct' 
Procurement &                       Praeting                       Engieer
_|Contractorr
Budget.                            Drouht                                                                                 Rotao
[  PocurelWnmt   iuftoo _ ;; 7              1               q    Gar                       _    Project Cirle 
9 supas                              Data                       Exploration
|Irdo PMCocf                                                                                                                  O [  r 
Sf Poci                            Goundwate                         Research                     Project Cirege
Services                               Data                                                                                               |
Meorpoo                          ydM
m 1n
1 th
0 I0
i-h itt



_amon Waler                                   CHiART NO 3
wawserv c  Su                                                              Cb                                                   HID unERVICEt
i        NDOTE: S  Chart No. t                                                                                               NOTS
NOTE: BaraUdit
similar structure
_ Trdning.
Comnputer                 unkt                       Unit                  S(IOSrieS
Applcations           Administration               Sup >port               C        1              Sice N                 Cd  N
Priocedures a£in                                                                      dtosMntrn 
_  Xlanuals         Personnel                Operatin
Svic Cha              I Pro. & Budget             Maintenance                   Support |1 N.                               w  No2         Division No S
Services            IEleconics
Turnover    |anc|7                                                             Oportons g|Mamte
fRvenues      |         Heavy
Accounting       I          1iMaintenance 
!                                    | | ~~~~~~~~~~~~SchsWing                                                                                  I    
Procurement                                                                        |L
a MOWerW ooldLag EquRcorp
Add Crews  |            K       E
Field CrewsFPe a                                                          10/11/03
to f
0   IDt
0r t
o 11



- 52 -
At t-agghment -2
Page 1 of 13
HARYANA WATER RESOUJRCES CONSOLIflATION PROJECT
FuNcTIouaL sTATEmENTs OF NEx oReaAN12aTimNL sTtRUCTURgE
OF HARYA IRBGATION DEPRTNT
Tnt- reduet Inn
1.    The reorganization of the Haryana Irrigation Department (HID) would
streamline the activities now undertaken by different units of HID to reduce
overlapping or multiplication. Under the Engineer-in-Chief (EIC), staff
offices would be established, responsible for regulatory functions and also
having an advisory role in the functional areas. In addition, a Water
Regulation Unit would be established. The staff offices would be for: (a)
Chief Engineer Coordination; (b) Environmental Affairs; (c) Water Services
Policy Support; and (d) Quality Assurance. The line units described in the
organizational structure would be responsible for operational activities in
the following functional areas: (a) Administration; (b) Data Collection and
Water Resources Planning; (c) Construction; (d) Design and Research; and (e)
Water Services.
A. Water Reuglation Unit (WRU1
2.    The WRU would be supported by a Regulations Unit and a Monitoring and
Enforcement Unit. The responsibilities of the WRU and the units are:
a.    administration of the ground and surface rights and regulations program;
b.    monitoring development and use of the State's water resources to ensure
compliance with State laws and regulations; and
c.    enforcement of State water resource laws and regulations.
3.    E1) Regulationa Unit.  The responsibilities of the Regulations Unit are:
a.    administration of the application, processing and permitting activities
for the legal use of the States water resources;
b.    development of programs and policies which can be adopted by the
government for the regulation of the States water resources;
c.    provision of information to the public and existing and prospective
water users about water law and regulations, and actions of the WRU;
d.    settlement of complaints concerning the state's water resources;
e.    liaison with ministers, legislators, and other government agencies in
the field of regulation of water resources;
f.    maintenance and updating of files of all rights and use permits for the
States water resources; and
g.    preparation of reports of water regulatory activities as requested by
the Secretary.



- 53 -
Annexa
Attaohmeont 2
Page 2 of 13
4.    {ii) Monitoring and Enforcement Unit.  The responsibilities of the
Monitoring and Enforcement Unit are:
a.    monitoring of water use in the State to ensure that water use laws and
regulations are being followed;
b.    periodic field inspections to monitor water use activities;
c.    enforcement of water law and regulations by taking necessary action
against violators as provided by the law;
d.    development of programs and policies which can be adopted by for the
monitoring and enforcement of State water law and regulations;
e.    coordination with the Regulations Unit on new water use permits granted;
f.    preparation of reports, as required by the Secretary, concerning the
Unit's activities.
B. Staff Office Responsibilities
(a) Chief Engineer Coordination (CEC):
5.    Four cells would be in place to perform the functions of the staff
office under the Chief Engineer Coordination: (i) Legislative Liason; (ii)
Public Information; (iii) Legal and Vigilance; and (iv) Budget and Program
Tracking. The responsibilities of these cells are described in the sections
following the overall responsibilities of the staff office, which are:
a.    assistance to the ETC in management of the Department;
b.    provision of legislative liaison between HID and GOH;
c.    administration of the Department's public relations program;
d.    provision of legal and vigilance services;
e.    management of the HID's budget, program and program tracking activities;
f.    acting as Secretary of HID's Programming and Budgeting Committee.
6.    (i) Legislative Liaiaon Cell.  The responsibilities of this cell are:
a.    draft new legislation for providing water resource services;
b.    assist in the drafting of water resource legislation when the Department
is requested to do so;
c.    review of all proposed legislation to ascertain which proposed
legislation may pertain to HID's activities;
d.    provision of the Departments comments on pending legislation;
e.    provision of information about new legislation affecting HID to
Departmental managers: and
f.    provision of informaticn and comments to legislators concerning water
resources legislation.
7.    {ii) Publi Information Cell.  The responsibilities of this cell are:
a.    administration of all Departmental public relations activities;
b.    preparation of speeches for Departmental management;
c.    preparation of news releases, newspaper articles, TV pieces, and other



- 54 -
Annex3
Attachmant 2
Page 3 of 13
news media items for Departmental affairs;
d.    publication of the Department's magazine;
e.    arranging for public meetings as required by Departmental management;
f.    assist with the development and implementation of the program to
turnover O&M of certain Departmental facilities to water users; and
g.    preparation of responses to questions from the public.
8.    (ilt) Legal and Vigilanie Cell.  The responsibilities of this cell are:
a.    provision of legal research and advice to Departmental management;
b.    representation of the Department in all legal issues and court cases in
which the Department may be involved;
C.    assistance to the Legislative Liaison Cell in legislative matters;
d.    performance of investigations and audits of Departmental staff or
offices in the case of complaints from the public or other entities; and
e.    scheduling and performance of periodic audits of HID's activities to
ensure that its program is being accomplished effectively and
efficiently.
9.    livl Budgt/krogram Tracking Ca".  The responsibilities of the
Budget/Program Tracking Cell are:
a.    management of HID's programming, budgeting and program tracking;
b.    development and implementation of processes for the above;
C.    provision of report format to managers for reporting of program status;
d.    development, maintenance, and coordination  of the Department's program
and budget from data furnished by Departmental managers;
e.    allocation of fiscal year funds to organizational units and offices;
f.    coordination of the preparation of cost estimates of execution of
Departmental programs for budget purposes;
g.    presentation and justitication of the budget to the Secretary and the
legislature;
h.    tracking of the progress of the departments program through receiving
reports from Departmental managers, and continuous communication with
Departmental managers concerning program progress and problems;
i.    analysis of program progress information, and the development of
recommendations to management concerning program adjustments;
j.    organization and arrangement of meetings of the Programming and
Budgeting Committee; and
k.    preparation of reports concerning program, budget, and program tracking.
(bl Environmental affaiXs (EA):
10.   The Environmental Affairs Office, reporting to the EIC, would be
responsible for:
a.    provision of environmental assessments for Departmental activities to
satisfy State law and lender organization requirements;
b.    preparation of environmental clearance documents, and the processing of



- 55 -
AttachmQnt 2
Page 4 of 13
these documents with clearance authorities and lending institutions;
c.    development of environmental guidelines to be used by the Department in
conducting its activities;
d.    assisting the Construction (CU) and Water Service Units (WSU) in meeting
environmental regulations in their functional activities;
e.    reviewing water resource planning studies, designs and operation and
maintenance programs to insure that consideration of environmental
regulations and issues have been taken;
f.    assisting the WSUs to maintain the quality of water delivered to users;
g.    providing environmental standards and information to the line units to
assist them in carrying out their programs;
h.    conducting environmental public relations for the Department;
i.    maintaining a library of environmental information; and
J.    provision of reports to management concerning activities of EA Office.
le) Water Services PolicyJ SuMnprt Office (WSPS):
11.   The responsibilities of the Water Services Policy/ Support Office are:
a.    assist in the development of water service policies for the WSUs;
b.    assist In the formulation of the cost recovery program (mechanisms and
amounts);
c.    define policies and procedures for guiding the program for turnover of
system maintenance to beneficiaries, implementing the program,
monitoring its progress, and designing means for its effective
replication;
d.    assist in the development and updating of generic operations and
maintenance guidelines for the WSUs;
e.    assist in development of computer applications for water service
operations and maintenance; and
f.    coordinate the WSUs' activities with headquarters offices.
(d) Ouality Assurance Offinc (OAM:
12.   The QA staff would consist of 3 highly experienced engineers who, in
combination, have in-depth knowledge of planning, field investigations,
design, construction, operations and maintenance. The primary responsibilities
of the Office are:
a.    assemble a complete set of statements of policy, practice, procedures
and standards now in force;
b.    examine proposed and existing systems to identify deficiencies in each
phase: planning, design, construction, rehabilitation and O&M;
c.    visit staff at every level (including entry), determine available
guidance, learn views on short-comings and seek suggestions for
improvements;
d.    analyze flow of project/management documents and approval process,
formulate procedures to assure timely and complete action by all units;
e.    where deficiencies are found, draft new statements of policy, practice,



- 56 -
Ann~ex 3
,attac-hment_2
Page 5 of 13
procedures and standards and distribute for review and comnent by staff
at all levels; discuss draft materials and staff comments with senior
management and finalize;
f.    prepare and distribute a suggested set of materials required for staff
in each position within the various units;
g.    prepare detailed training program for staff including entry orientation,
procedures, technical specialties, new technologies, management,
contract administration, construction inspection, maintenance and
operations and performance evaluation methods; and
h.    formulate a formal audit system for unit managers to evaluate the
effectiveness of policies, procedures, staff motivation and training
under their supervision, and to submit an annual report of findings and
recommendations to department management.
C   Line Unit Responsibilities
(a) Administration Unit (AU):
13. The activities of the Administration Unit, headed by a Chief Manager,
would be performed by the followir.g cells: (i) Personnel and Training Cell;
(ii) Procurement and Supplies Cell; (iii) Real Property Procurement and
Management Cell; (iv) Finance and Accounting Cell; (v) Motor Pool Cell; and
(vi) Computer Services Cell. The responsibilities of each cell within the AU
are in the following sections. The overall responsibilities of the AU itself
would cover:
a.    administration of all personnel activities and records;
b.    procurement, storage and dissemination of equipment and supplies;
c.    procurement and management of real property;
d.    provision and management of computer services;
e.    operation and management of the motor pool;
f.    development and operation of Departmental training programs;
management of the Department's finances (cost accounting, financial
accounting - disbursements and receipts, audits);
h.    provision of assistance to all HID units in the above activities; and
i.    preparation of reports as required .iy management concerning
administration activities.



- 57 -
raerehm.nt 2
Page 6 of 13
(11 Personnel and Training Cell. The responsibilities of the cell are:
a.    development and operation of all personnel training programs;
b.    maintenance of personnel records for the Department;
c.    administration of the retirement information, counseling, processing and
record keeping program;
d.    provision of standard formats for position descriptions, assistance to
Departmental managers in the preparation of position descriptions, and
maintenance of files of position descriptions;
e.    provision of standard formats and processes for employee performance
evaluations, assistance to Departmental managers in making performance
evaluations, and maintenance of performance files;
f.    administration of staff classification, selection and promotion program;
g.    administration of salary/wages, benefits and incentives programs;
h.   advice and assistance to Departmental managers in the discipline and
dismissal of employees;
i.    administration of Departmental staff levels and reduction programs; and
j.    assistance to Departmental managers in negotiating with employee unions.
(ii  Procurement and Supplies Cell.  The responsibilities of the Cell are:
a.    purchasing of supplies and equipment for the Department according to
State procurement regulations;
b.    disposal of the Department's surplus equipment and supplies according to
State regulations;
C.    dispensing of equipment and supplies to all Departmental Units;
d.    maintenance of equipment and supply inventories and records:
e.    management of storage of equipment and supplies;
f.    development of procedures and guidelines to be followed by field office
personnel responsible for administration of equipment and supplies; and
g.    auditing of field office administration of equipment and supplies.
(i4{4  Real Property Procurement and Managent Call.  The responsibilities of
the Real Property Procurement and Management Cell are:
a.    purchase and disposal of all real property for the Department;
b.    coordination with CU and WSUs in determining real property requirements:
c.    management of the operation and maintenance program for employee housing
and Departmental buildings; and
d.    maintenance of real property files.
Iiv) Finanne and Accounting Cell. The responsibilities of this cell are:
a.    administration of the cost accounting system;
b.    administration and accounting of all HID disbursements and receipts;
c.    performance of audits of the financial activities of other HID offices;
d.    provision of financial information, as required, to the Program Budget
Unit for program budget activities; and
e.    development of financial reports for management.



- 58 -
Ann
Attanhmnt 2
Page 7 of 13
Iv) Mote PooQl Call. The responsibilities of the Motor Pool Cell are:
a.    provision of vehicle service to Departmental headquarters;
b.    maintenance of the headquarter's vehicles;
c.    development and dissemination of standards for motor pool operation to
field offices;
d.    auditing field office motor pool operations; and
e.    keeping vehicle service and maintenance records.
(vXi Co=p ter ServTCe_ Cell. The responsibilities of this cell are:
a.    administration of computer services for the Department;
b.   operation and maintenance of central computer equipment;
c.    provision of maintenance for all Departmental computer hardware;
d.    assistance to all Departmental rvits in determining hardware and
software requirements;
e.    maintenance of records for Departmental hardware, software, and
communications equipment;
f.    administration of the Departments Statewide communications system;
g.    provision of maintenance for the communication system;
h.    assistance to HID units for changes or additions to the communications
system;
i.    receiving and review of requests from other HID Units for changes in, or
additions to HID's computer and communications system; and
j.    proviaion of reports, as required, to management concerning the computer
and communications system.
(bl Data Collection Unit and Water Resources Planning tDPUf:
14.   The activities under the Water Resources Planning and Data Collection
Unit, headed by a Chief Engineer, would be distributed among the following
cells: (i) State Water Plan; (ii) Project Planning; (iii) Drought Planning;
(iv) Surface Water; (v) Groundwater; (vi) Special Studies; and (vii) Documents
Cell. The responsibilities of each cell within the DPU are in the following
sections. The overall responsibilities of the DPU are:
a.    collection, analysis, and dissemination of basic hydrologic,
groundwater, and meteorological data essential to comprehensive water
resources management;
b.    provision of analytical services under specific service agreements for
the specialized analysis of hydrologic information for use by government
and private entities;
c.    storage/maintenance of hydrologic, groundwater, and meteorologic data;
d.    development and maintenance of a State Water Plan.
e.    preparation of reconnaissance and feasibility studies of specific
projects and programs;
f.    preparation of a statewide drought management plan; and
g.    preparation of program progress reports, and submittal according to
schedule of the reports to the Budget Program Cell under the CEC.



- 59 -
Atachment 2
Page 8 of 13
lB State Water Plan Cell. The State Water Plan Cell is responsible for:
a.    development of a State Water Plan (SWP) through data and information
analysis, making of estimations and projections for present and future
State water resource conditions, identification of water resource
problems and issues, testing of various water resource scenarios, and
the use of various water resource computer models;
b.    interaction and coordination with the State water Commission;
c.    interaction and coordination with other public and private entities to
obtain their input and information, and their review of the Units's
State Water Planning activities;
d.    provision of water resource management, policy and program
recommendations to the State Water Planning Commission;
e.   preparation and publication of a SWP report and annexes; and
f.    periodic review and update of the SWP (at least every five years).
1ii Progect Planning Cell. The Project Planning Cell is responsible for:
a.    preparation of reconnaissance and feasibility studies of projects and
programs to serve the water service responsibilities of the Department;
b.    preparation of hydrologic studies, land use and classification studies,
economic and financial analysis, and plan formulation studies for
projects and programs;
c.    coordination with the State Water Plan Cell to insure that projects and
programs are not in conflict with the SWP;
d.    obtaining preliminary structure designs from the Design and
Research Unit (DRU);
e.    obtaining review of project plans from appropriate Department Units
(Environmental Office etc.), and other government agencies; and
f.    publication of a main report and annexes for each project and program
studied.
(1til Drought Plannin2 Cell. The responsibilities of this cell are:
a.    preparation of a contingency plan drought for the State of Haryana;
b.    coordination and interaction with the State Planning Commission for the
development and implementation of the drought plan;
c.    preparation of a program to inform the public of the drought plan, and
for the implementation of the drought plan;
d.    coordination with the State Water Plan Cell and the Water Service Units
in the development and implementation of the drought plan; and
e.    publication of the State Drought Plan.
(iv) Surface Water Cell. The Surface Water Cell is responsible for:
a.    collection of basic hydrologic data at key locations in rivers, canals,
and drains;
b.    collection of basic hydrologic data from the WSUs at those locations



- 60 -
Attaphnb=n  2
Page 9 of 13
measured by the WSUs;
c.    installation and maintenance of hydrologic and meteorologic data
collection stations at locations necessary to obtain data necessary for
the SWP, planning studies and other agency requirements;
d.    annual review of the data collection system to determine which data
collection stations need maintenance or upgrading, which stations should
be discontinued, and what new stations should be added; and
e.    provision of data to the Special Studies Cell as required, and to the
Documents Cell for data storage and dissemination.
(x} Groundwater Cell. The Groundwater Cell is responsible for:
a.    collection of basic groundwater data from public, private and test wells
throughout the State;
b.    collection of groundwater data from the Water service Units for the
irrigation tubewells operated by the Water Service Units;
C.    annual review of the data collection program to ascertain that the
proper number of wells at the proper locations are being measured to
provide an aecurate record of the State's groundwater basins;
d.    analysis and portrayal of groundwater data to provide each basins
groundwater condition (quality, level, overdraft); and
e.    provision of data to the Special Studies Cell as necessary, and to the
Documents Cell for data storage and dissemination.
(vil SRecial Studie9 Cell. The Special Studies Cell is responsible for:
a.    conduction of analytical studies of hydrologic data under special
service agreements for use by other government and private
organizations; and
b.    assistance to the State Water Plan and Project Planning Cells, the DRU,
and the WSUs as required, in making hydrologic studies and analysis.
fviil Qnruments Cell. The Documents Cell is responsible for:
a.    storage and recording of basic hydrologic, meteorologic, and groundwater
data received from the Surface and Groundwater Cells;
b.    dissemination of basic hydrologic, groundwater, and meteorologic data to
the public through the publication of an annual report; and
c.    annual review of data files to determine needed changes to the filing
system, and what data should be kept and what data can be destroyed.
(c) Construction Unit (Cu):
15.   The Construction Unit would be headed by a Chief Engineer, and its
activities would be performed by one Headquarters Circle and three Project
Circles. The responsibilities of each circle are in the sections following
the overall responsibilities of the CU. The responsibilities of the CU are:
a.    determine rights of way requireAents for projects to be constructed;



- 61 -
Page 10 of 13
b.    conduct land surveys for projects to be or under construction;
c.    maintain a register of construction cortractors;
d.    process contractor claims;
e.    provide support to the field construction circles;
f.    testing of materials for construction;
g.    inspection of contractors work;
h.    determination of design changes for construction field conditions:
i.    preparation of as-built drawings when construction is complete:
j.    calculation of materials and construction quantities for contractor
payment; and
k.    processing of construction contracts.
(J  Headquarters Circle.  The responsibilities of the Headquarters Circle are:
a.    determine rights-of-way requirements, and provision of requests for
property acquisition to the AU;
b.    processing of contracts (advertisement of construction requirements,
receiving of bid documents, verification of contractors capability,
review of bids, and contract award);
C.    registration of contractors;
d.    processing and settlement of contractors claims;
e.    provision of assistance to field construction circles for extraordinary
laboratory work, contractor relationships, construction inspection,
design changes to fit field conditions, and office engineering work;
f.    review of construction field staff work quality,' program accomplishment;
g.    preparation of as-built drawings for completed structures, and submittal
of these to the DRU;
h.    develop and maintain policies and procedures on matters relating to all
phases of construction cost esimating;
i.    preparation of analysis of bid abstract prices for use in future
construction cost estimating; and
j.   preparation of program progress reports and submittal of the reports on
schedule to the Budget Program Cell under the CEC.
(ii) Proi nt Circle (31.  The responsibilities of the Project Construction
Circles are:
a.    testing of construction materials;
b.    inspection of contractors construction activities and work quality, and
preparation of construction inspection reports;
c.    recommendation of design changes to accommodate field conditions;
d.    preparation of data for making as-built drawings for completed
structures;
e.    calculation of materials and construction quantities for payments to
contractors; and
f.    preparation of work progress reports, and submittal of the reports to
the Headquarters Circle for incorporation in the program progress report
for the Budget Program Officer.



- 62 -
Atae-Iahmnt_2
Page 11 of 13
dl Deasign ind Research Unit (DRU):
16.   The activities under the Design and Research Unit, headed by a Chief
Engineer, would be distributed among the following cells: {i) Civil
Engineering; (ii) Mechanical and Electrical Engineering; (iii) Specifications;
(iv) Geology and Field Exploration; and (v) Research. The overall
responsibilities of the DRU are:
a.    preparation of preliminary level designs for feasibility studies being
conducted by the Project Planning Cell;
b.    preparation of designs for modernization and rehabilitation of existing
structures and for new structures;
C.    maintenance of files of completed designs and as-built drawings from
completed construction projects;
d.    collection of design data from the field;
e.    conduct geologic investigations in field to obtain data for designs;
f.    periodic review of new design methodology and design standard releases,
and updating of the Department's design methodologies and standards;
g.    conduction of research of new design and construction methods; and
h.    preparation of work progress reports, and submittal of the reports
according to schedule to the Budget Program Cell under the CEC.
fit Civil RnWineering Cell. The responsibilities of this cell are:
a.    preparation of designs and design drawings for modernization and
rehabilitation of existing structures and for new structures;
b.    preparation of preliminary level designs and design drawings for
projects being studied by the Project Planning Cell;
c.    maintenance of files of all designs and as-built drawings of completed
structures;
d.    collection of field data as required for structure designs;
e.    requesting geologic and field data collection by the Geology and Field
Exploration Cell; and
f.    periodic review of new civil engineering design methodology and design
standards, and updating of the Department's civil design methodologies
and standards.
(iiI Mechanical and gleactrieal Engineering Cell. The responsibilities of the
Mechanical and Electrical Engineering Cell are:
a.    preparation of designs and design drawings for mechanical and electrical
features for modernization and rehabilitation of existing features and
for new features;
b.    preparation of preliminary level deigns and design drawings foe the
projects being studies by the Project Planning Cell;
c.    collection of field data as required feature designs; and
d.    periodic review of new mechanical and electrical engineering methodology
and design standards, and updating of the Department's mechanical and
electrical design methodologies and standards.



- 63 -
Annezl3
Page 12 of 13
1111 S1  cifinatigns Cell.  The responsibilities of this cell are:
a.    preparation of construction specifications for the modernization and
rehabilitation of existing facilities and for new facilities;
b.    coordination with the design cells and the CU in the preparation of
specifications;
c.    maintenance of files of construction specifications; and
d.    review and updating of standard procedures for preparing specifications.
(iv) Geology and Field E&ploration Cell. The responsibilities of the Geology
and Field Exploration Cell are:
a.    conduction of geologic explorations in the field for the modernization
and rehabilitation of structures and for new structures;
b.    collection of design data in the field for the modernization and
rehabilitation of structures and for new structures;
c.    coordination with the design cells in collection of design data and
making of geologic, and source of construction materials investigations;
d.    preparation of reports of fields design data collection and geologic
investigations, including maps, and submittal of the reports to the
design cells; and
e.    maintenance of equipment needed for geologic investigations and design
data collection.
(v) Researeh C.ll.  The responsibilities of the Research Cell are :
a.    conduction of research of new design and construction methods for the
water service activities of HID;
b.    arranging for and monitoring of the conducting of physical model tests,
as needed by designers, at established laboratories;
c.    coordination with the design cells, WSUs, and the CU to ascertain what
research is needed to assist in improving design/ construction methods;
d.    keeping abreast of the latest technology in the water resources field,
and transferring this information to the other line units of HID;
e.    maintenance of a library of technical publications for use of all the
technical staff of HID; and
f.    publication of the results of the Cell's research, and transmittal of
the report to the proper organizational unit within the department.
(el Yamuna and Bhakra Water Services units (WSUs):
17. Each of the two Water Service Units would be supported by an Advisory
Committee, and the WSPS Office under the EIC. The responsibilities of the
Bhakra and Yamuni Water Services Units are:
a.    operation and maintenance of the bulk water supply system (surface water
delivery system ar.d public irrigation tubewells);
b.    operation and maintenance of drainage and flood control works;
c.    operation and maintenance of groundwater recharge facilities;



- 64 -
Anno&2
Attahmaont 2
Page 13 of 13
d.    development and operation of a preventative maintenance program for all
the equipment and facilities within the water service unit;
e.    periodic review of all of the Unit's systems to identify modernization
and rehabilitation requirements;
f.    management of shops used for the maintenance and repair of equipment
used in operating all water systems;
g.    collection and analysis of data for system operation and maintenance;
h.    determining water services provided, and the related water charges;
i.    arranging for the collection of water service charges with the
appropriate Department unit and/or government agency;
j.    coordinating with water users in system operation, water deliveries,
modernization and rehabilitation activities, * ir charges, and
provision of information to water users concer   q water service
activities;
k.    implementing the Department's drought management plan in drought years;
1.    implementing and manageing the turnover of O&M of irrigation tubewells,
water courses, and minor canal systems to the water users;
m.    monitoring water quality of water deliveries, and taking appropriate
action with proper authorities for the stoppage of poor quality effluent
discharges into the systems operated by the Unit;
n.    providing hydrologic and groundwater data collected, for O&M activities,
to the DPU for its use in planning activities;
3.   preparing work progress reports, and submitting the reports according to
schedule to the Program Budget Cell under the CEC.



-65-                          Annex 3
Attachment 3
INDIA                      Page 1 of 9
1HARYANA      RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PREOCT
SI4LE PROtaRAM ANDMIDGET STATEMN
Backg,un,
The primary objective of the project is to assist HID carry out its
responsibilities of planning, development and management of the state's water
resources in a more efficient manner through institutional, administrative,
management and technical measures to help transform HID into a modern Water
Resources Department. This transformation would be essentially based on
instituting a rigorous programming and budgeting process to rationalize the
Department's activities and sector responsibilities.
The following constitutes a draft of the programs to be implemented
under the project. This illustrates the concept and general content of state-
ments to be produced under the programming and budgeting process being insti-
tuted by HID. The listed programs are defined in terms of the agreed content
and magnitude of work, within an amount approximating the overall budget of
HID set out for the project period (the example is based on a sample budget of
Rs.15,000 crore). The program amounts are tentative, and would be refined by
HID to conform to the final budget.
:..  Program  PFrmat
Each program statement would have the following elements:
a.    Objective:        The objective of the program.
b.    Activity:         The activities involved in attaining the objective.
C.    Assigned Units:   The primary units having responsibilities for parts or
all of the tasks involved in completing activities,
and the allocation of the program budget to the unit.
d.    Budget:           The budget allocation for implementing the program
over the six years, by implementing unit (in Rs.
crore).
e.    Duration:         The duration of the program within the project period.
3   Impam.nation  ]IniaXtiQ
The following abbreviations are used in this example for the
units/entities responsible for different activities of the Department:
Sec         Secretary of Irrigation (Water Resources) and Power
Reg         Regulatory (Groundwater) Office of the Secretary
WRC         Water Resources Commission
ENC         Engineer-in-Chief and his "staff" level offices
including the Chief Engineer Coordination
Adm         Administration Unit
Dat         Data sub-unit of the Planning and Data Unit
Pln/dat     Planning and Data Unit
Des/res     Design and Research Unit
Con         Construction Unit
WSU         Water Service Units (O&M Units)
Contr       private contractor/supplier
Consl       consultant



- 66 -
Annex 3
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 9
C. Program Statomgntn
1.  Institutional Reform
Objeckti.:  To increase the capability and effectiveness of HID to carry out
its responsibilities for the development and management of the
water resources of the State of Haryana.
ALtiitx:   Formulate basic water development and management policies for
guiding public programs, and public and beneficiary roles,
formulate and seek enactment of needed legislation, rules and
regulations; formulate and enact the necessary program, personnel
and operating policies; restructure the organization; assign staff
and introduce the primary operational procedures in all units
necessary for the effective execution of their responsibilities.
AssndJlnit: Sec/WRC (Rs.lcr), ENC (Rs.Scr), Adm (Rs.2cr), Consl (Rs.2cr)
Budgat:     Rs.10 cr.
DL rat±on:   2 years
2- Admainistrative Reform
Qhbjactivn:  To consolidate all administrative functions into one unit and
improve its administrative and support services to the agency.
Ac±i.ity:   Create individual sub-units in the Adm. Unit; introduce
comprehensive cost accounting and cost allocation; introduce
improved procedures including position descriptions and candidate
qualification statements; create a modern statewide agency
communications and basic computer capability in the agency to
support all functional units and their activities; establish a
management information system (MIS) to serve the information
storage and retrieval needs for all units in carrying out their
activities; introduce detailed agencywide programming and
budgeting and establish a project and program tracking system
(these to be introduced and implemented by a sub-unit of the Chief
Engineer Coordination's office).
AsWsndJanit: ENC (Rs.lcr), Adm (Rs.14cr), Consl (Rs.25cr)
Budget:     Rs.40  cr.
Du2ra t-I:   2 years
3- Agency nirention and Management Program froutine)
QkjmectIxa To assure effective overall direction and management of the agency
policy, programing and budgeting, legislative liaison, legal,
environmental affairs, public information and vigilance.
Ac±tri.yty: Prepare and review basic agency policies, prepare the long-term
and annual program and budget, maintain legislative liaison,
conduct public awareness program, and provide other "staff" level
functions including legal, environmental affairs and vigilance.
Program tracking, instituted under the 'Administrative Reform
Program', and policy and oversight of the system turnover,
instituted under the Turnover Program, will be continued under the
Agency Direction and Management Program.
A&snd4tinit ENC (Rs.97cr), WRC (Rs.3cr)
auzdgat:    Rs.100 cr.
puratinn:   6 years



- 67 -                       Annex 3
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 9
4- tgeguLatoxy fGrounduaterl Func±ione
Qaiec±ixe: Administer the regulatory laws, rules and regulations enacted for
the management of the water resources and associated activities.
AcWtlyitL:   Formulate a groundwater regulatory enforcement program to carry
out the government's regulatory policies and enacted legislation;
monitor the activities of government agencies, private enterprises
and individuals for compliance with established laws, rules and
regulations: aggressively take prompt actions to enforce penalties
against violators in accordance with appropriate laws; draft
appropriate legislation for improving the effectiveness of the
regulatory function and prepare information regarding purpose,
provisions and administration of the state's regulatory program
for use by the Public Information Office of the agency.
AAagndeZnit: Sec/Reg (Rs.58cr), Consl (Rs.2cr)
Budget:     RS.60 cr
DuratZian:   6 years
5. Administration (routine)
tbjectyve:  To assure comprehensive administrative support and services are
provided efficiently to the agency in a manner that all units can
efficiently perform their functions.
Actl-iv:   Provide administrative services and support in the areas of
personnel, finance, procurement of supplies and selected
equipment, real property procurement and management, staff
training, communications and computer services (including any MIS
modifications) and motor pool.
aasnd-..ni±: Adm (Rs.140cr)
Rnudgoe:    Rs.140 cr
Dura.-inn:   6 years
6. Administration VehiOla and zqiipm.nt Pool Pxonurammnt
ObiAcctiva:  To provide cost effective efficient transportation and equipment
support to all agency units except, for the WSUs.
AC±izitx:   Procure vehicles and equipment for an agencywide motor pool
managed by the Adm. Unit to serve agency units.
Assnd-Unit: Adm (Rs.lcr), Contr (Rs.19cr)
lud"gl:     Rs.20 cr
DLLration:   6 years
1 Training
Clrseti.ym To increase the management capability and technical skills of
staff and their awareness of HID's responsibilities and functions.
ActIzitx:   Orient staff with agency policies, procedures and functions;
conduct routine training of O&M staff and agency office support
staff; and arrange for specialized training in technical areas,
including re-training for reassigned personnel.
AsArnelZn4I: Adm (Rs.9cr), WSU (Rs.39cr), Consl (Rs.2cr)
Ezdzt -     Rs.40 cr
DunratfnI:   6 years



- 68 -                         Annex 3
Attachment 3
Page 4 of 9
X. Tnrnover
Ohia4crx:  To turnover to identified beneficiary entities the
responsibilities for the operation and maintenance and defined
aspects of assets ownership of selected facilities currently under
the full responsibility of the agency. The initial emphasis will
be on DIT wells and watercourses.
Activity:   Formulate statewide policies applicable to all services (water
distribution, drainage and flood control) pertaining to the extent
and the governing conditions of turnover including mctters of
ownership of assets, facilities rehabilitation, beneficiary
contribution to costs of turnover, the rights and responsibilities
of the beneficiaries and the government; prepare and secure
enactment of legislation, rules and regulations pertaining to
turnover; detail the program of activities for executing turnover;
create, staff and train the specialized sub-units in the WSUs to
carry out the program and initiate the program of turnover.
a-and.UnJi: ENC (Rs.4cr), WSU (Rs.9.6cr), Consl (Rs.6.4cr)
Budget :    Rs.20 cr.
Du.rat-In:   4 years
9  Agnny Stataw{de C__    n1-ntions Syate
LbjActLiL:  To establish a reliable statewide communications capability for
the use of all agency units, in particular for data collection,
O&M, construction and routine management.
A&tlivtx:   Design, construct facilities, install equipment and place in
operation a communications system connecting primary WSU offices
in the state and key data sensing sites with regional and central
offices of the agency; procure, install and place in operation
mobile and site communications equipment including terminals for
computer and data monitoring equipment and completion of
associated office modifications and housing.
A&sAnd.ah4t: Des (Rs.lcr), Cori (Rs.2.Scr), Adm (Rs.lcr), Contr(Rs.189cr),
Consl (Rs.6.5cr!
Buidga:     Rs.200 cr.
MiratI.on:   2.5 years
10.  Agancy Can=uter Capacity Upgrade
Object-iva: To institute full modern computer capability as required to
effectively carry out the agency responsibilities in a timely
efficient manner.
Acnklyl     Compile the computer hardware and software needs of the agency
units and define, specify and procure computer software and
hardware needed for all agency units including a central computer
and PCs, office network, office software packages and special
software for the various units and establish the programing and
support backup services.
AsadJnIkz: Adm (Rs.lcr), Cons (Rs.2cr), Contr (Rs.9Ocr), Consl (Rs.12cr)
fiLLdet:    Rs.105 cr.
Durat-Ian:   3.5 years



- 69 -                        Annex 3
Attachment 3
Page 5 of 9
11. Office.s and Housing Construction
QhJaer.tfe:  To provide adequate and appropriate office and housing facilities
for the central and regional units and their sub-units to permit
effective and efficient functioning.
Activity:   Plan, design and construct modifications to existing buildings and
new facilities as required.
Assnd.VUnit: Des (Rs.lcr), Con (Rs.15cr), Contr.(Rs.154cr)
Budget :    Rs.170 cr
DuAt-zto:   4 years
12  Hydrologic Data Collection and Managgment
ObjQctixe:  To consolidate and improve the quality and comprehensiveness of
surface and groundwater hydrologic and meteorological (as
appropriate) information for use by all government and private
sector entities and individuals.
ActivitY:   Formulate a comprehensive hydrologic collection and processing
system, consolidating the functions of other government entities
into the Data Subunit of Pln/dat; assign qualified staff,
partially through reassignment from other entities; upgrade
existing and install new hydrologic and meteorological stations to
form an adequate network of sites; provide data collection
platforms and equipment to interface with the statewide agency
commanications system being built under another program and
formulate and install the necessary procedures and software to
provide prompt, accurate recording, evaluation and reporting of
information. Analytical services will be offered, under specific
service agreements, for the specialized analysis of hydrological
information for use by government and private entities.
AssndU.nit: Plan/Dat (Rs.120cr), Des (Rs.lcr), Con (Rs.lcr), Contr (Rs.6cr),
Consl (Rs.2cr)
Budget:     Rs.130 cr
Durati.n:   6 years (2 years site construction)
13. State Water Plan Preparation
Qbjefti:  To prepare and upgrade at regular intervals The State Water Plan
(SWP) with time horizons of 10, 25 and 50 years for the
development and management of the state's water resources
consistent with the state's goals, objectives and policies.
AcZtivfv:   Document available resources; established goals, objectives and
policies; existing uses and new projects and programs adopted by
legislation. Subsequently, define alternative future conditions
in the state consistent with official spatial plans, projected
changes and existing programs; formulate alternative programs and
projects to satisfy the state goals under those conditions for the
consideration of the public and political bodies and document
programs and projects that are formalized by laws. The initial
SWP is to be issued within two years and fully updated whenever
major changes occur and at maximum intervals of five years.
Aas.ndlnI.t: Pln/dat (Rs.20cr), Consl (Rs.3cr)
RL"d"eL:    Rs.23 cr.
Durati.n:   6 years (2 years issue initial plan)



- 70 -                     Annex 3
Attachment 3
Page 6 of 9
14    ProJect Planning
GFa1IzLe:  To prepare reconnaissance and feasibility level plans for major
projects to provide the various services (bulk supply, flood
control, irrigation, drainage etc) under the responsibility of the
agency and for programs such as groundwater recharge and
wastewater reuse to meet agency responsibilities in accordance
with the water resources development and management priorities
established under the State Water Plan.
ActiyItx:   Conduct reconnaissance and feasibility planning, present
alternative solutions and, through appropriate procedures,
develope project plans for use in project authorization, budgeting
and scheduling. These plans are to serve as the basis for the
Design Unit to conduct final design leading to the final
construction plans, specifications and related documents.
A-ssnd..Unit.: Pln/dat (Rs.20cr), Des (Rs.17cr site investigations),
Conal (Rs.3cr)
audaet :    Rs.40 cr.
Dzzra±Iana:   5.5 years (begin after 1.5 years)
15- O&M EqUipmnt Proeurement
Obieatira:  To furnish the WSUs with vehicles and maintenance equipment
adequate for efficient maintenance of facilities.
Ac±jxi±.s:   Determine the equipment needs, prepare procurement documents and
procure equipment.
Aasa±LUnI.: Adm (Rs.l.Scr), WSUs (Rs.1.Scr), Contr (Rs.177cr)
Audgnt!    Rs.180 cr
puratIon:   3 years
16- Rtut1nea Operation, MaintAnanee/Replaeemipnt of HT1D ServieAs FAcilities
ObjectoIva:  To provide agency services in an equitable, reliable, cost
efficient manner in accordance with established objectives and
agreed operating plans and to maintain service facilities in a
manner to assure services at least costs sustainable on into the
future.
ActIzLtx:   Prepare service plans for every service offered by the agency
(bulk supply, irrigation distribution, agricultural drainage,storm
drainage and flood control), with beneficiaries' assistance as
appropriate; prepare agency annual operating schedules; execute
operations to meet the service objective; and monitor and report
on services rendered. Prepare annual, near-term and long term
maintenance and replacement plans for all agency service
facilities; prepare annual agency maintenance schedules; execute
maintenance work;and monitor and report on maintenance conducted.
Assnd-lJnIt: WSUs (Yamuna and Bhakra) (Rs.6328cr)
Budoat:    Rs.6328 cr.
Du.raf-nin:   6 years



- 71 -
Annex 3
Attachment 3
Page 7 of 9
17_ Modrni2ation nf Canal AyRtam
QkiacZixe: To modernize selected features of bulk water supply canal system
to improve the reliability and efficiency of the service, save on
present operational and seepage losses and reduce the contribution
to rising saline water table.
Aot.iv.t:   Line existing canals, construct augmentation link canal and
upgrade key control structures.
AaAnd.-Uni: Des (Rs.7cr), Con (Rs.15cr), Contr. (Rs.1558cr)
Bud=te:     Rs.1580 cr.
Dura.fto:   5 years
lB CprIsntr'ict New Mifl6rR
QbjaoIyt.e:  Increase area irrigated.
Activit.:   Determine water availability and allocation and specific project
uses under State Water Resources Plan and whether this work is
consistent with the allocation of water under the plan and fully
authorized; design, construct and place in operation new minors.
AsandJIUnit: Des (Rs.lcr), Con (Rs.19cr), Contr (Rs.200cr)
Bud=ft:     Rs.220 cr.
Durakion:   2 years (initiated after State Water Plan, if approved)
19L Construction of Hathnikund BarragA and Link Channel
Objeatlve:  Re-establish reliability and increase operational flexibility of
primary water services from Western Yamuna Canal to a major
portion of Haryana and the Delhi urban area.
Actiyvx:   Secure inter-state agreement for construction of facility to
replace existing Tajewala Barrage and channels with new barrage
and link canal and, once signed, design and construct facilities.
AsasndlrJnit: ENC (Rs.lcr), Des (Rs.40cr), Con (Rs.l5Ocr), Contr (Rs.1419cr)
A2doat :    Rs.1610 or.
OrL.wain:  3 years (commencing after inter-state agreement)
20, Moderni2ation of Water CourseA
ObjacLtlva: To reduce seepage, reduce saline groundwater rise and save water.
Acnti.v;e:   Line existing water courses.
AaundntaUnt: Des (Rs.40cr), Con (Rs.l7Ocr), Contr (Rs.159Ocr)
Bzd=g-:    Rs.1800 cr.
Duratinn:   5 years
21- Canal Rehabilitatinn
Objeatixe:  To reduce water losses and re-establish canal conveyance capacity.
AcZtiv.i:   Repair existing lining, remove silt from canals, repair structures
and reshape canal embankments.
Assnd.e ni : Des (Rs.lcr), Con (Rs.lOOcr), Contr CRs.924cr)
ELS;et:     Rs.1025 cr.
prza.tIon:   4 years



- 72 -                        Annex 3
Attachment 3
Page 8 of
22. Watercourse Rehabilitation
ObiIetl:  To reduce water losses and re-establish canal conveyance capacity.
Actvitx:   Remove silt, reshape channels and place rigid lining.
Assnd-UnitZ: Des, Con (Rs.lcr), Contr (Rs.8cr)
aud=t:      Rs.9 cr.
D-ratzin :   1.5 years
23- Drainage System Rehabilitation
Qbjeatixe:  To re-establish channel conveyance capacity and system capability
to reduce damages from inundation to crops and property.
Aciztiyi:   Channel clearance, earthwork and rehabilitate key structures.
Assne.lUniZ: Des (Rs.2cr), Con (Rs.60cr), Contr (Rs.608cr)
BlIdge":    Rs.670 cr.
Durati.on:   4 years
24-. River and Channel Rehabilitation
obtet;v: To return the erosion control and levee structures in natural and
flood channels to a condition of acceptable flood control
performance and reasonable cost-effective maintenance.
Aativity:   Design construct remedial works and repairs on channel boundaries,
groins, channel structures and levees.
A.gsnd.UnIt: Des (Rs.20cr), Con (Rs.30cr), Contr (Rs.270cr)
BlIdmt.:    Rs.320 cr
iurat±ie:   2.5 years
25- Augmentation Tubewell Rehabilitatinn
d4jective:  To return the wells to a viable state of production.
Activity:   Repair pumps, risers and associated features
Aaand-.JVait: Des (Rs.10cr), Con (Rs.2cr), Contr (Rs.28cr)
Budget:     Rs.40 cr
RurAtio-:   1 year
26. Direct Irrigation Tubewell O&M
i0lbctIly:  To operate and maintain existing DIT wells that are functioning
with an adequate submergence in the groundwater (no new wells are
to be constructed nor existing wells lowered to secure suitable
submergence).
ActyIjtd:   Operate existing DIT wells that are effectively and efficiently
operating and maintain them properly to the extent that it does
not require lowering the well or pump unit. Place in operation
and maintain those existing DIT wells that become adequately
submerged by a rise in the groundwater.
A&d.lTI.nt: WSUs (Rs.5cr)
Budgat:     Rs.5 cr.
zLratira:   5 years



- 73 -                     Annex 3
Attachment 3
Page 9 of 9
27. Resoarch on Drainagn C11notor Dnasi{
Qbjectsiv    To determine the most effective configuration of the drainage
collection scheme, identified as promising under current and
subsequent studies, to be adopted for control of high water tables
in areas underlain by saline groundwater.
Activ.tv:   Select three sites for research; design the field studies
appropriate for consideration and design, construct and monitor
performance of various tile collector configurations. This
activity would be consistent with the findings of the Northwest
Drainage Study and any subsequent studies that will define the
most promising collector schemes and configurations for testing.
Assnd-Untit: Des/res (Rs.8cr), Con (Rs.2cr), Contr (Rs.85cr)
R"d9£t:     Rs.95 cr.
Duration:   1 yr construction and 4 years monitoring
2A. Research on Sprink1Ar Trrigat4on
Qbjirctav: Identify and introduce efficient sprinkler systems for reducing
water demand for the suitable crops under irrigation in Haryana.
Act vitx    Identify lands and conditions where greatest benefits could be
derived by the use of sprinkler irrigation as opposed to current
practices; select five sites for installation of pilot studies;
conduct a literature search of information available on commercial
irrigation experience under like soils, topographic, micro-
climatic conditions and potential crops: design agrvnomic and
equipment tests to be conducted that best applies to commercial
application in the area; procure commercial equipment under
specifications; conduct studies, publish findings and
recommendations.
As.nd..Unit: Des/res (Rs.2cr) and Ministry of Agriculture, Contr (Rs.4cr)
A1doet :    Rs.6 cr.
Duzation:   4 years
292 Research on Drilp Irrigation
Objectize:  Identify and introduce efficient drip systems for reducing water
demand for the suitable crops under irrigation in Haryana.
Acti.itx:   Identify lands and conditions where greatest benefits could be
derived by the use of drip irrigation as opposed to current
practices; select five sites for the installation of pilot
studies; conduct a literature search of information available on
commercial irrigation experience under like soils, topographic,
micro-climatic conditions and potential crops; design the
agronomic and equipment tests to be conducted that best applies to
commercial application in the area; procure commercial equipment
under specifications; conduct studies and publish findings with
recommendations.
AasndJi nIt: Des/res (Rs.lcr) and Ministry of Agriculture, Contr (Rs.3cr)
Rndoak:     Rs.4 cr.
12"ratlcn:   4 years



- 74 -
Page 1 of 2
DRAP  TRMt   IMF RETMRRKWS PR CONSY   RRVS
PROGRAMMNG M@D BUtDDGTING
The Haryana Irrigation Department (BID) is introe,ucing major
irstitutional and administrative reforms. The objecti¶'e is to allow HID to
meet its charter of responsibilities in a cost effective manner. The
reforms are directed at improving its functional responsibilities and to
conducting its operations more efficiently. As part of this exercise, the
HID will adopt rigorous Programming and Budgeting (P&B) procedures that
will allow rational determination of the agency's work in keeping with its
available budget. While P&B overall will be governed by the existing
financial and accounting code of the Government of Haryana (GOH), the
adopted P&B procedures will need to be amplified and detailed to reflect
the distinct processes of defining programs and their priority, and
subsequently, tailoring the program proposals ;o the funds available. The
P&B system would be directly dependent upon development of systems f,r Cost
Accounting and Cost Allocation (CA/CA) and administration of HID budget.
The responsibility for 28S, including the preparation effort and the
ongoing tracking of unit work for compliance, will reside under the CE
Coordination as a staff function in the Engineer-in-Chief's (EIC) office.
The accounting and financial administration functions, including the CA/CA
supporting the P&B effort, will reside in the Administration Unit.
6bi4et{vA of HID AocitY
The objective of this HID activity is to formulate the policies and
procedures for instituting the process of Programming and Budgeting in HID
including the specific tasks at each level and the Program and Budget
Tracking (P&BT) for adherence with the adopted program and budget by units
at each level in HID. This will be followed by an inten3ive program of
training and scheduled transition activities to implement the process.
Scope of Conul tant Sprvyiee
The Consultant will assist HID with: (1) formulating the P&B and P&BT
process and procedures and (2) implementing the process throughout the
department. The Consultant will provide services in support of item (1) as
follows:
a.    Review existing budgeting process and procedures
b.    Prepare summary material that describes the P&B process for the
general information of the HID staff.



- 75 -
Attachment 4
Page 2 of 2
c.    Prepare a comprehensive users' manual on the P&B process (describe
each task, .esponsibilities, participants, period in the P6B cycle)
consistent with existing GOH budgetary protocol.
d.    Specify the appropriate software for use in the P&B process,
including the necessary linkages with the cost accounting, cost
allocation. MIS system and the tracking activity.
e.    Draft the necessary forms for use at every level for use in the v&B
process.
f.    Prepare a comprehensive users' manual on  P&8T (describe each task,
responsibilities, participants, reporting frequency, report detail at
each management level in the department).
g.    Specify the appropriate software for use in collection/input of data,
analysis, unscheduled retrieval of information and report
preparation.
h.   Draft the necessary forms for use at every level for reporting
information to the P&B$.
i.    Suggest the structure and staffing of the P&B office including the
P&BT activity.
J.   Develop a program and related materials for training staff in P&B and
P&BT, actions to institute P&B and P&BT and a schedule for
implementation.
Conduct of the Work
The work will involve close cooperation with other HID institutional
and administrative reform activities, particularly those concerning cost
accounting/allocation, MIS, communicationn and computer upgrade and the
Finance Department of GOH.
7!Tne and Duration of Cgn utat erices
The Consultant will comaence work March 15 and complete item (1) work
by September 1, 1994.   Participation in item (2) activities will be
determined upon completion of item (1)
Location of Work
The work will be conducted in the course of three trips to India,
coupled with drafting time in his place of residence.
Prior to the arrival of the Consultant in India, HID will assign the
officers responsible for this function and allocate ample time for close
work with the Consultant. HID will provide office space and appropriate
support services to the Consultant and arrange necessary meetings with
government agencies as needed while in India.



- 76 -
Attachment 5
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATTON PROJQCT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSUtLTTNG SERVICES
COST ACCOUNTING AND COST ALLOCATION
Pagk|rtnd
1.    The Haryana Irrigation Department (HID) is introducing major
institutional and administrative refc=-as.  The object_-e is to allow HID to
meet its charter of responsibilities in a cost effective manner. The
reforms are directed at improving its functional responsibilities and to
conducting its operations more efficiently. As part of this exercise, the
HID will adopt rigorous Programming and Budgrc-ng (P&B) procedures that
will allow rational determination of the agency's work in keeping with its
available budget. To provide information to support P&B and create the
basis for monitoring results, HID will introduce in parallel a system of
detailed Cost Accounting and Cost Allocation (CA/CA). Detailed CA/CA will
also allow a clear identification of the cost of services for use in
devising cost recovery actions. While CA/CA overall will be governed by
the existing financial and accounting code of the Government of Haryana
(GOH), the adopted procedures will need to be amplified and detailed to
reflect the distinct processes of identifying costing categories,
allocation categories and related procedures for every program activity of
HID, and in the case of services, every type, level, beneficiary and
location of service.
2.    The responsibility for CA/CA including collection and verification of
information, will reside within the Accounting and Finance Sub-unit under
the Administration Unit Chief.   The (P&B) and related Tracking efforts,
will reside under the CE Coordirnation as a staff function in the Engineer-
in-Chief's (EIC) office.
Oegctive of HTD Activity
3.    The objective of this HID activity is to formulate the policies and
procedures for instituting the rigorous system of cost accounting and cost
allocation including the specific tasks at each level and the preparation
of information and the application of the system by units at each level in
HID.
SR_o of Consultant Sarvi es
4.    The Consultant will assist HID with: (1) formulating the CA/CA
process and procedures and (2) implementing the process throughout the
department. The Consultant will provide servi-es in support of item (1) as
follows:



- 77 -
Annex I
tachrmnt S
Page 2 of 2
a.    Review the existing accounting process and procedures
b.    Prepare summary material that describes the CA/CA process for
the general information of the HID staff.
C.   Prepare a comprehensive users' manual on the CA/CA process
(describe each task, responsibilities, participants, period in
the P&B cycle) consistent with existing GOH finance and
accounting protocol.
d.    Specify the appropriate software for use in the CA/CA process,
including the necessary linkages with the P&B activity and the
MIS system.
e.    Suggest the structure and staffing of the CA/CA office.
f.    Draft the necessary forms for use at every level for use in the
CA/CA process consistent with the existing GOH financial code.
g.    Develop a program and related materials for training staff in CA/CA,
actions to institute CA/CA and a schedule for implementation.
Conduct of the Work
5.    The work will involve close cooperation with other HID institutional
and administrative reform activities, particularly those concerning
programming and budgeting, MIS, communications and computer upgrade and the
Finance Department of GOH.
Time and Duration of Consultant Services
6.    The Consultant will commence work March 15 and complete item (1) work
by September 1, 1994. Participation in item (2) activities will be
determined upoi completion of item (1)
Location of Work
7.    The work will be conducted in the course of three trips to India,
coupled with drafting time in his place of residence.
Qernment Support
8.    Prior to the arrival of the Consultant in India, HID will assign the
officers responsible for this function and allocate ample time for close
work with the Consultant. HID will provide office space and appropriate
support services to the Consultant and arrange necessary meetings with
government agencies as needed while in India.



- 78 -
Annozl
Page 1 of 2
HARYEA WATIREQ5O!Rmen CONOLATATON PROJ
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1.    Under the project, funds are provided to support the major institutional
and administrative reforms undertaken by the Haryana Irrigation Department
(HID) and proposed under the project which are described in detail in Annex 3.
The project expenditures would cover technical assistance, training and
consultancies required to transform HID into a specialized water resources
agency, and to build its specialist capacity. Staff costs for strengthening
the administration of HID would be covered by Government of Haryana (GO6).
Four main items comprise the component: (i) institutional strengthening; (Li)
planning and data collection; (iii) training; and (iv) research and
development.
A. Institutional Strengjthening
2.   Technical assistance would be provided to support:  (i) institutional
reform; (ii) administrative refor. (including -omprehensive cost accounting
and cost allocation, management information system (HIS) and project and
program tracking system, and detailed agency wide programming and budgeting);
(iii) groundwater regulation; (iv) procurement and routine administration; (v)
beneficiary participation and formation of Water User Associations (WUAs)
(funds are provided for formulation of procedures, training of HID staff and
farmers, contracts with training institutes and NG09, and study tours, both
nationally and internationally for staff and farmers); (vi) information and
communications system (funds would be provided for design and construction of
facilities, equipment installation and operation of a communications system);
(vii) and computer capacity upgrade. Attachment 1 provides a detailed
breakdown of technical assistance provided for institutional strengthening.
Investments would also include civil works for (viii) offices and housing
construction.
B. Plannina and nata Collantion
3.    The planning and data collection functions would be financed through
four program areas: Ci) agency direction and management; (ii) hydrological
data collection; (iii) State Water Plan (SWP); and (iv) project planning. A
management information system (MIS), which is described in Annex 9, would also
be introduced to support hydrological data collection, preparation and
updating of the SWP, and project planning. Investments would include
technical assistance of US$300,000, as well as specialized equipment for
discharge measurement and a groundwater laboratory.



- 79 -
Annax 4
Page 2 of 2
C. Training (TuSs2000010
4.    Under the project funds would be provided for training to orient staff
with agency policies, procedures and functions. HID would also conduct
routine training of O&M staff and support staff and arrange for specialized
training in technical areas as its activities demand, including re-training
for reassigned personnel. Funds are also provided for training staff of HID
in environmental affairs, and for staff and interested farmers in areas
related to system turnover and formation of WUAs.
D.    search and QAvelgZmet.
5.    The project funds would support:  (i) research on drainage collector
design; and (ii) research on sprinkler and drip irrigation. Investments for
research and development would include technical assistance, civil works on
drainage collectors, sprinkler and drip irrigation equipment. The drainage
research activity would be consistent with the findings of the Northwest
Drainage Study now underway and any subsequent studies that would define the
most promising collector schemes and configurations for testing. The Ministry
of Agriculture would be involved in the research related to sprinkler and drip
irrigation, and link the results with public sector research undertaken on
crops and cropping systems, irrigation management and utilization.
E. Baseline survevs
6.   Funds are provided for HID to contract a local consultant to carry out
baseline surveys. These would cover, inter alia, the following aspects:
agriculture and income data; irrigation data; water use, delivery, and
hydrological data: beneficiary participation and Water User Association (WUA)
activities; etc. The consultant would evaluate the data collected by all the
line units of HID in their regular functional activities, identify gaps in the
data, carry out additional sample surveys to cover these gaps, and consolidate
the results from the independent surveys and the existing data into baseline
studies. During implementation, the baseline data would be compared to
implementation data from updated surveys, and used for supervision, monitoring
and evaluation. Draft Terms of Reference are in Annex 16, Attachment 6.
Assurances would be sought that draft baseline surveys would be carried out by
October 1994, and submitted to IDA for its review and comments, and these
would be subsequently incorporated for a final report by January 31, 1994.



- 80 -
Annex 6
Attachment 1
INDI
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CON$OLIDATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANICE - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING ADMINISTRATION
(USD)
Total
94/5    5/6      6/7     7/8      8/9      9/00     Base
Institutional   F  30,00C  15,000
Reform           L   8,000   7,000                                       60,000
Administrative  F 180,000  50,000
Reform           L  50,000 100,000  100,00 100,00  100,00               680,000
Groundwater      F  45,000  15,000
Regulation       L                                                       60,000
Agency Computer F  30,000  10,000
Upgrade          L  60,000  60,000  40,000                              200,000
Communications  F  35,000
Systems          L  65,000                                              100,000
Project          F 130,000  70,000  60,000
Coordination    L                                                       260,000
Environmental    F  40,000
Affairs          L           20,000  10,000 10,000                       80,000
Base Line        F
Survey           L  30,000                                               30,000
Turnover         F  60,000  24,000
L  15,000  16,000  15,000                             130,000
Total            F 788,000 387,000 215,000 110,000 100,000            1,600,000
Note: F = Foreign
L = Local



- 81 -
Page 1 of 5
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
RHARTLTATTON COMPONENT
1.    Haryana Irrigation Department (HID) provides irrigation facilities to a
Culturable Command Area (CCA) of 2.88 M ha, through a 12,125 km long canal
net work, supported by the Bhakra reservoir and the river diversion works at
Tajewala. The canal system has a total number of 24,907 masonry structures.
In addition to supply of water to agriculture (8817 thousand acre feet), the
canal network also provides bulk supplies to urban and rural communities,
including to Delhi, the country's capital (604 thousand acre feet), industries
and power stations (300 thousand acre feet), and commercial users. HID also
provides drainage services to farmers and rural and urban communities
(including disposal of effluents), through a 3,800 km long drainage network;
and flood control along major rivers and drainage channels, within the state.
The canal network can be divided in two main systems: the Western Yamuna
Canal System (NYC) and the Bhakra Canal System (BC). Construction of the WYC
was initiated in the year 1850 and in 1952 for the SC. The drainage system
was constructed over a period of 36 years from 1952 to 1988.
2.    The Bank has earlier funded two irrigation projects in Haryana:  Haryana
irrigation Project and Haryana Irrigation Project II. These projects provided
support for lining parts of the canal system and water courses to conserve
water, improvement of rural roads, improve marketing facilities and water
supply to rural communities. In Haryana Irrigation II Project, in addition to
the above items, support was provided for sprinkler irrigation, research and
training and augmentation tubewells. Both the projects were successful in
meeting their primary objectives. However, due mainly to inadequate funding
for O&M, the capital assets worth billions of rupees have deteriorated,
affecting their ability to provide the designed service and equitable
supplies. Table 1 shows the demand and availability of funds for maintenance
of the canal system during the period 1988-89 to 1992-93. The greater part of
the available funds has been utilized for the fixed cost of establishment,
leaving totally inadequate financial resources for works to maintain the
system. Under the proposed Haryana WRCP, the issue of adequate provision of
funds for annual O&M, is being addressed separately.
3.    The primary objective of the rehabilitation component, therefore, is to
invest in one time repair and rehabilitation of the existing systems, both
canals and drainage, to address the problems of the backlog of deferred 06I
and bring the system back to acceptable performing standards. This would
encourage beneficiaries to pay for the cost of improved water delivery and
facilitate the turnover of system maintenance to farmers. Enhanced O&M
funding would ensure continued functioning in accordance with specifications
thereafter. Implementation responsibilities for this component rests with the
Construction Unit and the Design and Research Unit.



- 82 -
Annea-A
Page 2 of S
A..  anal Synt-am fthab1h41tat4oJ
4.    The project would finance replacement of deteriorated canal lining, silt
clearance, bank strengthening, special repairs and replacement of masonry
structures and special repairs to project buildings. The specifications for
materials, workmanship, and quality control required are described in Annex 7.
CanAl Ting
5.    The total length of main canal, branch canals, distributaries and minors
in the BCS and WYCS are shown in the following table, along with lengths of
respective canals which are lined and the area of lining. The area of lining
which has deterLorated and is proposed to be replaced under the project is
also shown in the table.
Canal SyAtem            AgregAte lenath of             Area ZrXgotM
ChannalR for rehah             to be lined
of lining
((ms)                         (M m2)
Main and
Branch Canals            144.77                         0.195
Distributaries          279.69                          0.233
MinDr                    32L7-s0                       QL2Qfi
T!otaJ ;l 7t75A - 960-3
Main and
Branch Canals           220.01                          0.343
Distributaries           364.83                         0.175
Minora                                                 L29fl04.05
oTaUl- Wet               l88 89                         0-748
arand ta                2 1 40-                         15L32
6.    Identification of the canal, its reach and the quantity of lining
proposed to be rehabilitated during each year of the project period has been
done. System wise abstract is given in Table 2.
Bank StrangthanInSt And Slt~ Clan.
7.    Over the years inadequate annual maintenance of the canal section of the
unlined reaches has resulted in collapse of the designed bank slopes and
excessive silting of canals. The canals in a total length of 2317 Km
involving 12.64 Mm3 earth work is proposed to be strengthened to the original
designed section and desilted, under the project. Reaches requiring this work
in different canals have been identified and reach wise quantities computed.
Table 3 gives the year wise program of implementation of these itema.



- 83 -
Annax lr
Page 3 of 5
Replacement and Rehabilitation of Masonry Structures
8.    The SAR of the Haryana II Project had recognized that 'many existing
control structures were designed to outdated standards which do not enable the
degree of water regulation required in the systems for efficient and timely
distribution and delivery of irrigation supplies; in addition, some structures
are in poor operating condition and have reached the end of their useful life'
(para 3.08 of SAR - January 1983).  There have been considerable shortfalls in
attending to the structures during the implementation of the Haryana 1I
Project. The WRCP therefore lays stress on adequate attention to replacement
and rehabilitation of structures.  Replacement of 301 n  'ry structures  and
special repairs to 5697 structures; of different categoro.es, including the
control structures, head and cross regulators, (including their gates and
gears) , bridges, falls, cross drainage works, escapes, ghats, outlets, tail
clusters etc. is planned under the project. Table 4 gives the year-wise
schedule of work of the identified structures, on different canals.
9.    The rehabilitation program of structures includes replacement of two
important structures i.e. Pathrala Dam at Dadupur and Ottu Weir. HID will
finalize the designs of these structures on priority, as these two structures
are likely to cost about 25% of the total cost of structures rehabilitation.
10. operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the canal system (excluding lift
canals) is at present managed by 7 circles supported by 24 divisions. It is
anticipated that these circles will handle the work of canal rehabilitation
along with the work of annual O&M. The project would provide the necessary
logistic support of touring vehicles to enable efficient supervision of
rehabilitation works. Works are proposed to be executed through contracts as
per the World Bank procurement procedures.
B.. Drainage SyAt-am Reabtation
11. A 3,800 Km long drainage network has been constructed in Haryana during
the period 1952 to 1988 for storm water disposal. Inadequate availability for
maintenance works of the drainage system has deteriorated the carrying
capacity of drains, resulting in submergence of fields in many places for more
than the optimum period causing agricultural losses. The project will support
one time rehabilitation of the earthen section of the drains, wherever choked,
to the original design section in some 60% of the system. The project will
also support rehabilitation/replacement of 405 masonry structures across the
drains, including 65 cross drainage works, 63 water course crossings, 5 head
regulators, 23 drop structures and 249 bridges of various categories from
District road bridge to field path crossing. The work under this component is
proposed to be executed as per the annual schedule given in Table 5 (page 148
of Plan of Operation and Maintenance, HID). Five existing drainage circles
would supervise this work in addition to the annual maintenance. HID will
ensure that the locations where work of resectioning the drains under the
rehabilitation program are kept distinct from similar activities under normal
annual maintenance, for which HID is also proposing to constderably enhancoe
the allocation of funds.



- 84 -
Annex- Si
Page 4 of 5
C. Rehabilitation of Water CourR-Ro
12    The canal command area has some 13,000 water courses of length about
60,000 Km. Work of lining the water courses was taken up through the Haryana
Minor Irrigation and Tubewell Corporation (HSMITC) from the year 1973. From
the year 1988, Command Area Development Authority (CADA) is also executing
work of lining water courses. Some 24,000 water courses have been lined. In
addition, work of lining 600 water courses is in hand with HSMITC under the
World Bank assisted National Water Management Project (NWMP).
13.   Field surveys by HSMITC indicate that water courses mostly lined during
the period 1973-78 are not running at the desired efficiency due to damages to
parts of lining and to masonry structures across the water courses. Damages
occur mostly due to tampering by farmers, weed growth, cattle menace, rainy
season erosion, and unauthorized outlets. Damages are mostly concentrated near
the outlets. In some cases, due to lining of parent channels, bed levels of
water courses in the initial reaches are required to be raised to provide
gravity irrigation to higher level lands which are at present irrigated by
putting in siphons in the canals. The project will support rehabilitation of
195 identified water courses in a length of 425 Km involving replacement of an
aggregate 66 Km length of damaged lining, adopting the specifications
currently being used for lining of water courses: and repairs to the damaged
masonry structures like drops, road crossings, culverts and outlets.
14.   Five circles, supported by 16 divisions, under the HSMITC,  are
currently engaged in lining and maintenance of water courses. As a part of
the institutional reforms under the WRCP, the work of water courses, including
rehabilitation, is proposed to be merged with the HID. Eighty-five Kms of
water courses are planned to be rehabilitated annually during the first five
years of the project period.  At negotiations, agreements were reached that
HID shall select water courses for rehabilitation only after benefi-ciaries
served by the water course have been organized into Water User Associations.
12- .B  kilitatinn of AuGmentation Tubhe-.Pa
15.   A total of 1724 Augmentation Tubewells (ATW) were installed in Haryana
over the years up to 1983, some 290 of which were under Haryana I and Haryana
II projects.  Each A.W was expected to have a capacity of 1.5 to 4.5 cusecs,
to supplement the flow in gravity canals. Currently only 666 ATWs are
operational. The project would support making some 700 selected ATWs
operational, involving rehabilitation of carrier channels, replacement and
special repairs to pump sets and control panels. An ATW for being eligible to
receive funds from WRCP for rehabilitation shall satisfy the following
criteria: (i) water table of the aquifer supporting the ATW is not
progressively depleting, and availability of groundwater to support the
service area is confirmed by the State Water Plan; (ii) water available is
tested and certified of a quality fit for irrigation; (iii) ATW's operation is
not constrained by power availability; (iv) rehabilitation of the ATW is
technically and economically viable; and (v) ATW is supplementing the supplies
of continuously running channels.



- 85 -
Annoix5
Page 5 of 5
E.  Rehabilitation of Direct Trrigatin Tubewells
16.   Over the periods 1955-60 and 1969 - 71, about 616 Direct Irrigation
Tubewells (DITs) were installed in Haryana in the public sector; later another
930 tubewells were installed through the HSMITC during 1972-82, making a total
of 1546. These DITs are 100 to 150 meters deep with a yield of about 1.25
cusecs and were mostly installed in areas which did not have alternative
sources of irrigation. GOH proposes to continue maintaining 720 DITs, out of
the total 1546; the remaining are either already abandoned or proposed to be
closed down due to technical faults and low demand, as private tubewells have
come up in such areas. GOH proposes to divest itself ultimately from the
responsibility of operating and maintaining the DITs either through turning
over O&M to beneficiaries, sale of wells or through attrition. It is
recognized that sudden cessation of services, would not be possible and that
some of the tubewells need to be rehabilitated to restore eesign discharge.
The project will support rehabilitation of DITs on selective basis, in the
context of a rapid (three year) program of privatization or closure.
17.   Out of 720 DITs proposed to be maintained, a DIT for being eligible to
receive funds from WRCP for rehabilitation shall satisfy the following
criteria: (i) the DIT commands land which does not have any alternative
source of irrigation, whether Government or private; (ii) water available is
tested and certified of a quality fit for irrigation; (iii) water table of the
aquifer supporting the DIT is not progressively depleting, and availability of
groundwater to support the service area is confirmed by the State Water Plan;
(iv) DIT commands land belonging to such cultivators, majority of whom are
small to marginal farmers (average holding less than 1 ha); (v) DIT is located
in a difficult terrain where special drilling equipmen- would be required to
provide alternative private tubewell to serve the area, which would normally
not be within the reach of marginal and small farmers; (vi) DIT, having a
rated life of 30 years, is not more than 25 years old; (vii) estimated cost of
rehabilitation of the DIT, including redrilling, redevelopment, repairs to
electro mechanical equipment, pipeline and water course, is not more than Rs.
30,000 (1994 price level); (viii) rehabilitation of the DIT is technically and
economically viable; and (ix) prior to rehabilitation, HID will have reached
agreement with interested parties to turnover the O&M responsibility, or
ownership, of the DIT immediately after completion of works.
F-  Rehabilitatinn of River control Works
18.   River control works for flood protection and river training constructed
so far consist of 627 Km of river embankments, 990 spurs, 40 Km of bank
pitching and 38 ring bunds. The project will support rehabilitation of
embankments (involving some 0.86 M cum earthwork), and 465 spurs, in the
reaches identified by HID.



-86 -                          x    s
Table 1
Hantana Water Resourcea CorXsolWdation Proiect
Rehabilitation Component
Availability of Funds for Maintenance of Canal System - Historical
Rs.M
S. No.    Year    Buget Allocation                 Actual Expenditure
Establishment       Works       Estsblishment       Works
1     1988-89       123.887          59.595         141.316          74.026
2     1989-90       144.873          40.682         176.021          56.513
3     1990-91       166.538          36.989         191.806          79.238
4     1991-92       192.081          54.949         205.689          102.673
5     1992-93       206.631          58.397         190.321          64.337
Average of five years  ____                             181.03          75.357
Notes: Average annual expenditure during the last 5 years has been:
a. On establishment Rs. 181.03 M; corresponds to Rs. 74.31 per Ha of CCA.
b. On works Rs. 75.357 M; corresponds to Rs. 30.93 per Ha of CCA



Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project
Rehabilitation Component
Annual Program of Canal Lining
m sqm
S.No   Canal System   1994-95  1995-96  1996-97   1997-98  1998-99   1999-2000 Total
1   W.Y.C.
a Main and Branch   0.0843    0.1179    0.0646    0.056    0.0205      .   0.3433
Canals
b Distributaries  0.053    0.0424    0.0198   0.0278    0.0284    0.0033   0.1747
c Minors         0.0533    0.0921    0.0315   0.0234    0.0228    0.0067   0.2298
00
Total           0.1906    0.2524    0.1159   0.1072    0.0717     0.010   0.7478
2   B.C
a Main and Branch   0.0737    0.0411   0.0266   0.0182   0.018    0.0169   0.1945
Canals
b Distributaries  0.0593   0.0481    0.0396   0.0293    0.0271     0.030   0.2334
c Minors         0.0308   0.0256    0.0355   0.0380      0.371    0.0388   0.2058
Total           0.1638    0.1148    0.1017   0.0855    0.0822    0.0857   0.6337
Grand Total     0.3544    0.3672    0.2176    0.1927    0.1539   0.0957   1.3815



- 88 -                           ACAOX..A
Table 3
Harvana Water Resources Consclidation Project
Rehabilitation Comwonent
Annual Procram of Bank Strengthening
Mcum
SNo. Canal System            1994    1995   1996    1997   1998   1 999    Total
-95     -96    -97      -98    -99  -2000
A.  MLY_
a   Main and Branch Canal    1.026    0.846   0.473   0.364    0.35 -       3.059
b   Distribitaries        0.303    0.315   0.256   0.166   0.114 -          1.154
c   Minors                0.333   0.404   0.318   0.289   0.274 -           1.618
Total W.Y.C.          1.662    1.565   1.047   0.819   0.738 -         5.83 l
B   BjC_
a   Main and Branch Canal    0.150   0.116    0.11   0.085   0.092   0.075   0.628
b   Distributaries        0.250   0.269   0.261   0.259   0.257   0.259   1.555
c   Minors                0.129    0.158   0.163   0.158   0.144   0.155   0.907
Total B.C.            0.529   0.543   0.534   0.502   0.493   0.489    3.09
Grand Total           2.191    2.108   1.581   1.321   1.231   0.489   8.921



-89-
table 4
Harvana Water Resources Consolidation Proiect
Rehabilitaton Component
Annual Program of Rehabilitation of Masonry Structures  Numb=
S.No. Category of   Canal System
Structures             1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-2000 Total
1. Head Regulator   W.Y.C.   22      34       76      59      28        1 6    235
B.C.     46       57      34      22       18        15     192
T       68       91      110   - 81       46       31      427
2. Cross Regulator  W.Y.C.    -       2       2                .         .      4
B.C.     10       11       3        .       .        .      24
T        10      13       5        .       .         .      28
3. Bridges        W.Y.C.     96      121      82      62      56        32     449
B.C.     146     120      106     68       68       52      560
T       242     241      188     130      124      84      1009
4. Falls          W.Y.C.     5        5       4        1                         s 15
B.C.     18       23       9       7       7         2      66
T       23       28      13       8       7         2       81
5. C.D. Works     W.Y.C.     5        6       3       2        2         .      18
B.C.     27       2        -       .        .        .      29
T       32        8       3       2       2          -      471
6. Escapes        W.Y.C.     2        2       2        1       12               8
B.C.      .        1       .        .       .                1
T        2       3        2       1       1         .       9
7. Ghats          W.Y.C.    209      230     111      89      95        45     779
B.C.     152     126      119     119     110       81      707
T       361     356      230     208     205       126    1486!
8. Outlets        W.Y.C.    432      454     374     373      158      116    19C7
B.C.     97      171      180     191     189       160    988
___________     T        529     625      554     564     347       276    2895



Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project
Behablitation Com_onent
Anmnal Program for Drainage Rehabilitation Works
S.No. Activity         Units         1994-95   1995-96   1996-97  1997-98   1998-99   1999-2000 Total
1. Internl Clearance    Thousand cu.m    357     438       45        4568      458        118         22?9
2. Cross Drainages    Nos.             38        51        49        47         43         12         240
3. Regulators         Nos.              3         3         2         1         1          1           11
4. Bridges            Nos.             88        92        88        83         76         20         427
5. Outfalls           Nos.              6         8         7         4         4          4           33
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



- 91 -
INDIA                                               Table 6
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT (WRCP)
Statement of Civl Works Requirement
REHABILITATION
River Control Works
Unit                   Quantiy                           Total
_____________________________       a94195   9519    9   7   97198    98/99   99100
CIVIL WORKS
Repair to Embankments     No.       12.17   16.9&.  18.85   20.05   22.63    9.49  100.11
Studs/Spurs/Pitching      No.        5.93    7.88    8.68    9.55   10.49    2.73   '5.26
REHABILITATION
Rehabilitation of Watercourses
Unit                   Quantffy                          Total
94/95   95196    9/7   97/98   9899   99/00
CIVIL WORKS
Uning                     km           85      85       85      85      85              425
Earth Work                km           85      85       85      85      85              425
Nakkas & Culverts         km           85      85       85      85      85              425
Dismantelling of old WC   No.          85      85       85      85      85              425
REHABILTATION
Rehabilitation of Augmention Tubewells
Unit                   Quantity                          Total
__ _ __ _ _ __ _   94195  95/9  96/97  97/98  9899  99/00
CIVIL WORKS
Canier Channel Repair      100 krn     50      50                                       100
0
EQUIPMENT                                                                                  0
Pumping Sets Replacement    No.       120     120                                       240
Control Panels Replacernent   No.     100     100                                       200
Compressor Replatement    No.           1        1                                        2



- 92 -
Anax
Page 1 of 4
HARYANA WATE  RRESOt1RCRS CON OLIDATION PROJECT
MODERqTZAfTON  COMPONENT
1.    Haryana Irrigation Department (HID) provides irrigation facilities,
through a 12,125 km long canal net work, supported by the Bhakra reservoir
and the river diversion works at Tajewala. In addition to supply of water to
agriculture, the canal network also provides bulk supplies to urban and rural
communities, including to Delhi,, industries and power stations. HID also
provides drainage services to farmers and rural and urban communities
(including disposal of effluents), through a 3,800 ka long drainage network;
and flood control along major rivers and drainages, within the state.
2.    The main objective of the modernization component is to upgrade the
existing assets of HID.  ModerAization of facilities can lead to substantial
water savings, and to better control of water delivery. Improved regulation
of water flows allow flexibility in crop choice and options, and encourages
the adoption of modern farming systems. Haryana has assessed its water need
for agriculture alone as 34 million acre feet (42 bm;3) against the water
availability of about 17 million acre feec (21 bn3); need to conserve water is
therefore paramount. The modernization of the system would also lead to
increased efficiencies in cost recovery, while for items such as water
courses, this would provide incentives to farmers to take over maintenance
responsibilities. To help achieve these objectives, the project will provide
investments in modernizing identified components of existing canal system;
construction of a link channel for improving supplies to some distributaries
in the tail areas of WYC; replacement of Tajewala Headworks with a new barrage
at Hathnikund; and lining of water courses. Implementation responsibilities
for this component rests with the Construction Unit and the Design and
Research Unit.
A. Modernization of Canal SyAtem
3.    The project will continue supporting the modernization of canal system
taken up under Haryana I and II projects, adopting a selective approach
(taking into account the nature of soil characteristics of the tract through
which the canal network traverses, as also the composition of canal banks) in
view of the sharp rise in sub-soil water level, and the effect of salinity in
lands in central Haryana. Sixty-three channels in different areas have been
identified for modernization under the project, and the work would include the
following items:
(i)   Brick Lining of 63 identified channels, out of which 25 are in WYC
and 38 in Bhakra Canal systems. Altogether 1389 km of canals have
been identified under the lining program. A total area of 7.4
million m2 would be lined under the project.  Table I shows the
names of the identified channels, their length and area proposed
to be lined.



- 93 -
Ang 6
Page 2 of 4
(ii) Lining would result in modification of hydraulic parameters of the
canal section and would need corresponding modifications in the
connected masonry structures i.e. falls, regulators, bridges,
flumes, cattle ghats and outlets.
The project would support modifications, remodelling, and strengthening (where
necessary) of 449 structures, 243 bridges and 553 outlets which have been
identified. Table 2 shows the number of structures of various types, and
falling under different circles, proposed to be remodelled/strengthened as a
part of modernization.
4.    The modernization of the canal system would generate water savings of
about 312 million m3 per annum.  Of these, about 67% would be saved in the
Bhakra command and about 37% in the WYC command. This water saving would be
available to improve and extend irrigation, in particular at the tail ends of
the system. The estimates of water savings are based on experiments conducted
by HID to assess seepage losses in lined and unlined ch:.nnels. Seepage losses
in unlined channels vary from 7 to 8.5 cusecs per million ft2 of wetted
perimeter. The corresponding figure for lined system is 1.6 to 3.2 cusecs per
million ft2. Based on these empirical results HID estimates that 8 and 2
cusecs per million ft2 are seepage losses from unlined and lined canals
respectively. Water savings from reducing seepage losses by lining canals
would therefore equal 6 cusecs per million ft2 of wetted perimeter or, in
total, 525 cusecs annually. Assuming that there are 278 full supply days for
irrigation in the Bhakra command and 200 full supply days in the WYC command,
about 196 million m3 of water would be saved in Bhakra and 116 million m3 in
the NYC command annually.
R. Link Channel from Augmentation Canal in NYC
5.    In meeting the demand of water for four distributaries of Main Branch of
NYC (Kheri, Budhakhera, Old Nardak and Karnal) during the lean season of about
8 months, the Main Branch of WYC having a designed head discharge capacity of
9,100 cusecs, must be operated to deliver a relatively low discharge of about
247 cusecs required by these distributaries, thus resulting in huge losses.
An earlier effort to feed these channels through a tubewell channel has failed
due to non-running of the tubewells because of acute power shortage. In order
to meet the requirement of these distributaries and simultaneously to conserve
the disproportionately high seepage loss in the current practice, it is now
proposed to deliver these supplies through the existing augmentation channel,
and providing a link channel to connect the system, along with remodelling the
related tube well channels and other channels suitably. In addition a number
of masonry structures would need to be remodelled and a few new structures
constructed. Table 3 lists out the works to be executed under this component.
The project will support the proposed activities, which are assessed to result
in an annual water saving of 276 cusecs annually. Assuming that the feeder
canal would be run for 72 days per year, in total 48 million m3 would be
available to extend irrigation in the Western Yamuna Canal Command. The
component would be completed during the first three years of the project.



- 94 -
hnnm&6
Page 3 of 4
C. Hatbnikund Barrage
6.    Yamuna Canal System receives water of Yamuna by diversion at Tajewala
Headwork, which diverts up to 16,000 cusecs water of Yamuna river in to the
WYC.  Tajewala Headwork is over 120 ye^-s old and needs replacement.  The NYC
serves about 66% of the state's irrigatod area. Supplies to Eastern Yamuna
Canal (EYC) of Uttar Pradesh are also delivered at Tajewala headwork. The
original head of EYC was washed away in 1924 and supply to EYC are now
affected through an auxiliary arrangement which does not function efficiently.
7.    The project will support construction of a new Barrage across the Yamuna
river at Hathnikund, about 3 Km upstream of Tajewala Headwork, at an estimated
cost of US$51.2 million, to replace the Tajewala Headwork The Barrage wilL
partly lie in Haryana territory and partly in the territory of Uttar Pradesh.
The new barrage at Hathnikund is to be linked to the NYC through link channels
proposed to be constructed on Haryana territory.
8.    Distribution of water between Haryana and the erstwhile Punjab (Haryana
being the successor state so far as Tajewala is concerned) is governed by an
interstate agreement of March 12, 1954, binding for a period of 50 years.
Proposals to replace the Tajewala Headwork have been under conzideration since
1972, when the decision to construct a new barrage, instead of the proposal of
strengthening the existing, was taken. An expert committee was appointed by
GOI on February 6, 1982 to examine various alternative sites for the new
barrage suggested by Haryana and UP. The Expert Committee, after detailed
examination of various alternatives, and after model studies, furnished its
recommendations to GOI on January 19, 1983. The committee recommended cons-
truction of the new barrage at Hathnikund site and recommended the parameters
and principal levels for the barrage. The interstate agreement is to be
concluded before execution of the work. Preliminary works have been started.
9.    The barrage would be constructed about 3 Km upstream of Tajewala
Headwork. The barrage will have ten spillway bays of 18 meters each, 8 under
sluice bays of 18 meters each, with overall waterway of 363.8 meters to pass
100 year flood of 28,000 cum per second. The crest level of the weir is
proposed to be 8 meters above the cistern level in the spillway portion.
Proposals framed by GOH are based on the expert committee's recommendations.
The estimates are based on the tentative design based on these reco en-
dations. Detailed designs will be taken up on priority to fix contract for
construction as early as possible.
D. Lining of Water Courses
10.   The canal command area has some 13,000 water courses of about 60,000
length km of which 4920 will be lined by March 31, 1994. Work of lining the
water courses was taken up through the Haryana Minor Irrigation and Tubewell
corporation (HSMITC) from the year 1973. From the year 1988, Command Area
Development Authority (CADA) is also executing work of lining water courses.
In addition, HSMITC receives financial support from the World Bank assisted
National Water Management Project, scheduled to close in June 1994.



- 95 -
hnnox 6
Page 4 of 4
11.   WRCP would support lining of additional 1500 water courses, 550 in WYC
and 950 in BC, of a total length of 6858 Km ( 2510 Km in WYC and 4240 in BC),
along with provision of outlets and culverts, and buildings for supe.rvision
staff, and touring vehicles and other equipment. Some 1150 Km length of water
courses is planned to be modernized annually during the project period. The
main benefit of lining watercourses is the reduction of seepage losses and
provision of irrigation. Additional benefits stem from improving the
distribution of water within the watercourse which prevents waterlogging and
salinity caused by excessive water use at the head-end. Lining would generate
water savings of 307 million m3 per annum. Of these about 78% would be saved
in the Bhakra command and about 27% in the WYC command. The estimates of
water savings are equally based on experiments undertaken by HID. Seepage
losses are high in unlined watercourses and vary from 15-29% in normal soil to
30-40% in sandy soils. In well maintained lined watercourses seepage losses
are reduced to 2 to 5%. According to the soil conditions on average water
saved by lining has been assessed as 25% and 12% in Bhakra and WYC
respectively. Assuming there are 278 full supply days for irrigation in
Bhakra and 200 full supply days in WYC, about 239 million m3 would be saved in
Bhakra and 67 million m3 in WYC annually.
E. Construction of New Minors
12.   The project would support construction/extension of minors in 40
locations spread out in the command of two canal systems to bring additional
area of 19,910 ha under command. Even though Haryana has a fairly well
developed system of canal irrigation, there are some po-kets of areas where
irrigation intensity is low because the canal and watercourse system is
inadequate.  The project would therefore reduce the length of selt-ted
watercourses as well as reduce the size of a chack to ensure a mor. equitable
distribution of irrigation water. Implementation of this component will
however depend on determining availability of water for the additional command
as a result of the State Water Plan.



- 96 -
Hearvana- Water Resources Consolidationl Prolec
Page 1 of 2
New Works (Modernization)
Modemization of Canal S&stem
S. No.        Name of Canal            Length of          Area proposed for
Canal in Km        lining Lakh sqft
1                2                      3                      4
A     Bhakra Canal
1.  Kaithal Distributaiy               15.98                  14.5
2.  Saraswati Distributary             28.96         .         41
3.  Shudkan Distributary               46.33                   2
4.  Dhamtan Sub Branch                 26.43                  0.3
5.  Sirsa Branch                       4.78                   6.00
RD 189980-2C5646
6.  Sirsa Branch                       4.21                  13.60
RD 328200-342000
7.  Pabra Distributary                 40.37                 1 F.52
8.  Barwala Branch                     42.55                 93.34
9.  Pabra Sub Branch
10. Balsanand Sub Branch (Raising)     21.01                   1 .2
11. Smrbara Distributary               16.61                  4.60
12. Udaypur Minor                       8.40
13. Lakbarwali Minor                    8.40                  1.38
14. Kewal Distributary                 11.08                  1.62
15. Phag; i Distributary                8.17                  2.25
16. Bani Distributary                  38.48                  0.23
17. Rod Branch                         33.38                  12.3
18. Ratia Sub Brabch                   20.20                  24.00
19. Gudha Distributary                 23.78                  0.10
20. Mammen Khera Distributary          61.98                  6.55
21. Baruwali Distributary              27.13                  15.10
22. Jandwal Distributary               17.01                  27.47
23. Kaluwan Distributary               55.10                  19.83
24. Sukhchain Distributary             46.10                  55.20
25. Ottu Feeder                        32.05                  54.00
26. Rattangarh Distributary            24.97                  1.66
27. Badalgarh Distributary             24.84                  0.75
28. Mallekan Minor                      3.01                  1.91
29. Mangala Sub Minor                   5.49                  0.81
30. Rania Minor                         7.71                   2.7



Aunnex 6
97 -                               221L
Page 2 of 2
S. No.       Name of Canal           Length of          Area proposed for
Canal in Km        lining Lakh sqft
1               2                      3                    4
31  Kishanpura Minor                  5.33                  1.26
32  Amritsar Minor                    4.57                  1.75
33  Surera Minor                      3.06                  1.00
34  Chuchal Minor                     3.71                  1.48
35  Ellenabad Distributary            16.62                10.12
36  Salarpur Minor                    2.44                  0.61
37  Wami Minor                        2.29                  0.39
38  Nakor Minor                       2.90                  0.61
B     W.Y.
39  Markanda Distributary             1.488                 4.00
40  Sirsa Branch                     304.80                50.00
41  Morkhi Minor                      11.80                 4.52
42  Butana Branch                     2.68                  3.40
83200-89000
43  Hansi Branch                      54.35                66.03
60000-238326
44  Zahidpur Minor                    14.02                 1.5
45  Kasni Minor                       11.06                 0.75
46  Jhaggar Sub Minor                45.08                 75.70
47  Jhajjar Distributary              5.25                  4.46
(0-17200)
48  Rampur Minor                      8.00                  4.95
49  Salhawas LiP Channel              11.76                 9.91
(16000-54595)
50  Subana Minor                      4.51                  1.20
51  Rewari Khera Minor                8.99                  1.45
52  Jui Feeder                        17.68                30.25
(88000-146000)
53  Kheri kalan Minor                 10.82                 6.79
54  Mujheri Sub Minor                 2.22                  1.07
55  Faridpur Sub Minor                2.13                  0.93
56  Rampur Distributary              30.55                 21.75
57  Bullabgarh Distributary           10.11                5.09
58  Sikri Distributary                8.15                 4.15
59  Harphala Minor                    1.52                  0.66
60  Sikrana Distributary              2.59                  1.20
61  Marchandpur Distributary          17.07                14.20
62  Nekpur Minor                      4.95                 2.51
63  Fatehpur Minor                    5.49                 2.50
Total                                                 762.05
Add 5% for contigent areas                            38.10
Total                                    .            800.15



-98 -                         Annoy 
Table 2
Haramna Water Resources Consolidation Proigct
New Works
Modemizadon of Canal Svtem
Satement of Masonry Works Requ ring
EReplacement1Modificatign/Strengtheninlg
S.No    Name of Circle    Outlets Catth Meotr  Regulators Falls  V.R.   D.R.   Railway
-  ________________   -    TGhats Flumes                     Bridges Bridges Bridges
1. Canal Lining Circle   213   202    2        1 7     1 6    61     1 3
No. 1, Sirse
2. Canal Lining Circle    8     1 6            1 1            26 6
No. 2, Hissar
3. Canal Lining Circle    62    2 8             7       1     23      2
No. 3, Kaithal
4. Canal Liniing Circle    .     -                      .      .
No. 5, Kamal
5. Canal Lining Circle   210   89       .       3              1     84       1
No. 6, Rohtak
6. W.J.C. Feeder Circle   60    55              3             32
Delhi                        _
Total  553   389    2        41      17    143    100      1



- 99 -
.naa
Table 3
Link Channel '-rom AugmMntIto Can,al in WYC.
Annual Proam of Work
S.No.   Item      Unit           Program
1994-95  1995-96  1996-97 1997.98 1998-99 1999-2000 Total
1. Earth work    Mm3      0.16     0.24     0.08        -                   . 0.48
2. Lining       M.sqm        .      0.16     0.08       .        .. 0 .24
3. New masonry  Nos.                 1 0      15        .                        2 5
structures
4. Remodelling of Nos.                6       1 2       .        .          .   20
masonry
structures



- 100 -
MnaU*
INDIA                                              Table 4
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT (WRCP)
Sttement of Civil Works Requirement
MODERNIZATION
Construction of Minors
Unit                         Quantity                                      Total
94195      95         96197      97/198      1         9900
CIVIL WORKS
Pump house       No.                        2           7                                           9
T.il cluster     No.                        6          17                                          23
Ouitets          No.                       20         87                                          107
Syphon           No.             3          2         10                                           15
Ghats            No.           0.16          1         3                                         4.16
WC crossing      No.                        6          11                                          17
Regulator        No.             5          7         28                                          40
Falls            No.                        3          4                                            7
Drainage         No.            0.5        0.5                                                      1
Bridges          No.            14         14        103                                         131
Building                       0.15       0.12       0.12                                        0.39
Earth work       MmA3        0.486       1.042     0.872                                          2.4
Uning            Mm^2                   0.021      0.284                                        0.305
MODERNIZATION
Modermisation of Watercourses
Unit                         Quantity                                      Total
94/95      95/96      967        979        98/99      99/00
CML WORKS
Uning            kmn          1135       1135       1146       1146       1146       1150       6858
EarthWork       kin           1135       1135       1146       1146       1146       1150       6858
Nakkas & Cuivert Ikn          1135       1135       1146       1146       1146       1150       6858
Field Hostes I    No.            2          2          2          2          2                     10
Field Hostels II    No.          5          5          5          5                               20
Staff Cuarters Ill   No.        10         10         10         10         10                    50
Staff Quarters IV   No.         10         10         10         10                               40



- 101 -
AnAz4
Page 1 of 4
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES C=SOLTATION PROJECT
TECHNICAIT SPEIFICATTONS FOR  PARILLTATTON. N1ATNTfMANCR. _ESItN.
CONSTRUCTION A1bj WAERMAAGMNT PBOCEflTRE
1.    The present water supply rates for the agriculture, public health, power
generation industrial, etc. users in Haryana are very low. There is no charge
on the rural and urban beneficiaries for the drainage and flood protection
services provided by HID. Due to the inadequacy or the non-levy of the
service charges, the preventive and the special maintenance of the facilities
have deteriorated and the water related service systems are functioning on low
efficiencies. Additional funds are required not only for their proper
operation and maintenance (O&M) but also for the rehabilitation of the works
damaged by the de2erred maintenance. This Annex discusses the technical
specifications, criteria and practices for survey, investigations, repairs,
for rehabilitation, maintenance, design, construction and water management
procedures, in support of the Rehabilitation and Modernization component:
under the project.
2.    The O&M Study conducted for the preparation of the Water Resources
Consolidation Project (WRCP) has brought to light some major deficiencies
inhibiting the performance of the State's canal water systems to match the
designed or defined objectives of the services. The main deficiencies are:
canals
reduced carrying capacities of some lined or unlined main, branch,
distributary and minor canals due to inadequate bank section or
piping, siltation, damaged lining or weed growth.
damaged outlets, tail clusters and the shortage at the tails
..nefficient water management/control works which cause significant
operational losses (Budhera Complex, etc.).
decades old structures which require rehabilitation, replacement
or modernization (Pathrala Dam, Level Crossing, Meter Majra
Regulation -all on Hansi Branch, Ottu Weir, damaged WYC head
regulator at Tajewala, etc.), submerged bridges or the bridges
"posted" for load limits and speed in the interest of safety.
corroded check gates, rusted hoists and regulation bridges (Munak,
etc.).
insufficient flow measuring sites on the main and branch canals.



- 102 -
Ana1
Page 2 of 4
infrequent monitoring of the fluctuatio)ns in the system flows and
slow communication of water gauge data from the tails of the
channels.
-     Lack of adequate preventive maintenance of lined watercourse.
-     need to rehabilitate or remodel reaches of the watercourses to
match the hydrological improvements in the design of the parent
channels (minor or distributary) which have been lined subsequent
to the lining of the watercourse.
-     submerged road crossings.
-     unlined water courses crossing intervening local depression on
high ground (tibhas) which are difficult to manage by the
irrigators, particularly the tail enders.
Rurface dSains
-     choking of the cut sections of the drains due to the siltation or
the garbage deposits from the sewers of adjoining towns.
-     inadequate waterway of drainage crossings constructed decades ago.
Public Tubewells
-     irregular and inadequate power supply.
-     lack of diagnostic determination of the defects An the
augmentation tubewells to be rehabilitated.
-     criteria for abandonin- permanently sick tubewells.
3.    The growing rural and urban population (total increa-e from 12.8 to 16.5
M during 1981-91) and the developing power generation and industry needs are
adding to the requirements ,f good quality water for the essential services in
the State. The available surface waters from the Bhakra and Yamuna rivers
have already been allocated; long-term yearly recharge of good quality
groundwater available mainly in one-third of the state's area has been mostly
exploited. Additional requirements of good quality water for essential
services may have to be diverted from the present irrigated agricultural
usages unless water services start operating efficiently and water
conservation measures or works undertaken on the canal systems improved to
meet part of the additional water requirements.
4.    HID has now been assigned the primary responsibility of managing the
State's water resources. The supplies for the essential water related



- 103 -
AnneAx7
Page 3 of 4
services particularly in the south-western parts of the State where quality of
the ground water is saline are provided by the Department from the canal
system. GOH proposes to increase the water service charges progressively
during the six years of the WRCP implementation period. The increase would be
about 2 and 25 times the present rates of the supply for irrigation and
industry respectively.  This increase in rates has been necessitated to meet
Canal Systems needs and its operation to render the service as designed. GOR
also proposes to implement a policy of recovering the cost of providing water
supply (agriculture, public health, power generation, industries, etc.),
drainage and flood control services from beneficiaries, except in the drought
affected areas in the south where the irrigation and rural water supply
services are pumped from the gravity canals.
5.    To provide water services at higher rates, HID has to ensure that the
O&M of the water systems is improved, enabling the provision of upgraded
services compared to the present levels of performance. Main work components
provided in the WRCP to achieve this objective are:
rehabilitation (or replacement) of the existing canal (gravity
commands) and drainage systems, river control works, lined
watercourses and augmentation and direct irrigation tubewells.
-     support for improved annual O&M of the canals, drainage systems,
river control structures and augmentation tubewells.
6.    Water conservation works to be implemented for the equitable
distribution of the supplies comprise: modernization of canals and water
courses; Feeding Kheri, Budha Kher, etc. distributaries from augmentation
canal; construction or extension of minors for equitable water distribution;
construction of Hathnikund Barrage and link channels. The construction of an
earthen dam in Kandi area and the reclamation of waterlogged area by sub-
surface drainage, etc. is also proposed under Research and Training Component
of WRCP.
7.    The glossary of terms used in investigations, planning, design and
construction of project works would be those published by Bureau of Indian
Standards (BIS) for river valley projects and in HID's Manual of Irrigation
Practices (under revision). Terms relating to irrigation management would be
those defined in the Haryana Canal and Drainage Act of 1974 with Rules and
Notifications. Irrigation monitoring and assessment terms are defined in the
Revenue Manual.
8.    Latest versions of the BIS standards for investigation, planning, design
and construction of various project components would also apply together with
instructions contained in HID's Handbook for the Design of Lined and Unlined
Channels and Masonry Works, and in the Haryana State Minor Irrigation Tubewell
Corporation (HSMITC) Watercourse Manual. Publications on the standards or
practices of the Central Water Commission (CWC), Central Board of Irrigation
and Power and of international organizations applicable to project works would
also be consulted. Indian Road Congress (IRC), Ministry of Surface Transport,



- 104 -
Anngx7
Page 4 of 4
Government of India, standards, or those developed by HID would be followed
for the construction of the project bridges.
9.    Specifications of materials and works as given in the publication
"Haryana PWD Specifications, 1990" would serve as standard specifications.
These specifications supplement each item of the Common Schedule of Rates
(CSR) adopted in HID for work items involving new construction methods or
technologies; new specification as appropriate will be drafted by the HID
authority component to accord technical sanction. New specifications (use of
epoxy, cathodic protection of submerged gates, etc.) proposed for such works
will be forwarded to the Bank for Comments.
10.   water allocation procedures to a beneficiary in canal commands are well
defined and legalized in the State. The procedures have worked satisfactorily
in the past. These would be followed in the commands of the new irrigation
facilities in the past to be built under the project.
11.   The procedures to be adopted for carrying out repairs or rehabilitation
works would be site specific. Nevertheless, the relevant guidelines contained
in well known publications (USBR Concrete, Earth, Paints, Drainage, Water
Measurement, Tubewell Manuals) would be used to plan and implement the works.
12.  Attachment 1 contains standards and specifications for the
rehabilitation and modernization components. A list (non-exhaustive) of the
Indian Standards applicable to the project works are in Attachment 2.



- 105 -
Page 1 of 4
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CON OLTnATION PROJECT
STANARDS, SPRCTFTCATTONS~, CBTTZRTA AND PRAC-TCE  FORREAThTATTON AND
MODERNIZATION COMPONENTS
1.    The glossary of terms used in investigations, planning, design and
construction of the project works would be those published by Bureau of Indian
Standards (IS) for river valley projects and/or in HID's Manual of irrigation
Practices (under revisio).  Terms relating to irrigation management would be
those defined in the Haryana Canal and Drainage Act of 1974 with Rules and
Notifications. Irrigation monitoring, assessment terms and management
instructions are defined/provided in the Revenue Manual.
2.    Specifications of materials and works, as given in the publication
"Haryana PWD Specifications, 1990", would serve as standard specifications.
These specifications supplement each item of the Common Schedule of Rules
(CSR) adopted in RID. For work items involving new construction methods or
technologies, new specifications as appropriate will be drafted by the HID
authority competent to accord technical sanction. New specifications evolved
for the project works would be forwarded to the Bank for comments.
3.    Latest versions of the IS and/or international standards for
investigation, planning, design and construction of various project components
would also apply together with instructions contained in HID's Handbook for
the Design of Lined and Unlined Channels and Masonry Works, and in the Haryana
State Minor Irrigation Tubewell Corporation's Water Course Manual.
Publications on the standards or practices of Central Water Commission (CWC),
Central Board of Irrigation and Power and of International Organizations
applicable to project works would also be consulted. Indian Road Congress
(IRC)/Ministry of Surface Transport, Government of India, standards, or those
developed by HID would be followed for the construction of the project
bridges.
Rehabilitation and Modernization of CanalA
4.    Hydraulic surveys of the distributaries and minors would be done where
the special and rehabilitation works are to be carried out. The surveys would
help in the identification of sites where deficiencies in the channels need to
be rectified and would also be useful for carrying out rehabilitation works.
5.    Soil classification tests from the borrow area would be carried out
before undertaking the bank strengthening works. Earth conforming to the PWD
specifications would be used unless the local soil involves blending or
preconditioning. The bank to be strengthened would be cleaned of jungle and



- 106 -
hnn.Z 7
Page 2 of 4
stumps and (scarified) before putting new earth work. The old bank shall be
cut into steps, benched and wetted which would help in making good bond
between the old and new earth. Guidelines provided in the Indian Standard IS:
11532-1985 would also apply for the construction during strengthening.
6. Canal Lining
The latest L-Section of a channel is checked and approved after carrying
out the hydraulic surveys, as required, will form basis for canal lining.
Canal lining should be with first class clay burnt bricks of specifications
laid down vide Specification No: 3.5, para 3, of Haryana PWD Specifications
(1990). Specifications for lining of canals of different capacities shall be
as follows, as shown in the attached chart.
DLge-h rg up to 150 eg
- lip cutting 1.0 ft.
- 10 mm thick 1:6 cement sand plaster on the sub-grade.
- 10 mm thick 1:3 cement sand plaster over the sub-grade plaster.
- first class bricks laid in 6 mm thick 1:3 cement sand mortar to cover
10 mm thick 1:3 (cut off) cement plaster.
Danehar=  151 to 1000 Ca
-  lip cutting i.0 ft.
- 10 mm thick 1:6 cement sand plaster on the su'3-grade.
- 12 mm thick 1:3 cement sand plaster over the sub-grade plaster.
- first class bricks laid in 6 mm thick 1:3 cement sand plaster to
cover 12 mm thick 1:3 (cut off) cement plaster.
Dniaharge 1001 to 2000 Cs
- lip cutting 1.50 ft.
- 10 mm thick 1:6 cement sand plaster on the sub-grade.
- 16 mm thick 1:3 cement sand plaster over the sub-grade plaster.
- first class bricks laid in 6 mm thick 1:3 cement sand mortar to cover
16 mm thick 1:3 (cut off) plaster.



- 107 -
Att-achmanLI
Page 3 of 4
7.    The specifications of cement, sand, and first class bricks to be used
for canal lining would be those given in Haryana PWD Specifications - 1990.
Greater quality control would be exercised in the preparation of sound sub-
grade, brick quality, mortaring, geometry of the section and canal alignment.
8.   The lining heading commenced during a closure would be completed both on
the section sides and bed in the entire length tackled at least 2 hours before
the arrival of the supply at he heading site on the opening of the canal.
9.    Lining of the canal involves readjustment/reconstruction of outlets on
both the banks of the ridge canals. The readjustment/reconstruction of the
outlets duly approved by the competent authority would be completed
simultaneously during the closure period when lining work is progressing.
This is necessary to avoid disruption of irrigation operations in the afected
outlet chaks.
Repairs t~ Canal Lining
10.   The repairs and rehabilitation of main, branch, distributary, and minor
canal lining would be carried out during the operational or the annual
closures. In case of Bhakra Main Line (BML), Warwana Branch, Bhakra Main
Branch and BML-Barwala Link Canals which operate throughout the year, being
the feeder canal, special closures will have to be arranged for repairs to
lining.
11.   The damaged portions of lining will be cleaned of the debris, loose
earth and surrounding hollow lining portions. The area to be repaired would
be prepared to accommodate full brick size courses. Fresh earth of proper
specifications would be laid in layers and compacted to the required
standards. Pneumatic compactors should be used in restricted areas. The
repaired lined surface would be finished flush with the level of the adjoining
undamaged lining. This would be checked with a sufficiently long, straight
and hard wood edge.
Rshabilitat4nn and Mornf2at1nn of Masonry st7ructurea
12.   Before deciding the rehabilitation or replacement proposals of the
structures on the canals, their designs and past performance data will be
studied. Sub-surface explorations to find out the foundation conditions (Code
of Practice for Sub-surface Investigation for foundations is: 1892-1979) and
the latest hydraulic data of the channel would be adopted to prepare the
design for remodelling the structure.
Publicx Tubawlls
13.   In case of the tubewells where pumping units are to be replaced the well
design and its data on the performance record during the past years would be
studied from Master File and Log Book and its present *wire to water"



- 108 -
lUne4x 7
taghint 1
Page 4 of 4
efficiency before replacirzg the unit. After taking out the old pumping unit,
the cndition of the well assembly would be ascertained by taking the
soundincrs up to the well bottom and using the bore hole camera to check for
incrustation, etc. and inside condition of the casings, etc. for taking
remedial neasures as required. A pump test would also be run to observe the
well hydraulic (draw down, specific capacity, etc.) and deciding the matching
specific,ations of pumping unit for the tubewell.
14.   Data/record of the past performance of the wells which need re-
development should indicate if the re-development has been necessitated due to
the construction deficiency or subsequent incrustation of the slots, etc. If
on redevelopment the discharge of the well neither improves nor becomes sand
free, soundings of the well assembly should be taken and bore hole camera used
to ascertain if the problem is caused by pipe rupture. The wells whose
performance dc.es not improve with redevelopment may have to be abandoned or
replaced.
WaerCurae Lining (New Conntrnntl6n and Reh biitAtionn
15.   The designs and specifications for the lining and the structures of the
canal water course under this project would be those which were evolved during
the implementation of Haryana Irrigation I and II and also adopted for the
water course lining under the ongoing National Water Management Project in
Haryana. The lined section is rectangular and in first class brick masonry.
For the water courses which are to be rehabilitated, the same designs and
specifications would be followed.
Flood Protection Emhankments and river training works
16.   The proposals for the rehabilitation, reconstruction or replacement of
the flood protection embankments and the river training works would be
finalized on the basis of the recent river surveys and updated flood hydrology
of the river or stream. The design criteria of the proposals should be based
on the latest IS standards and the guidelines provided in the CBIP Manual on
River Behavior, Control and Training. Recommendations contained in the Report
of National Commission on Floods, March 1980 would also be considered.
Guidelines for the planning, design and the construction provided in IS:
12094-1987 and IS: 11532-1985 would also be applied to implement the works.



- 109 -
_     _                                             _________                                 Annex 7
TYPICAL  X- StC T/OfVS                                              Attachment 1
Chart 1
SHOPvIAle, r.#rjP4-C1A1CA4 rOIVS  /    W86
..         /,lSlfI                 I
/  8Rck ON 6 OfE IN C. // .Vs
6AMY r.uCfK CEMJNr moRrAq 1,
-   IOAv #ICN Cf4M&Vr PZA$7tr.
.Camelv r  y     : J r4 1-
/M* )IC1 *6 C.M eA/r SWD oz47re 04'
10 MM't rWICRC 03 CEMCIV r SV AA,SMR&
8CD OVa s QsrD srj
.   f0R.Sr C4*tj* 4e.41CK 1L4 .4AW /(M #CAiC
D/SCWARt66- P L o IOOO Cs            1_
/AICR  0A' (DOe IN CX .3
\4             *            /  //6MM  Bi //C/i CtEeNTr 1MR P:3
oQf .                  1 C  _  =/0mM rAecoc cemeAt PASTAm
S/ / @ Z                CeME Jt MORuR1.;:3
/0f4 Mw/_/< /:6 CEMET r4w0 .AtA4SrER oN
OVOR #iRSr.PA4.%76A,(*(4u&O YC.NE'D)
|,                                  FIR- LI  .Sr CASs ARICk i( 4A/ JNf&MA I_4C ME
'OL~41R6C  /18Av~ iooo c.f 71 
-8RICK OA' tD'E IA Co? 43
6 MM   rArck c&r ,vr w     /.r 3
Id/ _A' rm/C/C CECMEVT O.4Sri
CEMEW 4iA TRR I.4 3
m   Mo   CeaVJ, r s    .01 ,OLsreR A16
.,f/rsr C4ASS EA.tCK ,L/1 14v 6A/, 4I//CR
CsAMN .uw r  "o N At4A 1/3 o°tA sccwo#
SPJC,$4AyT,OA (100AV Are. 3,.  W /4- /tY CM4J. &iV,AS.
44aOP -At Jf o TO sE4w Lr&rU,pD rOA 4t VC4rS7Xq k 'rcRi) _-<f.Q($jA
I.~~~~~~~~~~~,



- 110 -
Annan 7
Atanehra1t 2
Page 1 of 5
HARYJMATER pFmSOtRCZS iCON-OL!DATTON PRO
(Standards published by Bureau of Indian Standards applicable
to the project works)
Tki -No
I.  Glossary of terms tRiver Vahlle  Projects)
Part 1 Irrigation Practice                    4410 (Part 1) -  1967
Part 2 Project Planning                       4410 (Part 2) -  1967
Part 3 River and River Training               4410 (Part 3) -  1967
Part 4 Drawings                               4410 (Part 4) -  1982
Part 5 Canals                                 4410 (Part 5) -  1982
Part 6 Reservoirs                             4410 (Part 6) -  1983
Part 7 Engineering Geology                    4410 (Part 7) -  1982
Part 8 Dams and dam sections                  4410 (Part 8) -  1968
Part 9 Spillways and syphons                  4410 (Part 9) -  1982
Part 1OCivil works of Hydro-Electric          4410 (Part 10) - 1969
Generation System including
water conductor
Part 11 Hydrology:
Section 1 General Terms               4410 (Part ll)/Sec.1) - 1972
Section 2 Precipitation and run off 4410 (Part l1)/Sec.2) - 1972
Section 3 Infiltration and water
losses                      4410 (Part ll)/Sec.3) - 1973
Section 4 Hydrographs                 4410 (Part 11)/Sec.4) - 1977
Section 5 Floods                      4410 (Part 11)/Sec.5) - 1977
Section 6 Groundwater                 4410 (Part 11)/Sec.6) - 1985
Part 12 Diversion Works                       4410 (Part 12) - 1973
Part 13 Operation, maintenance                4410 (Part 13) - 1985
Part 14 Soil Conservation and Reclamation
Section 1 Soil Conservation           4410 (Part 14/Sec.1) - 1977
Section 2 Reclamation                 4410 (Part 14/Sec.2) - 1977
Part 15 Canal Structures:
Section 1 General Terms               4410 (Part 15/Sec.1) - 1973
Section 2 Transitions                 4410 (Part 15/Sec. 2)- 1973
Section 3 Flumwes                     4410 (Part 15/Sec.4) - 1977
Section 4 Regulating Works            4410 (Part 15/Sec.4) - 1977
Section 5 Cross Drainage Works        4410 (Part 15/Sec.5) - 1977
Part 16 Gates and Valves:
Section 1 Gates                       4410 (Part 16/Sec.1) - 1979
Section 2 Valves                      4410 (Part 16/Sec.2) - 1981
Part 17 Water Requirements of Crops           4410 (Part 17) - 1977
Part 18 Energy Dissipator Devices Stilling
Basins                                4410 (Part 18) - 1983



- 111 -
A=n7
kttpdchm.t 2
Page 2 of 5
Glossary of terms used in water well
drilling technology                           9439 - 1980
Glossary of terms relating to wire ropea    2363 - 1965
Earthwork on canal, code of practice          4701 - 1968
Design of Cross Section of unlined
canals in alluvial soils                      7112 - 1973
Design of cross section of lined canal,
code of practice                              4745 - 1968
Under drainage of lined canals, code of
practice                                      4558 - 1983
Guide for soil surveys                        5510 - 1969
Canal outlets, code of practice               7986 - 1976
Lining of canals with low density,
polyethylene film, code of practice           9698 - 1980
Specifications for low density polyethylene
films (second revision)                       2508 - 1984
Maintenance of canals - lined                 4839 (Part 2) - 1979
III.Struntn-9m
Design of cross drainage works, code of practice:
Part 1 General Features                       7784 (Part 1) - 1975
Part 2 Specific Requirements:
Section 1 Aqueducts                   7784 (Part 2/Sec.1) - 1980
Section 2 Super passages              7784 (Part 2/Sec.2) - 1980
Section 3 Canal syphons               7784 (Part 2/Sec.3) - 1980
Section 4 Level crossings             7784 (Part 2/Sec.4) - 1980
Section 5 Syphon aqueducts            7784 (Part 2/Sec.5) - 1980
Construction of cross drainage works, code
of practice                                   9913 - 1981
Hydraulic designs of barrages and weirs,
criteria                                      6966 - 1973



- 112 -
Attaehment 2
Page 3 of 5
Hydraulic design of cross regulators for
canals, criteria                              7114 - 1973
Hydraulic design of sediment ejectors for
irrigation and power channel, criteria        6004 - 1980
Guidelines for data required for design of
temporary river diversion works               9461 - 1980
Construction of concrete barrages, code of
practice                                      11150 - 1984
Guidelines for dewatering during
construction                                  9759 - 1981
Site investigations for foundation in
gravel, boulder, deposit, code of practice  10042 - 1981
Guide for location, selection and hydraulic
design of canal escapes                       6936 - 1973
IV. Gatea
Inspection and maintenance of cross drainage
works, code of practice                       7331 - 1981
Inspection, testing and maintenance of fixed
wheel and slide gates, reconmendations:
Part 1  Inspection, testing and assembly
at manufacturing stage                7718 (Part 1) - 1975
Part 2  Inspection and testing at the time
of erection                           7718 (Part 2) - 1978
Part 3 After erection                         7718 (Part 3) - 1975
Recommendations for inspection, testing, and
maintenance of radial gates and their hoists:
Part 1  Inspection, testing and assembly at
the manufacturing stage Sec.1         10096 (Part 1/Sec.1) - 1983
Part 2  Inspection, testing and assembly
at the time of erection               10096 (Part 2) - 1983
Part 3 After erection                         10096 (Part 3) - 1982
Recommendations for structural design of
fixed wheel gate                              4622 - 1978



- 113 -
Aknnor 7
Page 4 of 5
V. TubewMl!s
Water level in bore hole, method for determination.
Part I Construction                           IS:  2800 - 1979
Part 2 Testing                                IS:  2800 - 1979
Requirements for well screens and slotted
pipes                                         IS:  11189 - 1985
Method of tubewell development                IS:  11189 - 1985
Specification for gravel for use as pack
in tubewells                                  IS:  4097 - 1967
Design of gravel pack for tubewells, Centzal
Board of Irrigation and Power Publication,
August, 1967. External upset drill pipe
assemblies for use in water well drilling:
Part 1 screwed on joints drill pipe           IS:  11312 - 1985
General requirements for direct
circulation rotary drilling rigs for
waterwells                                    IS:  7206 - 1086
Kellys for direct rotary drilling Part 1
square and hexagonal kellys                   IS:  1180 - 1985
Specification for submersible pumpsets for
clear, cold, fresh water                      IS:  8034 - 1976
Specifications for steel tubes used for
water wells                                   IS:  7270 - 1983
Ground water and wells (second edition)       Published by Johnson
1986 by Fletcher G. Driscoll                  St. Paul, Minnesota
VI. Maintnance of canals, code of prartioe
Part 1 Unlined canals                         4839 (Part 1) - 1979
Part 2  Lined canals                          4839 (Part 2) - 1979
Part 3 Canal structures, drains, outlets,
jungle clearance, plantation and
regulation                            4839 (Part 3) - 1979
VII. Hydreloginal
Measurement of seepage losses from canals:



- 114 -
Atashmex 2
Page 5 of 5
Code of practice:
Part 1 Ponding method                         9452 (Part 1) - 1980
Part 2  Inflow outflow method                 9452 (Part 2) - 1980
Guide for selection of method of measuring
flow in open canals                           9922 - 1981
Guide for storm analysis                      5542 - 1969
VIII. nrainaga and Ri3Mr vrmankments
Guidelines for planning and design of
surface drains                                8835 - 1978
Guidelines for planning and design of
river embankments (Leevees)                   12094 - 1987
Guidelines for construotion of river
embankments (Leevees)                         11532 - 1985
IX. BdW
Standard specifications and code of practice
for road bridges (Indian Road Congress):
Section I  - General features of design       IRC: 5-1985
Section II - Loads and stresses               IRC: 6-1966
Section III - Cement concrete plain &
reinforced                      IRC: 21-1987
Section IV - Bricks, stone and block
masonry                         IRC: 40-1970
Section VI - Composite construction           IRC: 22-1986
Recommended practice for the construction
of earth embankments for road works           IRC: 36-1970



- 115 -                           an8
Page 1 of 6
AMUA
HARYANATER RESOWRS.
6PRAP?ONS N    TATPJHRANC
1.    Water resource development in the state of Haryana has reached a mature
phase. The primary function of the Irrigation Department (HID) has shifted
from development to one of closer management of the State's limited surface
and groundwater resources in an environment of increasing competition for
available supplies from domestic and industrial users. The effective and
efficient management of operations and maintenance (OM) programs to provide
high quality services is now a recognized priority of HID and would result in
improved water use efficiency that will dampen the effect of reduced water
availability to agriculture in the future.
2.    The 001 component of the project has as its objective the improvement of
service delivery performance for irrigation, drainage, bulk water supply to
industry, and urban, flood control and ground water supplies through:
a. Reorganized institutional and management arrangements;
b. Adoption of a preventative maintenance philosophy;
c. Priority funding of the maintenance program on a needs basis;
d. Strengthening program management capabilities and processes;
a. Moving over time to pricing water services at cost.
3.    HID proposes to link the O&M funding to recovery of OM cost:  over the
project period, the Bank's financing for O&M would decline, while cost
recovery from all users would increase to take up the responsibility of O0M
financing. Thus, HID is committed to two fundamental and interlinked reform
objectives with regard to provision and funding of 06M: £±uX,, it is
committed to fully finance the needed levels of O&M expenditures, and nAwd,
to fully transfer the budgetary burden to all users over the next six years.
The O&M activities of HID would thus become self-supporting, and allow
reallocation of scarce public funds to other developmental works.
Watgr Rarvheos InnRtitutinal ArrAncagoMtAn
4.    Under the reorganized structure of HID, the full range of water services
provided by the Depdrtment would be managed by two Water Services Units (WSUs)
based on the two major water supply systems in the state, one on the Yamuna
which is supplied from the run of the River Yamuna, and the other on the
ahakra system that is supplied from the regulated resources in the Bhakra and
Seas River Basins. Management of the new units would be along functional
lines and would bring together under one line of management the presently
fragmented O&M functions of irrigation, bulk water supply, agricultural
drainage and flood control. The institutional modifications under the project
are in Annex 3 (detailed functional statements are in Annex 3, Attachment 2).
5.    The concentration of O0M functions would lead to cost savings through
the more efficient use of resources such as labor, equipment and vehicles.



- 116 -
AnnX 8
Page 2 of 6
There would be less duplication of effort and this will result in improvements
in the efficiency of use of resources. For instance, at the present time the
operation of the drainage system is dependent upon disposal into the canal
system at some locations. Operational management of both the canal and
drainage systems is not coordinated and decisions taken on drainage can have a
detrimental effect on canal operations. The new arrangements would ensure the
coordinated management of both. Similarly, resources for 06M of the drainage
circles are managed independent of canal resources that are employed in the
same geographical area doing similar O&M activities. The seasonal nature of
maintenance means that the bulk of drainage maintenance is done during a
period of low maintenance in the canal systems and vice versa. By bringing
both under one management unit greater efficiencies can be achieved.
Managemen Capacity
6.    Strengthening of the WSU's capacity to effectively manage the delivery
of OXM, rehabilitation and other construction programs under their
responsibility is a key component of the project. The project includes the
introduction of modern management systems in the areas of planning prograumming
and budgeting, monitoring and recording, asset and maintenance management and
financial management at the center. These management systems would assist the
WSUs with their program delivery responsibilities. Computer based real time
management would assist with canal operations and enhance operational decision
making, system monitoring and analysis of performance.
,eratigna a nd 4antenanet. Rehabiltation.and  ModArnriation Programs
7.   The full funding of continuing O&M, including timely replacement of
components, the one time rehabilitation, and modernization of water supply
facilities is a major financial part -.f the project. Although the programs
are dealt with separately, there is a clear interlinkage between them.
8.    Public expenditure priorit'as in water resources development would be
reoriented to best ensure the state's short- and long-term goals and
objectives as follows:
(i)   o.arations and Maintenanne.  First priority towards ensuring
the long term effectiveness of water system performance
through adequate maintenance and timely replacement;
(ii) Rehabilitation. Second priority towards re-establishing
designed or agreed levels of service through the injection
of funds as a once off short term program that addresses
deferred maintenance requirements; and
(iii) Pk*enzi.ation. Third priority towards enhancing the
performance and increasing the efficiency of water systems
through investment in modernization programs over time.
Pr6qSUm for Suatained oneratiQns and Maintenance
9.    A key component of the project is the identification and funding of the
maintenance, operations and ultimate replacement needs that are necessary on a
recurring basis to ensure that the performance of systems would be sustained
in perpetuity and that agency services are provided in an equitable, reliable



- 117 -
Page 3 of 6
and cost effective manner in accordance with program objectives. The water
supply, drainage and flood control systems of the state are large and complex
and the maintenance and operational requirements to meet the above objective
are considerable.
System DasCription
10.   Canals.  Some 2.9 million ha. of land is irrigated in Haryana, using on
average an annual diversion of 16.84 MAF from surface and groundwater sources.
The two main canal systems of the Bhakra and the Western Yamuna comprise a
total of 12,100 km. of lined and unlined canals, 6,770 bridges, 2,300 regulat-
ing and measuring structures, and 11,700 km. of inspection roads. The canal
maintenance program takes into account the characteristics of each system
including the age, condition and silt loads carried by each system. In the
WYC systems the emphasis on maintenance is on silt clearance, head regulators,
bridges, and repairs to lining. In the Bhakra system there is more emphasis
on bank strengthening and bridges, then silt clearance and lining repairs.
11.   nraina. The surface drainage system provides agricultural drainage
services and relief from flooding in the farm areas as well as the highly
populated rural and urban areas of the state. There are 1331 villages that
benefit from the drainage system. Drainage systems service some 23,400 sq.
km. through 3,800 km of drains. There are 159 pump stations with a total
discharge of 1600 cumecs. The drainage system has not been maintained
effectively in the past. Flooding in 1988, 89, 90, 91, and 1993 caused the
considerable damage to villages and agriculture. In the 1993 event, if the
drainage system had been well maintained all of the village flooding and half
of the agricultural loss would have been avoided. Therefore the proposed
increase in maintenance expenditure on drainage would have an immediate and
lasting effect. The program of maintenance would concentrate on the waterway
of drains with 27% of expenditure directed at internal clearance of drains
including weed control and desilting. The other areas of emphasis are
structures, 15% and operations 7%.
12.   Flood Protection and River Training Works.  There are a total of 630 km
of embankments, 990 spurs and 40 km of pitching, as well as 38 ring bunds
protecting villages.
13.   Agmentation and niract Trrigation Tabewells.  There are 1643
augmentation tubewells that augment canal flows with groundwater. Direct
irrigation tubewells provide water to areas that have no surface irrigation
supply. Presently there are 720 tubewells in operation.
Project Expenditures
14.   The O&M component provides for the following works in the gravity
command areas including drainage and flood control:
(i)   Canal System maintenance (US$ 113.2 million) including:  silt
clearance and bank strengthening comprising 47.3 Mm3 of earthwork;
(b) lining repairs to some 879,900 m2; (c) jungle and weed
clearance on 88.7 Mm2; (d) maintenance and repairs on 175,800
structures including bridges, regulators, falls, cross drainage,



- 118 -
Page 4 of 6
escapes, ghats,and outlets: and (e) about 192 maintenance
activities on pump houses;
(ii) Drainage system maintenance (US$ 37.7) including: (a) internal
clearance involving 21.5 Nm3 of silt removal; (b) maintenance on
14,345 structures including cross drainage, regulators, bridges,
and outfalls; and (c) maintenance activities on pump houses;
(iii) River Control Works (US$ 8.9) including: (a) maintenance on a
total of 5,487 km of embankments; and (b) maintenance on 5306
structures including studs, spurs, and pitching.
(iv) Watercourse maintenance (USS 13.1 million) including: (a) lining
repairs and maintenance to 165 km of water course; (b) earthworks
on 30 km; and (c) nakkas and culverts on 54 km.
Iv)   Augmentation tubewells (US$7.4 millions) includes maintenance on
groundwater pumping installations.
Peavy Veh  leos and Mguipment Purehase
15.   The capacity to deliver the O&M program would be increased by the
procurement of selected heavy equipment that would improve the productivity
and effectiveness of some of the key maintenance activity. The mobility of
both canal operations staff as well as construction and maintenance staff
would be enhanced with the provision of motor cars, jeeps and motor cycles.
The effectiveness of use of both the heavy equipment and the vehicles would be
improved by having them fitted with mobile radios. The following vehicles
will be purchased: (a) A total of 240 light vehicles and trucks including
jeeps (79), cars (11), motor cycles (100), and tipping trucks (50). In all 85
items of heavy equipment would be purchased including road graders (20), tip
trucks (50), wheeled tractors fitted with backhoe, front end loader and weed
bucket (5). Desilting of drainage and supply canals would be enhanced with
the purchase of hydraulic excavators (10).
Prooram Costs in Detail
16.  Funding for maintenance for the total program would increase from Rs 740
million allocation in 1993/94 to Rs 955 million in the first year of the
project.  This level of funding would be maintained in real terms for the life
of the project and beyond.  Table 1 tracks the actual expenditure on
maintenance for 1992-93 and proposed budget for the first year of the project.
Additional budget allocation under th- project for both canal and drainage
maintenance would result in real increases in the funds available for works.
The establishment costs as a percentage of the overall budget reduce
significantly and remain at about 1992/93 levels in real terms.
17. Program details showing the physical and financial requirements by sub-
activity for maintenance for all services for 1994 - 2000 are shown in Table
3. The O&M program has been drawn up by management unit and by major
activities under canals (gravity and lift), drainage canals, river works and
flood control. This framework would be the basis on which the program and
budgeting and cost accounting systems would be built to allow the managers of
the WSUs to track the cost and physical achievement under each maintenance
activity. The work activities involved and supervision needs are further
detailed below (see paras 22, 23).



- 119 -
Annx z
Page 5 of 6
syatem Management
18. In addition to the identification of O&M needs of the systems, the O&M
function would be strengthened by enhancing the management capability of HID.
19.   operations Management.  The development of activities under this program
would address the requirements of:
a.    Preparation of specific system based plans for operations and
maintenance covering all services provided within each water
service unit;
b.    Enhanced real time management capability for canal operations:
c.    Improved effectiveness of operations to meet service objectives
through the provision of mobility and cormunications to operating
staff and emphasis on maintenance of measuring structures; and
d.    Improved monitoring and reporting.
20. Maintenance Management. The development activities under this component
would lead to:
a.    Improved planning prioritization and scheduling of maintenance and
replacement programs on an annual, near and long term basis
through the development of an asset management system to provide a
register of current assets employed by the Department in the
delivery of services. The data in the register would be updated
annually based on field inspections and reports;
b.   Greater efficiencies in the implementation of maintenance work
through the introduction of a maintenance management work order
system that would plan and monitor maintenance activities; and
C.    Upgrading of heavy equipment and training in modern maintenance
techniques.
21.   Training.   Training of staff to support the O&M program would be
provided under the project. This would include programs in the following
areas:
a.    Heavy equipment operator training;
b.    Water distribution and measurement;
c.    Construction and maintenance ski_ls;
d.    Supervisor training;
e.    Specialized maintenance of electronic, communications, data
processing and computer equipment.
22.   For the O&M component the supervision of the project would concentrate
on the following:
a. Mtenr. Review progress on programming and budgeting aspects of
08M program including the expenditure against budget for the current year,
unit cost of maintenance activities, and cost and effectiveness of maintenance
methods. Review progress on the implementation of the asset and maintenance
management systems and maintenance activity planning and implementation



- 120 -
Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
procedures as well as forward planning processes for replacement of assets.
Inspection of the effectiveness of maintenance activity in the field;
b. QRerations. Review progress on the installation of the real time
management system for operations. Review system performance of planned versus
actual with particular attention to the downstream end of systems, the
collection and transmission of operational data and the decision making
processes involved. Supervision missions should also assess, by field visit,
the effectiveness of operational procedures including water measurement and
regulation and should discuss levels of service being achieved with both local
staff and representative customers.
c, Water SArvices Units. Assess the progress and effectiveness of the
changes in the water services units and the savings brought about by the
consolidation of drainage and canal O&M under one management line. Review and
discuss with Water services staff the organizational and managements
arrangements at Divisional level and in particular the preparation of system
specific Plans of Operations and Maintenance.
23.   The skills necessary are those of an engineer with direct experience in
the planning, programming and budgeting and implementation of O&M programs for
large gravity irrigation and drainage systems. The person should also be
familiar with modern maintenance and operational management techniques as they
relate to the project. The time allocation would be about 15 staff weeks
based on two supervision mission of 10 days duration per year for the life of
the project.
Projent Covenant
24.  Agreements would be reached with GOH that, beginning April 1, 1994, HID
would fully budget for the works component as developed from the agreed works
program (total works expenditures in current prices) for the following year's
O&M expenditures, on an annual basis. The works amount is given in Table 2.



ii                                Operations and Maintenance Costs Haryana Irrigation Department
I ______________________          1992/93             1994195
_Operations and Maintenance        Actual               Budget        CCA in       Expenditure   Total Length        Expenditure
Expenditure         Expenditure      M he.       per ha. CCA   of Canals in Km.    per km. of canal
_____________________               RsM______ U__   RaM _s_R M                1992/93  1994195                 1992/93   1994195
1  _________________________________                                     2.88          ___________     12105.75          _  __________    ______81 1_7
_ Works                       [     189.2    39.70      591.2    62.28              65.69    205.28                   15,629    48,836
_ Establishment                    287.43     60.30     358.1    37.72              99.80    124.34                   23,743    29.581
_Total                          476.63    100.00     949.3   100.00              165.50    329.62                  39.372   78,417
-2 Gf*Wf         / iibV~~'<  _______2.436                                                                 8931.22
Works                            64.34     25.27     250.3    50.27                                                 7,204   28,025
Establishment                   190.32     74.73    247.6    49.73                                                 21 310   27.723
Total                           254.66    100.00    497.9   100.00                                                 28,513   55,748
-3   _                _                                                   0.597                            3174.6
Works                             24.9    20.43     52.42     32.19              41.71     87.81                    7,844    16,513 _
Establishment                      97      79.57    110.44    67.81             162.48    184.99                   30,556    34.790
Total                            121.9   100.00    162.86    100.00             204.19    272.80                   38.400    51,303
________      ~~Total                      _ _  _ _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
Area                                      3797 _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _______   _______  D rained                          _______   _______   _ _Dr i e
_ Works                              42.3    30.72      109.5    50.99  23.405   1807.31   4678.49                    11,140   28,839
_  Establishment                     95.4    69.28    105.25      49.01 18q. Km.l  4078.05  4498.90                   25,125    27.719
= Total                             137.7   100.00    214.75   100.00             5883.38  9175.39                1  38.265    56,558 
_a-               _               -M-
Cornparison of costs for 0 and M 1992J93 and 199419)5



- 122 -                         Annex R
Table 2
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOUDAIRON PROJECT (MROP)
IMPRO\NG OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
TOTAL PROJECT COST
A: BASE COSTS
Total
(Rs miMcron  94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00
WORKS                      430.30   546.10   546.51   479.33   479.38   477.34  2958.76
ESTABUSH-MENT              462.38   462.43   463.37   463.32   463.19   463.27  2777.96
TOTAL (Base Cost)           892.68  1008.52  1009.88   942k.65   942.58   940.61  5736.72
B: TOTAL COSTS (in current prices)
WORKS                       460.42   622.30   660.14   610.84   641A5   670.65  3665.82
ESrABUSHMENT               494.75   526.96   559.71   590A3   619.79   650.88  3442.52
TOTAL (current cost)        955.17  1149.26  1219.85  1201.28  1261.24  1321.54  7108.34
Note: Locl Infation from Aprl ?, 1994 to March 31. 1995 Is 7%. and in the foowng yeas 6.5%. 6.0%. 5.5%. 5.0%. 5.0% respectively
Wodcs In year 94/95 and 95/96 hdude Invewmenis for heavy maoitenance equipment and veNles



- 123 -
Table 3
IUDIA
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOUDATION PROJECT (WRCP)
Statement of Civil Works Requirement
IMPROVING OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
Canals in Western Yamuna
Unit                   Quanfity                          Total
____________________________      94/95    95/96   989     97198   98(99   99/00
CIVIL WORKS
Silt Clearance & Bank strengthening  cu. UxIoo  2684    2810    2809    2809    2809    2809   16730
Repair to Lining               Sq. M1e0    56.32   56.32   56.32   56.32   56.32   56.32      338
Jungle & Weed Clearance           x lool    8818    8821    8818    7175    8818    8818   51268
Head regulators)               No.           410     398     358      379     410     420    2375
Cross-regulators)              No.                                                              0
Bridges                        No.          2316    2310    2341    2356    2362    2379   14064
Falls                          No.           215     215     216     219      220     220    1305
Cross drainage works           No.           145     144      147     148     148     150     882
Escapes                        No.             8       8       9        9       9      10      53
Ghats                          No.          1062    1046    1160    1182    1182    1226    6858
Outlets                        No.          4031    4214    4214    4214    4214    4254   25141
Pump houses                                   29      29      29       29      29      29     174
Stement of Civil Works Requirement
IMPROViNG OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
Canals in Bhakra
Unit                    Quantity                         Total
94195   95/96   98/97   97/98   98/99   99100
CIVIL WORKS
Silt Clearance & Bank strengthening   x Mldooo  3433    3433    3427    3424    3424    3424   20565
Repair to Uning                eq Ibod0       91      91      90       90      90      90     542
Jungle & Weed Clearance        Seqhaxda     6246    6248    6246    6246    6246    6246   37476
Head regulators)               No.           406     352     424     424      424     424    2454
Cross-regulators)                                                                               0
Bridges                        No.          2391    2404    2450    2450    2450    2450   14595
Falls                          No.           345     339     343     343      345     345    2060
Cross drainage works           No.           136     138      140     140     140     140     834
Escapes                        No.                                                              0
Ghats                          No.          1838    1829    1838    1838    1838    1838   11019
Outlets                        No.          6309   62898    6264    6275    6267    6169   94182
Pump houses                    No.             3       3       3        3       3       3      18



- 124 -
Table 4
INDIA
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT (WRCP)
Statement of Civil Works Requirement
IMPROVING OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
Drainage
Unit                     Quantity                              Total
94195    95/96    96/97    97/98    98199    99/00
CIVIL WORKS
Intemal Clearance           cumx1000       3607    3548    3548    3548    3548    3726   21525
Cross Drainages              No.            685      687      688      691      716      691    4158
Regulators                   No.             12       13       13       13       13       13       77
Bridges                      No.           1500    1485    1488    1493    1499    1529    8994
Out Falls                    No.            184      184      184      187      186      187    1112
Pump houses                  No.            145      147      147      145      145      145      874
Workshop                     No.             10       10       10       10       10       10       60
Building
River Control Works
Unit   |                 Quantity                              Total
_  94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00
r ¶VIL WORKS
Repair to Embankrnents      Km.           915.5   912.5   912.5   912.5   912.5   921.5    5487
Studs/Spurs/Pitching         No.            882      877      877      877      877      916    5306
Watercourses
Unit                     Quantfty                              Total
94/95    95196    96197    97198    98/99    99/00
CIVIL WORKS
Uning Repairs               km             27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5           165
Earth Work                  km                5        5        5        5        5        5       30
Nakkas & Culverts            km               9        9        9        9        9        9       54



- 125 -
Page 1 of 4
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLTDATION PROJECT
INFORMATION AND COMMUNTCATTON SYSTRMS
Introduntion
1.    The main functional responsibilities of the Haryana Irrigation
Department (HID) includes planning, design and research, construction,
management of water services, maintenance, regulation of the water system and
administration. To facilitate the effective delivery of these functions,
activities such as data hydrology, weather forecasting, water operations,
maintenance, asset management unit programming, budgeting accounting and
personnel management, need to be integrally linked to the operation of the
organization, thiough an integrated computer based information system. An
effective and efficient computer architectural design would be selected to
support the distributed concept of processing, and include as its functioning
features the hardware, software, connectivity and a communication facility net
work, which reliably services the needs of a wide area of user groups.
Additional responsibilities such as management of water systems for power
generation, municipal and industrial needs, drainage and flood control, etc.
also require a dependable and widespread communication network to provide
reliable information.
2.    To improve institutional and operational efficiency, HID is
consolidating its present and future activities into a limited number of
functional areas, allowing for orderly planning, budgeting and scheduling of
all its programs. Radical improvements would be achieved in the functioning
of the newly established units/offices under HID through the introduction of
communication and computer facilities which link the Department's relevant
activities. The information and communication system would facilitate
conducting baseline surveys for monitoring and evaluation activities.
Facilities and Eauipment - Present Status
3.     Information Systems.  Currently, HID has the following hardware
computers: one AT/286 at HID office Mani Majra; one AT/386 at HID office
Chandigarh; one AT/386 at Kurushetra. In addition, the Department has under
approval and processing, one PC 386 at HID Karnal, one PC 386 at HID
Kurushetra, one PC 386 at Hisar--EISA 486 with 16 mb RAM, Plotter, etc., under
UNIX, 24 Intelligent Terminals and 10 modems. The MITC present systems
include one PC XT, one UNIX based 486 with 8 terminals, and one AT/386 with
plotter and printer at Karnal. While considerable data has been collected in
the various aspects of HID's work (many of which are on Word Star, Lotus,
spread sheet or Xbase data format in small files), the initiative is basically
a patchwork lacking a systems approach that provides little connectivity or
linkage between files or subjects.



- 126 -
hnflaxnq
Page 2 of 4
4.   C laigatimna. The communications between the field office and the
Headquarters in relaying data of gauge and discharge observations in the
irrigation channels are carried out through:  (a) 91 canal telegraph offices
spread over regulation points and field offices all over the state: (b) canal
telephone lines maintained by P&T Department; and (c) wireless systems
connecting important field stations through HF and VHP networks. The existing
single-wire earth-return telephone system is several decades old, and is not a
reliable mode of communication, either between control points or with the
state Headquarters in Chandigarh. There are now 52 wireless stations on
various VHF frequencies with varied time and ranges, and 12 HF stations, at
important control and comnunication points.  The performance of VHF and HF
wireless system are also subject to weather conditions. The objective of
strengthening and upgrading the communication system is to fulfill the
communication requirement of both the State Headquarters and field offices,
and to integrate the circle, District and Field offices into a state-wide
network. An improved communication system will also connect important
flood/drainage monitoring points of the Department and provide links fror
important regulation headworks to the state headquarters.
Pr2nosed Project Activities
5.    Tnformation Systea.  To support HID's operational activities, an
information system would be established with analytical and modeling capacity
and a communications network, that would link with the computer installation.
The information system would cover data needs on hydrology, meteorology, land
cover, land use, demography, cadastral and geology:
(i)    Lnd over. Vegetation and soils data would be created through field
surveys. These survey data bases would then be used as a sampling
framework from which information on vegetation and soil would be
extradited through remote sensed imagery. Biomass and primary
productivity would be derived from such databases, using appropriate
models.
(Li)   Land aus  data would include patterns of agricultural development,
urban, residential and recreational enclaves, structured,
transportation network, utilities, etc., with use of land being
derived from various sources such as regional government agencies,
field surveys, aerial and satellite data or any other reliable data
source.
(iii)  M4eeology.  Data on rainfall, temperature pressure, humidity and air
quality would be derived from surface and/or space borne instruments
and mathematically interpretated to derive estimated values where
measurements are unavailable.
(iv)   Pgemragphin.  Information on characteristics of people, occupation,
etc., would be derived from survey data through periodic census of the
population. These will be typically recorded as statistical
summaries, and aggregated as necessary.



- 127 -
Page 3 of 4
(v)    r.adaat-l. This data base would indicate property ownership;
information about land parcels, its boundaries and characteristic
using conventional surveying practices and compiled in analog, or
digital map format, as well as real estate documents.
(vi)   gr'ng1Qiea1.  Lithology of formation and fossil records along with
information or structures would be measured at a number of locations
and patterns in these data would then be inferred from ancillary data.
(vii)   HydrQlogical data would include flow rates within the Bhakra and
Yamuna river basin systems, drainage patterns, and depth of
groundwater based on correlative information.
(viii) a8ats data will contain a register of data of current assets existing
within the department including structures and equipment and its use
by the department in the effective delivery of services. This data
would be updated annually based on field inspection and periodic
reports.
6.    AnAlytical and Modelling Capabinlty of rata.  An essential goal of
information systems and models would be to convert data into information and
knowledge through measurements and observations, field surveys etc., which
would then be used for evaluating options, as a step towards decision making.
The areas in which such analytical and modelling capability would be used is
program tracking, cost accounting, water accounting, cost allocation, flood
routing, flood forecasting, water routing, design analysis, economic
modelling, etc. The purpose of water accounting would be to track water
supplied and deliveries, track entitlements and water use, maintain water
account balances, collect water revenues, report water use provide historical
records and water customer services. Analytical and modelling techniques
would be used to assess flood forecasting, estimates, relay broadcasts on
flood warnings and water routing information. Data would also be modelled to
derive economic value and optimum uses of water.
7.    Similarly, the cost allocation and recovery system would allocate state
water project costs to various user groups and components under the project,
through data entry and storage of water and cost files, processing of water
allocations and their allocated costs and repayments.
8.     rnmini4at-ionst. The communication technology would be a blend and
reinforcement of conventional systems, with upgrade of technology that would
provide a greater coverage on regional and subregional basis. A state-wide
system of VHF, SHF and EHF bands, generically known as microwaves would be
established, covering a range of frequencies, and wavelengths. In addition,
the radio network would be strengthened and upgraded, by connecting a modem
to the telephone line, when used as telemetry lines for hydrological data
collection.
9.    The computer capabilities of HID, both hardware and software, would be
vastly strengthened to include the installation of a mainframe central



- 128 -
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
HARYNA WATER RESOtRCES COSSOLTDATION PROJECT
COST ALLOCATION, RECOVERY AND PRO0g    FT
1.    The Haryana irrigation Department (HID) provides water-related services
within the state of Haryana and the Union Territory of Delhi. These services
include: water .nu22lie for irrigation, urban domestic users, rural village
water supplies, industry, power stations, commercial users, government
departments (fisheries, forestry, agriculture, horticulture), supplies to
other states, including Delhi Union Territory; drainage services to farmers,
rural and urban communities (including disposal of effluents); and f1loo
control along major rivers and drainage ways within the state and Union
Territory.
2.    At present, cost recovery is either significantly less than the cost of
providing the service, or is indirectly made by one department (e.g. municipal
water rates for households) without directly accounted payment to HID for the
service provided.
3.    GOH proposes to implement a general policy to recover the costs of each
of the services identified above from the beneficiaries, with the specific
exception of backward and drought-affected areas in the south of the state
where provision of water is presently seen as a social necessity to stabilize
the livelihood of the existing population in these areas, indirectly avoiding
the costs of temporary and permanent migrations.
Basis for Coqt- Allocati-n
4.    A cost recovery plan was developed during the appraisal process of the
Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project, in order to allocate as
precisely as possible the cost of providing each service to each user/
beneficiary group. In some cases this allocation is clear and direct--for
example operation and maintenance of the supply channel to Delhi serves only
one purpose and one user. In other c. - activities are common to a number of
users, such as major canals serving mans .rmers as well as municipalities, or
the service provided to one area indirectly benefits another area--for example
where drainage facilities alleviate existing adverse conditions in one area
and prevent such problems arising in an adjoining area. Taking note of these
factors, the costs incurred by HID were allocated appropriately among all
services provided.
5.    The second step was to quantify the service, either in terms of the
annual volume of water provided to each class of beneficiary, or the area
benefited by drainage or flood control services.
6.    These two factors (cost of service, and extent of service) provide an
indication of the unit cost of the service. The final step in defining the
allocation of costs incorporated the "quality" of the service provided, as



- 129 -
Anmex l 
Page 2 of 3
well as considerations of ability to pay. The primary factor in this
assessment is reliability: during periods of severe scarcity, priority
services are provided to drinking water facilities, industrial demands, and
power stations--requiring reductions and diversions of irrigation supplies.
Further, during the annual periods of canal closure (for irrigation) the
system is run periodically at low levels to maintain the needs of
non-agricultural users.
7.    Bearing these factors in mind, GOH proposes to introduce the following
rate increases over the life of the project, to generate the associated
(anticipated) revenues:
Fact-or           Revenuea
Agriculture/Drainage                 2                  Rs 571 M
Drinking water                       3                  Rs 50 M
Bulk water for commercial purposes  2                   Rs 20 r-
Industrial use and power stations   15                 Rs 868 M
Deliveries to Forestry Dept          2                  Rs 50 _
8.    These rates imply a doubling in real terms of irrigation charges, minor
increases in other rates, except industry, where capacity to pay and presently
very low charges result in an increase of about fifteen-fold in real terms..
When fully introduced in the final year of the project, the operations of the
HID would be fully financed by user charges. Adjustments, as further
information relating to operating costs becomes available, will be made,
particularly to the extent that farmers undertake operation and maintenance
(O&M) of facilities below the distributary level. Such transference of O&M to
user groups is expected to reduce the cost of irrigation services by
approximately 30%; however, HID's revenue receipts would also decrease by the
corresponding reduction in rates charged to users who maintain their
facilities themselves.
Sxhndien
9.    The above schedule of rates would cover the operational costs of the
major HID facilities in the state, serving an area of some 3 million ha. The
areas in the south of the state, which are served by pumping stations and
irrigate some 50,000 ha as well as providing village water supply services
would continue to be financed through subsidies, which amount at present to Rs
500 million/year.
Callntipn Proe~duras
10.   Irrigation charges are collected by the Revenue Department, which works
well--collections are about 90% of billings. As systems are turned over to
farmers for operation, water charges would be volumetric and based on measured
deliveries at -he turnover point. Until then, charges will continue to be



- 130 -
Page 3 of 3
based on crops and areas irrigated, which provides a reasonable proxy for the
quantity (and to a degree, the quality) of the service provided.
11.   Revenues from other government-administered services (municipal water
supply, flood control and drainage) would be collected by the relevant
Departments, and the HID reimbursed for the service provided. Supplies to
commercial and industrial users would be billed directly by HID.
12.   Water charges for irrigation would be progressively raised from present
levels (which yield about Rs. 150 million/year) to ultimately cover the
shortfall in revenue between receipts from the above charges, and the cost of
providing irrigation services. The real increase in water charges would be
approximately 150% on the above basis, but would of course be dependent upon
receipts from other sources being consistent with the assumptions made above.
Further, the irrigation water rate would depend on the cost of O&M, which may
be substantially reduced by the proposal to turn over O&M responsibilities to
farmers below the distributary level.
13.  Revenues in interim years are computed assuming a continuous process of
increasing charges, as well as the impact of inflation. Credit funds would
cover the balance of O&M costs in the first years of the credit, declining as
other receipts increase. At present, as a result of the initial cost
allocation exercise carried out by HID, it is projected that the following
revenues would be realized towards O&M expenditures:
tlser Revenues for Punds fgr O&M
Year:   AL  J95/  .2iLZ  2La/  98i/  99/00 ToaJl
Industry & Po-aer    25   300   400   500   635   868  2728
Drinking Water    10    15    21    30    40    50   166
Bulk Supplies     5     7    10    14    17    20    73
Irrigation Charges   150   165   182   200   220   242  1159
Drainage cess     0   150   175   225   280   329  1159
Total Revenues              190   637   788   969  1192  1509  5285
14.   The actual quantities that would be realized for each year would depend
on the many factors that have been designed in the allocation model.
Attachment 1 provides a discussion of the cost allocation model that would be
updated on a continuous basis by HID to determine the cost recovery from
different users.
15. In order to ensure that full O&M cost recovery is reached by the last
year of the project period to finance fully all O&M activities performed by
HID, GOH would phase in rate increases to beneficiaries as follows: 30% of
O&M cost by April l, 1995; 50% of O&M cost by April 1, 1996: 60% of O&M cost
by April 1, 1997; 80% of O&M cost by April 1, 1998; and 100% of O&M cost by
April 1, 1999. The provision of services to the backward and drought affected
areas in the south of the state would not be subject to the above conditions.



- 131 -
AknniazlIA
Page 1 of 4
INDTA
CoST RECOVERY MOOEL
PrnLA491m 1and A anpA  A11ncat4nw  EveteA1
1.    A cost recovery model has been developed in preparation of the Haryana
Water Resources Consolidation Project (WRCP) to demonstrate the principles of
allocating costs to different services and users. The model is a spreadsheet
calculation that has been set up in certain logical steps to systematically
develop the data necessary to allocate costs and calculate recovery rates. A
sample of the output from the model ia shown in Appendix A. The spreadsheet
consists of a series of tables. A discussion of each table is as follows:
2.    Tabla 1.  In order tc calculate rates it is necessary to have a
measurement of service. These quantities should be in accordance with the
cost recovery policies of GOH. Table I sets forth the applicable quantities
that have been used for this example. The costs are allocated on a "use of
facilities" basis. This use for the water service will be measured on the
acre-feet volume that is allocated from each facility to the applicable
service category. The water quantities are shown in Table 1 for the various
services. Other quantities should be included as appropriate. Drainage and
other services may be based on acreage benefitted and the application acreage
would be entered.
3.   2ab1me2. Basic data must be utilized in the cost allocation.  The
sample shown is for the year 1993-94. The data is the budget breakdown in the
form that is available from the HID. For the water supply and distribution
function the costs are currently broken down into the Bhakra and Western
Yamuna Command (WYC) Canal systems with a further breakdown within the NYC
system between flow systems and lift commands. No further breakdown is
available for cattle ponds or forestry or into the bulk water supply and
distribution category. The drainage category has a total cost for all
services. No separate breakdown is given for the other services of road
maintenance, groundwater recharge or the Delhi or Rajasthan deliveries. This
table is the basic factual data that is available from the HID. It can be
seen that it would be useful for the accounting function to be able to
allocate costs directly in this table without having to go through a cost
allocation procedure. As the HID is able costs should be broken down further
to be inserted directly into this table as basic data.
4.    ZahlALA. Table 3 is the allocation of the basic cost data from Table
cRM-2 for the non-plan expense category only. As it becomes necessary for the
rates to recover plan expenditures as well as debt, new investment and
emergency reserves these would also have to similarly allocated. The water
supply function was allocated based on the water quantities from Table 1.



- 132 -
Page 2 of 4
Costs that have already been allocated such as the lift command costs under
the NYC system are not allocated but assigned to their service. Unallocated
costs are proportioned to their various services based on water quality.
5.    Zable  .  Table 4 is the basic data available from the HMITC.  It is in
a slight different format than the HID because of its different functions and
the way their budgets are categorized. Expenses for the watercourse O&M and
the watercourse lining functions and the augmentation tubewells and direct
tubewells function of the HMITC are given. Again it would be useful to have
direct budget allocation of the various expenses to the service categories.
This should be incorporated into the model as it is available in the future.
6.    Xabla 5.  Table 5 is the cost allocation for the Haryana State Minor
Irrigation Tubewell Corporation (HSMITC). This was also done for only the
non-plan expenses and for the augmentation tubewells. Expenses for the direct
tubewells are recovered directly from the users therefore have not been
included in this calculation. As necessary in the future these other costs
should be included into the allocation. Just as for the HID, where costs have
already been allocated they have not been proportioned to other services.
This is the case for the WYC lift commands under watercourse O&M. The entire
non-plan cost for the augmentation tubewells has been allocated to the WYC
lift command function. If the augmentation tubewells are used for other
services the expenses should be allocated accordingly.
7.    Zahl 6i.  The basic cost allocations are performed in Tables 3 and 5.
Table 6 is the rate calculation function of the model. Various provisions
have been made to weigh and adjust costs to account for the priority of
service for the urban and industrial demands. The ability has also been given
to model possible changes such as a reduction in the establishment
expenditures and what impact that would have on rates. Total expenditures are
obtained from a sum of the allocated costs from Tables 3 and 5. Rates can be
calculated based on the various rate factors and establishment reductions.
Provision has also been made to account for State contributions that would be
made into the service categories to reduce or subsidize rates.
8.    BreakdnDn into subsyatem Segmnts.  It is desirable to break down the
services and cost allocations into subsystems that would facilitate the
subsequent turnover of the lower system segments to customer-owned entities.
This presents certain problems that need to be discussed. It is desirable to
begin with a breakdown of the water supply function into three delivery
categories as follows: i) watercourses, ii) minors and subminors and iii) the
remainder of the delivery system from distributaries and larger. Unlined
watercourses are maintained by the farmers at the current time. However, the
HSMITC is performing maintenance functions on cortain of the water courses
that have been lined and herefore it is necessary to provide for this
category.



- 133 -
Annox I 
httachm=nt I
Page 3 of 4
9.    Services to urban, rural, industry, power plants, cattle ponds, and
other non-irrigation services need to be accounted for in this breakdown so
that if a lower system is taken over by local interests responsibility for
these other services are also assumed.
10.   In order to adequately account for the various services and differences
with the smaller and small systems it will be necessary to perform a cost
analysis using the model for each of the delivery categories. A separate cost
allocation and rate could thus be determined for each category. If a category
is proposed for takeover by a user group the cost both in terms of total
allocated cost nd rates would be available.
11.   The watercourse component calculation would have its own separate
calculations on Tables 1 through 6. Costs would have to be determined by the
HID and HSMITC for the watercourses and assigned to the appropriate expense
and service categories. Costs would be allocated on a "use-of-facility" basis
as in the example but with the appropriate quantities that are delivered
through the watercourses. Generally deliveries to urban and rural water
systems, industry, cattle ponds and other services have their own watercourse
and are not a part of separate irrigation watercourses. They would be
accounted for in the watercourse allocation as appropriate.
12.   Minors and subminors deliver water to watercourses for urban, rural,
industry, cattle ponds and other services as well as for irrigation. The
turning over of this system to a local group would mean that the local group
would have to continue these services. The rate for delivery of water to
urban and other uses may be different than for irrigation delivery. The bulk
rate that would be charged by the HID at the head of the minor that is turned
over would be a combination of these different rates based on the various
volumes that are delivered. Urban and industrial uses may be charged a
premium because of the priority that they get in periods that irrigation
delivery is not being made. This service would have to be continued by the
local users group. Calculation of the costs separately would enable these
costs to be determined.
13.   Costs for distributaries and larger facilities would also be allocated
based on the costs for their services and based on the water quantities that
are delivered. It is likely that the deliveries to Delhi and Rajasthan would
be a part of this category only. Likewise most of the larger urban deliveries
and industries would only be in these larger facilities. This will facilitate
a more accurate rate that should be charged for these components.
Expenditures for the distributaries and larger must be made and provided for
in the model run. These costs would be separate from the other costs and the
sum of the computer runs would be the total.
14.   Flood water protection is a service provided by HID.  Existing flood
protection works have been constructed and were paid for out of funds
available to HID. An example of an allocation method for flood water would be
to determine the total annual cost for the flood protection works including



- 134 -
Atnnex  10
Page 4 of 4
the repayment of the capital cost to construct the works and the annual cost
of operation and maintenance. This total annual cost would be divided by the
benefitted area usually on an acreage basis. The total coat per acre then to
be assessed as an assessment to the land would be the total annual cost
divided by the total acres benefitted. It would be possible for the
benefitted areas to provide in kind contributions which would reduce the
capital costs of the project and would therefore reduce their annual
assessments.
15.   Storm water disposal should be repaid by an area benefitted basis.  An
example of the cost of the master plan with a capital cost of 4,310 million
rupees benefitting an area of approximately 17,207 square kilometers (4.3
million acres) has been analyzed. An example of this calculation is shown in
the Cost Recovery Report (available in project files), determining annual cost
for the services provided and divides it by the benefit area to come up with
an assessed area.
16.   Subsurface agricultural drainage is a future problem for significant
areas within HID. One method of allocating subsurface drainage costs is to
allocate costs for the drained land at a rate three times that of the
undrained land. This is based on the assumption that an area benefits because
adjacent properties are drained even through its particular property is not
drained. Operations costs in this case would be repaid by the benefitted
lands.
17.  Wastewater discharge is another service provided by HID.  There are
costs that can be identified to these services including treatment schemes so
that the discharge of wastewater is not a detriment to HID canals. The actual
costs for the services should be determined and should be allocated to the
beneficiaries being the urban and/or industrial areas that discharge the
wastewaters. This would likely be in the form of assessments or user fees to
the beneficiaries.



011Apt 93,CRPr50CtEL.W21
TAfILE ClnM I
W_is t Alltrulhon           Ared
(Acre-tuut)             Irin p lo<
_____________________  [e^¢1._w_'._   lihoha.     . _ I       Tolal_ s_
SERVICE CATEGORIES                                           2          3            4
I StAkl (whc.Iasale) waii aLa ly ar3 i trMbutaon  ___________          _  _
A Urban (Municipsititib)                       42,00_  226.0(0)    268,000
_B RFural (V,ilagersl                          f4,000    2()2.000     336.000 f
C Incdustry                                    96.000     75,o00      171.000
0 Power Plants                                     0    130,000       130,000
E Fishstles    _____                                                       0 O
F Horticuluref                              _                              0
G Const uctioniMisc                                                        0
M. Subtotal                                   192.000    713.000      905.000
11 Agfjcultural WIet Suppl and Distr.butron    _
A Itt1gaton
I Shakua Canet_
a Flow Systems                           4,594.000               4.594,000   2,72B,00o
b Litt Systems                              96.000 __ _             9fi000     56,000
c Litt Corrimands                           68,000                  58,000     34,000
d Subtotal                               4.748,000 _             4.748,000   2,81,t000
2 Yestern Jamuna Caknal
a Flow Systems                                             3.673.00 373000   1,872.00
b Lilt Sytlfms                                        I WOt  1t0t88,000       1 tI O,oK
c Lih Comrnrandt                                      208,0A)O     208,000    208.01 )w
d Subtotal                             4_069,000    4.089,000   2,159,O00                                                                                   tn
E Cattb Ponds                                  53.*XJ     9s.000o     148,000
C Forstfr                                                                  0
D S_blwal el                _               4 titO(i41  4.Iti4U       6.t85.000   5006 Ofi)
I i-Itl Subtotal                              4,'493.006   4.871t t)O    9.870,000
Ill Drainage                                                       ___
A Flood Potcection
B. Stormwater
C Subsurface Agriculture Drainage
D Wastewater Disposal                                            _
E. Subtotal
IV. Other Services
A Road Muintenance
B. Groundwater Recharge
C. Delivey to Delhi Union Terntory                       335,000      335,000 _    __
D. Delivety to State of Ralasthanr 
E Subtotal                                     __t
+11. +ill. tlV. Total                        49930O0    5212,00    10205000t



01-Apt-93,CAMODEL.WO1
7AfLIE CAM-2
I IAI4YANA 110i4tIAl iON D)IPARTMItNT                          (Rs in lacs)
I  f N" , it11 ORMATION (1993-94l)
E£f i DiTuhE          N(ONt  i AN                 Pt AN                         Now      Emergency       Total    Tolal Annual
_  C-A(EGORIES     C<ti.s   EiitalAuIlmrtunt   Coidru   Futal4litlrrneitn    Debt   Investment   Reserve   Expenditures Expenditures
SEFRVICE CATEGORIES            I                                               7           a           9          10          t1          12           13
i Zulk (wholtesals) wttbt supply and diblitt,utrin                                                                -
A Utban (Municipaliti_es)
a Aural (Vdilages)                                                                             __                                                  _ _
C Industry                                              ______                    _
D. Power Plants
E Fisheries
F Horticulture                                              ____.._
G Constir,ction/lAisc                            __     ___
H Subtotal
it Agricultural Water Supply and Dimr,bul,c,n                                               _                      _ ___
A lrrigaiion                                                                                                                                          _
I Shakla Canal
a Flow Sybtams                             ___                            .      _....                                     ..
b Litt Systems                                     __   _ _ _                     _
c Lih Commands
d Subtotal                                     141? 00       1070 00                     _                                           24a2.00      2482 00
t        2 Western Jamuna Canal
w0    _ a Flow Systems                                     284 75       1711 00                _          _           _                                                       t_
h_ Lih Systsms                                                           ______
c Lstt Commands                                4 7'tO 2         O 00
d. Subtotal                     ____ _          _07100 _                      _         __8 _            _                             !78 00     678600
B Caltict Ponds
' Forery            ____    _  _                                                                   __         , 
O 9 erlotbi                                       (A4t$i i,r    :/t81 0O    6542 00      3tK)2 00    2A4 00          .8906 00                        9268 00
t li sruoih tbt                                   t.4it to       'fli1 4JO   5%4? 0      :11132 00    264 00       0 00        000      18006 00      9268 00
tl Dfainage                                                               -
A. Flood Protection
P Stormrwate_
C Subsurface Agriculture Drainage                  _
D Wastewater Disposal
E Subtotal                                         210 00                     0.4F        887 60                                        1098 00       210 00
IV Other Services
A Road Maintenance
B Groundwater Recharge                                      _______3
C Delivery to Delhi Union Tntsur                           _    ____t___
o Derlivry to Stial o1 Rataslh&n
E Subtotal
I lU lkl.tIV Total 6.,or)                                       278100    554240         4710_60    2l400               000            20004         947800



01-Apr-93.CRAODEL WOl
lAftl L l f-M 3
iAfYANA INtVI(AI IO('N DEPADI Mf NT
(. j;I Al.t  Al.AI ICN           (It- in l.1ru
NON PLAN
E XPEt'JCJTIJ$/            CoJiS  _____         Esta&blisbhment 
_.. -  CATEGORIE S  13.akta    wi_    Total                       Tot       Tolal
SEfEViCE CATEOES                            14                 1         17       18       19        20
M.1i' -=wr.oI=SatO) watel suIpply Id dtrIb n  ___-                                    I
A Unban (Municipaltiest)           I- 11 1h8           2 35   4 2?2     9 00    74.19    83 19   107 42
B RA.ral ivellages)                       15 *       -1 tt -1 301   _tt 5?    025th   104.1b   134.83
C industry                                27 15      4 10    312 5    20 57     2462    45 19    76.44
D Poiier Plants                            0 00      7 10t    7 10      0.00    42.680    42.68    49.78
E Fsther,es               0_ (o l00                  o 000   _  000     00       0.00 o oo          0o00
F Hcticuiurte                           _;           00 0_  _   000     0.00     000      00        0 00
( ConstructionJfAisc                       o0 0r       0      00        0 00     00       0.00      0.00
rt Sublotal                               54 30    38 95    9.3 25    41.15   234 06   275.21   368.46
it Agtricultutal Waler Supply and 0,5trbutl-on
A. ittigation                                                      _                  _
I Bhakra Canal   _
a Flow System6                       1299 16            1299 16   984 49             984 49  2283.86
b Lift Systems                         27 15              27 15    2057  _            20.57    47.72
c Lift Co,nmands                       16 40              16 40    12 43              12 43    28.83
a Sukiotal                          1t 4272             1342 72  107 .50         _  1017 50  2360.21
2 Western Jarnuna Canal  __ _                    _ __.__
a Fiow Sy1tems                  __ _               6  . _200     _         t205 78  1205.70  1406 44
r, Lillsem s          _- ___ .                   i 27 _tO 27                 61.72        7271.99
c Loh Commands     _                          481101 Of  401o               6tJi 211   ffO2ti  4t69 90
d SubWtal                   __012 55  5012 55  _                           13357    1335.77  6340.33
o Cattle Ponds                            14 99      5 19    20 1      11.38    3119    42 54    62.72
F fctr.siy                  __    _  _  o    _   300000                          0        0.00      0.00
W Suwtwtal                               1357 70  5017 74  637545   1028.85  1366 96  239582  8771 26
i-ri Subtotal                            1412CO  505670  646 70  107000  1601 03  2671.03  913972  *
ilI Orainage                                          -        -        -         --
A Flood Prolection                                                        _                 _-
8 Sbormwate _
C. Subsurface Agricuslure ,3rainage              __
D wastewater Disposeg                                                              _. __        | -
E Subtotal
IV Other Services
A Road Maintenance
3 Groundwaler Recharge                     ..                         .               -
C. Deltvty to Delhi Unton Tertiot y        0 00    18 30    18 30      0.00   109.97   0997    12828
C Delivary to Stale of Ra!aslhan                 __
E S.btotal
:                                          42ti  00+IV Total  000  7 00 7t 00 c     71 t 00  27810   926800
14         0F - -     -A8       -        -        --0



Apf4s.CRaOCOEL fwao
IA.E CSM-4
t tAPYANA MINORt IRRIGATION ANM WE3iEWELL CORPORATION
FXPENJtit. INFOlMATIOt  41993-04)                       IR* in fact. kwh kaInes)
AIGbMFNTATION nTUEWELLS
I tON Pt AN         1' All                                   NON-Pt-AN
tEJC.ATE(aC.RlC             (.a*le    (alali    (.ua9ata    I glob  CWo,ta_   f Istab   kWh       Dbt    Inv*.l   o.pEcf   Flt As          pn    Eapn
SERViCE CATEF.OhRIES      2-                                2e                  24       21        24r       27        28        20        30        31       82        81
Sulk (w'hof*satlSj wt*t supply ard dstadon                       _______
AUreban lMuotunlipeblt)                                                                 -      -
8 Rurat (VIlhoea)                                       _|                                          
C industr ,y.
o Power Plants
E Fishe.t.                                                          -
F  ornhcultiuse                              _
G    Con ztruelion#M sc__ _ ___ _ _                                                                      __ _  _  _ _ _ _       ----
N Subtotal
aAgrlcuturl Watet Supply and Dtelntjtron                                                                                                 _ -
A. bitiong__
1. b'hek, Ctn.l
n Flow Systerm.                                     __                                                                                                    0.00 -   --t
b ti Sytamr_s                                                                                                                                              000      000
o cLittCommtannds                                 ___         -        -t  _ _                                                 
d Subtotl                                      141        7e      1327      338                                                             ,           1tt20t    2t70C
a YM..t." ismura cl     ,_  __ ._ _0
a flow SysternA                                34        lB       480       122                                                                         on--o       U0t         t
tz th Syot*m
eLrit Commands                                  20    _      I    384        07     S14 0    11tA01       40f        64                 e5        70 tS4701 9t00 
d Subtlolsi                                                         3 54 __20  3  i   4      I 6t41  10°t  4C0       04                  t        7f   2010.91   9St0t
b Catll Ponds
C Fomeiry                                                                  _______  _____.
t. Sjbtctal                                       lbs      lt       id200      55.      514 9    t160t       400        04         0        e5        78   3892 01   11 S3 91
elI Siswtc.IaI                                   It,s      ai(      2200       557     5149    11801        400        04         O        65        76 S8t20t 1S 15t Os
il Dainage
A. Flood Prolecin                            _______                                                    _______
a Stomwatotr
C. Subeudace Agtdcullure Drasnotg            _        _             -         -         -                            -
0 Waata,ater Disposal  ___                             __    _                          -                  -         -
E Subtotal
V. O%UU  Se_ices
A. Road Mainunte
b Gtoundwetet RActtiug*                                _ _ _ _
C, Dlivtwy to Dalh Union ttaop                         _ _ __ -y                                                               -
D0lo tY ty  Stal ol ReAlsthan                     I_   -          -          -                                     -
E Sub rotai_5 
11 0It *tIV Tetal                                                                                                                              6
45004    11546         85   6  a                     86        TO7    707-42   704



O1-Apr.93.CAMODEL.WQI
TAB3LE CHiM-5
I IAIIYAtJA MINoII I II"IiGA ION ANI  W11:Wfl L CORPORATION
(:(ki( At IOCAtIIN (Np9*394W     (Rs in lacs, kwh in Iacs)
Al XWMENTATION T;EWEl         _ S
Ulne) PLAN                               NON*PLAN
EXP  V40ITufE             vial xcurbe O&M             0 O    M                     New              -;7
ICATEGORIES                Costs    Eata I    costs   Estab.    kwh       Debt   Invest.  Doprec.   Rcs        Total
SEr VICE CATEGORIES                            34        35       36        37       38       39        40       41       42       43
Bulk (wholesale) waler supply and distribution             __                          __
A. Urban (Municipalities)                  __                 _
B. Rural (Vtlages)                                                    _        |
C Industry
D. Power Plants
E F    oshwiys                                           _     __                                                                   .
F Hortscullur3                                             2 _        _                  |                                          .
G.   Construction s 2s__                                                        _
H SubtotaI
I Agircullural Water Suppiy and Dl-striution_ ._
A  Irrigatton_
1  sta   ana Canal
a Flow Systeams                             13 74                                                                            209496
b LifSymsb U                                                                       I 3  2                                      4.39
a Lit Commrands                               2        t                                                                       2 66 2_ __1  0  3,  3  7
d Subtotal                                  14       27   010          0600   40000         00      0 00   0600    0700   217.00
_*2 Y/6stsrn Jatnuna Canal
a Fic-v Sysbtnms              __        __  2         |    4l4A 70   104 72   361 07    57 77      o ttO    58 67    68 60   804.03t
t, Lthi sn                                                   2t{          t ft SY1t6m  2    ts o-,0  oo0     3 oo     3 51    4t 15
c. Lift Cotnrnnendai                         io       Ij I    b ii     . __3    20 45  __  _1           o    3 32     3 0B    73 73
B   C.ti   P_                                       _ _ _ _______. ._                     ___ ._
d Sublolal                                                  51 2    S4 90 _116.01   4000  64) oO  _  Ot!    65 00    76 00   9118.9t
B Catts Pcrvda_
C Forestry
D SuCtoial                                     19$       156 14 90    11601         400        64        0        65       76  1135 91
-i! Subtotal                                    195      105   51490    11601        400       64         0       65        76  113591
ilI Orainage                _                                                                        _
A Flood Protection
8. Stormwater
C. Subsurface Agricultu: Drainage
_  _    _    _     _    _    _    _    _   _   _     _  _      . _      . . .    _  _           .      _      . _      . _                  rEI I1 
0. Wastawater Disposal
E. Subtotal         ~          ~     -1t 
OV Other Services                 _.                           ______
A. Road Maintenance                                                     ___ __ .___
B Groundwaet Recharge_
C. DOtivery to D*lhi Union To,t itoiy    _        __         ___                      _       _ 
D. Delivery to Slais of Rajaslhan                 _                                          _
E. Suototal
vil till. +IV Total                                                                    -                        -                  -



Os-Ap.4S3.CRMODEL-WOI
TABLE CRM*6
rtA It (,A1 C.t.t Al ION
_____________________ _________________   fiMla-              Tut   Ant    SZiou    *?ti   Et1ab   _A  le  er   -- si         Tota     cufn i   Rate
I E    tiI,ITt,f   (asiaeitdy  )1%il    t- span  Canit  1`vlot fladluct    Uinti    incomes   Revenue    Pat Unit
____________________________   -   (A. It  (i(j~lJl  '   its    I'ch   *(P!~   !m.to)      .  4"%?-..  {'Flo 49   La Cs) f a    t!ac )
'.EKA'JiE  WAC(36AFUI'                                   .44          '        46         41        411     4*J       b0         51          52           53
I 6.1f. (ov4.0.46610) WONt, Surpply aridi 'i.#liilulicA                                 _____                      _____
A Urtban ItAunicipotlites)          ____           1,94'i,610  600  cuilt   10/ 42           _      2                  10      199 70    199 70               3
B aFRural (Villages)                                24:19)60  6000 ci It  1:34 8'1                   1                   5      125 33    125 33               3
C lndasity                                         2.19/'.504  2500 cul-t    76 44                  4                  10      284 22    284 22                5
D. Pow., Plants                                    2.265.120  2500 culft    49 70  ___              4                   8      ¶85 09    1 85.09               5
E Fisheries                                                 0                  000  _____
F Hocnaculiuge                                              0  _ _             00    _____
G3 Construclion/Misc                                        0  ___             0 00                     ________
Ii Sublotal                                                                 368)46        0 00                                 794 35    794 35
;iAgutcultusal V/Moa, Supply. an-d Dikilbullon______              _______________
I BI.akts Cbnal
aFlow SYst6rns                                2.316.692    Cs-dnv   24)3 62  ____                                100    2317909   2317909               33
b Litt aysloma                                    48.4i1I   Cb-(.         52 11                O5                  so__5    24 22      24 22              17
c Lift Commands                                   29.249    ce da         31 48    ___           I-               tOO       29 27       29 27             33
di SuAC4aI6                                    2.34.fl    cud~ Csa..SJ 77 21          000                                 2371 48   2371 48  _____
2 WebstlsinJamnufsi,Canal               ___                                                                                ____
a Flow Systems                                 1.1152.244    CSeday    221047                    1Il                      21064 70   2064 79             300
C. LtilSpiotoms                                   9<4.1306   cs-day.   _113.4_ __              0 5 _55                      52 59      52 59              Is
c LAh Commands                                   I 64.892    cs day_446                 _        1  __           43511   4595 44   4595.44                30
* Sumlotel                                     2 G!51.942    LS  sd~   126? 24        0 00                                6702 81   8702 St
B Cattle Ponds                                        ?4. 634    Cs stay.    87                                        78       58D31      58 31
C     Fe esitryj                                                                000_ _ _ _ _                                            _  _  _ _   _ _  _ _  _
&S.woolat                                         4 '.jgb& . o.iy   r(iJ)0  1/             o                                9152 60   1)132 60
tIl S.~~~~~~t.loial ~~~~~4i,91,6?   i.A Jay   li)?/. E1                      Ii (kl                              9926 4   9926 04
A_Flood_Ptc.tction                                 _ _ _ _       _ _ _      _ _ _
B SIormwletro
C Subsurltac. Agntcultute 0:ainarj                                                    _____
D_Waslrawatee_Disposal______________
E S.btcotal                                                                                                                                                                     -
C. 066%fivy tc. Statb oli Ab istnar.                                          ..                                       8        7   7     469
ES~olc.al                                                                  V1'1 ??1     liOnX                                 476 97    478907
-vsl -till IlV  Totai                             '~ 14, ?4'1   *4l        040'l ill       (xi(                              10403 91  10403 91



- 141 -
AnnAx~
Cab=gr.2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLQDATION PROJCT
COST ALLOCAMION EXERCISE - EQOTNOTES
Column 1:   Water allocation and other service quantities for the Bhakra
System allocated to service categories.
Column 2:   Water allocation and other service quantities for the WJC System
allocated to service categories.
Column 3:   Total of Columns 1 and 2.
Column 4:   Area irrigated for the various irrigation service categories.
Column 5 through 8:
Non-plan and plan costs for HID. These are the raw budget values.
Column 9:   Debt payments.
Column 10: Money spent for new investment.
Column 11: Money allocated for emergency reserve.
Column 12:  Sum of Columns 5 through 11.
Column 13: Sum of non-plan expenditures, Columns S and 6.
Column 14 through 16:
Allocation of non-plan costs based on the allocation quantities
from columns 1 through 3.
Column 17 through 19:
Allocation of non-plan expenditures based on the allocation
quantities from Columns 1 through 3.
Column 20: Sum of Columns 1 through 3.
Columns 21 through 24:
Non-plan and plan costs for the watercourse and lining function of
HMITC. These are the raw budget values.
Columns 25 through 31:
Raw budget values for the augmentation tubewell category and
direct tubewell values shown separately.
Column 32: Sum of columns 21 through 26 and 28 through 31.



- 142 -
m.nt- 2
Page 2 of 2
Column 33: Non-plan costs. Sum of Columns 21, 22, 25, 26 and 28 through 30.
Column 34 through 42:
Allocation of non-plan costs based on the allocation quantities
from Columns 1 through 3.
Column 43:  Sum of Columns 34 through 42.
Column 44:  Total quantities in Column 3 converted to the units of Column 45.
Column 45:  Units for the total quantity in Column 44, the rate per unit in
Column 50 and the current rates in Column 53.
Column 46:  Sum of Columns 20 and 43.
Column 47:  State contribution or other revenue source to the indicated
service category. Other sources could include assessments or
standby charges.
Column 48:  Rate factor used to indicate the relationship of one rate to
another.
Column 49:  Establishment reduction.  Used to model the calculated rates it
establishment is reduced by the indicated percentage.
Establishment is reduced from the sum of Columns 19, 35 and 37.
This sum is shown in hidden Column 53b.
Column 50: Calculation of the rate per unit. Column 46 divided by Column 44
adjusted by the rate factors in Column 48 and less the
establishment reduction (Column 53b times Column 49). The values
are also adjusted to make the sums in Columns 46 and 52 equal.
Column 51:  Column 50 times Column 44.
Column 52:  Column 47 plus Column 51.
Column 53:  Current rates in units of Column 45.
Column 53a (hidden):
Column 46 divided by Column 44 times Column 48. The total of this
column used to adjust the rates in Column 50 so that the totals of
Columns 52 and 46 are equal.
Column 53b (hidden):
Sum of establishment costs, Columns 19, 35 and 37.



- 143 -
Page 1 of 7
HARYANA WATER RESOCES CONSOLTDATTON PRQTF(T
FARMER p                               fTTPT6NT   MRG¶-O MtAENf7T
1.          The performance of irrigation systems depends upon:  preparation
of a realistic operation plan and its effective implementation to supply water
equitably and reliably to all subecowands; (ii) discipline in water use by the
users; and iii) timely maintenance and repairs of the canal system. While the
management of irrigation systems has traditionally been handled by the public
sector in India, it is increasingly apparent that farmer participation and
involvement in management can lead to more efficient and economic use of
water, reducing operation and maintenance (O&M) costs as well as increasing
cost recoveries for government services.
2.          The Haryana Irrigation Department (HID) has been mainly
responsible for the O&M of canals, distributaries and lined watercourses
(which is the lowest common channel serving an area of 100-300ha). The
maintenance and repairs of the canal systems has been a matter of concern
during recent years, due to inadequate budget provision and increased costs of
operation, leading to reduction in funds for maintenance and repairs. The
canal systems are deteriorating and need rehabilitation and modernization so
as to restore design capacities of canals and conservation of water.
According to the existing Haryana Canal and Drainsge Act of 1974 (which is
based on the Northern India Act of 1873), the maintenance and repair of
watercourses is the responsibility of the farmers: alternatively, the Act
provides for the Department to operate and maintain the system and charge
farmers suficiently to cover the cost. The farmers are maintaining the katcha
(unlined) water courses, either individually in the lengths passing through
their fields or through informal group actions, where some leading farmers
take the initiative to organize other farmers to clear the channels, but over
time HID has de facto taken over the maintenance of lined watercourses
(without adequate compensation). It is the policy of Government of Haryana
(GOH) to reduce HID's involvement in system O0M, and pass this responsibility
to beneficiaries, either operationally or financially.
"Warabandi" System of Nater Allocation
3.          The state of Haryana is severely constrained in terms of water
availability. HID prepares seasonal operation plans to distribute available
water equitably to entire commands and allocate supply to each distributary
through predetermined rotational water supply schedules (RWS) known as
"warabandi". The system of water allocation is area-proportional, with canals
sized in strict proportion to the area they command, and the infrastructure
within a canal command designed to automatically divide the flows released
into that command among the smaller canals and channels in proportion to their



- 144 -
Page 2 of 7
area, and finally to the watercourse, in proportion to its size. The
infrastructure required to meet these needs has been perfected over many years
and is now highly standardized.
4.          Management of irrigation water is in .wo phases, one of which is
government- managed, and the second is farmer managed. In the first phase,
water available for irrigation is distributed in accordance with pre-defined
priorities: major canals are grouped into (typically) three areas, and each
area is assigned a "preference order" which defines the rights of that group
in relation to the other two groups. Whatever supplies are available are then
allocated in turn to each of the groups, the group in first preference order
receiving full supplies, with residual sunplies going to the group in second
preference, and the remaining supplies (if any) to the third preference group.
The preference orders are published annually and well publicized.
S.          After one week the preference orders are rotated, so that in a
three week period each group will have one first preference, when they are
very likely to get a full turn, and one week each in second and third
preference, when their chances of receiving water are progressively smaller.
In implementing this system, the HID attempts to match supplies (which in part
are from storage) to crop requirements. Thus, in the planting season, several
weeks of full supply are given, and farmers normally receive three or four
irrigations in successive weeks no matter what the preference order of their
canal group. At times when the demand is less, supplies will be limited to
one third or two thirds of full supply, so that farmers get water one week in
three or two weeks in three. The benefits of the system are extreme
transparency between farmers within the watercourse--only one farmer is
entitled to draw water at any particular time--and between canals as defined
by the preference order. The Department's task is clearly defined, and the
rights of the farmers are also clear.
6.          Over time, however, the responsibilities of the Department in O&M
have expanded. As watercourse lining has progressed, farmers have claimed
that the skills needed for maintenance are now beyond their capacity and that
government should therefore take over. Government has accepted this view by
default, largely due to lack of the political will to enforce cost recovery.
Need for Farmers AssAciations
7.          The benefits to farmers of lined watercourses are such as to
greatly outweigh additional costs of maintenance, and indeed a pr-.v-erly
treated watercourse needs less maintenance after lining. However, the
maintenance of lined channels along its total length requires collective
action and funding. The individual farmer is interested in maintaining the
water course up to the 'Nakka' or outlet from where he gets water for
irrigation, and not in repair .ng the length down stream. In general, lining
is provided only in the upstream portion of water course, and not its full
length. Thus, the head reach farmers get the maximum benefits from lining but
are not interested in maintenance. On the other hand, the tail reach farmers
do not have lined channels in their fields but are interested in maintenance



- 145 -
Page 3 of 7
of the head reach aa this brings more water to them. Repairs of division
boxes, bridges and other structures cannot be assigned to any individual
farmers since these are used by all the farmers.  An association of farmers
under the water course would therefore be more effective in assuming full
responsibility of the entire water course for timely upkeep, repairs and
maintenance.
8.          A farmers' association with a legal status can collect funds from
individual farmers, collect material such as bricks, cement and sand, engage
skilled labor and execute repairs for the entire length of the watercourse at
a time so as to provide improved and systematic service to all farmers. The
association can also keep vigil on tampering, intentional damages by any
individuals and recover the associated costs. In addition, it can resolve
disputes in water sharing among farmers. These activities involve collecting
of contribution, incurring expenditure and management of funds, and
transparency in accounting, decision making and implementation is an essential
factor in the success of the process. For this purpose, formal associations
registered as body corporate with legal backup and statutes may be preferable
to informal organization for system turnover, and this would be tested.
System Turnover
9.          GOH has taken a program vf lining water courses to reduce seepage
and provide more water at field level and by now nearly 4600 water courses out
of the total 10,000 water courses are lined. Additional 1500 water courses
are proposed to be lined under WRCP. There is pressing demand from the
farmers to provide lining in the remaining 5400 water courses. It is
estimated that the requirement for proper upkeep and maintenance of
watercourses is about Rs. 60/ha. Under the project, as part of the detailed
accounting of operational costs and maintenance expenditures summarized above,
GOH proposes to identify the costs of O&M of watercourses, minors, and
distributaries as a basis for promoting system turnover to beneficiaries
organized into Water User Associations (WUAs).
10.         The turnover approach will be progressive and voluntary, noting
that the present system of operation is working satisfactorily and should not
be disturbed, while giving farmers the option of assuming full responsibility
for maintenance of watercourse or higher level channels in exchange for
relative reductions in water charges, given that water charges are expected to
rise overall for irrigation services. While it may be desirable in the long
run to turn over O&H of distributaries and minors to the farmers, this may
have adverse impact on the prevailing RWS and warabandi allocation and right
of w ter of the individual farmers and is thereby likely to reduce irrigation
efficiencies, impact the equitable distribution of water and affect production
negatively. The farmers in Haryana are not very familiar with cooperatives
and community activities, and in the absence of any experience or piloting,
sudden changes would be untimely. Turnover of system maintenance would
therefore be implemented at the watercourse level, initially on a pilot basis,
and extended horizontally over more area or vertically to higher levels, based
on farmer response. To identify farmers' needs and preferences at all levels



- 146 -
Ann*X 1
Page 4 of 7
of the system, GOH would organize a project council with farmers'
representatives to advise HID of their needs, desired improvements in service
delivery, and possible problems.
11.         GOH will, by 12-31-94 define its policy on turnover,and by 6-30-95
set out the rules and procedures which will govern operation of watercourses
taken over by farmer groups. By 12-31-95, areas would be selected for
turnover activities, and training initiated to promote the approach. Any
required rehabilitation to infrastructure would be carried out subsequent to
farmers decisions on participation, and formal turnover would take place by
6-30-95, prior to the Rabi irrigation season. Thereafter performance would be
monitored in the pilot areas to assess farmer response and replicability. The
steps that GOH and HID would follow in the process are as follows:
12.         Step If Turnover Policy.  The policy would spell out the reasons
for turnover, and define its scope and coverage. The policy would
unequivocally state the government's determination to promote the formation of
WUAs and encourage turnover programs through extended field support,
organizational arrangements, financial incentives, operational procedures and
training. It would also spell out the need for customer investment and a
clear statement on government and customer responsibilities including
allocation of resources, ownership of facilities, government access if
beneficiaries fail to meet obligation, beneficiary role in defining
rehabilitation and the regulatory and oversight measures that will be applied
to beneficiary entities. Such a policy resolution would then be supported by
legislation, either by amending/modifying the existing Act or promulgating
fresh legislation. Project funds would be provided to contract consultants to
assist GOH in the formulation of turnover policy.
13.         Step II:  Legislatinn and Procedures.  GOH would enact
legislation, rules and regulations to provide a legal basis for the creation
and functioning of beneficiary entities, keeping in mind their needs and
covering aspects such as water rights, water allocation, water quality and
their application. Legislation would also contain obligations of the
department/government such as technical guidance, financial assistance for
special repairs, support in infrastructure responsibilities for emergency
repair, availability and terms of government loan, and its regulatory
functions. Definable rights to surface and groundwater need to be established
in the form of a permit, license or concession that specifies the nature of
the right. Water users "entities" would be vested with adequate authority to
conduct business such as financing, cost recoveries, collection, assessment,
construction, water allocation within service area and maintenance of
facilities. Legal sanction to receive and manage government assets would also
be specified. The rules and procedures to operationalize the legislation,
existing or new, for system turnover would be defined in detail by GOH, .
Subsequently, GOH would submit to IDA its procedures and plans for turnover
for review and comments, and incorporate any resulting recommendations.
Technical assistance would be provided under the project to assist GOH in
defining its legislation and procedures.



- 147 -
Page 5 of 7
14.         Ste- ITIT   System Tnvent=rv.  GOH would inventory the physical
facilities, its design and its performance noting the district water rights
and hydrological and operational characteristics of the system. This
inventory would spell out and confirm that the features are within the
capability of the beneficiaries to operate and maintain, particularly in case
of complex hydrological interconnections, multiple usages of water within
system reaches or sensitive environmental surroundings. It would also be
obligatory on GOH/HID to update cadastral survey map holdings, update system
maps, system planning and review or O&M requirements.
15.         Step IV! Awareness and PubliiLty.  After issue of the policy
resolution, and on an on-going basis, the purpose and content of this activity
would be brought to the notice of the farming community, other beneficiaries,
public in general, and government departments, through intensive mass media
coverage. Study tours for staff of HID and for farmer representatives would
be arranged to learn lessons from the successes of other states and countries.
Financing is provided under the project for national and international study
tours. HID would prepare publicity materials for distribution, and contract
with local training institutes and non-governmental organizations (NGO) for
designing awareness campaigns and to assist HID staff in group formation. GOH
would then begin identifying interested farmers to be part of the pilot
turnover program. Attachment 1 provides selection criteria for NGOs to assist
HID in group formation and for awareness and training purposes.
16.         sep. V!  ehtlIatnton.  The rehabilitation of the system would
commence in accordance with agreed policies under the project. GOH would
encourage the beneficiaries receiving the services from the system to
participate in determining the extent of rehabilitation, particularly as this
is likely to effect service flexibility, their reliability and subsequent O&M
responsibilities. The program should ensure that all work is of high quality
and fully complete before turnover is instituted. The process of group
formation would begin along with planning for rehabilitation and
modernization.
17.         Step VI! Registering the UA. After group formations of the
WUAs, the viability of these entities would be assessed, and then only would
they be registered. The entity would be organized on a geographical/
hydrological basis at the designated level. Enrollment of 51-60% of the
beneficiaries as member of WUAs would be necessary before registration with
every member holding one share (one share to one hectare), and number of share
being in proportion to the hectarages owned. The nominal value of each share
would also need to be determined, including capacity and commitment to pay.
GOH would also assist in defining the Bye-laws of the WUA, and a sample draft
of Bye-laws is provided in Attachment 3 to present some ideas for this
exercise. HID would conduct a baseline socio-economic survey after
identification of interested groups to assist in monitoring the program after
the turnover process is completed.



- 148 -
annAos11
Page 6 of 7
18.         9teD VTII  Plan nf Operatian.  A plan of operation and maintenance
including operating policies and procedures, responsibilities and
accountability would be prepared (this is a defined project activity, see
Annex 8). These would be in the form of manuals, with which the beneficiaries
would have to be familiarized.
19.         Step VITT! Training.  Training in a range of areas would be
provided under the project to farmer groups, in fields such as business
management, credit and finance, operations and maintenance, crop calendars,
farm budgeting, water management, etc. Training would be provided to HID
staff in group formation as well. GOH may decide to establish training
centers (temporary), at convenient locations, and would use local training
facilities and experienced NGOs. The workshop, skills and training needs
would be finalized by GOH during the project implementation.
20.         steo IX! :urnover.  After registration of the WUA, an agreement
through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) would have to be signed between
the WUA and HID. The MOU will specify purpose of turnover, functions of WUA,
rights and responsibilities of HID and WUA and the procedure for turn over.
The WUA would have a minimum 51% membership of the total number of farmers in
the command, at the time of signing MOU. A sample MOU (draft) is given in
Attachment 2 to assist HID in preparing MOUs specific to the needs of farmers
in Haryana which would be identified as the policy and procedural processes
develop. After turnover, the WUA and HID would carry out a joint inspection
of the watercourse. The WUA would identify defects, omissions incomplete
works during the joint inspection and these would be be rectified, by the HID.
The watercourse would then be turned over to the WUA and thereafter the WUA
would be fully responsible for its maintenance and repairs.
21.         steo X:  Monitoring.  GOH and HID would monitor the progress of
the system turnover program and the performance of WUAs on a continuous basis.
Both quantitative and qualitative data would be collected on the community
participation activities. The numbers of WUAs formed and the pace of turnover
would be monitored. More importantly, the actual performance of the formed
WUAs would be measured. This assessment would be based on indicators such as
viability of the group, activities performed, financial viability, cost
savings accrued to groups, cost recovery performance, and improvements in
distributional equity of water. The perfomance of the turnover program would
also be assessed in terms of improvements in the technical performance at the
tail ends, and area extended under the program. Lessons on the replicability
of viable WUAs in the context of the state of Haryana and farmers' views on
improvements to the system would be carefully documented. GOH/HID would
provide information on the performance of the WUAs and of the turnover program
to supervision missions. GOH would maintain quarterly progress reports to
track the performance of turnover activities and provide to IDA such
information as may be required as part of its consolidated project progress
report.



- 149 -
Annlx I1
Page 7 of 7
Responsibility and Funding
22.         The Engineer-in-Chief and his staff offices, including the Chief
Engineer Coordination would be mainly responsible for preparation and
implementation of the system turnover program. They would be supported in
their activities by the two water Services Units, and overall guidance would
be provided by the Water Resources Policy/Support Unit. Under the investments
for institutional strengthening, funds are provided for co:asultants,
contracts, training and study tours relating to beneficiary participation.
The details of the funding requirements are estimated as follows:
Activit                       T=a/numhars                    Total Cost (11SR5
Policy Formulation            National Cons.  (2 mm)            6,000
Internat. Cons. (1 mm)          21,000
Procedure Formulation         National Cons.  (4 mm)           12,000
Internat. Cons. (3 mm)          63,000
Training/Awareness/           National Cons.  (2 mm)            6,000
Motivation                    NGO contracts   (4 months)       16,000
Monitoring                    National Cons.  (2 mm)            6,000
Study Tours                   National         (15 visits)a/   10,000
International   (5 visits)b/    60,000
TOTAL                                                         20000a
Notes:      a!    estimated for ten persons per visit of five days.
b/    estimated for two persons per visit of six days.
Study tours would include both staff and farmers for national
visits, and would include high- and medium-level management
(staff) for international visits.
Conclusion
23.         Under the project, GOH would provide a credible and viable option
to farmers to form WUAs by enhancing the enabling environment for the
successful turnover of maintenance functions. The cooperative movement is not
deep-rooted in Haryana and most farmers are not familiar with working together
or in group activities. In the past, most of the facilities have been
provided by the state government with direct subsidies, and  farmers were not
required to collect funds, raise capital or pay the full cost of services. It
is essential, therefore, that the organizing of farmers should be planned
carefully and cautiously to ensure better success fLom the beginning. Once a
few models are established and the farmers see benefits, the program can be
extended quickly in other areas. It is important to note that the turnover
policies and responsibilities for watercourse maintenance would be formulated
within a framework of policies and responsibilities being developed for all
services. It will be important to assure consistency with flood control and
drainage distribution as the future needs in the water sector evolve.



- 150 -
Attachnlmnt I
Page 1 of 1
TNDI
)ARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
CRITERIA FOR THE SELECTTON OF
NON-MOVERNMP!NT ORCANTZATIONS (NGOSI
1.          The project would seek NGO participation to assist in formation of
Water User Associations (WUAs), farmer mobilization, sensitization and
training. HID would invite from interested NGOs detailed proposals for
collaboration. The HID would be responsible for reviewing the proposals and
agreeing on appropriate mechanisms to involve NGOs in the project. The
selection of NGOs would be guided by the following criteria:
a.    As part of legal requirements, the NGO should be a registered body
under the relevant State Law. It should have meticulous accounts
and properly audited annual statements of income and expenditure.
b.    Since the program involves working with farmers with diverse
socio-cultural backgrounds in an agrarian setting, it is essential
that the NGO has a rural orientation. To avoid creating any
biases and misconceptions in the minds of the people, the NGO
should not be affiliated to any political organization.
c.    As the project requires NGO support for farmer mobilization and
field level management of assets and resources, the NGO should
have adequate number of field level staff conversant with the
local language and customs and having a clear understanding of the
socio-economic and political situation of the area. They should
also have good rapport with the community so as to enthuse and
involve them in developmental activities wholeheartedly. This
ability should be reflected in some of the projects undertaken by
them earlier. Good communication skills are a must here.
d.    A prior understanding of the matter under consideration, and
experience in WUA formation and interaction would be a plus point.
owing to the nature and extent of the physical coverage on the
program each selected NGO will be a part of the entire process.
Hence the NGO should be able to interact smoothly with and be a
part of a team.
e.    Finally, the NGO should have internal stability so as to assure
long-term support to the project.



- 151 -
Annea 1 
page I of 4
HARYAN  WA¶ER RESOURCES CON TOLIDATION PROJECT
FARMER PARTICIPATION IN IRRIGATION MAAGEMENT
Samnle Memorandum of Under3tanding (MOtUl
MOU between Irrigation Department (ID) and Water Users Association (WUA) at
Water Course Ch. _  of _ Minor _  Distributary _  Canal of _  Irrigation
Scheme.
1.    Draft Agreement to be executed between i) the chairman on behalf of the
WUA at water course taking off from _   minor       of distributary of
main canal of  _  irrigation schemes       Tahsil      District on the one side
and ii) the Executive Engineers _ Division of the Irrigation Department on
behalf of the Government of Haryana on the other side.
2.    Objective.  The main objective of the agreement is to promote effective
participation of the farmers in irrigation management so as to achieve
appreciable increase in crop production through economic use of available
water in the      irrigation scheme, and sustainable level of maintenance of
the irrigation channels before outlets. The MOU will provide a written
agreement, between the WUA and the Irrigation Department on the activities,
rights and responsibilities of the two organizations after the turnover of the
water course below outlet number _   taking off from        minor of the
irrigation scheme.
3.    nef ±±gn.  For the purpose of the agreement the following definitions
shall be understood:
-     The WUA refers to the association of farmers are defined in the bylaws
of the said WUA.
-     The Irrigation Department (ID) refers to the Irrigation Department of
Haryana (HID).
-     The Irrigation Act means the Haryana Canal and Drainage Act 1974.
-     The Chairman refers to the Chairman of the        course.
-     The Executive Engineer refers to the Executive Engineer of ,   Division
of Irrigation Department of Haryana.
-     The Water Course refers to the water supply channel constructed for
conveying water from outlet      of minor  _  distributary for the
purpose of supplying irrigation water to the individual farmer's fields
and shall include all structures and lining.



- 152 -
AnneD L
taabmente 2
page 2 of 4
Turnover means the point of in time when the WUA assumes full
responsibility for the maintenance of the water course and system below
including structures, lining and earthwork.
4.    The Rules.  The rules in respect of the WUA and the ID will be as under:
Out of the total number of farmers in the command of the water course,
minimum 51% shall be the members of the WUA at the signing of this MOU,
and the WUA shall get registered as body corporate, as cooperative
society under the registrar of cooperative society of Haryana.
On turnover, the WUA shall maintain the water course field channels,
field drains and the structures under the jurisdiction.
The WUA shall release water at the off take of the water course
according to the operation plan.
5.    Rights and ResRon iilitiga.
A. Rig1tL
i)    Trrigation Department
-     Operation and control of the APM of head of water course.
-     Preparing O&M plan, roster of distributaries and exercising
powers vested in canal officers as per the Haryana Canal and
Drainage Act 1984 in respect of implementation of warabandi.
-     Suggesting improvements in O&M below the outlet for
efficient and equitable distribution of water to all the
farmers.
-     Reducing/increasing the water releases proportionately as
per the availability of water in the system.
-     Levying irrigation fees as fixed by GOR.
ii)   IuA
The WUA will have the ownership, jointly with the farmers,
of all the works under the water course including lining and
structures.
Shall have the right to improve the water course, extend
lining, and construct bridges.
Exploitation of groundwater from the command for augmenting
irrigation, increasing irrigated areas on community basis.



- 153 -
Xtt~hmnt 2
page 3 of 4
Shall have the right to request for training, doomed
necessary by them so as to carry out the O&M responsibility
more efficiently.
Shall have the right for information on irrigation related
aspects such as water availability, schedules for water
supply.
Right to levy fees, service charges to the farmers to meet
maintenance and repairs costs of water course and management
costs of the society.
B.   RAesonsibilities
i )    TIrrigation DefpartmAnt
-     Providing, releasing water as per the share of water
proportional to the command under the water course.
-     Maintaining the main canal, branch, distributaries so as to
allow designed flow at the outlet.
-     Promptly informing the WUA on position of water availability
and other irrigation related aspects.
-     Providing necessary training for the NUA and farmers.
1i)   EVA
Implementing O&M plan below outlet.
-     Providing/supplying water equitably to all the farmers in
proportionate to their holdings as per the warabandi
schedules in vogue.
-     Exploiting groundwater and providing equitably to all
farmers.
-     Collecting contributions or fees from the farmers for
meeting the maintenance and repair costs of water course and
management costs of the WUA.
-     Maintaining the water course including all earthwork,
lining, structures so as to allow full discharge from head
to tail as per design.
-     4Maintaining accounts for the contributions, service charges
collected from the farmers and getting the same audited as



- 154 -
Attaohm.nt 2
page 4 of 4
per the rules prescribed by the registrar of the cooperative
societies.
6.    Procedure for the Turnove,
The Irrigation Department shall prepare an inventory of the works under
the water course showing lengths of lined/outlined channels, structures,
crossings, turnouts, division boxes, map showing the command, list of farmers,
area which can be irrigated of each farmer and time allocated to each farmer
as per warabandi schedules.
7.    joint Inspecti6n
The works shall be jointly inspected by the irrigation officers, and
representatives of the WUA.
- --The WUA will identify any deficiencies, omissions, substandard or
incomplete work.
-     The works as listed in the joint inspection shall be rectified,
improved, completed by the ID.
8.-  Hydranilo Tent
-     The ID shall organize hydraulic list of the water course to ensure and
exhibit that the designed discharge can pass up to tail-end and then
prepare final/record plans of all the works as executed.
9.   ZLUvir
-     The ID shall hand over the physical change of the water course along
with all the relevant records as listed in      above to the WUA.
The chairman of the EE shall sign the handover/taking over at the space
provided at the end of this MOU.
The WUA will assume entire responsibility of O&M of the water course
from the date of turnover.



- 155 -
At-t-Achmeit- 3
Page 1 of 4
HARYANA WAER RESOURCrIS CONSOLIDArTOI PLO=ECT
SaMple Bylaws of Water User AssooiAtion EWUA)
1.    Name of the WUA
2.    Head Quarters
3.    Date of WUA formation
4.    Jurisdiction - all the area under the command of the proposed W>A
5.    FormRtion of WmmA
(a)   All the farmers will have right to become members.
(b)   A member will have only one vote.
(c)   All members will be members of general body of the Council.
'd)   In a first general meeting, a chief promoter and six other
promoters will be elected for further transactions up to formation
of WUA.
(e)   The promoter will issue a letter of intent to the Executive
Engineer, PWD regarding the formation of WUA.
(f)   The general body will determine the amount of share capital which
shall be at a rate of Rs. _  per acre and the promoters will
collect a member fee of Rs.   per member.
(g) The promoter will open a bank account in the name of the Council
and deposit the collected amount in the bank.
ti)   The promoter will apply for registration of the WUA (under
appropriate legislation/ Act).
Cj) At least 51% of registered land owners in the command should be
enrolled as members before registration.
(k)   After registration of the WUA, branch level committees shall be
nominated. A branch level committee shall consist of three
members including one leader.
(1)   In the first general body meeting after registration, the members
of the executive body will be elected. The executive body will



- 156 -
hmisxP
Att-ahm.nt 3
Page 2 of 4
consist of all the branch level leaders.
(in) Executive body will elect the office bearers of the WUA such as
chairman, vice-chairman, secretary, and treasurer. The genal body
will authorize the executive body to sign the Memorandum of
Understanding with ID.
(n)  As far as possible 10% members of the executive body or at least
one member of the executive body shall be from women members.
(o)   For amending the Bylaws, there should be at least two-third
majority.
6.   ObjectiaQR of the WUA
(a)   To prepare maintenance plan for the supply of water and monitoring
the same.
(b)   To imlement a pre-determined schedule of water supply (according
to warabandi) among outlets for equitable distribution of water
proportionate to the area.
{c)   To settle the irrigation disputes of the farmers with mutual
understanding and cooperation.
(d)   To organize maintenance and repairs of the water course, to ensure
full supply of water. The maintenance will include, inter alia:
silt clearance; weed clearance; repairs to structures APMS; self-
recording gauges, tail gauges, etc.; maintenance of service road,
environment protection; repairs, restoration of lining, etc.
{e) To help the farmers to adopt modern crop techniques for increasing
the yield.
(f)   To advise farmers for economic and efficient use of available
water.
(g)   To maintain the accounts of the management cost and O&M costs
separately and get them audited every year by an authorized
auditor.
(h)   To prepare Annual Report on the water received and water utilized,
area irrigated under different crops and balance sheet showing
amount received in a year and amount spent on various items in a
year.
7.   Er!ounci 1Wu,inean
(a)   The financial year for the WUA shall be from April 1 to March 31



- 157 -
Atach=t 
Page 3 of 4
of the next year.
(b) The general body will have annual general meeting every year. If
necessary, a special general body meeting will be held whenever
found necessary, with pre-intimation of 10 days.
(c) The executive body shall meet at least once in a month. It can
have more meetings whenever required.
(d) The tenure of office bearers shall be three years and thereafter,
a fresh election will take place.
(e) Watermen may be appointed by the sluice level committee for
equitable distribution of water. Payments to the Watermen should
be decided by the committee and payment in kind or cash made by
the members.
(f) The general body will decide on policy matters and allocate funds
for O&M and executive body will implement the policy.
(g) To collect the share capital at a rate of Rs. 250/ha and to
deposit the amount in the bank and to carry out O&M from the
interest gained from the deposits.
(i) The executive body shall decide about maintenance and repairs of
the water course, field channels and repairs to structures. The
O&M shall be carried out from amount of interest on the share
capital amount deposited in the bank.
(j)   If there be any legal disputes, the chairman will handle such
cases on behalf of the WUA.
(k) The executive body will ensure proper auditing of the WUA
accounts.
(1)   To conduct the general body meeting, a quorum of 33 1/3% of
members shall be obtained. If such quorum is not obtained the
meeting will be postponed for one hour. Even if on postponed
time, the quorum is not obtained, meeting shall be conducted by
the members present.
(m)   Resolutions should be passed in the general body meeting as per
the majority (51%) of the members present. Voting should be
conducted to pass the resolution. In case of an equal vote being
polled, for and against the particular resolution, the chairman
shall exercise his casting vote.
8.    DoeU=nts



- 158 -
Itaehmenot 3
Page 4 of 4
(a) Registers to be maintained and presented to the concerned officers
such as registrar, for inspection: (i) daily cash transaction
account; (ii) receipt book; (iii) list of members; (iv) minutes
book; (v) monthly cash transaction account; (vi) permanent term
deposit account; (vii) assets account; and (viii) bank account.
(b) The WUA shall keep proper books of accounts and at the expiry of
each financial year shall submit report to the registrar
cooperative societies as per rules prescribed.
(c)   The receipts and expenditure accounts, balance sheet together with
a report shall be placed before the general body meeting after the
expiry of each financial year.
(d) Reports on accounts by the auditor and approved by the general
body, to be filled by the Council in time copies of the receipts
and expenditure statements with a balance sheet and report shall
be filed to the registrar and the executive engineer.
9.    ingp4dat-4n gf th, TPUA
If 75% of the general body members are agreeable, the Council can be
liquidated. On liquidation, the assets may be transferred to Government or
matter may be referred to court and action taken as per direction of the
court.



- 159 -
Anna% 12
Page 1 of 3
HvA1YANA WATER RESOCS CONSOLIDATTON PROJECT
STATE WATEP PL_E
Tnt ro4duct ton
1.    The State of Haryana does not have enough water to meet all of its
demands. Its water demands are also changing in that municipal and industrial
demands are growing rapidly, thus affecting the water supply to agriculture.
The State also has groundwater problems: high level saline groundwater
conditions in some basins, and overdraft conditions in other fresh water
basins. Water quality of surface supplies is also becoming a problem in some
areas of the State, and floods and drainage must be controlled. To address
these issues, GOH proposed to develop a State Water Plan (SWP) with the
following objectives:
a.    identify the quantity and quality of water resources in Haryana,
and any projected changes in the characteristics of these
resources under various possible scenarios;
b.    detail the specific government objectives pertaining to the
allocation, development and management of its resources and
associated government policies, in terms of surface water,
groundwater, watershed development, catchment area mangement and
protection, etc.;
c.    document current uses and commitments of the resources and develop
the projected demands in each sector by location and by benefits;
d.    develop alternative programs and actions to achieve GOH's
objectives in terms of facilities, management measures, and any
related legislative action; and
e.    formulate a composite set of programs, projects and measures from
among the alternatives, presenting the associated public and
private investments that would constitute the water plan that
would best serve the state.
elaXi,tinn
2.    The process adopted for developing and maintaining the SWP consists of
three parts: i) framework plan; ii) detailed plan: and iii) updated plans
(periodic).
3.    The Framework Plan (FP) is the best plan that can be developed, using
existing data and readily collected data, by the end of 1993. The Detailed
Plan (DP) is to be an expansion of the FP based upon more data and data



- 160 -
annex2
Page 2 of 3
analysis, over the next 18 months. Updating of the Plan would occur
periodically, perhaps every five years, to account for current conditions at
the time, and any changes that have occurred which would affect future
projections. The steps for development of the plan include:
-     Data collection
-     Collection of information concerning other agency plans
-     Estimations and projections
-     Mapping of information
-     Analysis of expected future water resource conditions
-     Definition of water problems and issues
-     Modification of some WRCP sub-projects in light of SWP results
-     Formulation of water resource policy and development of projects and
programs to meet future demands and resolve water resource problems.
4.    A computer model of the State's water resources system has been
developed from a software package called Water Resources Management Model. In
this model, the State's water delivery system has been divided into eleven
sub-commands. The model includes the surface water delivery system,
groundwater basins, recharge from rainfall and irrigation loses, and the draft
for irrigation and other water uses. The model will be able to test future
water resource scenarios.
Preparation of State Water Plan
5.   Early in 1993, a Planning Cell was created in HID and staffed with three
engineers to begin working on the SWP. Two consultants have assisted them
with guidelines for conducting the activities leading to a water plan, and one
consultant was engaged to assist them with the water resources computer model.
The consultant for the computer model continues to work with Planning Cell
staff. HID has commenced with a reorganization of the agency according to the
Institutional Study which was conducted in preparation for the Haryana WRCP.
Under the reorganization, a Data Collection and Water Resources Planning Unit
(DPU), headed by a Chief Engineer, would have various sub-units, one of which
would be the Water Resources Planning Cell. Additional staff in various
specialty fields would be added to the State Water Resources Planning Cell.
6.    Data collection for the first phase, the FP, is complete, and definition
of the State's present water resources situation is almost complete. HID is
undertaking work on projections of future conditions and alternative water
resource scenarios. The water resources computer model is being calibrated
for parameters that determine losses and groundwater behavior. The model is
expected to be ready for running future scenarios in the first quarter of
1994. In addition to the Water Resources Model now being calibrated, other
models available to the consultants include the U.S. Corps of Engineer's flood
control model, HEC, and the groundwater model, SHE. The Power and Water
Research Station at Puna has other water resource models.



- 161 -
hnnor 12
Page 3 of 3
Northwest Intdia nrainage Study
7.    Efforts to address drainage issues in Haryana have been focused through
the Northwest India Drainage Study, which is likely to continue with bi-
lateral assistance, or with support from the International Program for
Technical Research in Irrigation and Drainage, to produce a consistent package
of short-, medium-, and long-term measures for implementation. The results of
the Study would be coordinated with the State Water Plan.
Bank SuSeirvsion
8.    Bank supervision would occur quarterly (one to two weeks per mission)
during the completion of the Detailed State Water Plan. Expertise for this
supervision should be in the fields of water resource planning, economics,
computer programming and modeling, and environmental management.
Consultant Requirements
9.    Assistance from consultants would be provided in various specialty
fields. The following table shows the estimated consultant assistance:
SPECIALTY                      SOURCE            TIME {man-months)
Study supervision                    Foreign                  18
System operations                    Foreign                   3
Groundwater                          Local, Foreign            6
Economics                            Local, Foreign            8
Urban water service/                 Local                     6
pollution control
Agriculture                          Local                     6
Environmental Management/            Local, Foreign            4
assessment
Demography                           Local                     2
Sociology                            Local                     2
State industries                     Local                     2
Water law                            Local                     2
Computer programming                 Local                    12
Total                                                         71



- 162 -
Page 1 of 11
HARYANA WTR RESOURCRS CONSOLIATON PROJEICT
ENVIRONMENT AND  MAND ACOUITSTION
IPart T! Envirgnmantal IsguAs
Objantiv~am and Statu  ef Sggtgral Envirenmntal AneRsAant
1.    The Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project (WRCP) is aimed at
improving the overall efficiency of the water resources program in the state.
A Sectoral Environmental Assessment (EA) was conducted to assess the
environmental needs under the project. The basic objectives of the Sectoral
EA for the Haryana WRCP were to delineate a viable   I practical environmental
program for HID to pursue and to assess the backgro  . situation and potential
environmental effects associated with the various HID sub-projects and
activities to be completed under the WRCP in the 1994-2000 period. The
Sectoral EA report was based on detailed discussion with Haryana Irrigation
Department (HID) senior management, with other consultants involved in WRCP
formulation on behalf of the Bank and with Haryana State Government agencies
directly and indirectly involved in environmental or pollution control aspects
relating to water resource management or HID activities.
2.    The Haryana WRCP sub-projects and activities, in most instances, are
environmentally acceptable in terms of their overall project benefits.
Consequently the report was, in effect, a Category A -Sectoral Environmental
Assessment with virtually no further requirements for project-specific
Category A documents to be prepared under the WRCP program.
Perspectiva on Water Reasurce Development and Envlronment
3.    Water is a scarce resource in Haryana and future planning and management
requirements for the water resource sector has to focus on efficient use and
conservation of water and protection of water quality of the State's surface
and groundwater resources. Virtually all land presently and economically
viable for agriculture is in production, with insufficient water allocation
available to Haryana for double or multiple cropping of all lands serviced by
irrigation facilities. There is very limited potential for new broad scale
irrigation projects based on unused government lands. Ownership of
agricultural land is tightly held by private farmers.
4.    Overall water availability to Haryana, including that of allocations
presently in dispute and/or under negotiation with adjacent supplier States,
is 18.8 million acre feet per year. Present annual water use is 13.8 million
acre feet with irrigation accounting for over 90% of use. Annual irrigation
area utilization and irrigated crop production in Haryana have stabilized in
recent years. An additional 3.4 million acre feet of water could be
effectively used to meet latent irrigation and other water demands (which are
unsatisfied due to shortages). Priority and better use demands for water for



- 163 -
Page 2 of 11
non-irrigation purposes, particularly urban and rural comunity and industrial
water supply, are expected to at least double in the next ten years.
Consequently, the main foci of the WRCP are to rehabilitate and upgrade
existing water supply facilities to improve water supply delivery and use
efficiencies and conservation and to reorganize the core functions of the
water resource administration and management sector (HID and the Haryana State
Minor Irrigation Corporation - HSMITC) to achieve these efficiency and
conservation objectives.
5.    The existing environment of Haryana reflects the intensity of
development of its land resources for agricultural purposes, with forested
areas in the State accounting for less thaA 4% of its area. Total areas of
undisturbed reserved foreat and wildlife habitat are limited in Haryana; so
wildlife resources focus on adaptable species such as deer and selected bird
and reptile species. Most natural watercourses (i.e., nallas and rivers) have
been disturbed to some degree through channelization and their regimes
severely altered through diversion of water for irrigation supply or
conservation. Many are also used, in part at least, as drains for run-off of
monsoon rains and/or for irrigation/urban wastewater return flows.
6.   Haryana is essentially a state of rural agricultural communities with an
increasing trend to extensive urban development in the Chandigarh/Delhi
transport corridor, in communities near Delhi such as Faridabad, Gurgaon,
Rohtak and Sonipat and in district town centres such as Hissar and Sirsa.
Associated with this increasing urbanization and industrialization are
emerging water resource problems; particularly water shortages; poor drainage
for run-off and wastewater discharges; contamination of local drains and (in
some cases) local shallow aquifers (e.g., Yamuna Nagar and Faridabad). The
State and Central Government authorities plus the Delhi Union Territory
administration (which relies on water transferred through HID's supply system
and which has urban discharges affecting HID's canal systems feeding Faridabad
and Gurgaon) are presently implementing an Environmental Action Plan to reduce
water pollution, public health risks, flood risks and aquifer contamination.
7.   The main environmental issues of concern to HID relating to water
resources planning and management include:
(i) Water quality protection requirements for the canal supply system;
particularly to ensure suitable water to rural/urban raw water
sources and for irrigation purposes;
(ii) Waterlogging and soil salinity problems in irrigation (CCAs),
particularly in those areas with saline or marginally saline
groundwater or soils;
(iii) Groundwater over-use and depletion and potentials for induced
recharge of shallow aquifers underlying permeable zones such as
occur in the Yamuna River drainage system;
(iv) Long-term drainage and flood mitigation infrastructure to reduce
extent and direction of flooding and risks of flood damage to
urban and rural communities;
(v)   Potentials for and management options for and monitoring



- 164 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 11
requirements to protect water quality associated with reuse of
wastewater and sub-surface drainage of saline waters reuse in the
water supply system.
Env1r6nmsntal asseR,nint of WRCP Ruh-Projent and Activittes
S.    The proposed sub-projects and activities under the WRCP focus mainly on
improvements to the State's existing water supply and drainage system. Highly
controversial projects involving flooding of forested areas or wildlife
habitats or requiring extensive community land acquisition and compensation
and relocation resettlement are not included in the WRCP program nor are they
likely to occur in the long term in relation to development znd management of
Haryana's water resource sector.
9.    A summary environmental assessment including comments relating to
associated required mitigating actions and residual impacts for each of the
WRCP proposed sub-projects or activities is presented in Table I. This
indicates that neither separately nor cumulatively are any additional EAs
needed to meet GOI or World Bank EA requirements; i.e., no project-specific EA
need to be prepared under the WRCP program by HID.
10.   Most of the sub-projects included in the WRC? would have long-term
socio-economic benefits which outweigh any environmental implications of the
respective schemes. The major infrastructure project included in the NRCP,
the Hathikund Barrage Project, replaces the existing Tajewala Headworks (which
are over 120 years old) and already has been subjected to and received an
"environmental clearance under the Ministry of Environment and Forest's
Central Water Commission's administered project review procedures. Conditions
of approval include environmental mitigating measures such as provision of
fish passing facilities in the structure, provision of alternate supply of
fuelwood for construction, controls on access to nearby forest reserve lands
in liaison with the Forestry Department, provision of adequate under supply
and sanitation to construction work force camps and monitoring of
environmental effects during construction. The issues of waterlogging and
soil salinity in Haryana are both local and regional problems. Surface and
sub-surface drainage mitigating actions would be undertaken to solve local
problems but the situation is beyond the scope of the WRCP.
11.   The HID's proposed Environmental Affairs Office would prepare baseline
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) for the Hathnikund Barrage Project, the
Kandi Development Project catchments, and representative CCAs (e.g., those
with water quality management, waterlogging/soil salinity problems or
groundwater, contamination/recharge problems) in the longer term.
RP  nnv4 vmqrJtal Program
12.    erApcativze.  With only limited EA inputs required for sub-projects and
activities proposed under the WRCP, and the overall program focusing on
increased efficiency of water resource management, water quality is the
dominant environmental concern requiring consideration by HID. Presently



- 165 -
Annex 13
Page 4 of 11
several State government agencies mainly HSMITC, Haryana Department of Public
Health (HDPH) and HSPCB have ongoing water quality monitoring programs
targeted to their water resource administrative responsibilities. Each of
these agencies and HID have laboratory capabilities of varying capacities and
capabilities for water quality testing. Based on discussions, all these
agencies agree that a more comprehensive and interrelated system of water
quality sampling data collection, processing and dissemination is required.
HID also has a vested interest as the ultimate authority responsible to water
resource allocation, planning and management in having access to a diverse and
complete water quality data base to complement other hydrological data which
will be assembled within its Water Resources Planning Unit. This information
base would be the basis of preparing and updating State Water Plans and
planning of operational adjustments required to meet changing demands for
water in Haryana on a regional and local (i.e., CCA) scale.
13.   The importance of water quality as an emerging water resource and
environmental planning issue is reflected in the recent implementation of the
Yamuna Environmental Action Plan which focuses on resolving the water quality,
drainage, public health risks and flooding problems in the central Yamuna
River area including parts of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and all of the Delhi
Union Territory. The situation is approaching critical stages in respect of
water supply and drainage planning and management in ares such as Delhi and
nearby communities such as Faridabad, Gurgaon, Rohtak, Panipat and Sonipat.
With increasing urbanization and industrialization, the problem is envisaged
as likely to become more "politically sensitive." Consequently, it would be
in HID's best interest to be involved and currently aware of such situations.
This would be a prominent role for the Environmental Affairs Office in HID.
R-as2onsibilities and Tasks for Envirormental Affairs Off ce
14.   The needs for main responsibilities and tasks of, composition of and
budget for the Environmental Affairs Office being set up as part of HID's
reorganization have been determined in consultation with HID senior management
staff. Annex 3 provides details on the functional activities and
responsibilities of the Office.
15.   The Environmental Affairs Office would report directly to the Engineer-
in-Chief. The main responsibilities and tasks to be undertaken by the
Environmental Office are outlined in Table II, which also indicates liaison
requirements with other State authorities.
16.   The main objectives of setting up the Office of Environmental Affairs
under the WRCP can be summarized as follows:
(i)   Develop a core of expertise in environmental planning and
management to meet HID obligations and responsibilities under
national or state environmental legislation and regulations;
(ii) Develop HID's environmental assessment capacity for project
planning and development activities that need to be formally
evaluated according to GOI or lending agency requirements;



- 166 -
Anneyg 1 2
Page 5 of 11
(iii) Prepare a plan for and implement a comprehensive water quality
monitoring network and data collection and processing in
cooperation with other State authorities involved; mainly HSMITC,
Haryana Department of Public Health (HDPH) and HSPCB:
(iv)  Provide sound advice to HID's Engineer-in-Chief on environmentally
related matters;
(v)   Provide environmental inputs to the State Water Plan and project
formulation options;
(vi)  Develop and apply environmental policy directives and standard
operating procedures, checklists, construction specification
required to manage environmental issues associated with project
implementation;
(vii) Provide internal training to HID staff and inputs to external
programs focusing on water resource conservation and environmental
awareness.
Staffing and lUdet Estimate for Environmental PrograM
17.   Essentially the proposed Environmental Affairs Office would consist of
three (3) senior engineers and six (6) support staff including a junior
engineer throughout the WRCP program period. The Environmental Program has
been divided into two phases.
phase I (WiFst 2 years - 1944-12 5Q
=     Involves recruitment, setting-up, rationalization of the water
quality monitoring network and data processing upgrading of water
quality testing capabilities and internal training to improve
expertise within the Environmental Group;
-     Includes all the main capital cost items and consultancies for
initial training. Table 3 provides a breakdown of the technical
assistance and training provided under the project.
Phase 2 (Latter 4 years - 1997-2000)
-     Consolidation of expertise and procedures and preparation of
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) for major projects and
-epresentative or environmentally sensitive area (e.g., CCAs
experience groundwater depletion or contamination problems);
-     Includes training of junior engineer in post-graduate
environmental planning/assessment, training of selected HID staff
in environmental awareness and development of HID's external
environmental awareness and water conservation programs.



- 167 -
Page 6 of 11
18.   The estimated costs for the WRCP Environmental Program for the 1994-2000
period including staffing and operating costs are outlined in Table 5.2 of the
full EA report (available in project files) and summarized as follows:
-     Phase 1 (1994-1996) - US$284,000 (Rp 8.8 million)
-     Phase 2 (1992-20001 - USS261.000 (Hp 8-1 mllifn)
Total Cost - USS545.000 (BR 16.9 million
Liaison Requirements
19.   Implementation of the proposed Environmental Program proposed for the
WRCP would involve extensive liaison and establishing working relations with
several other state governmental authorities. In particular, coordination of
the proposed water quality monitoring and data processing/exchange network
would require close liaison with HSPCB, HDPH, Haryana Department of Environ-
ment (HDOE) and HSMITC and other agencies with responsibilities relating to
water quality protection. Other state and central government agencies such as
forestry, fisheries and water project reviews and approvals would also
probably be included in the Environmental Group's direct liaison network.
Public Consultat'l
20.   Since this project is essentially for upgrading existing systems,
operation and maintenance and software, there are no affected people other
than the farmers serviced by the irrigation network who will benefit from
improved water delivery, management and distribution. Therefore, it was
decided that there is no identifiable group with whom meaningful consultation
need be carried out.
Cacl1niHn
21.   The existing environmental situation in Haryana and the scope of the
proposed WRCP program are such that there are no requirements for more
detailed formal project specific Environmental Assessments (EAs). Water
quality monitoring and management is judged as likely to be the focal point
for environmental issues which would confront HID in the period of the WRCP
program. Consequently, a major role for HID would be in establishing and
maintaining a comprehensive water quality monitoring network and managing the
resulting data base.
22.   The environmental/water resource management/agricultural issue of
waterlogging and salinity in Haryana has been recently studied as part of the
North West Drainage Study. These are both local and regional problems. Under
the WRCP surface and sub-surface mitigating action would be undertaken to
solve local problems, mainly through the rehabilitation and modernization
programs; however, the overall problem is beyond the scope of the WRCP.



- 168 -
Page 7 of 11
Part TI. - Social Issues
Introdugtion
23. Assessments of the possible social impacts arising from this project
were made by preparation and preappraisal missions of the Bank and outside
consultants, and reviewed by the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Unit in the
field office. This section of the Annex summarizes Haryana state's procedures
established for land acquisition and compensation, and various findings on
social impacts of the WRCP.
Land Anquisition Needs and Norms
24.   There are no on-going or anticipated future R&R issues involving move-
ment of families or communities related to activities under the WRCP. It is
anticipated that total land acquisition needs of the project would be very
small, usually as a small proportion of land holding. There are no
anticipated cases where the full land holding of an individual would have to
be acquired. Land acquisition would be mainly limited to narrow strips for
realigned canals. The project activities provide benefits to people through
increased and assured water supplies for irrigation, agriculture, domestic and
livestock related uses, as well as providing many other social benefits.
25. Land acquisition procedures would have the following elements: (i) all
land acquisition under the project would take place under the Land Acquisition
Act of 1894, amended in Haryana in 1984; (ii) the rate for the different
classes of land (irrigated, cultivable, non-cultivable) would be determined
according to the prevalent market rate plus an additional amount (at present
30%) for compulsory acquisition; (iii) compensation would be paid prior to
possession; (iv) landowners would be compensated for any other loss such as
standing crop, buildings and trees; and (v) land acquisition shall be
completed prior to award of works contracts. Present compensation procedures
are satisfactory, and clearly defined. Compensation for trees, standing
crops, civil structures to use groundwater, or houses is according to
assessment of value by the concerned department (Forestry, Agriculture, Public
Works Department). Every effort is made to avoid these. Very occasionally,
the land holding of a farmer may get bifurcated because of the alignment of
channels. Under such circumstances the HID pays a compensation of up to 10
percent of the value of land for a period of three years. The compensation
for forest land would be according to the Forest Conservation Rules, i.e.
equivalent quantity of non-forest land would be provided for suitable
compensatory afforestation within the existing guidelines. HID aligns canals
such that they do not pass through residential areas, deliberately avoiding
buildings and dwellings to minimize potential problems. Canals are usually
constructed through fields and should not go through any religious place or a
cemetery. In many cases, it is estimated that the lining of canals should
result in reduction of canal width and consequently there would be saving of
land (where this has happened, the Haryana Forestry Department has been
requested to plant trees along the borders; HID d"ei not get income from these
trees).



- 169 -
;fx0a
Page 8 of 11
26.   HID has been conducting field surveys and has estimated most of the
total area of land that would need to be acquired under the WRCP and the
number of people involved. These would be finalized prior to initiating the
sub-projects. Investigations conducted by HID, and confirmed by consultants,
conclude that people would be affected very minimally, and moreover, the
project activities would benefit people. In many of the villages, the water
is available at a fairly low level, but tends to be brackish; construction of
channels, and modernization and rehabilitation of existing watercourses
improve the incomes of people in the area by facilitating irrigation.
27.   For the watercourse lining activities, no land acquisition would be
required. The main requirement is for the replacement of Hathnikund Barrage
involving 168 ha of land acquisition, and the associated Western Yamuna Link
Channel, involving 50 ha. For the canal modernization, a 23 km long Feeder
Channel, having maximum width of 30 meters, would be constructed to feed
Kheri, Buddha Khera, old Nardak, and Karnal Distributaries of the Western
Yamuna Canal (WYC). This would require 20 ha of land in narrow strips, which
has to be acquired under the project. This would affect 110 persons, of whom
16 persons would have their land bifurcated. Compensation would be provided
as described in para 25, and necessary crossings would be provided on
consolidation paths according to the state's policy. No-one would be rendered
landless or be left with an uneconomic landholding under this land
acquisition. For the extension of minors, small and scattered amounts of land
would be required in narrow strips (maximum width of 8-10 feet) along existing
watercourses, and the exact location of these would be determined along with
the annual works program prepared by HID.
L;nd Acquisition for Hathnikund earrage and Link Channels
28.   In the Hathnikund Barrage project, which has the largest requirements
under the WRCP program, much of the necessary land of 158 ha has been
acquired. This land falls in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh: about 49 ha in
Haryana and 109 ha in Uttar Pradesh. Almost all of this land is barren and
uninhabited, and is not suitable for cultivation: it is river-bed land which
is rocky and of poor quality, and is irundated for part of the year. Out of
49 ha in Haryana territory, total private land is 4.7 ha, which has been
acquired by GOH in 1989. About 34.8 ha is Panchayat land, of which about 4 ha
has been acquired in 1989, and some payments made towards the rest, although
GOR has not yet taken possession of the land. The remaining 9.5 ha is
government land, and possession is yet to be taken. Of the 109 ha in UP,
29.7 ha have been acquired in 1991 (of which 7.9 ha is private land, while the
remaining is government or Panchayat land). Some 6.9 ha of the required land
overlaps with the Khara Hydel Irrigation Project in UP, and has already been
acquired by GOUP. The remaining land in UP required for the Barrage (72.8 ha)
is yet to be acquired by UP, although Haryana has paid an amount of Rs. 10
lakhs to GOUP as an advance for acquiring the land in UP. The negotiations
between the two governments are being finalized. Compensation would be
according to the provisions under the Land Acquisition Act, and as described
in para 25.



- 170 -
Annx- 13
Page 9 of 11
29.   For the land required for the Hathnikund Barrage, the private owners
affected are 24 persons: 5 persons in Haryana and 19 persons in Uttar
Pradesh, and no one would be rendered landless. In Uttar Pradesh, 7 persons
have less than 2 ha of land after acquisition. However, most of these
landowners' original landholdings are between 0.5-2.2 ha and are uncultivable,
barren lands.
30.  For the Xe     YmunXa=a Li-nk MCannal, about 50 ha are required, all of
which is in Haryana territory. Of this land, about 23.4 ha is private land:
10.5 ha is cultivable, while about 12.9 ha is uncultivable. Total forest land
is 8.9 ha, and the remaining 17.8 ha is government land that has already been
acquired. Other than the privately held cultivable land, the area is barren
and rocky, and uninhabited.   For the Link Channel, the number of people
affected are 12 persons, of which 3 persons would be left with less than 2 ha;
again, the original landholding is small and uncultivable. No one is expected
to be rendered landless under the acquisition. It would be a nondition far
_sur@emantan for the Hathnikund Barrage and Link Channels component that all
land acquisition would be done following procedures acceptable to IDA (see
para 4.04 of the main text).
Tha Prneeas   of Land At9ition
31.   The HID is enabled by the Land Acquisition Act of 1894 to acquire land
for the purpose of canals. The Act applies to all of India. There have been
many amendments, but they are not substantial and make little difference to
the original act. The latest aendment in Haryana was in 1984. It refers to
the time factor with regard to the notification of the land to be acquired to
speed up the process of aaquisition. There is provision in the Act for
acquiring land by negotiation, but the usual practice is to acquire the land
compulsorily under the provision of the Land Acquisition Act. The Act does
not specifically mention acquiring of land for irrigation purposes under the
expression "public purpose" (section 3), buit it is covered under 'the provi-
sion of land for any other scheme of development sponsored by the Government.,
The most relevant sections of the Act are d and 6 for acquiring land.
St.pa in the AeQi{ation of Land
i,    The land that needs to be acquired is identified by the HID, and the
Land Acquisition Officer (LAO) is informed of the same (the LAO belongs
to the Revenue Department, but is on deputation to HID).
ii.   The purpose of acquisition (public purpose, scheme, project) is
indicated. The department then shows on a sketch map the village
boundaries, distances and the width of the land to be acquired.
iii. The scheme of land acquisition is then given wide publicity througlA:
a.    notification in the gazette;
b.    notification in at least two newspapers (one in regional
language) circulated in the area; and
c.    announcement in specific areas through beat of drums.
A period of 30 days from the date of notification is allowed for raising
objections by any interested person, which are submitted to the LAO.



- 171 -
Annex 13
Page 10 of 11
iv.   The Collector fixes a date for hearing objections.  He then makes his
report/ recommendations to the government, which decides to withdraw the
land acquisition or to proceed further with the acquiring of the land.
(All of the above steps are taken under section 4 of the amended Land
Acquisition Act of 1894.)
v.    Within one year of the above notification for land to be acquired,
another notification is made (under section 6) giving specifications of
the land, and the boundaries, the field numbers and the land to be
acquired compulsorily. (This notification can be made immediately after
the expiry of 30 days. As mentioned under step (iii), the outside limit
for the notification is one year).
vi.   The LAO obtains the list of landowners of the land to be acquired.  The
land records are updated every five years by the Revenue Department.
The Land Acquisition Officer obtains the rate for the different classes
of land (irrigated, cultivable, non-cultivable) from the Collector of
the concerned district. The rates are determined by the sale of land in
the sale area, usually the maximum comparable market rate.
vii. The LAO is then directed by the acquiring department to acquire the land
(section 7 of the Act). After the award has been announced, necessary
funds are made available to the LAO, by the concerned department, to Lay
the landowners.
viii. The award of the compensation amount is announced by the LAO within a
period of two years of the notificativn mentioned in step (v). It can
also be done earlier. If the award is not announced within two years,
the notification lapses.
ix.   Once the award is announced, the acquiring department can go ahead with
the scheme/project, even if the landowner has not received the amount of
compensation. The landowner may accept the amount under protest if he
is not satisfied with the compensation, which allows him to claim a
higher compensation through the courts.
Adequacy of tha Compansation Process
32.   In general, the process of compensation for land acquisition is
satisfactory in Haryana. The timing of compensation has improved in the
recent past due mainly to the 1984 amendment, which makes it mandatory for the
acquiring department to complete the process within a period of three years
from the date of notification under section 4. Earlier, according to the
officials, there used to be substantial delay between the notification and the
actual acquiring of land. However, there are areas of further improvement.
33.   Although there seemed to be satisfaction about the compensation given in
the villages visited on field trips, the department officials were of the view
that there is general dissatisfaction at the compensation amount awarded in
the state. The collector estimates land values based on the sale deeds of
recent times. To avoid excess stamp duty, the amount mentioned at sale is
often lower than the actual transaction. Moreover, when compensation payment
is delayed, the price of land would have escalated. In such cases, there is a



- 172 -
annoxl3
Page 11 of 11
general tendency for people to go to court for a higher award. For example,
in a case in the Ambala Circle, there were about 200 cases pending while 100
had been resolved. The court bases its judgment on the latest transaction in
the area, and its award is generally higher than what is given by the
department. In one case, while the LAO gave an award of Rs. 15,000, the
court award was Rs. 93,000, as the land was adjacent to an urban area. In
another case, the court awarded Rs. 8,000 while the LAO had offered Rs. 4,000.
34. The amount awarded by the court is paid by the acquiring department with
interest, with retrospective effect from the date of the notification of the
award. The interest since 3984 is paid at 15 percent (earlier it was between
8-10 percent). The amount to be paid is thus substantial. The court cases
have increased in the recent past and HID has designated one official
exclusively to deal with the court cases. According to an official dealing
with the court casas, in 90 percent of the cases the court has offered higher
compensation (in many states, the landowner feels that there are two payments
owed to him - one by the government, and the other by the court). GOB should
consider measures to further improve the land acquisition and compensation
process to minimize problems in the future. In the past, GOH's compensation
had been based on five-year average of markt prices; lately, GOH has made an
important step towards improving the process by awarding the highsjt market
transaction price.
_onclusion
35. The land acquisition needs of HID for the WRCP is very small and only a
small portion of the holdings of a landowner would be affected. There would
be no need for resettlement of groups. The amended Land Acquisition Act of
1894 is relevant for the acquiring of land. The land is acquired under
sections 4 and 6 of the Act. HID officials felt that it would take six months
at the earliest to acquire the land (section 17 of the Act allows for almost
immediate acquiring of land under emergency conditions, particularly when
roads or tracks have to be realigned, when a river changes its route, or
floods have destroyed them; the section has been rarely resorted to). In
Haryana, every project has to be cleared by the Social Welfare Department,
which would consider any adverse effect on the people, as a pre-iequisite to
clearance by the Technical Advisory Committee and the Planning Commission.
The WRCP has been cleared by all necessary departments, and is considered to
have minimal adverse impacts on people, while the overall benefits of the
project would be substantial.



N&Q DA
HARYANA WATER REPSOtURCES a)N8OLJDATION PROJIECT
StUMMARYrENIIROMENTAI,ASSM41JT OF PROPOSEDWFRCP SUB4*JTS
PROJECTISCOPE              MAIN POTENTIAL ENVL IMPACTS        MAIN MMGATION ACTIONS              RESIDUAL IMPACTS OR -ENERTS
ADVERSE ANDOR BENEFICIAL           E U
1. Rehabilitation of Exisng    a) Marked Increase in water use  a) Notification of works to user groups  a) Environmentally compatible proect with
IrrIgation Facilities      efficiency                        b) Public relations program on water    benefits to water conservation
b) Benefits from water conservation   conservation
and drainage
c) Temporary afect to users through
changes in supply, turbidity, traffc
interference, etc.
2. Research and Training   a)  ,ong-term benefits for water   a) None required                    a) Environmentalgy neutral project
resource management and                                               b) Improved capability re water management
conservation                                                          and environmental monitoring
b) Water quality to be integral to
data colection and water resource
planning units in HID
3. Canai Unlna             a) Water conservation benefits and    a) Notification of works to user groups. a) Environmentally beneficial project
reduced potential for neak canal  b) Replanting as appropriate        re water conservation and waterogging
waterlogging                                                          problems
4. Watercourse Uning       a) Water conservation, better     a) Notification and public relations  a) Environmentally and socally beneficial
distribution to local farmers and rural   program at command area level  project
water supply sources
b) Public heaith benefits through
better water supply
S. IA Iam                  a) Enhance provision water to Kheri,  a) Notification of project and land  a) Local agricultural benefits to comnmand
WJC/Augmentatlon Main      Dudha and other irdgation command    aoquisition to affected parties   areas involved
Canal Unk                  aeas                               b) Afforestation along canal                                                     J
b) Improved potential for monsoon
season local aquifer change
c) Minor land acquisition and
compensation



PROJECTMPE                 MAIN POTENTIAL Erwl IMPACTS        MAIN MITIGATION ACTIONS             RESIDUAL IMPACTS OR BENERTS
ADVERSE ANIYOR BENEFICIAL         REOJED
6 Drainage Program         a) Flood conmo benefits to local   a) Water qualiy Impacts to be       a) Environmentally compatible project with
commuries In westem Haryana       evaluated and monitored             public health bensfits locally
b) Reduced localized wateogling   b) Bank stablzaton by tree planting
and oil salitnty
c) Minor local advwse affects on
recharge potenfals and duramon of
flooding
d) Reduced local puble ihalth dsk re
malaria through reduced mosquito
habitat
7. Halhnlkund Barage       a) Envm_n  clearance and           a) Nofficafton to downstream river  a) Improved water supply distdbution and
(Replcement d Tajewala     appw,aI by CWC already edst       cmmunities re water quality changes   riood control in Yamuna River
Headworks)                 b) Temporary Inconvenience through  b) Fish passing failiies as per approval b) Good potential for development of
tubidity of water with limited possible  byMOEF                       touism core area with Taiewala Headworfk
ffects on aquatic and benthic fauna   c) Liason with Forestry Department re  worest Reseve and new pondage
of Yamuna River                   fuelwood and controls on access to    ce  Possible ong-tenm benefits re water
c) Occasonal disrupffon to regl      isa Forest Reserve                supply control for aquifer recharge In Yamuna
road traffic and more frequent    d) HID to prepare and implement     drainage during monsoon
locally                           Environmental Manaement Piam
d) Economic benefits to local     e) Water quality and effeWa c 
communities particulaly Yamuna Nap  fisheries monitoring program
through constructon peiod
emplomt and service
requirements
a) Effects on fisheries and other
aquatic resources minimal as dver
zone already affect.-d by other
strucWres and water diversions
f) Sediment passing not a problem If
done In monsoon season
6. Shahbad Naivi and Ladwa   a) Both areas presenty Irdgated by   a) Notfficationilialson with local farmers  a) Environmentally oompatible project with  s
Irdgation Scheme           monsoon flows andlor tubewells; so    re project implementation       local socoeconomic benefits              I I
no probable mapr envifonmental                                                       
impact from project
b) Socio-economic benefits to local
farmers from canal irrigation water
supply



PROJECTISCOPE              MAIN POTENTIAL Envl IMPACTS        MAIN MMGATION ACTIONS               RESIDUAL IMPACTS OR BENEFITS
ADVERSE ANIYOR BENEFICIAL         SEQUIPED
9. Kandl Area Development   a) Erosion control, wildlife habitat  a) Monitoring of water quality. fisheries  a) Environmentally and socio-economically
(Watershed protection and    and fodder availability benefits fom    potential and health dsks of small  beneficial project
rnall-scele Irrigatioa)    watershed protection program       reservoirs advisable
b) Good socio-soonomic and water    b) Dam and borrow area stabilization
conservation benefits to local    through appropriate afforestation
communities through extended      c) Watershed Environment Programs
irrigation and reduced purrping costs  possibly to be considered
c) Seondaxy economic and public
health benefits through Improved
featyle of local communities
v 4
IO J



IA
HARYMA iWA,TF-R RSOURES C;QNSQUDATION PROECr
RtESPQNSIBLFS  MO TASKS * OFFICE OF ElE1NMN TA4LAFF,AIRS
POSIIONmTLE               GENERAL LIST OFFRESPONSIBILITIES             TYPICAL UAISON                          COIMMdENTS
(TO BE ALLOCATED ON IMPLEMENTATION)             ORPANIZATIONS
SUPRISORYENGINEER         1) Administratfon and supervision of oMce   AU CEs                       1) Position would report to the Engineer in
2) Adviser to CEs&EIC re enwironmental                                   Chief and would include preparation of advice
aspects                                                                  re HID environmental policy and response to
3) Liaison with the Yamuna Env. Action Plan  HDPH                        official and public queries
4) lIaison with other State Water Resource
Authorites re environmental matters
5) Environmental public relations for HID
8) Environmental awareness training in HID  HDPH; HSPCB MC
E)ECUTIVEENGIEER         7) Environmental documentation Inputs to     Al CEs                       2) Positon would be responsible for advice
State Water Plan and GOI funding proposals                               and assistance to water quality monitoring
8) Assistance to HID water quality          HSPCB; HDPH HDOE; MC         and environmental matters of state level
monitoring program and associated laison                                 Importance including day-to-day liaison with
needs                                                                    other departments collecting water quality
9) Assistance and advice to HID water quality    HSPCB; HDPH; HDOF, MC   data or administering water allocations
data colletion (inluding external sources),
storage and retieval and dissemination
10) Advice and assistance to the O0M and
oonstuction programs of HID
11) Uaison with HID Clent Water User
Autoies and NGOs
SLBAOIVIONALOFRCER        12) HID EA rquirements and representation    HDOF HSPCB                  3) The SDO should be responsible for
on State EA Review Commitees for projects                                environmental assessment for projects; special
13) Assistance to environmental             HDOA HDOOFI                  field surveys, etc.
investigations re drainage, watertogging,
saSnity Including lIaison with relevant                                                                              0
researchers, pilot projets, etc.                                                                                     Q
14) Lfaison and assistance to investigations  HDOA; HDOFI; HDOE                                                      " ,
re wetlands, flood plain land use planning and                                                                       O 0
management                                                                                                           t
15) Environmental library and research liaison



- 177 -
£nnax I
Page 1 of 1
HARYANA WATER RESOURCEq CONSOLTDATTON PROJECT
TCHNICAL ARSISTANrE AMD TRAINING, FOR
ENIROW  tALAVE
A. I hntaL Ansiatannea
1.    External Consultants
a)    Water Quality Network/Data Expert - 2 months       $24,000.00
b)    Environmental Planner/EA Expert - 1 month          $12,000.00
c)    EA/Environment Awareness Trainer - 1 month         $12,000.00
Sub-Total                                                $48,000.00
2.   Consultancy Related Expenses
a)    Per Diems - 120 Days                               $12,000.00
b)    Air Travel - 4 Trips                               $14,000.00
c)    Vehicle Rental/Local Travel          Nominal        $2,000.00
d)    Training Materials                   Nominal        $2,000.00
Sub-Total                                                $30,000.00
B.   Training for HID Staff
a)    Environmental Awareness and
Water Quality Monitoring/
Criteria Training Courses (Local)   Nominal         $4,000.00
b)    Environmental Assessment
Training - Short Term for
Exec. Eng. and 1 x SDO
(in India or Regionally)            Nominal         $8,000.00
c)    Water Quality Measurement Analyses,
Data Handling Coutre for 1 x SDO,
Technicians plus others nominated
by HSPCB; PWD (PH),HDOE             Nominal         $8,000.00
d)    Post Graduate Training for
Junior SDO in Year 2
(in India or Regionally)            Nominal        $10,000.00
Sub-Total                                                $30,000.00



- 178 -
annL.1 4
Page 1 of 13
TNDTA
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CQNSOLIDAT!OW PROJEC
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL NATLYSTS
eonomit- nalysis
1.    vovrvSaew.  The Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project
(WRCP) is a multipurpose project that would generate substantial
economic benefits in the short and long run. Two types of benefits are
quantified; irrigation benefits and flood control benefits.
2.    Besides irrigation and flood control benefits in the short and
medium terms, the project would also generate long-term benefits for
public health and the environment. Improved agricultural sub-surface
drainage would reduce the environmental hazards of crop yield reductions
through water-logging and salinization. Groundwater protection against
excessive pumping would be enhanced by improving groundwater regulations
and their enforcement. The transformation of HID into a specialized
water resource management institution would have a number of benefits
for non-agricultural users. Water supplies for industrial and domestic
uses would be assured throughout the year by higher maintenance levels
of the whole system. Improving management and disposal of wastewater
would reduce health and sanitation risks for the urban and rural
population which depend to a large extent on canal water for domestic
purposes. Lack of quantitative data prevents the explicit incorporation
of these benefits into the economic analysis; however, a qualitative
discussion is provided.
3.    A separate analysis is provided for the Hathnikund Barrage.  The
barrage replaces the Tajewala headworks, a diversion structure on the
Yamuuna River built 1877. The replacement is necessary to avoid the risk
of a major break of the Iheadworks which would disrupt considerably water
supplies to Haryana and Delhi.
Trrigatinn Benefitn
4.    Bankgrnazd.  Project activities would increase greatly the annual
surface water supplies of Haryana. First, the modernization of the
conveyance system, i.e., by lining canals and watercourses and by
constructing a new feeder canal, would lead to a reduction of seepage
losses. AZter project completion annual seepage loss reductions are
conservatively estimated at 667 Mm3 in total, of which 312 Mm3 can be
attributed to canal lining, 307 Mm3 to watercourse lining and 48 Mm3 to
the construction of the feeder canal (compare Table 1 and Annex 6).
Second, due to siltation and substandard maintenance, a number of canals
can not be run at full design capacity, thus preventing Haryana from
receiving its authorized share of water from the Yamuna River and the
Ravi-Beas & Sutlej Rivers. The rehabilitation of the Narwana Branch



- 179 -
Annx 1o4
Page 2 of 13
canal alone would allow Haryana to increase the water offtake from the
Yamuna River by 286 Mm3 per annum.   The analysis focuses on the
irrigation benefits of increasing annual surface water supplies by 953
Mn3 which can be attributed to the modernization and rehabilitation
components of the project (Table 1).
5.    Meehjdglag.  Water is a scarce good and the economic benefits of
increasing surface water aupplies through project activities could
theoretically be calculated by using bulk water prices for industrial,
domestic or agricultural use. However, the current water rates in
Haryana (industry Rs. 70/000m3, municipalities Rs. 18/'00Om3,
irrigation Rs. 12-13/'000m3), are more an indication of political
decisions than actual efficiency prices for water. Therefore the
marginal benefits of increasing surface water supplies through the
project have to be estimated. The marginal benefits are estimated to be
higher for industrial and domestic uses than for irrigation purposes.
Currently, about 90% of Haryana's surface water resources are consumed
by irrigation, but industrial and domestic consumption are increasing
rapidly. However, GOH has set higher priorities for water deliveries to
industry and municipalities than for agricultural production. Non-
agricultural users always receive their full share, whereas in times of
short water supplies, water delivered to agriculture is decreased.
Therefore, any increase in surface water supplies through project
activities is likely to be added to irrigation due to GOH's priorities.
To avoid overestimation of project benefits, the increase in surface
water supplies is evaluated in terms of the marginal benefits of water
supplied to irrigation.
6.    In the analysis, the increase in surface water supplies is valued
at the opportunity value of using the water for irrigation. Three
valuation alternatives seem possible: first, the costs of pumping ground
water could be used as an opportunity cost of surface water. Second,
informal markets for surface water exist and farmers commonly sell their
right of drawing water from the canals to other farmers thereby giving
an indication of efficiency prices for irrigation water. Third, the
value of the increase in crop production by irrigating previously
unirrigated cropland is a commonly used indicator for the value of
water. In Haryana, the cost of ground water pumping can not be used as
an opportunity cost because large areas are underlain by saline ground
water and pumping is therefore not a viable option. Moreover, ground
water is a free good to private consumers so that using only the costs
of pumping would result in an underestimation of the actual opportunity
costs of water. Alternatively using prices realized at the informal
water rights markets is limited by the lack of rigorous data and
representative studies (however, field evidence suggests that farmers
pay up to Rs. 1000/ha/season for purchasing water from neighbors).
7.    In the economic analysis the irrigation benefits are quantified as
production increases as a result of expanding the irrigated area within
the Bhakra and Western Yamuna Commands from increased surface water



- 180 -
Annlex 14
Page 3 of 13
supplies. Most of the irrigation benefits would be spread out through
the whole canal system CCA's, because the increase in surface water
supplies is available to the system as a whole. Only at the watercourse
level would water saved through lining be used directly in the chak
where it is saved. Generally the irrigation benefits could fall into
two categories: (i) greater water availability to "head-end" irrigators
enabling them to derive incremental irrigated production and (ii)
greater water availability and reliability to "tail-end" users
initiating an inc.-ease in irrigated area by reducing available fallow
land. At present :here are no: enough statistical data available to
disaggregute production and cropping patterns between head-enders and
tail-enders. Therefore, it is assumed that the increase in surface
water supplies would be used to expand the irrigated cropland within the
two command areas, by reducing currently rainfed or fallow cropland.
Currently only 50% of the actual water needs in agriculture are being
met so that most farmers do not receive water to irrigate their cropland
fully. Moreover, demand for water from non-agricultural users is
expected to increase rapidly in the future further reducing surface
water available for irrigation.
8.   Etimating Irrigation fenefits.  The economic calculation of
irrigation benefits can be subdivided into three steps. First,
representative crop budgets are calculated for irrigated and unirrigated
land. Second, the financial prices for crop output and inputs are
adjusted to reflect economic prices and economic crop budgets are
calculated. Third, the incremental net benefit of expanding irrigation
to presently unirrigated land in the Bhakra and WYC command is
estimated.
9.   Representative crop budgets are calculated for the two major
irrigation command areas in Haryana, the Bhakra and the Western Yamuna
(WYC) commands (Tables 2 and 3). The information on inputs, outputs and
prices for the crop budgets has been provided by the Haryana
Agricultural University (HAU), which monitors farm performance annually
in all districts of the state based on a stratified sampling procedure.
This farm management data base is currently the only representative
statewide statistical source using actual performance information of the
1992/93 farming season. However, the HAU study does not distinguish
farms according to their source of irrigation water. Currently, many
farmers supplement canal water with ground water from tubewells which
allows a better control of the water applied and higher yields
especially for paddy and wheat cultivated on more than 50% of the net
irrigated area. In order to conservatively estimate the benefits of an
increase in surface water supplies, yields of wheat and paddy rice have
been reduced by 20% to reflect the more unreliable nature of surface
water supplies. The yields of the major crops used in the analysis are
3.7-4.5 t/ha for paddy, 1.9-2.5 t/ha for basmati rice, 1.4 t/ha for
bajra, 1.5 t/ha for cotton, 3 t/ha for wheat, 0.9 t/ha for mustard, and
0.4 t/ha for gram. Cropping patterns are established for Bhakra and WYC
for the kharif and rabi season based on the HAU study. A different set



- 181 -
Ansx 1 4
Page 4 of 13
of cropping patterns has been assumed for the unirrigated land. Lack of
water forces farmers to grow the drought-resistant crops bajra and jowar
and to leave about 50% - 80% of the land fallow (Table 4).
10.   Economic import and export parity prices are calculated based on
the World Bank Quarterly Review of Commodity Markets, November 1993
(Table 5). World market prices for internationally traded commodities
are based on price projections for the year 2000 in constant end-1993
prices. Export parity prices have been calculated for cotton and
sugarcane, import parity prices for paddy, wheat, sorqhum, maize and
fertilizer. Although India is a marginal importer . addy and wheat,
Haryana is one of the major paddy and wheat producers in India and
exports these crops to other Indian states. Therefore internal
transport costs from Haryana to the major consumption centers are
subtracted from the import parity price of these two products. All
other non-internationally traded products have been adjusted using a
standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8. The economic prices for seeds,
labor, draught power, machinery. and incremental working capital are
based on financial prices adjusted by the SCF.
11.   The economic crop budgets are calculated by adjusting the
financial crop budgets according to the price differences between the
financial and the economic prices as shown in Table 6. The economic
costs of irrigation water only reflect actual delivery costs of aurface
water to the fields. They vary for the different crops and range from
Rs. 100 to 1600/ha and year. The estimated water delivery costs are
based on a cost recovery study by McGahan (available in project files).
The net incremental benefit is realized by switching to higher value
crops and by reducing fallow on the previously unirrigated land. It
averages about Rs. 18,000 to 19,000 per hectare and year in WYC and
Bhakra, respectively.
12.   Results.  The increase in surface water supplies would allow
expansion of the irrigated area by about 117,000 ha in Bhakra and 39,000
ha in WYC, in the rabi and kharif seasons combined. The expansion in
irrigated area is solely based on irrigating currently unirrigated land
within the CCA. The expansion of irrigated area has been calculated by
dividing the increase in total water supplies through the gross
irrigation requirements per hectare at the outlet head. These irrigation
requirements are based on established crop water requirements as
provided by HID assuming an overall irrigation efficiency of 50%. The
total incremental net irrigation benefit of the project is then
calculated by multiplying the net incremental benefit per hectare with
the additional area irrigated. After project implementation, annual
irrigation benefits would amount to Rs. 1498 million at end-1993 prices
(Table 1). At full development total fooegrain production of rice,
bajra, maize, wheat, gram and barley would increase by 184,000 t per
year.



- 182 -
AnngX 14
Page 5 of 13
13.   The analysis allows a tentative calculation of efficiency prices
for water. Depending on the season, the incremental benefit per 1000 m3
of irrigation water varies between Re. 1000/'00Om3 and Rs. 2300/'000. rn
the economic analysis the opportunity cost of land is the net value of
production foregone when the use of the land is changed from the
without-project to the with-project use. To calculate efficiency prices
of water, the rental value of the land has to be subtracted from the net
incremental benefit. The rental value of irrigated cropland has been
assessed in the HAU farm management data base as being about Re.
1500/ha/season on average. Actual efficiency prices (in economic end
1993 prices) could be estimated to be about Rs. 800 to 2000 per 1000 m3
of irrigation water. Even though these values are only tentative
estimates and have to be interpreted with caution, the difference
between actual water prices and the value of the water is large.
Farmers interviewed on site have confirmed that canal water is seriously
undervalued when compared to the costs of other farm inputs.
Flood Control Benefits
14.   Rask2round. About 2 million hectares in Haryana are prone to
flooding and HID has spent about Rs. 100 million annually for flood
control measures in the 1980s. In the last four years these
expenditures have dropped to only Rs. 80 million and show a further
deteriorating trend.  Over the last six years damage to agricultural
crops and livestock, irrigation facilities, housing, and infrastructure
accumulated to Rs. 13,815 million. The loss of human life is not
included in the valuation.
Flood Damage in Razyaza (HID, 1993)
Year    Area      Damage to    Damage to  Damage to Public   Loss of
Affected  Agriculture    Hou-ing         Utilities    Human Lives
(ha)   (Rs. million) (Re. million)  (RS. million)       (No.)
1988    726368       3430.9        507.1          291.6             40
1989      3542         10.4          0.8           15.1              1
1990     85744         98.3         29.3            8.1             12
1991         6          0.2          nil            nil            nil
1992       nil          nil          nil            nil            nil
1993       n/a       7192.6       1146.8         1084.0            n/a
Total               10732.4       1684.0         1398.8
15.  Methodonogy anid Renuth.  Flood control benefits are defined as
the reduction of expected annual flood damage due to project activities.
The drainage system and river control works are important measures to
prevent flood damage to agricultural production and existing
infrastructure. The one-time rehabilitation of the drainage system and
existing river control works would increase the flood protection
standards considerably. Additionally, increasing the future



- 183 -
Ann&A 14
Page 6 of 13
expenditures for O&M of the whole system would ensure a higher standard
of flood control in the future. PID engineers estimate that all the
damage to housing and 50% of the agricultural losses could have been
avoided if the flood control works and the drainage system would have
been better maintained. Therefore, it is estimated conservatively that
total flood damage would be reduced to 50% after project completion.
Based on the existing information of flood damage in the last six years,
it is estimated that after project completion total flood control
benefits on average would amount up to Rs. 1150 million annually.
Summary Results of RConomic Analysis
16.   The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculation is based on
the following assumptions: (i) all costs are in constant end-1993
prices: (ii) project benefits and costs are calculated for 30 years;
(iii) quantifiable net returns are from incremental crop production and
from avoiding flood damage: (iv) incremental O&M expenditures would
remain constant over the 30 years; (v) the opportunity cost of capital
is 12%; (vi) project implementation is over 6 years.
17.   The economic cash flow is presented in Table 7. Total benefits
co.sist of irrigation benefits (56% of total benefits) and flood control
benefits (44% of total benefits). The project costs used in the ERR
calculation are calculated in end-1993 prices and include physical
contingencies. Project costs do not include the costs for the
construction of the Hathnikund Barrage! or the extension of minors2 (12%
of total base costs). Neither of these two project activities increases
surface water supplies or reduce flood damage. The recurrent costs
after completion of project implementation in yea.: 2000 reflect the
estimated incremental expenditures of Rs. 310 million for maintaining
the high O&M standards of the total canal and drainage -ystem in
Haryana. The incremental O&M expenditures are estimated to total up to
30% of total O&M expenditures from year 2000 onwards and additionally
include all non-staff recurrent costs for institutional support,
modernization and rehabilitation.   The overall ERR for the project is
estimated to be 18% and the Net Present Value of the project is Rs. 4062
million in end-1993 prices.
1/    The Hathnikund Barrage will replace an old existing barrage.  The
replacement is necessary because a collapse of the old barrage might cause
considerable damage to crops, irrigation facilities and human lives; for an
analysis of benefits, see paras 20 to 24.
2/    The project proposes to construct and extend minors within the
existing irrigation command to improve the equal distribution of irrigation
water in the command area. This component will only be implemented after
the completion of the State water Master Plan, and has therefore not been
included into the economic analysis.



- 184 -
Agagx 14
Page 7 of 13
Sensitivity Analysis
18.  A number of scenarios were tested to establish the project's
viability as shown in the table below. Cost overruns and delays in
accrued incremental benefits from irrigation could occur,
notwithstanding safeguards built into the project.
Sensitivity Analysis
Spmt8                     ERR          NPV fRs . m4ll4nn)
Base case                  18%           4062
Benefits decreased 10%    16%            2596
Benefits decreased 20%    14%            1126
Benefits lagged 2 years   13%             935
Costs increased 10%        16%           3003
Costs increased 20%        14%           1940
Benefits decreased 10%
& costs increased 10%      14%           1532
19.   Switching values show that total project costs would have to
increase by 38% or total benefits would have to drop by 27% for the NPV
to fall to zero. This is unlikely because of the long experience with
previous projects, the thorough preparation and detailed work in
estimating the project costs by HID. As for benefits, relatively
conservative estimates of irrigation benefits and the flood damage have
been applied. Irrigation benefits would have to drop by 48% or flood
control benefits by 63% for the NPV to fall to zero. Overall, the
project is robust in economic terms.
Benefits of the Hathnikund Barrage
20.   BAckg.ound.  The Hathnikund Barrage is a replacement structure for
the old Tajewala headworks which diverts water from the Yamuna River to
Haryana. Tajewala headworks were constructed during 1873 to 1877. The
estimated life of such a hydraulic structure is normally taken as 100
years. The headworks is of vital importance because it supplies Delhi
with all of its water requirements. It diverts up to 16,000 cusecs of
water from the Yamuna River providing two-thirds of Haryana's CCA with
canal water. The Tajewala headworks are not safe enough to withstand
major floods. During the flood of 1978 it was damaged badly and on the
verge of breaking if the high flood had persisted for a few hours more.
In 1983 a high-level expert committee appointed by GOl and headed by the
Central Water and Power Commission stated that the structure is outmoded
and inefficient. The committee recommended the construction of a new
barrage about 3 km upstream of the Tajewala headworks after a detailed
examination of various alternatives. A rehabilitation of the Tajewala
headworks at the old site is not viable because it does not allow a
reduction of the frequent and high fluctuations of the water flow. These



- 185 -
AnnBL &
Page 8 of 13
fluctuations effect adversely the supply of irrigation water to the
Western Yamuna Canal.
21.   Since the Hathnikund Barrage provides a replacement for the old
and outmoded Tajewala headworks it has no direct, but several indirect
benefits. The Hathnikund Barrage would: (i) avoid the risk of a major
break of the Tajewala headworks which would disrupt considerably
irrigation supplies to Haryana and domestic water supplies to Delhi;
(ii) permit a higher water offtake from the Yamuna river for irrigation
in Haryana (within the limits of the interstate agreement on water
sharing): (iii) provide sufficient pondage to absorb fluctuations in the
river flow and ensure smooth supplies to the offtaking irrigation
channels; and (iv) provide a site for future power generation (16 MW) by
utilizing the head available between the Hathnikund Barrage and Tajewala
headwork.
22. Methodology and Results. Lack of rigorous data prevents a
detailed quantification of all the benefits involved in replacing the
headworks. Therefore the economic analysis focuses on the impact of a
major breach of the old Tajewala headworks on irrigated crop production
in Haryana. Considering the age of the headworks a major breach in the
flood season (kharif) can be expected within the next 5 to 15 years.
This would result in the loss of a large proportion of irrigated crops
in the NYC area. It is assumed in the analysis that the damage would be
confined to one kharif season because the headworks would be repaired
temporarily until a permanent structure could be built. Thus, assuming
105 supply days in kharif, a breach would result in loss of irrigation
to about 550,000 ha in NYC. Conservatively assuming that farmers are
able to harvest one rainfed crop from their fields, farm income would be
reduced by approximately Rs. 10,000 per hectare from loss of irrigation
in that season. The total loss for 550,000 ha would amount to Rs. 5360
million (in end-1993 prices). Total cost of constructing the Hathnikund
Barrage is Rs. 1960 million (incl. physical contingencies) over the four
year construction period.
23. The ERR calculation for the Hathnikund Barrage is based on the
following assumptions: (i) a major breach of the barrage would occur in
the next 5, 10, or 15 years (three separate projections are estimated);
(ii) project costs are calculated over 4 years of construction; (iii)
quantifiable net returns are from preventing the loss of irrigated
agricultural production on 550,000 ha in kharif in one year; (v)
temporary repairs would be initiated immediately to prevent further
production losses; and (vi) the opportunity cost of capital is 12%. If
a major breach would occur within the next five years (i.e. one year
after completion of the Hathnikund Barrage) the ERR is estimated to be
40%. A breach after 10 or 15 years would result in an ERR of 14% and
8%, respectively.   The average of the ERR over that period is 15%. The
assumptions on the value of the economic losses due to a breach of the
Tajewala headworks are extremely conservative as they do not include the
costs of alternatively transporting drinking water to Delhi.



- 186 -
&Unea 14
Page 9 of 13
24.   Including the costs and benefits of the Hathnikund Barrage changes
the overall ERR for the project accordingly. Assuming a major breach of
the Tajewala headworks after 5, 10, or 15 years the ERR for the whole
project is 20%, 17%, and 16%, respectively. If only the costs of the
barrage are included in the calculation, the overall ERR drops to 15%.
etnsitivlty  hn-aly.i  including  Eathaikund  Barrage
2ak4t                   mm              NPV 1Rl.. mlliann
Costs and Benefits of Hathnikund Barrage included
Break after 5 yrs          20%                  5557
Break after 10 yrs         17%                  4241
Break after 15 yrs         16%                  3495
Only costs of Hathnikund Barrage included
Base case (Hathnikund)    15%                   2515
Non-qUanifiable Proeclt Benefits
25.   Several long-term benefits have not been included in the analysis:
(1) Modernizing canals and water courses also reduce water-logging and
limit the rise of the water table which have considerable benefits for
the environment and for future crop production. Currently about 65
percent of Haryana is unoorlain by brackish to very saline groundwater.
Seepage losses both from the conveyance system and in the field are
resulting in a rapid rise of the water table. Areas with high
groundwater levels may already account for 0.4 Mha. Eventually, up to
1.5 to 2.0 Mha may be affected by high water levels, water logging and,
in the long run, soil salinization, ultimately reducing crop production.
It is estimated that, depending on the levsl of salinity, yields of
wheat could be 7-13% and yields of rice 4-7% lower than on non-saline
soils. Another study found that salinity accounts for as much as 72% of
the difference of gross farm income between normal and salt-affected
plots in the Sharda Sahayak irrigation project in Uttar Pradesh. The
long-term benefits of slowing down the rise of the water table can not
be quantified because the cause-effect relationship between system
modernization and changes of the water table have not been established
scientifically. However, literature sources suggest that water table
control as a means of reducing salinization is far more cost-effective
than reclaiming saline lands. (ii) In other areas of Haryana, excessive
groundwater pumping has led to a severe overdraft of the groundwater
resources. The project supports the formulation of a groundwater
regulatory enforcement program to carry out the GOH's regulatory
policies and enacted legislation to sustain groundwater levels. (iii)
Non-agricultural users would equally benefit from improvements of the
conveyance systems. Substandard canal maintenance has often led to
temporary shortages in water supplies to municipalities and rural areas
for drinking water and industrial purpos-s. The benefits of ensuring



- 187 -
&nnaX 14
PagT. 10 of 13
drinking water supplies even in times of water scarcity by improving the
management of the conveyance system are equally hard to estimate but are
quite substantial. (iv) Finally, wastewater discharge is currently
accepted into the canals. As canal water is often used for drinking
water, this poses a threat to human health. A comprehensive water
quality monitoring network is planned to improve water quality
management.
Financial Analvsia
26.   The overall financial position of Haryana is sound and the State's
financial management ranks as one of the best in the country. The
fiscal deficit remains within a range of 3% of the SDP. Nevertheless,
expenditures have exceeded revenues in the water And power sector. The
Government of Haryana (GOH) is determined to reverse this trend,
emphasizing pricing policies and financial accountability in the water
and power sectors.
The Water Sector
27.   Background.  Water charges for bulk water supplies to irrigation,
industries or mun-cipal uses were increased last year for the first time
since 1976, effectively decreasing water charges in real terms.
Revenues have not kept pace with expenditures, thereby increasing HID's
annual budget deficit to about 80% of the non-plan expenditures or to
Ps. 754 million in absolute terms (Table 8). The decline in revenues
has not only deepened the financial deficit but has also created a
situation where the Haryana Irrigation Department (HID) could not fully
maintain the existing irrigation and drainage system under their
responsibility. The under-funding of maintenance activities caused
leakages, breaches and a reduction of the safe carrying capacity of
major canals.
28.   In line with it's new policy, GOH has approved a cost recovery
plan prepared by HID to recover the O&M costs of HID's services from the
beneficiaries. HID has already increased water charges to industrial
users and to the Union Territory of Delhi. The targeted six-year
program involves progressive increases in water rates to enable ful
cost recove-y for all operating and maintenance expenditures by the year
2000. The cost recovery program is described in detail in Annex 10.
This would allow HID to decrease state subsidies to the sector and to
improve future maintenance of the conveyor system. The only exemption
from the cost recovery program are marginal and drought-prone areas in
the southern part of the state which will continue to receive a
transparent and targeted subsidy in the form of water deliveries through
a costly system of lift canals. The bulk of this water is used for
village water supplies and for irrigating a very small proportion of the
area under irrigation in the state (2% of the area irrigated). The lift
canal areas are consequently excluded from the following analysis.



- 188 -
hntmtli
Page 11 of 13
29.  MethodolTaiesnnd. nfinitinns.  The objective of the financial
analysis is to assess the impact of project activities on the financial
situation of HID over the next six years. The expected revenues and
expenditures as laid out in the six-year program of HID (with-project
scenario) are compared with an estimated situation that would have
occurred without the project activities (without-project scenario).
Operation and maintenance expenditures are identified in the RID budget
as "non-plan expenditures". This category includes all opexation and
maintenance costs broken down by various service categories. It
includes all recurrent expenditures for administration, supervision,
workmen, vehicles, equipment, electricity, and all similar costs.  Net
investments and rehabilitation are identified as "plan expenditures".
These are expenditures for improvement and major re?>airs of facilities
that are not associated with a major capital improvement project.
30.   Without-PXoj.ct.  Th. without-project scenario is based on a
continuation of the revenue and expenditure pattern as shown in Table 8.
It is assumed that both water charges and expenditures would increase
annually by 4% up to the year 2000.  Thus, the budget defIcit of HID
would continue to increase in absolute terms up to Rs. 958 million and
would reach an estimated total amount of Rs. 5500 million over the next
six years (Table 9j. This is a conservative estimate because HID's
expenditures have been increasing by a larger proportion, especially
staff costs.
31.  with-PrjiecQ.  In the with-project scenario financial
stabilization of HID's budget would be reached in the last project year
where revenues would be higher than non-plan expenditures. This
positive development is based on changes in three important fields due
to WRCP activities. First, non-plan expenditures for operation and
maintenance of the conveyor system would increase considerably as
compared to the without-project scenario resulting in improvements of
HID's services. Second, total revenues from water charges would
increase about ten-fold over the project period due to HID's efforts in
improving cost r>^overy for its higher quality services.  Third, an
increase in revenues from the irrigation sector can be expected, as
system modernization and rehabilitation lead to water savings and a
consequent increase in area irrigated and revenues from water charge
collection. These projections are based on the detailed cost recovery
program for the project period as prepared by HID.
32.  Rsaulta. The project will generate a net financial return to GOH
in terms of reducing HID's budget deficit by about Rs. 3600 million over
the next six years (Table 9). Whereas in the first year expenditures
would exceed revenues by Rs. 730 million, six years later the trend in
reversed and revenues would slightly exceed non-plan expenditures by Rs.
77 million. If the program is implemented according to schedule HID
would achieve a balanced budget and reverse the actual and increasing
dependence on external financing for recurrent expenditures. The small
budget surplus ini the last year of project implementation would allow



- 189 -
Annax 14
Page 12 of 13
HID to partly finance future net investments from own revenues.
However, even though HID plans to recover full capital and O&M costs for
all new construction for non-agricultural services, GOH would continue
to finance all net investments in irrigation in the near future.
33.   Sensitivity Analysis.  The major risk under the project is
associated with the success of the cost recovery program. Sensitivity
analysis shows that if cost recovery is 10% less than that anticipated,
total returns would reduce by 15%. If total non-plan expenditures
increase by 10% over the six year period, total returns wouid reduce by
20%. Assuming that the increases of water charges are delayed by one
year, total returns would reduce by 37%. Even thoughi the cost recovery
program, if implemented, does improve the financial budget of HID,
success depends critically on the timely introduction and full recovery
of future water charges.
34.   Besides delivering bulk water to consumers, HID provides a number
of other services like flood protection, storm water disposal,
subsurface agricultural drainage and waste water disposal. These
services are generally provided and levied by separate entities in other
countries like the US and Germany. HID currently does not levy a charge
for these important services but, as part of the project activities,
proper cost allocation mechanisms would be worked out in the new
administrative unit. When these plans have been approved by GOH,
another important revenue source for HID would be created. Further
reductions of the operation and maintenance costs can be expected from
turning over the responsibility of watercourse maintenance to the
farmers after gaining experience in pilot areas. However, turnover of
watercourse maintenance is likely to be cost-neutral because the
reduction of maintenance expenditures would be matched by a proportional
reduction of HID's water charges to the farmers.
The Power Sector
35.  Past Trends.  The budget deficit of the Haryana State Electricity
Board (HSEB) increased considerably over the last years (Table 10). In
part, the deficit is caused by a bad payment record and in part by not
charging the long run marginal costs of power production. In fiscal
year 1992/93 HSEB had receivables equivalent to 9.7 months and has to
finance these by not paying their main suppliers (e.g., Coal India,
National Thermal Power Corporation). Most of these arrears originate in
agriculture or state government departments. The agricultural sector
consumes nearly one-half of the total electricity produced but pays the
lowest rate for energy use (Table 10). Even though the power rates
charged to agricultural users have increased over the last three years,
they would have to be raised considerably (up to Rs. 1.5/kwh) to meet
the long run marginal costs. The subsidy on account of supplying rural
areas (estimated at about Rs. 3500 million in fiscal year 92/93) is
reaching unsustainable levels, since tariff increases are not adequate
to cover the increase in average cost of supply.



- 190 -
Amnax 14
Page 13 of 13
36.  FuturA PromoectA.  In line with the new policy, GON has agreed to
reduce the deficit of HSEB by designing an action plan to eliminate the
arrears of government entities. Under this scheme, HID has agreed to
repay fully its arrears to HSEB by March 1995. HID has also agree%.. to
raise considerably the charge for public tubewells to Rs. 1.42/kwh and
by 12% annually thereafter. Currently, less than 1% of all tubewells
are operated by public institutions, so that these plans will only
reduce HSEB's budget deficit marginally. Regarding the more than
380,000 privately operated tubewells, a general commitment was obtained
from GOH, that the power rates for all unmetered tubewells would be
increased to the equivalent of 50 paise/kwh- The limited impact of the
WRCP on energy consumption does not allow a quantitative financial
analysis.
37.   In view of the financial difficulties faced by both government
institutions, it is important that the envisaged cost iacovery programs
in both sectors can be implemented fully and on time. This will not
only reduce the burden on the state budget but also increase the long-
term quality standards of the services provided in the water and power
sector and lead to more optimal use of water resources and power.



-  19   -
INDIA                                           Table I
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOUDATION PROJECT
Estimating Irration Benefits
SHAKRA                   WYC                     TOTAL
kharif      rabi       kharif       rabi
Reduction of seepage losses
1)     Modemization of existing canals                 (MmA3)       103.60       93.00       60.70       54.80        312.10
2)     Construction of feeder canal                     (Mm^3)                                15.80      32.60         48.40
3)     Lining of watercourses                           (MmA3)    126.20        113.20        35.30      31.90        306.60
Increase in actual carrying capacity of canals
4)     Rehabil0tation of canals                                      142.90      142.90                               285.80
5) Incremental lncrease In Surface Water                (MmW3)    372.70        349.10      111.80      119.30        952.90
6) Irdgation requirement per hectare                      (mA3)       7082        6437        7417        5058
7) Expansion of Irrigated area                              (ha)     52623       64206       15073       23585       155489
8) Incremental Net Beneit                               (Rs/ha)       6896       12487        9745        7943
9) Total Incremental Net Beneft                          (Rs M)    302.89       800.45      146.89      18735        1497.68
Notes:
1) 525 cusec saved annualy by reducng seepage sses, asmng 278 fui supply dap In Bhaba and 200 wdl sUpphr days In wYC.
2) 276 cusecs saved annually by reducin seepage losses, assuig 72 ful supply days In WYC.
3) 498 cusecs saved annually by rducin sePag losses, as n 278 fuh supply day in Bitac ad 200 u supply dws in WYC.
4) Safe canying capacity of Neawna brtah nreases by 800 cusecs annually. assuming 148 fuh supply days for higaion in Bhba
5) Sum of rows 1 2.3,4
6) Gross igatlon requremts at outlet heat as estimaed by HID asswming aon o eiciency of fte whole sysem of C0%
7) Incremental Inrease in suface waer supply to rIgte previously unfrgaed oplnd witin te twaonnds. Devide row 6/ row 5
8) See Table 4
9) lffiga00n benefit calculated by muflpyng rows 7 and 8.



INDIA
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOUDATION PROJECT
Crop fudgeSt caclated with financial and economfc pnces. VWestem Yamuna Canal Command
FINANCIAL PRICES
KHARIF                                                   RABI
Rs/ha
Paddy fine Basmatl  Cotton Am Baira    Jawar             Wheat   Gram       Baf,ey    Sunflower Mustard   Barseem
Crop                16998    19380    15126      2976      9917              12977     3809      7701    14235      8512    18073
By-Product           247       304       348     1359         0               2549      284      1539        0         0        0
Gross Retum         17243    19683    15475      4335      9917              15526     4073      9240    14236      8512    18073
Seed                  371      408       257      158       501                714      445       380      776       128      1220
Nitrgen              1084      474       598      153       356                526       12        89      659       390      474
Phosphorus           496       190      222        20        30                e72       37        49      672       385       190
Potassium              62       79         2        0         0                 S4        0         0        0         2        12
Plant prot.           998      274      122.3      27         5                  0       10         0       69        89        0
Field works 1)      3100      3290      3048     2137      1613               3364     1181      3028     2591      2280     2949
IrrigatIon          2132      1927       776      136       830               1198       54       832      795       682     2023
Inc.work cap. 2)     408       348       333      128       158                346       82       215      314       183      380
Misc.                  94       74       119       57        77                 77       52        62       54        42        77
Total Var. cost      8744     7064      6583     2816      3369               8900     1872      4456     5921      4182     7326
Gross Margin        8499    12619       8892     1519      6648               8536     2201      4784     8314      4330    10747
ECONOMIC PRICES
KF1ARIF                                                  RABI
RsMha
Paddy fine Basmab'  Cotton Am Bajra    Jawar            ,Wheat   Gram       Bartey    Sunflower Mustad   Barseem
Crop               22163    15504    23597       5000      7934              20660     3047      6161    11388      6809    14458
By-Product            158      243      279      1087         0               1631      211      1231        0         0        0
Gross Retum        22321    15747    23876       6087      7934              22291     3258      7392    11388      6809    14458
Seed                 237       326      206       127       401                457      356       304      620       103      976
Nibogen             2212      1209      1524      391       907               1073       31       227     1682       995     .209
Phosphorus           294       141       165       15        22                398       27        37      497       285      141
Potassium              55       88         3        0         0                 83        0         0        0         3        14
Plant prot.          798       274      1228       27         5                  0       10         0       59        89        a
Fleld works          1984     2632     2438      1709      1290               2153      945      2423     2073      1824     2359
Inrgaton             427       534       559       87        87                225      324       255      302       302     1820
inc. work. cap.      261       279       267      103       126                221       65       172      251       146      304
MiS=                   60       59        95       45        61                 49       41        49       43        34       e1
Total Vau. cost      6328     5542      6484     2503      2900               4659     1800      3486     5528      3780     8685
Gross Margin 3)     15993    10205    17392      3584      5034              17632     1459      3926     5860      3029     7774
Soune: Haryana Agriculttral Universdy, Directorate of Extendslt Educvaftn a    e
Finandal parya farmig  Uason 19v2es3 D
i) nancalt arc, la"r.mi . sastne 9O9193 rin bwttd   ftrwe      p  t t
2) ttfnetotwokc twpiw    edtas 12%/yewfoto?pT"t tildp'mls on tle
3) Gl  ilam and tot      C p   fi otreat tben rdtcd bJ  2O lht to oi vilh Wl 0n



IlDMIA
ARYANA WTER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Crop Budget cauated wi  financa an  onomic pic  shab Command
FINANCILl PRtCES
KHMF                                                                                 RABI
Rsaf
Paddyfine    eme   Cot  Am  eba             .law       Maize   Sugare         _         Wh       Mustard  Sunflower  Bareem
Crop                  1.1622     17206     13797       3011       9638      3851      26194                1196o       82e6      131T0      19184
By-Product              210        368        818      2076          0       368       1193                 2256          0          0          0
Gross Return          14832      17574     14416       S0S6       983       4219      27387                U235        826O      13190     19184
See$                    427        613        163       341        254        "1o      4478                   74m       341        719       1118
Nitrogen                o52        403       452        148        259       361        753                   8'4       437        442        es8
Phophorus               516        291       247         12         82        114       766                   734       682        606        440
Potassium                69         94          0         0          0          0       116                     0          0         0          0
Pla prof.               163        282       929         42          0        190       163                     s          0       371          0
Fid works 1            3097       3085      3083       2023       1640      1689       S224                 3372       3248       2878      3726
Irrigtson              2016       1798       405         49        385          0      1813                 1102        692        958      7499
bnc work cap. 2)        356        333        277       116        124        126      1423                   351       220        321        631
Min                      82         77         37         0         64         57        64                    54        42         72         64
Totl Var. cost         7358       6975       6692      2732       2799      2757      14800                  7237      6641       638e      13963
Gross Margin           7474      1os99      8823       2354       7040      1482      12587                 6996       2618       6625       s231
ECONOMIC PRICES
KHARIF                                                                               RABI                                                                                                       '
Reiliea                                                                                                                                                                                                            tj
Paddy fin   bamats  ColtonAm      Saira  _ we          Maio   suPcnw                   V*at    Mustard  Suwlowe   earsen
Crop                  19066      13785     21624       S068       7870       6046     33a29                10071       6608      10652     1s348
By-Product              168        368       61s       2075          0        388      1193                  1604          0         0          0
Groan    n            19238      1433      22141       7133       7870       414      34722                20S75       6608      10652     1s346
Seew                    273        490        130       273        204        168      3582                   477       273        57s        833
Nit n                  1330       1027      1163        378        661       920       1921                  1784      111s       1127       1489
Phoq**u                 306        216        183         9         60         84       587                   434       490        448        325
Potssulm                 61        104          0         0          0          0       129                     0          0         0          0
PlaProt.                130        282       929         42          0        190       163                     4          0       371          0
Flad works             192        2468      2488       1618       1312      1359       4179                 2158       2598       2302      296o
r'igaton                564        682       715        111        111        364      1668                   308       386        386      6928
km work. cap.           228        267       221         93         99        101      1138                   224       176        257        426
MIN_                     40         61         30         0         43         45        51                    35         34        57         43
Total Vaer. cost       4896      s559        e827      2524       2491       3232     13397                  5424      5070       6522      12094
Grs Margin 3)         14339       8537      18315      4609       5360       3182     21325                 15451      1537       5030       3264
Soure: Hwaryana AgriculturalUn dy, Osecorate of Extension Educati
Fanidal pr, frming season 1992W93
t) hcJtbbrdwwmfr.#theox6*wr_dt                                  n          t@ 
2) IserIlon woritigcepwalas ocqLad   s 2%fyw  fr trepeildlecrop reans on Ore115
3)Ga iu  i oa aas ai opdyadalu _lat"       w te eae y2%to 1010 laa rdda otie  traaaabla



- 194 -
INDIA                                   Table 4
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOUDATION PROJECT
Yields, cropping pattem, and aggregated crop budge.s
A. IRRIGATED LAND
Crop            Perce it of          Gross Margin         Gross Margin
Yields          total area           Financial Prices      Economic Prices
(Uha)   (tfha)                         (Rslha)   (Rslha)   (Rstha)   (Rs/ha)
Khakra    WYC    Bhakra       WYC       Bhakra     WYC       Bhakra     WYC
KHARIF
Paddy fine 1)        3.7      4.5    24.08%     10.46%    7474.00    8499.00   14339.00   15993.00
8asmati              1.9      2.5   24.34%      23.42%Me  10599.00   12619.00    8537.00   10205.00
Cotton Am.           1.4      1.6     1.65%     40.66%    8823.00    8892.00   16315.00   17392.00
Bajra                1.4      1.3    3.29%      18.54%    2354.00    1519.00    4609.00    3584.00
Jawar               38.9     38.9    13.61%      6.19%    7040.00    6548.00    5380.00    5034.00
Maize                1.2       -    28.78%       0.00%    1462.00      0.00    3182.00       0.00
Sugarcane           56.6     56.6     4.2S%      0.74%   12587.00   12587.00   21325.00   21325.00
Total (khaniY                       100.00%    100.00%    6516.16    8238.92    8505.6F   12266.59
RABI
Wheat 1)             2.9      3.1    77.64%     47.82%    6998.00    8536.00   15451.00   17632.00
Mustard              0.9      0.9    4.58%      29.51%    2618.00    4330.00    1537.00    3029.00
Sunflower            1.5      1.7    2.97%       0.71%    6825.00    8314.00    5030.00    5860.00
Barseem             67.2     66.4    14.81%      1.72%    5231.00   10747.00    3254.00    7774.00
Gram                  -       0.4     0.00%     19.03%       0.00    2201.00      0.00    1459.00
Barley                -       3.1     0.00%      1.21%       0.00   4784.00       0.00    3926.00
Total (mba)                         100.00%    100.00%    6530.53    6080.14   12697.95    9825.75
Sourco: Gros margi and croppin patem as Provkded by HAU for 1992193
B. UNIRRIGATED LAND
Yields (t/ha)
Bhakra    WYC     Bhakra      WYC       Bhakra     WYC       Bhakra     WYC
KHARIF
Baira                1.4      1.3   26.00%      35.00%    2354.00    1519.00    4609.00    3584.00
Jowar               38.9     38.9     1.00%      2.00%    7040.00    6548.00    5380.00    5034.00
Maize                1.2      1.2      s.00%     2.00%    1462.00      0.00    3182.00       0.00
Barseem             67.2     66.4    .0.00%     15.00%    5231.00   10747.00    3254.00    7774.00
Faflow                -        -    62.00%      46.00%       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
Total (karit                                             1220.16    2274.66    1609.36    2521.18
RABI
Wheat                2.9      3.1     1.00%      7.00%    6998.00    8536.00   15451.00   17632.00
Mustard              0.9      0.9     5.00%      5.00%    2618.C0    4330.00    1537.00    3029.00
Gram                 0.4      0.4   13.00%      26.00%       0.00    2201.00      0.00    1459.00
Barley               3.1      3.1     2.00%      3.00%       0.00    4784.00      0.00    3926.00
Fallow                -        -    79.00%      59.00%       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
Total (rab)                                               200.88    1529.80     231.36    1882.81
Source: Cropping pterm provied by HO. Crop budts and yds OMasswumed to be ndcal ason tritelnds
Might ead to oersmation of   under dx e nd onti
C. NET INCREMENTAL BENEFIT (A-B=C)
(Rs/ha)                                                Financial Prices     Economic Prioes
Bhakra     WYC       Bhakra     WYC
KHARIF                                                    5296.00    5964.26    6896.29    9745.41
RABI                                                      6329.65    4550.34   12466.59    7942.94
TOTAL                                                    11625.65   10514.60   19362.88   17688.34
1) Yields ad vaible costs have been reduced by 20% to Me the lowe produc intensity
on fieels wthoA addiional tubewe ngi Yiedswe m irto tosedh in the    of Haryam rtWon Il project. 1983 However, these
are consde cons.vl in view o tnea 8kt yil ices of more en 3% p.a. for paddy and wheat documented over the ts 16 years.



INDIA
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Import and Export Parity Prices
Unit    EXPORTPAR           IMPORTPAR
Cotton*    SCane    Paddy    Wheat   Sorghum    Maize        Urea      TSP       MP
World Market Prce             US$ft
(Year2000projectfons. 1990 prices)         1500       255       255       166       102       105       144       125       107
MUV Index: Adjustment
(Year 1990 > end 1993)        %            1.09      1.09      1.09      1.09      1.09      1.09      1.09      1.09      1.09
WORLDPRICE                    US$1t        1635       278       278       181       111       114       157       136       117
Qualty Adjustment            %               90        90        80       100        65       100       100       100       100
WorldMarketEqulvalent         US$/t        1472       250       222       181        72       114       157       136       117
Freight & lnsurance           US$1t         -70       -35        35        35        35        35        35        35        35
CIF India
In US$                       US$Sf        1402       215       257       216       107       149       192       171    151.63
In RS                  31.50 RS/t        44147      6777      8107      6802      3379      4708      6047      5394      4776
Port Charges                 RSlt          -260      -240       240       240       240       240       240       240       240
Intemal Transport            RSft          -400      -180      -180      -180       180       180       180       180       180
Internal Mktg and Hndl       RS/            -65      -100       100       100       100       t00       t00      tO        t100
Processng Rtafo              %               35        10        62        95       100       100       100       100       100
Whobesale value              RS/t         15198       626      5125      6614      3899      5228      8567      5914      5296
Local Marketing & Transport   RSlt          -70       -50       -50       -50       -50       -50        50        50        50
Economic Farmgate Price      RS/t         15128       576      5075      6564      3849      5178      6617      5964      5346
Farmgate price per nutrient kg 1)   Rs/kg                                                              15.8      12.9       8.9
Financial Farmgate Price     RSft          9690       450      3120      3300      2290      3300       6.2      17.4       8.0
Source: World Bank Quarterly Review ot Commodity Markets, November 1993 and Haryana II PCR, 1993
1) Urea= 42% N: TSP = 46% P; MP = 60%K



- 196 -
Table 6
INDIA
HARYANA  ATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Summary of Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices
Crop                                 Financial  Economic
Unit        1993      2000
Paddy rice             1)  RsIt           3120      5075
8asmaff rice          2)  Rs/t            8370      6696
Cotton                 1)  Raft           9690    15128
Bajra                 3)  Rsot            2290      3849
Jowar                  2)  Rs/t            275       220
Maize                 1)  RsAt            3300      5178
Sugarcane              1)  Rs/t            450       576
Wheat                  1)  Rs/t           3300      6564
Barley                2)  Rsft            2500      2000
Gram                  2)  Rs/t            8570      6856
Mustard               2)  Rs/t            9000      7200
Sunflowe.             2)  RsIt            8500      6800
Barseem               2)  Rs/t             300       240
N                     4)  Rs/kg            6.2      15.8
P                     4)  Rs/kg           17.4      12.9
K                     4)  Rslkg            8.0       8.9
Financial prices as provided by HAU for 1992193 farming season.
1) ImporVExport parity prices as calculated in table 5
2) Financial p.ice converted into economic price using SCF of 0.8
3) Import pafity price of sorghum reduced by 25% to reflect quality dferential
4) Derived frm import parity prices of Urea, TSP, MP



INDIA
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Economic Cashl*w Analyss
(Rs million)
ECONOwMC RATE OF RETURN                        18%
NET PRESENT VALUE (12%)                   Rs 4062 million
A. BENEFITS                                                             years
1        2        3        4        5         6        7        8        9        10    >           30
IRRIGATION BENEFITS
Modernization of Canals              0.00    80.63   177.57   273.55   345.64   412 73   479.92   479.92   479.92   479.92    >          479.92
Construction of Feeder Canal          0.00    12.09    26.62    41.01    51.80    61.88    71.95    71.95    71.95    71.95    >          71.95
Uning of Watercourses                0.00    80.46   177.20   272.98   344.82   411.86   478.91   478.91   478.91   478.91    >          478.91
Rehablittion of Canals               0.00    78.42   172.72   26B.08   336.10   401.45   466.80   466.80   466.80   466.80    >          466.80
Total                                 0.00   251.66   554.26   853.86  1078.56  1288.28  1498.00  1498.00  1498.00  1498.00    >        1498.00
FLOOD CONTROL BENEFITS
Preventing Danage to Agricutre       0.00   150.25   330.91   609.79   643.94   769.15   894.36   894.36   894.36   894.36    >          894.36
PreventingDamagetoPublicUtilit4es    0.00    19.58    43.13    66.44    83.93   100.25   118.57   116.57   116.57   116.57    >          116.57
Preventing Damage to Housing         0.00    23.58    51.92    79.99   101.04   120.68   140.33   140.33   140.33   140.33    >          140.33
Total                                0.00   193.37   425.87  6S6807   828.72   989.86  1151.00   1161 00  1151.00  1151.00    >         1151.00
8. PROJECT COSTS
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Investmnent Cost                    137.95   188.17   174.82     5.53     0.4e      0.51
Recurrent Cost 1)                   97.65    98.23    98.34    98A9    98.53    98.52    19.70    19.70    19.70    19.70    >            19.70
Total                               235.80   288.40   273.24   104.02    98.98    99.03
MODERNIZATION
InvestmentCost                     1136.27  1328.82  1239.08   621.15   532.87   539.93
Recurrent Cost 1)                   99.97   114.90   113.50   111.88    66.60    66.72    13.34    13.34    13.34    13.34    >           13.34
Total                              1238.23  1443.72  1352.57   733.03   599.47   606.65
Hathnikund Barrage                 578.30   672.30   577.32   131.85      0.00      0.00
Extension of Minors                 31.33   101.48   128.49      0.08     0.08      0.07
Total without Hathn. & Ext of minors  626.60   669.95   646.77   601.10   599.39   606.57
REHABILITA ION
Investment Cost                    570.30   574.88   435.95   344.30   319.35   130.10
Recurrent Cost 1)                   96.69   102.74    85.63    71.06    68.28    49.30       9.88     9.86     9.86      9.86    >         9.86
Total                              666.99   677.61    521.67   415.28   387.63   179.39
IMPROYING OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE
Investment Cost                    357.84   463.49   444.51    363.07   382.33   360.53
Recurrent Cost 2)                  533.86   556.40   573.42   575.84   576.00   576.30   281.05   281.05   281.05   281.05    >          281.05
Total                               891.70  1019.89  1017.92   938.90   938.33   936.83
TOTAL PROJECT COST 3)                       2420.e9  2653.85  2459.60  2056.30  2024.33  1821.82   310.61    310.61   310.61   310.61     >       310.61
TOTAL PROJECT BENEFITS                         0.00   446.03   980.13  1509.93  1907.28  2278.14  2649.00  2649.00  2649.00  2649.00    >        2649.00
C. TOTAL NET PROJECT BENEFIT               -2420.89  -2208.82  -1479.47   -849.37  -117.06   458.32  2338.39  233P 39  2338.39  2338.39    *     2338.39                      1  ¢
1) trtowes only .of eeu.et oost (80% of toUtl reet coss) fom yea 7 to er go. Stl ad aore rodu h t h met coll of erebov OSM.                                                   I
2) leam   OAO&Meturs esUtatd to atoa to 30% 1 totaa OA rcosts. tordg rUl rots as wet a stal ad otam reet oots fom yer7 to yar 30
3) rooArt. cosls o ItSowo saw &od r elnsto 0o Mos (Costab rSolS 1114J1994)



- 198 -
INDIA                                   Table 8
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDAl ION PROJECT
Haryana Irrigation Department Budget
(current Rs million)      88/89      89190     90/91      91192      92/93     93/94
Expenditures
Non-Plan                  423.6      518.0      344.1     712.5      928.5     938.3
Plan                                                      790.3      812.5     963.8
Revenues
Water charges             155.5      135.7      173.1     158.1      179.6      184.3
Balance                    -268.1    -382.3    -171.0    -554.4    -748.9    -754.0
Source: HID Handbook on irrigation statitics, July 1993
Note: Financdal budget of 1993/94 has been estmated based on infornation provided by the Ministry of Finanoe
Balance = Water cN.arges - non-plan expenditures



- 199 -
INDIA                                   Table 9
HARYANA WATER RE3OURCES CONSOLIDATION PR )JECT
Projection of HID Budget for 1994/95 - 19991U0
(Rs millior.)
94/95     95196    96197     97/98     98/99     99/00    TOTAL
Without Project
Expenditures
Non-Plan                 975.83   1014.87   1055.46   1097.68   1141.59   1187.25   6472.67
Plan                    1002.35   1042.45   1084.14   1127.51   1172.61   1219.51   6648.58
TOTAL                     1978.18   2057.31   2139.60   2225.19   2314.20   2406.76  13121.25
Revenues
Water charges            189.00    196.50    204.10    212.30    220.80    229.60   1252.30
Balance                   -786.83   -818.37   -851.36   -885.38   -920.79   -957.65  -5220.37
With Project
Expenditures
Non-Plan                 920.00   1n15.00   1101.00   1186.00   1314.00   1450.00   6986.00
Plan                    1328.00   1805.00   1684 00   1444.00   1446.00   1106.00   8813.00
TOTAL                     2248.0n)  2820.00   2785.00   2630.00   2760.00   2556.00  15799.00
Revenues
Water charges            189.00    637.00    788.00    969.00   1192.00   1509.00   5284.00
Add. Water charges 1)      000       3.90      7.80     11.70     14.63     17.55     55.58
Balance                   -731.00   -374.10   -305.20   -205.30   -107.38     76.55  -1646.43
Net Financial Benefit       55.83    444.27    546.16    680.08    813.41   1034.20   3573.94
Source: Wthout scenario based on projectons of trend as shown in table 9.
With scenario based on projecUons provided by HID
1) Additional revenues generated by irrigating more land through project acUvities.
Assumed increase of water charges for irrigation is 10% per year.



- 200 -
An & 14
INDIA                                 Table 10
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Budget of the Haryana State Elecbicdty Board
(Rs million)
91/92      92/93       93t94
Expenditures
Non plan (Revenue)       6779.9      9046.6    11280.5
Non plan (Capital)       1424.7      1877.3     2110.7
TOTAL                      8204.6    10923.9    13391.2
Revenues
Sa'e of Power (Irrig.)    699.0      1066.6      1435.0
Sale of Power (others)   4420.2      5112.2      6840.7
Others                   1465.6      1644.8      1800.0
Capital receipts         1252.4      1832.4      1164.6
TOTAL                      7837.2      9656.0    11240.3
Balance                     -367.4    -1267.9    -2150.9
Source: Ministry of Finance
Power Consumption and Tarift
91/92                  92193                  93194
Energy sold   Av. Rate   Energy sold   Av. Rate   Energy sold   Av. Rate
(%)    (PaisetKWh)    (°K)    (Paise/KWh)    (X)    (Paise/KWh)
Irrigaton                 46.90%        19.24     49.40%       25.50     44.70%        35.00
Industries                22.80%       153.08     22.60%      179.95     25.50%       177.07
Domestic                   16.70%       67.79     17.50%       70.09     16.70%        90.00
Commercial                  2.60%      139.61      2.70%      149.47      2.80%       185 MO
Other                      11.00% 408A,            7.80%       38.84     10.30%        66.33
Source: Ministry of Finance



- 201 -
Page 1 of 3
HARYANA WATER RiOtRCES CONS       TOf M PR0JE(Z
1.    Land. Under the project, land valued at US$5.5 million equivalent would
be acquired for the construotion of the Hathnikund Barrage, Link Channels,
Feeder Channel, and modernization/extension of minors. All land costs would
be financed by GOH.
2.    CZvil Works. The project supports civil works valued at US$297.7
million Civil works comprise a replacement diversion structure; canal and
watercourse modernization; rehabilitation works and a limited number of new
buildings. with the exception of the diversion structure (Nathnikund
Barrage), the works are predominantly scattered and spread throughout the
project, and would not attract foreign bidders. Works would be procured
following international or local competitive bidding (ICB/LCB) or force
account procedures as follows:
2.1   IC  Hathnikund Barrage (US$51.3 million) would be procured through ICB
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.2  LCf  (US$197.1 million) would include civil works for canal, watercourse
and drainage modernization and rehabilitation. The works would be grouped
into convenient packages for bidding and necessary land would be acquired
prior to bidding. All works contracts would be let using standard LCB
documents and following procedures satisfactory to the Association. Foreign
contractors would not be precluded from participation. Land acquisition, if
necessary, and detailed design and engineering of the works would precede
invitations to bid. Total LCB contracts are distributed according to the
following table:
tUSS mLillionl                         0l-0102        ~ >
Total number
of contracts (No.)                      2,055              380
Average size
of contracts (US$ million)               0.04              0.3
The majority of the construction work involves contracts of less than
US$100,000 which explains the high proportion of contracts under LCD
procedures. For all contracts expected to cost US$1 million or more,
contractors would be prequalified under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA.
2.3 For6e Account (US$49.2 million) would include all small civil works
procurement valued at US$10,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding 20% of total LCB. These works would not be suitable for
competitive bidding because of the small amounts involved and scattered



- 202 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 3
locations. The works would be carried out either through force account or may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of bids invited from a list
of at least three qualified contractors eligible under guidelines in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.                    _ Z=upmnt         .  The project supports expenditures
on vehicles, equipment and materials valued at US$21.2 million. These would
be procured as follows:
3.1   The project would require vehicles valued at US$3.5 million.  Of this
amount US$2.8 million will be bulked and procured following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures as per Association's Guidelines. The
immediate requirement of vehicles (20% of total requirements) will be procured
following local shopping procedures (using available DGS&D rate contracts) in
packages below US$100,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate total of US$0.7
million.
3.2   Heavy equipment, mostly for canal and drain maintenance, estimated to
cost US$4.2 million and computer equipment including software aggregating
US$9.4 million would be procured through ICB. Other equipment estimated to
cost US$4.1 million available locally and readily serviced through local
facilities in contracts valued below US$200,000 equivalent each would be
procured through LCB. For all civil works procured under LCB/ICB contractors
would be made responsible for procurement of all materials including cement
and steel. If GOH supplies construction materials this will be considered as
reserved procurement and the estimated cost of such materials will be excluded
from IDA financing (as stated on page 180/181 - Clause 59 of SBD (Major).
4.    The Association's standard bidding documents would be used for all
procurement under ICB/LCB. For comparing foreign and local bids in ICB, both
for civil works and equipment, the qualifying domestic bidders would be
allowed a margin of preference in accordance with the provisions of paras 2.55
and 2.56 of Bank's Guidelines.
5.    Tehnica1 Alsistanca  (US93 6 million).  Consultancy services estimated
at US$3.2 million (overseas US$1 million) would be contracted on terms and
conditions in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency', published by the
Bank in August 1981. Other technical assistance including training, study
tours, etc. estimated at US$0.4 million equivalent would be carried out either
by HID or agencies with relevant experience and subject to approval by IDA.
Of the total amount for technical assistance (US$3.6 million), US$0.7 million
would be used for policy support, US$1.2 million for implementation support,
and US$1.7 million for capacity building.
6.       rg=ntal Onrating   St ITISSISS 4 mi11Ion).  This includes
expenditures for staff, vehicles, equipment and energy. The project supports
the incremental operating costs of vehicles, equipment and energy on a
declining basis. These would be procured under local shopping. All staff
costs would be financed by GOH.



- 203 -
A nnx    5
Page 3 of 3
7.     Revew of Contracts.   All contracts for civil works and equipment valued
at US$200,000 and above and all consultancy contracts valued at US$100,000 and
above as well as first five contracts, both under goods and works and first
three consultancy contracts irrespective of the value would be subjected to
prior IDA review. All other contracts would be subject to random post review
in the field by visiting missions. This will result in about 50% of the
project procurement being subject to prior review. The nature of the project
which consists mostly of works which have been successfully implemented under
past Bank projects in the state is such that a higher level of IDA review
would not have a significant impact on procurement quality.
8.     The project elements,  their estimated costs and proposed methods of
procurement are summarized below:
summary of Proposed P guremnt Arrangamntn  IT1Rg M qumval                   nt)
Consulting
Prngect RAement                IlR L.i   .ieea          -       othar      mmE       1ntAl
1. Land                                                                     5.5        5.5
2. Civil Works                  51.3      197.1                  49.2                 297.6
(q16.2)   (162.1)                (20.6)               (228.9)
3. Vehicles/Equipment
3.1 Vehicles                 2.8                              0.7                  3.5
(2.3)                           (0.5)                 (2.8)
3.2 Equipment               13.6       4.1                                         17 7
(10.9)    (3.2)                                       (14.1)
4. Technical Assistance
4.1 Policy Support                                0.7                              0.7
(0.7)                            (0.7)
4.2 Implementatinn
Support                                      1.2                               1.2
(1.2)                            (1.2)
4.3 Capacity building                             1.7                              1.7
(1.7)                            (1.7)
5. Incremental Operating Cost                                    28.0      127.4      155.4
(8.6)                (8.6)
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__------------
TOTAL                           67.7      201.2      3.6         77.9      132.9      483.3
(59.4)   (165.3)    (3.6)        (29.7)               (258.0)
___________________________________________________________________________________________
Note:Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding; LCB: Local Competitive Bidding;
Other:  force account, direct contracting, local and international shopping.



- 204 -
AMMUm-
Page I of 4
TNT
STJRRVTS IO  NINLMMAO  PN
1.   Projent ObQjctiv3s.  The primary purpose of the proposed Water Resources
Consolidation Project would be to tackle the broad issues facing the water
resources sector and promote development in an efficient, equitaLle and
environmentally sustainable manner. The main project objectives are to: (a)
introduce water resource planning (including contingency planning for
droughts) and management across all uses of water: (b) enhance agricultural
productivity and diversification, and improve equity; (c) assure sustain-
ability of the environment; and (e) improve HID's capabilities in all water
and related functional areas.
2.   Project neacription.  The project would be a sector investment loan,
financing an agreed state-wide program to improve the water distribution
system.  The investment program would cover: (a) r        habitation of the
existing canal and drainage systems, and selective lining of canals and water
courses; (b) m0derna.At.Qat of canal and drainage system and water courses,
replacement of the Hathnikund Barrage, construction/extension of minors: (c)
upgraded ogeration and maintenanne (O&M) of the water distribution system; and
*d) lnatitnt{onal ntrangthening to support administration, data collection,
farmer participation in system maintenance, planning, design, research and
training. Investments would be supported by reorganization of the Haryana
Irrigation Department (HID), reform of O&M standards and procedures,
implementation of full O&M cost recovery, power sector reforms and enhanced
beneficiary participation in O&M of facilities. A water policy framework
would be developed through multi-use water resource planning and formulation
of a State Water Plan (SWP).
ImplAmentation Plan
3.    Project Management and Im91Pmentat4bon.  All project activities would be
implemented by the line units under the reorganized structure of HID, while
policy and advisory matters would be handled by the responsible staff offices.
Project guidance reponsibility would rest with the Secretary, Irrigation and
Power, who would coordinate with the State Water Resources Commission, the
Water Regulation Unit and the Engineer-in-Chief (EIC), HID. The EIC would
have the main responsibility for coordination of all activities and their
implementation. The EIC would be supported by the Programming and Budgetting
Committee (PBC), and the Offices of the Chief Engineer Coordination (CEC),
Environmental Affairs (EA), Water Resources Policy and Support (WRPS), and
Quality Assurance (QA). Responsibilities of all units and offices are further
described in Annex 3 (an organizational chart is attached in Annex 3).
Attachment 1 provides a table summarizing the implementation responsibilities
for the various project activities. Attachment 2 presents the implementation
schedule of activities under the project. For the Hathnikund Barrage, the
actual commencement of implementation would depend on the signing of the



- 205 -
Page 2 of 4
Interstate Agreement between Haryana, Him-chal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi and
Uttar Pradesh; the implementation schedule provides expected dates, and the
sequence of actions would remain the same.
4.    Procurement Schedule.  Procurement actions would include the following:
1.    initiate preparation of specifications and bid documents
2.    transmit specifications and bid documents to IDA
3.    IDA clearance of specification and bid documents
4.    issue invitation to bid
5.    open bids
6.    transmit evaluation report and award recommendations to IDA
7.    IDA clearance of recommendations
8.    award contracts
9.    civil works:  construction 25% complete
10.   civil works:  construction 50% complete
11.   civil works:  construction 75% complete
12.   civil works:  construction 1bO% complete
13.   equipment:  initial delivery at site
14.   equipment:  interim deliveries at site
13.   equipment:  final delivery at site
Attachment 3 provide a schedule of procurement actions for the civil works and
equipment/vehicles procurement under the rehabilitation, modernization and
operation and maintenance components.
5.    Economic and Financial Analysis.  Detailed economic and financial
analysis, and risks of the project are described in Annex 14 and in paras 4.12
to 4.15 of the main text of the SAR. The overall Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) of the project is estimated at 17%. The Net Present Value (NPV)
discounted at 12% (to 1993) is Rs. 3838 million. Overall, the project is
robust to significant changes in costs and benefits: benefits would have to
drop by 25% or costs increase by 31% for the ERR to fall to 12% (or NPV fall
to zero). The financial analysis concludes that the project would generate a
net financial benefit to GOH in terms of reducing HID's budget deficit by
about Rs. 3600 million over the next six years.
Supervision Plan
6.    IDA Contribution to Supervision.  To assist GOH in achieving project
objectives and to ensure that risks to successful project implementation are
minimized through appropriate and timely adjustments, IDA would provide
supervision input during project implementation. The project includes
organizational and procedural changes as well as a substantial program of
physical works. The Supervision Plan provides routine supervision missions at
six-monthly intervals, which would review general progress in technical areas
such as implementing civil works (including associated issues such as quality
control, land acquisition, procurement and disbursement), with supplementation
in terms of sociologist/ farmer organization specialist, institutional
specialist, programming and budgeting specialist, water resource planner,



- 206 -
Page 3 of 4
etc., either visiting independently or associated with the regular mission.
Resources would be roughly evenly divided between routine and specialist
tasks, that is an average of 5-6 man weeks for each per year. Supervision
missions would be defined, where appropriate, to coincide with and be
support.ve of major milestones in project implementation.
7.    ijL;sion Cogmroition. Of the two missions per year, one would focus
mainly or acheivement of physical targets, procurement, disbursement and other
procedural issues (physical targets for the project components are given in
each associated Annex). The other mission would concentrate on the effective-
ness of the project's technical and social activities, and if required, make
recommendations for changes in the design, organization and management
arrangements. The start up of IDA mission would reconfirm formats required
for project accounts and reports and arrangements for procurement and
disbursement. The initial missions would require a mix of technical and
institutional expertise, while the later missions would be more routine.
8.    The fir&t mission (FY94, Second Semester) would be a major exercise,
focussing on procurement, disbursement, progranming and budgetting and
institutional issues in particular. The visit would be coordinated also with
input from the consultant who has been assisting GOH in review of its
organizational structure. The output from this mission would provide a
framework for actions in the following six-twelve months. Attachment 4
provides an indicative supervision schedule and staff input requirements.
Monitoring and Evaluation
9.    Develooment Tndicators.  The various project investments and reforms
have been designed to help achieve the project objectives. Development
indicators have been identified to assist GOH monitor the progress towards
this end. Attachment 5 provides a matrix of the project objectives, the
different components or reforms that are designed to assist in acheiving the
objective. The indicators to be tracked are defined, and comments given on
how the progress in terms of the indicators are to be monitored. The
indicators would include: implementation of HID reorganiza-tion and
effectiveness of operation within the new structure, preparation and updating
of State Water Plan (SWP) and use of its recommendations, improved
agricultural growth and productivity, and crop diversification, increased
delivery of water and improved services, increased cost recovery from users,
water savings, formation of viable WUAs, decrease in water-logging and
salinity, and improved project planning, programming and budgeting.
10.   baseline Surveys.    To uionitor the development impact of the project,
and measure against the identified indicators, baseline surveys would be
carried out at project commencement. These would cover the following aspects:
agriculture and income data (crop types, yields, cropping intensity -
separated by irrigated and non-irrigated agriculture, farm costs, revenues and
net incomes, etc. ), irrigation data (area under irrigation, irrigation
intensity, irrigation efficiency, private sector groundwater exploitation in
sample areas, etc.), water use, delivery, and hydrological data (water



- 207 -
Angx1 i
Page 4 of 4
supplies to various sectors/uses, water delivery efficiency at different
outlet levels and within each distribution level, groundwater levels,
drainage, salinity - responsibility of Data Collection and Water Resources
Planning Unit (DPU), etc.), beneficiary participation and Water User
Association (WUA) activities (number of WUAs formed, activities performed,
sustainability and viability, other informal associations, etc.; responsi-
bility of Water Resource Policy and Support Unit), etc. At negotiations,
agreements were reached that the baseline surveys would be carried out by GOH
by January 31, 1995. During project implementation, the baseline data would
be compared to on-going data collected in terms of the development indicators,
to monitor and evaluate the progress made towards achieving the project
objectives. Under the project, technical assistance of US$30,000 is provided
to contract local consultants to carry out the baseline survey. Draft Terms
of Reference for the baseline surveys are in Attachment 6.
11.   Annual Action Plans. Annual action plans would be developed by the
Project Planning Cell under the DPU of HID. The action plans would integrate
the recommendations of the SWP (prepared by the SWP Cell of the DPU) and the
North West Drainage Study. The action plans would be adjusted as required to
reflect changes that have to be made to the initial plans as a result of field
experience in project implementation and the recommendations of the above
mentioned studies. The action plans would review for each project component
and responsible unit the past year's achievements in terms of physical and
expenditure targets, by cpzarter, and define that proposed for the coming year.
The action plans would provide details of when and how the policy reforms to
be implemented the following year would be carried out. Action plans would be
an important tool for monitoring the development indicators and project
progress. Physical targets for the rehabilitation, modernization and O&M
components are defined in the associated Annexes, and would be monitored by
GOH and IDA supervision missions.
12. Annual Work Program and Budget. The CEC, in coordination with the
Programming and Budgeting Committee would also prepare an annual work program
and budget, providing documentation on the following: (a) description of each
year's works, schedule of activities, staffing requirements and distribution
of responsibilities; (b) proposed expenditures (including consultant and
training), compared to previous year's actual expenditure: and (c) financing
plan and source of funds (including GOH contribution). Each annual budget
should detail: (a) major contracts for civil works exceeding US$200,000 and
for ICB for goods; (b) list of schemes turned over in the previous year, and
proposed schemes for the next year; and (c) details of revenue budget showing
charges for preceding year, amounts collected, and proposed future charges, by
customer group or service. The annual budget, revenue, and expenditure plans
would allow monitoring of the progress of financial aspects under the project.
13.   Mid-term Review.  Prior to December 1996, provision would be made for a
mid-term review in 1997. The terms of reference for this review would be
agreed with IDA and provide for a complete assessment of the progress of the
project and facilitate major design changes if necessary.



HARYANA WATER RtESOURtCES MH=DATItON PROJECT
ORGANIZATION & MANAGEMENT iATRI
ACTMnTY                               IMPLElMENTATIONSUPEoR                      coo RDINATION/AQVISORY AND
RESPONSIEBULmES                         GUIDANCE RESPONSliB3U11TES
A. General
Engineer-ln-Clliet (EIC)                  Secretary, IrrigaUon 8& Power, GOH
Overall Coordinadon of Project implementadon       Chief Engineer Coordination (CEC)         State Water Resources Commission (SWRC)
B. Institutional SuMoort
1. Insdtutlonal Strengthenina
I)   InsUitutional Reform                      AU, 9C                                    Secretary, Irigation & Power, SWRC
ii)   Administrative Reform                    AU, EIC                                   Secretary, Irrigabon & Power
iii)   Groundwater Regulatory Funcffons        E1C,WRU                                   Secretary, Irrigation and Power
iv)  Procurement & Routine Administration      AU, CEC                                   EC
v)   Tumover Program                           EIC.CEC,WSPS                              Secretary, Irigation & Power
vi)  Communications System                     DRU,CU,AU                                   C.,CEC                                            00
vii)  Computer Capacity Upgrade                AU, CU                                    EIC, CEC
viii)  Office & Housing Construction           DRU, CU                                   EIC,CEC
2. Planning & Data Collection
I)   Agency Directive & Management             SC                                        SYi
iI)   Hydrologic Data Collection               DPU, DRU, CU                              EIC,CEO
Ili)   State Water Plan Preparation            DPU                                       EC, CEO, SWRC. EA
iv)   Project Planning                         AU,WSU                                    EIC; CEO; Secretary, Irrgation & Power
3. Training                                    AU, WSU                                   QC, CEC
4. Research & Development
i)    Drainage Collection Design               DRU,CU                                     SC.CEC O
ii)   Sprinider & Drip Irrigafion              DR)                                       EIC; Secretary, Agriculture, GOH                f
0



ACTIvrr                                IMI PIEC T       ANUPRr                    COOROINATIOWAIMiSORY AND
C.   R     _
I)   Cana System                               CU, DR                                       C,CEC
II)   Drainage System                          CUJ,CR                                     S JCEO
iii)  River Contro Works                       CUJ,DRJ                                    8C. CEC
iv)  Watercourses                              C,DRU                                       3C.CEC
v)   Augmentatfon & Direct lrigation           CU.DCR                                     BC, CEC
Tubewelbs
D. Modgmgzaton
i)    Cml system                               CU.J                                        80.CEC
ii)   Augmentation Unk Feeder Canal            CU, OI                                       0, CEC
iil)  Watercourses                            Ca,Di)                                       50,CEC
iv)  Hahnlkxmd Banage & Unk Channels           CUDR                                       SI. CEC,. EA
v)   Extension of Minors                       a,DRJ                                      ECCEC
1)    Can  System                               W8 UCCEC
li)   Draiage System                           WSU                                        BC, CEC
III)  River Cont"o Works                       WSU                                         E)C,CK
fv)  Watercourse Maintenance                   WSU                                        ecCEO
v)   Augmentation Tubewells                    WSU                                        BC, CEC
vi)   inkshetra Research & Training            WsJ                                        EC, CEC
Institute
F. PqU Reomg
I)   Institutional Reforms                     EIC                                        Secretary, Irigation & Power; SWRC
iI)   Operation S Maintenance                  EC                                         Secretary, Inigation & Power
Ill)  Cost Recovery                            EiC,WSPS                                   Secretary, Irgation & Power, SWRC
lv)   Beneficiary. Participation & System      liC,WSPS                                   Secretary, Irrigaffon & Power
Tumover                                                                                                                              t
v)   Groundwater Regulation & Legislation      sIC,WIU                                    Secretary, Irrigation & Power
vi)  State Water Plan                          DPU.SWRC                                   EIC; EA; Secretary, Irdgaton & Power
vii)  Power Sector Reforms                     HSEB                                       Secretary, Irrigation & Power                    wII
vili)  Budget Allocation                       EiC, Programming & Budgeting Comrittee     Secretary, Irrigafton & Power                    0



_ . . _ t~~~~~~~~~~~994 _  9t_19  99 981m19 
ID  Nam    _________                  1uratlo                                        Ot4Ori   r 1i3 Or   ti T '"           -_ I Ot4 Ti  Otf2  (r-  Q ti 4 1CW. Q
I  Negotiations                       ,    1w 
2  Pro ecteffecthertes                I    Od
3  Modernzaio                            311 -fi_i;,                                                                                                       _;W
4      ModemizatIon of canals            311w
I                                       .   .e  .  .
8      Constructionooee                 156w
6      ConsxOn of Mhnots                iS"w.g77
7      Modernization of Watercoutses    311w
8      Constructbon of Hathnikund Barrag   156w
9  RehabIliaton                     I311w
10     RehabtatIon of Canals             3131w
11      RehabatIon of Drainage           311w
12      Rehallatsn of Flood Control      31w 
13      RehabIlton of 2Waercouasea       266w 
14      Rehatdaton of Ars                104w
1t5     RehabmalRon -tOM$s               104w
_6 Operaton & Ma__tenance                311w
17     O&M of Canals                     31tw
l8      O&M of Drainage                  311w
19      O&M Of Flood Control             311w
20      O&M of Watercourses              3t11w    S    7^
21      O&MofATs                         104w
22      O&M of Kuruketsha Research       311w
23      Pmour. Eq upment O&M             104w
24  System Tumover                       056w
25      Define Polcy                      26w
26      Define Rules and Responsblites    26w
27      Famner Traini                     2w
28      System Turnover                   26w
29      Peromnce Monitoring              104w
30  State Water Plan     3    2                           -
31     Initial                           104w
32      Updating                         208w
Project: Haryena WRCP                c ritical                      Progress                      Summary
Date: 218i94                         Noncritical                    Milestone *                   1,llcdl I
Page I
ft
WE
Ft
iiP



I I   I   i I   f   I I I   I   I I FI  I  I I I   I   I   I I   I   I I   I I   I I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I  fI  I I 1. 1  I
a                            VA  A   Pit t 1UWaIi.
ttWUWW Put  JW  ilumimOM ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ 'MWJRWP P wgp.qnp MNBWV
~~~~~~~1   IIIII                  II         11    llI I  II I II I      11    III I IIT II II     I    II ILII     IIL IU C HIl 'I  UI'l I IIlri'  I   111 1   -.L11L  it,     L    
N ~ ~    ~ ~~~ I I!1112 IlEU l    T   1                          11111I  III     I     III 11, II- IliitllN iillclllw I II  I I         III  IIIII  I1       '    IIIII  IIII 
:~~~     ~     - -- -  -   - - - -iiilllllllllllliO                       iliiiilllllzl -UbwZ TFM Ff  +1 --                        I,
,Te~JI~q  pw  ;uuzorrp T. M                                                       W$A1    W;eInpAps   ueuoWnoz"
I   H11-TT Ill lt  tOIJVLG lil'lS lilSlilU                l H  IM M      HIIIIYNV               I _   I       I
II f       Tln  I I IWT I HHH  HH+± 11  ltl    lt i  1]" Il  [                          1  H1 1111IT11nT1111111111                     1     1       1
TiM,20IN    puv- :;UumXTrwg  'XIM    TATC  Zo;5   elnnPelas qlulemencool;
EliDRMOd N5IXVaI10W05    OS             33os   laXym YNEAlIY
riN



-212 -
Page 1 of 2
RARYA1bA    EnY~ RRSOUl RCNOLTDATION PR=tCT
RCIDLR OF RUPIRVISTON MIS9TON9
flrnmidmato atanAeRlit             E,meted Wiperts/             rn-Qa--
yX S;ax Setff TInut Raqulree                                  tStaff wheekl
FY94       II    Start Up           Procurement                         20
Disbursement
Institutions
Progravming/Budgeting
Computer/Communications
Finance
FY95       I      Supervision 1      Institutions                        10
Water Resources Planning
Environmentalist
Civil Engineer (Irrig./Drainage)
Sociologist/Farmer Organization
Lawyer
FY95       II    Supervision 2      Programming/Budgeting                10
Sociologist/Farmer Training
Procurement
Disbursement
Finance
Institutions
FY96       I      Supervision 3      Sociologist/Farmer Organization     6
Civil Engineer (Irrig./Drainage)
Computer/Communications
Economist
FY96       II    Supervision 4      Water Resources Planning
Hydrologist
Civil Engineer (Irrig./Drainage)
Procurement
Disbursement
FY97       I      Supervision 5    Civil Engineer (Irrig/Drainage)       7
Civil Engineer (Structures)
Sociologist/Farmer Organization



- 213 -
Attanhym.nt~ 
Page 2 of 2
FY97       II    Mid-term Review   Civil Engineer (Irrig./Drainage)   20
Civil Engineer (Structures)
Procurement
Disbursement
Economist/Finance
Water Resources Planning
Environment
Sociologist
Institutions
Computer/Commtunications
FY98       I      Supervision 6      Civil Engineer (Irrig./Drainage)    6
Water Resources Planning
Disbursement
Computer/Conwunications
FY98       II    Supervision 7       Civil Engineer (Irrig./Drainage)    5
Sociologist/Farmer Organization
FY99       I      Supervision 8      Civil Engineer (Irrig./Drainage)    5
Finance
Procurement
Disbursement
FY99       II    Supervision 9       Civil Engineer (Irrig./Drainage)    5
Sociologist/Farmer Organization
FY2000     I      Supervision 10    Civil Engineer (Irrig./Drainage)    5
Finance
Disbursement
FY2000     II    Proj.Completion   Civil Engineer (Irrig./Drainage)   10
Economist
Finance
Water Resources Planning



iNDA
,HARYANA WATEP F U CESOQNSOUDAT    PROEC'r
iOETBoIecQ vEEN&Nil               INQiTO
PROJECT OPJEC1ES             ACTlVT Yi9;R                             iDOCATOR                                    c amw
1. Introduce water        - Instituffonal reform         - Institonal reorganizatio taken place & HIO  - Reorganization would take place prior
resources, planning &   - Institutional support         operating according to new structuto         to project commencement
management              - State Water Plan (SWP)      - SWP prepared & updated every 5 years        - Annual Action PlanslMkidtefm Review
- GW regulaton &              - GOWHID actng upon recommendations of the    - Data Colection & Water Resources
legislation                   SWP                                           Planning Unit (DPU) to camr out
- Non-new wells in dark zones, limited expansion  sample hydrological & wta.s resource
In gray zones                                use baserine survey & montor
changes during proje¢t
Implementation
* OWt                         - Improved delivery system efficiency for all  - Baseline survey & monitoring
- Beneficiay participation      users
a Enhance afl-              Rehabilitation               - Increased areas under rigation according to  - HID to commission sample
cultural productivity,  - Modemization                  physical targets of rehabilitation &          agricultural, Irrigation & Income
diversification & equity    - O&M Investment            mc.'em)zat)on prgram                          baseline survey and monitor changes
- O&M reform                  - Increased agricultural growt & cropping      dudng project implementaton. This
- Cost recovery                intensity                                     should be coordinated with HDOA.
- Seneficiary partici-        - DWversification to higher valued crops
pation & WUA formation      - Increased yields & producvity of crops
- Increased rate of utilization of irigation                 6
potenffal
- Increased water savings                                   a
- Tail-enders of system roceive more water
- Increased cost recovery according to schedule    - Project covenant
- Sustained levels of O&M funding
- Proportion of establishment cost to works  - Annual Budgets/Revenue/
expenditures for all maintenance categories  Expenditure Plans
remain stable or decine
- WUA formed & operating for at least 3 years  - Water Service Po-icy Support Unit to  ' 
- WUAs effectively maintaining water courses   cany out baseline survey of WUA
actlhites and beneficiary participation   I-A
& monitor during project
implementation.



PROJWTQ         S               ACTIVITY/RLFORIUi                       INDICATOB                                  COMMENT
3 Assure sustainability of   - SWP                      * Decrease In water-logging & saHlnity        * DPU to p.rfonm sample data
the environment                                                                                       collection and monitor against
baseline survey
-  Groundwater regulation &   * Changes in water table levels In dark/grey  * DPU to monitor groundwater levels
legislation                   zones
-  Power sector reforms       - Less groundwater pumping due to increased   - DPU to monitor activiffes
power changes
4. Improve HID's          - Institutional reform        - HID's reorganization in place & woridng     * Reorganization to take place prior to
capabilities In all water    - Institutional support  - Improved service delivery to all users        project commencement &
& related areas                                                                                       performance monitored
- Baserine suwevr comparison
-  Budget aitocation and public      Funds allocated to priority actfvities & linked  - Annual Action Plan; Works, Budget
expenditure reorientation     to cost recovery                              & Revenue Plans; Mid-term Review
* Improved project planning, programming &
budgeting
Ql
b iD
O  t  
0  t0



- 216 -
Annax 16
Attachment- 6
Page 1 of 2
HARYANA WAER RESOURCS CONSOLIDATTON PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFRRENCE FOR SOCIO-ECONOMTC
AND WATER SERVICES RASELI=E StrVYS
1.    To evaluate the impact of the Haryana Water Resources Consolidation
Project (WRCP), a baseline survey would be commissioned under the project.
Survey findings should: (i) provide insight into the situation in the initial
phase of water resource development under the project; and (ii) form the basis
for future monitoring and evaluation of project impact. Key project
indicators identified to assist GOH monitor the progress towards achieving
project objectives include: implementation of Haryana Irrigation Department
(HID) reorganization and effectiveness of operation within the new structure,
preparation and updating of the State Water Plan (SWP) and implementation of
its recommendations, agricultural growth ard crop diversification, delivery of
water and improved services, cost recovery from users, water savings,
formation of viable Water User Associations (WUA), water-logging and
salinity, and project planning, programming and budgeting.
2.    The socro-enonomi;- surv'ev would in particular address the aspects
relevant from a beneficiary point of view to evaluate project impact in terms
of changes in incomes and living standards, as well as beneficiary perception
of project related services. The survey would cover about 1-2% of the project
beneficiaries selected randomly with a representative distribution among the
Western Yamuna Command and the Bhakra Command in proportion to the number of
farms recorded in each area, with farm sizes ranging as follows: 0 - 0.5 ha;
0.5-1.0 ha; 1.0-2.0 ha; 2.0-5.0 ha; 5.0-10.0 ha; and above 10 ha. The sample
should contain at least 10-15% women, of which there should be a mix of women
family heads, wives of surveyed male family heads, and other women. The
survey should cover the following broad categories:
AL. Farmer Identity/ Household Characteristchs: Name; age; origin;
composition of family; level of education; work distribution; etc.
B. Ownership aand Use of Land:  Farm size; land ownership and
distribution system among family members; number of plots and location;
distribution of crops and cropping patterns, by plots and by sources of
irrigation; farm equipment and implements; debts, land mortgages; etc.
C_ Household Activities: Sources of income; on-farm activities and
their distribution; off-farm activities and their distribution;
livestock ownership and activities; role of women and children in on-
farm and off-farm activities; etc.
D. Arriaultural Practices and Income! Crop/livestock types, varieties
and yields (by size of plot and source of irrigation); fertilizer,
irrigation usage and other input usage and costs, by season and



- 217 -
Attachment 6
Page 2 of 2
ownership: production; revenues; yearly on-farm income; yearly off-farm
income; sources of finance; major production problems; perceptions on:
impact of salinity on yields, availability of groundwater; etc.
E.  Irri4ation and Water Use:  Area under irrigation, by source; irriga-
tion intensity; irrigation efficiency; distance from outlet (at head-end
or tail-end); reliability of irrigation/ water delivery; water use per
unit of production; payments made/outstanding for water use; etc.
F. Participation in Farmer Associations: Farmer participation in
associations or cooperatives, formal or informal; activities performed;
farmer rating of and attitudes towards: quality of irrigation service,
operation of irrigation system, maintenance of irrigation system,
m-embership and participation in a Water User Association, payment of
irrigation/water fees, support services from institutional sources; etc.
G. Project Benefits: Farmer perception of social infrastructure and
quality of life; most important benefits of the project.
Hz women Respondents: Family health and education; water supply and
usage; household equipment; house and field work; perception of project
benefits; perception of current and future status; etc.
3.    The baseline survey would further cover aspects of Water delivery,
management and hydrological data, from the institution's point of view. Data
needs would be determined and collected in consultation with the Data
Collection and Water Resources Planning Unit (DPU), and a representative
sample taken from areas of different water/soil conditions in the state. The
following (sample) aspects would be covered:
A. Water supplies and volumes to various sectors/uses;
B. Water delivery efficiency of each major water supply system, branch
and distributary canals, and within each distribution level; etc.
C. Groundwater levels at sample points; density of wells in area,
public and private (number per square km); size of pumps; total
extractions per square km; etc.
D. Drainage: measurement of quantity and quality of drainage
discharges for each major drainage sub-system; and
E. Salinity: extent of salinization of land, salt content; areas lost
to production; etc.
4.    The baseline surveys would be carried out by GOH by January 31, 1995.
During project implementation, the baseline data would be compared to on-going
data collected in terms of the development indicators, to monitor and evaluate
the progress made towards achieving the project objectives.



- 218 -
anuwA 17
Page 1 of 1
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal                                      Cumulative               % of
Samester                nishurgemant          Diluhrrqa   Cnt
FY94 ?/       I                12.9                  12.9                   5
II               12.9                  25.8                  10
FY95          I                15.5                  41.3                  16
II               23.2                  64.5                  25
FY96          I                25.8                  90.3                  35
II               25.8                 116.1                  45
FY97          I                23.2                  139.3                 54
II               20.6                 160.0                  62
FY98          I                20.6                  180.6                 70
II               18.1                 198.7                  77
FY99          I                18.1                  216.7                 84
II               15.5                 232.2                  90
rYoo          I                12.9                  245.1                 95
II               12.9                 258.0                 100
a/  Includes retroactive financing of US$10 million and special account for
US$8 million.



- 219 -
Anax 18
Page 1 of 1
HARYANA WNTEA  RELO RCEI COUSOLnlTO?  PROCT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT rILE
1.    Haryana WRCP:  Back to Office Report on Rehabilitation and Resettlement
Mission - A.P. Barnabas, 1993.
2.    Review of Canal Acquisition of Haryana Water Resources Consolidation
Project - A.K. Gupta, 1993.
3.    Haryana WRCP:  Investment Plan and Project Cost Summary, Haryana -
Irrigation Department (HID), Government of Haryana, 1993.
4.    Haryana WRCP:  Project Estimate for Modernization of Existing Channels
in Haryana (Unit I) - HID, 1993.
5.    Haryana WRCP:  Project Estimate for Feeding Kheri, Budha Khera, Old
Nardak and Karnal Distributaries of WYC System (Unit II) - HID, 1993.
6.    Haryana WRCP: Construction/Extension of Minors for Equitable Water
Distribution in Haryana (Unit III) - HID, 1993.
7.    Haryana WRCP:  Project Estimate for Research and Development Unit - HID,
1993.
8.    Haryana WRCP:  Modernization of Watercourses - HID, 1993.
9.    Haryana WRCP:  Plan of Operation and Maintenance - HID, 1993.
10.   Haryana WRCP:  Cost Recovery - J.C. McGahan, 1993.
11.   Haryana WRCP:  Sectoral Environmental Assessment Report - J. Prosser,
1993.
12.   Haryana WRCP:  Plan of Operation and Maintenance Summary Report/Outline
and Instr--tions - L. Simpson, 1992.



MAP SECTION



READ'AM                       }HIMACHAL PRADESH
HEADW'OBX 
i'A.B
PUNJAB                                                                                                  '                        -
_, >   tC  ., ;    ^                                                           /                             /                   ,    ,jT, M
:  \      \ * \   -./:   t   )       PRADESH
RAJASTHANIo
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Snp
INDIA
HARYANA WATER RESOURCES                                                                             -
CONSOUDATION PROJECT
CANALS AND FEEDERS             r 
BRANCHES
DRAINS, DISTRIBUTARIES ANI) SMALL CHANNELS   T.                                                                                                  OKHL4
EMBANKMENTS OR DIKES                                                                                             GU
-fjHEADWORKDSron ~                                                                                                                                Fion
RIVERS                                       T. Pl.iLo    .
AREA FLOODED DURING 1993
0    SELECTED CTIES
®  STATE CAPITAL 
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
ROADS
RAILROADS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
. . .  STATE EOJNDARIES
Z O 1~~I0               20        30       AO        50 MiL6Tkpr2if//   j O9 _
z                                                                                                                                                                        A__ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _
_   O 0 IID 20   30  40   SSKiIoneIr;,
0   II       '3. '                                                                                                                                     " j            -    __



