Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2592 IN
                         Project Agreement
          (Haryana Water Resources Consolidation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                         STATE OF HARYANA
                        Date April 6, 1994
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2592 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 6 1994, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF HARYANA
(Haryana).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
February 5, 1994 from Haryana, endorsed by the Borrower, describing
sector reforms that constitute the framework for improving
development of water resources in Haryana including policy,
institutional and administrative reforms (hereinafter called the
Policy Reform Program), and declaring Haryana's commitment to carry
out such Policy Reform Program.
      (B)   by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to one hundred eighty seven million
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 187,300,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Haryana agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, and in this Agreement;
Page  2
      WHEREAS Haryana, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Haryana declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through HID with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and water
resource management practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Haryana shall
otherwise agree, Haryana shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Haryana shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) Haryana shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
      (b)   Haryana shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Haryana of its obligations under this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) Haryana shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project
of the departments or agencies of Haryana responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   Haryana shall:
            (i)   have its records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
Page  3
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Haryana thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
            (ii)  the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Haryana
of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C            82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
Page  4
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For Haryana:
            Chief Secretary
            Government of Haryana
            Chandigarh
            Haryana, India
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Haryana may be taken or executed by its Chief
Secretary or such other person or persons as Haryana shall designate
in writing, and Haryana shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                  STATE OF HARYANA
                  By /s/ Kanwal Sibal
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
Page  5
      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, Haryana shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purpose of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, Haryana shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, civil works for
canal, drainage and water course rehabilitation, modernization and
maintenance under Parts A, B and C (except B.4) of the Project may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
$49,200,000, may be carried out by force account in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Vehicles estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $700,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.    Equipment estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding $4,100,000, may be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to (i) the first five contracts of each
civil works and goods, and (ii) each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
Page  6
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist in carrying out the Project, Haryana shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to
prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
3.    For complex, time based assignments, Haryana shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed with the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, Haryana
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    Haryana shall, beginning April 1, 1994, and every April 1,
thereafter, fully budget for the works portion of the following year
operation and maintenance expenditures under Part C of the Project,
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Haryana shall ensure that full cost recovery from the
beneficiaries of operation and maintenance costs under Part C of the
Project be charged as follows: 30% by April 1, 1996; 60% by April 1,
1997; 80% by April 1, 1998; and 100% by April 1, 1999.
3.    Haryana shall, (i) under terms of reference agreed with the
Association, carry out not later than January 31, 1995 a socio-
economic baseline survey for various aspects of water resources use,
management and delivery services; (ii) furnish the findings of such
a survey to the Association for the Association's review and
comments; and (iii) use such results to monitor the development
impact of the Project.
4.    Haryana shall, without limitation to the provisions of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, implement a system satisfactory to the
Association for channelling the funds required for the Project, to
the entities involved in carrying out the Project.
5.    Haryana shall select augmentation and direct irrigation
tubewells for rehabilitation under Part A.5 of the Project in
Page  7
accordance with criteria agreed with the Association.
6.    Haryana shall select the NGOs participating in the Project in
accordance with criteria agreed with the Association.
7.    Haryana shall by March 31 of each year, starting March 31,
1995, furnish to the Association, for the Association's review and
comments, its approved Annual Action Plan, including work program
and revenue and expenditure budget for the following year, and shall
thereafter implement such Annual Action Plan.
8.    Haryana shall, by June 30, 1997, undertake in collaboration
with the Borrower and the Association, a mid-term review of the
Project, and shall thereafter implement the recommendations of such
review.
9.    Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions, Haryana shall implement a program satisfactory
to the Association for the acquisition of land required for the
Project.
10.   Haryana shall select water courses for rehabilitation under
Part A.4 of the Project only after beneficiary farmers served by the
water course have been organized in water user associations.
