Page  1
June 15, 1999
The Secretary to the Government of India 
Ministry of Finance 
Department of Economic Affairs 
New Delhi, India
Re:
Credit No. 2592-IN Haryana Water Resources Consolidation 
Project 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Haryana Water Resources 
Consolidation Project) between India (the Borrower) and the International Development 
Association (the Association) dated April 6, 1994.
We also refer to your letter dated March 23, 1999, requesting the Association to 
finance the cost of (i) the relocation and construction of the new headquarters of the 
Haryana Irrigation Department (HID) and a residential colony, and (ii) the 
consultants’ services for carrying out the detailed engineering, environmental and 
social assessments for the proposed drainage component in the Hisar/Ghaggar catchment.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association, after due consideration, has 
agreed to your request.  Accordingly the Development Credit agreement is amended as 
follows: 
1.
In the table in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the phrase “and 
D. 1” is added in category (1) (a) after “B. 5.”
2.
Part D 1 of Schedule 2 is deleted and replaced with the following: 
“1.
Strengthening of HID through relocation and construction of its 
headquarters 
and a residential colony at Kurukshetra, and provision of 
technical assistance and 
training for institutional and administrative reform, 
groundwater regulations, 
environmental management, beneficiary 
participation and formation of Water Users’ 
Associations and the 
establishment of an information and communication system.” 
Kindly note that the request for financing the drainage component under the 
project will be proposed to our management and Board for consideration only after the 
engineering, social and environmental assessments are completed, and that the mere 
financing of the costs of these assessments does not constitute an agreement on the 
Association’s part to finance the drainage component.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the confirmation form on the enclosed copy of this letter, and returning it to us for 
our files.  A copy of this letter is enclosed for your files, and another copy is 
being sent to  the Chief Secretary, Government of Haryana, for information.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
Country Director, India
CONFIRMED
INDIA
Page  2
By /s/ Diwash N. Sharan
Director, FB 
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
Date:
August 24, 1999
