Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15475
IMPLEHMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1454/SF 12 IN)
MARCH 26, 1996
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE AND ABBREVIATIONS
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 9.75 at appraisal (February 1983)
Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.1025 at appraisal (February 1983)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 31.50 at closure (December 1994)
Rs. 1 .00 = US$ 0.0317 at closure (December 1994)
GOI/GOTN FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm            -      millimeter (0.04 inches)
cm            -      centimeter (0.39 inches)
m             -      meter (39.37 inches or 3.28 ft)
km            -      kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha            -      hectare (10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres)
sq. km        -      square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
I             -      liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd           -      liters per capita per day
cu. m         -      cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
ml            -      million liters or 1,000 cubic meters
mid           -      million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial gallons per day or
0.264 million US gallons per day)
mgd           -      million gallons (Imperial) per day
Rs. I lakh    -      Rs. 100,000
Rs. I crore    -     Rs. 10,000,000
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AIC           -      Average Incremental Cost
CLPA          -      Coimbatore Local Planning Area
CMS           -      Cities of Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem
GOTN/GTN   -         Government of Tamil Nadu
GOI           -      Government of India
IDWSSD        -      International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade
Program
ROR           -      Rate of Return
LIC           -      Life Insurance Corporation of India
MC            -      Municipal Corporation
MMWSSB        -      Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
PWD           -      Public Works Department
TWAD          -      Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Program
WHO           -      World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT IDA 1454/SF 12 IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ............................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................                                                                                    ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................................................                                                            1
A. Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives .............................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .............................................................1
C. Major Factors Affecting  the Project .............................................................5
D. Project Sustainability .............................................................7
E. Bank Perforrnance .............................................................7
F. Borrower Performance .............................................................7
G. Assessment of Outcome .............................................................8
H. Future Operations .............................................................8
1. Key Lessons Learned .............................................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .............................................................11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .......................................................11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ......................................................1l
Table 3: Project Timetable .......................................................1
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................... 1
Table  5: Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ......................................................                                            1:
Table  6: Key  Indicators for Project Operation .......................................................1
Table  7: Studies Included  in  Project .......................................................1.
Table 8A: Project Costs ......................................................                                                                         1'
Table 8B: Project Financing ......................................................                                                                    1E
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................................1 C
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................                                                            2C
Table  11: Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ...................................................... 22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ......................................................                                                         23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ......................................................                                                             24
APPNDICES
A. Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Evaluation
Maps: IBRD Nos. 27858, 27860, 27861,27862
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
INDIA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT IDA 1454/SF 12 IN
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tamnil Nadu Water
Supply and Sanitation Project in India, for which Credit IDA 1454/SF 12 IN in the amount of SDR
35.3 million and 35.3 million respectively, totaling SDR 70.6 million, was approved on March 29,
1984 and made effective on February 22, 1985.
The Credit was finally closed on December 31, 1994, although the original Credit
closing date was June 30, 1990. The project suffered delays. It was restructured, with the approval
of the Board, on January 7, 1991 to include additional components and with an extension of the
closing date to November 30, 1992. Also at that time the disbursement percentage was increased
by the Bank. After two more extensions the restructured project was substantially complete by the
final revised Credit closing date and was fully disbursed by March 1, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. G.V. Abhyankar of the Bank's Resident Mission
in New Delhi, A. Saravanapavan (Consultant) and Karl Kleiner (Task Manager) of the Agriculture
and Water Operations Division, Country Department 2, South Asia Region. The ICR was reviewed
by Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Chief, Agriculture and Water Operations Division, Country Department
2, South Asia Region, and Mr. Christopher Couzens, Project Advisor (Acting). The Borrower
provided an independent evaluation which is included as an appendix to the ICR.
The preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission in
November 1994. It is based on the material from the project file and mission findings. The
Borrower contributed to the ICR by providing data, views on the project outcome and the
independent evaluation.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT IDA 1454/SF 12 IN)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1.    The broad aims of the project were to improve water supply and sanitation services in
specific urban areas, support institutional and financial strengthening of the sector institutions and
develop a water resource management strategy for the water-scarce State of Tamil Nadu in India.
This was the first Bank Group-financed statewide water supply and sanitation project in the State,
following similar projects in five other Indian states. The project was expected to benefit over 4
million of the urban population in the State.
2.    The specific objectives and the scope of the project were to: (a) improve water supply in
three large urban towns (Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem) and provide safe water supply to a
number of smaller towns and rural areas without these facilities; (b) provide proper low-cost
sanitation (LCS) facilities to selected urban communities to improve public health standards; (c)
assist the Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) and the implementing agency, the Tamil Nadu
Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD), in developing water resources management strategies
aimed at achieving overall economies in providing drinking water; (d) enable low-income groups to
connect to the systems, or alternatively to provide adequate standpost facilities; (e) strengthen
TWAD's institutional, managerial and financial practices through training and technical assistance;
and, (f) assist urban local bodies in improving their resource base for proper operation and
maintenance of installed facilities.
3.    The project was restructured on January 7, 1991 to expand water supply service coverage
by adding water supply schemes for 6 medium-sized towns and several drought affected rural
communities, LCS units in additional small towns and a sector plan study.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The original project implementation schedule (1985-90) was not adhered to, and the delays
were extensive. Project extensions totaling more than 4 years were granted. There were four main
reasons for the delays: (a) TWAD was slow to prepare final designs (and undertook two major
design changes which were time consuming), initiate bid invitations and make awards; (b)
unsatisfactory performance by one major pipeline contractor that caused serious problems; (c) poor
project management by TWAD, at least in the initial years; and, (d) the original implementation
schedules were unrealistic. For the Coimbatore water supply scheme, there was a delay of two
years because GOI environmental clearance for using a forest reserve was not granted, resulting in



redesign of this major scheme. The appraised project did not use standard disbursement profiles
which, for this sector and region, would have been close to the actual rate of disbursement.
5.    Nevertheless, with the benefit of the additional time available, all the physical objectives of
the project were fully met. Indeed, the initial objectives were exceeded when account is taken of
the additional works included at restructuring. Water supply to three large towns has been
augmented and piped water provided for the first time to 46 small towns. The project will
particularly benefit urban poor and women through improved access to drinking water. The
beneficiary population will be over 5 million as compared to the appraisal figure of 4 million
because of the inclusion of additional water supply schemes.
6.    Implementation of the low cost sanitation (LCS) program in 14 Phase 1 towns led to
requests for inclusion of 52 new towns at Phase 2 and the project achieved not only the appraised
LCS target but the enhanced target set at restructuring. Over 34,000 units have been constructed in
the 66 small and medium towns. There is a need for GOTN to formally evaluate the LCS program
implemented under the project in terms of: (a) sustained use of the facilities; and, (b) the project's
demonstration impact, which is generally regarded as significant since the program is continuing
with GOTN funds.
7.    The project utilized all the available Credit of SDR 70.6 million. The actual project cost in
rupee terms exceeded estimates by over 50 % for the original scope of work. Additional works
included at restructuring were completed with only a minor cost increase over estimates. The main
reasons for the cost overruns in rupee terms were design changes, implementation delays and poor
contractor performance.
8.    GOTN provided adequate and timely counterpart funds for implementation. This contrasts
with Bank experience in some other Indian states.
9.    The project assisted the preparation of the State's water sector policy. A water resources
management study was completed for six river basins which culminated in the setting up of State
Water Resources Council, adoption of State water policy and preparation of a draft Water
Legislation Act. The river basins study is being extended under the Tamil Nadu Water Resources
Consolidation Project (Cr.2745-IN).
10.   At the time of Credit closing only a preliminary sector analysis had been completed for
drinking water. Nonetheless, the study has provided an impetus to the planning of sustainable and
economical developments.
11.   Attempts to strengthen TWAD as the main sector institution in the State had mixed results.
Certainly, the organizational and management capacity of TWAD has improved. But its operations
remain overly centralized. The Sector Plan Study has made a number of recommendations for
change in TWAD's role in statewide sector planning and management, and has outlined needed
organizational changes. GOTN is proceeding to implement the findings of the study.



iv
12.   Partly as a result of the project's interventions, the financial management of the local bodies
has considerably improved. Tariffs were increased by 80% to 140%, often prior to the
commissioning of new schemes. Separate accounts are now maintained for water supply and
sanitation in the local bodies.
13.   Project outcome assessment. Overall, the project achieved most of its major objectives but
with substantial delays. It is expected to achieve satisfactory development results, with only a few
shortcomings. It is rated as satisfactory.
Sustainability
14.   The project's sustainability has been rated as likely. The success of long term sustainability
will depend critically upon GOTN's close monitoring and enforcement of financial discipline by
the beneficiary local bodies.
Further Operations
15.   In the post-project period the O&M responsibility for water supply feeder systems is being
shifted to TWAD while the local bodies will continue to be responsible for distribution O&M.
Capacity building of both TWAD and the local bodies for more effective performance will pose a
challenge to GOTN. GOTN will need to encourage and facilitate local bodies to generate adequate
resources to pay proportionate O&M cost to TWAD, in addition to the debt service charges and
administration expenses which have arisen.
16.   Detailed performance indicators have been developed by the final supervision mission for
monitoring and evaluation of the project's performance. The Bank's involvement in the sector is
continuing through the Second Madras Water Supply Project (Ln.3907-IN) as well as the Tamil
Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project. TWAD's performance in project-related activities
improved significantly over the project period. This has encouraged the Bank to support the
Second Madras Project, in particular, in which TWAD has an important implementation role.
17.   GOTN should pursue preparation of follow-up projects for Coimbatore and Madurai water
supply, since the design horizon for schemes under this project was the year 1996.
18.   GOTN and TWAD also need to further develop the drinking water sector study initiated
through the project to ensure that adequate and reliable sector data are collected, sector issues are
analyzed with sufficient rigor and sector policies reformulated on an ongoing basis. This activity
will be continued in the context of the Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project.
Key lessons learned
19.   The most significant issues that have arisen with this project were associated with its
extensive delays. Accordingly, the primary lessons are concemed with improvements to project
planning which would reduce the chances of delay in future projects. Specifically, final designs,
environmental and other clearances, and procurement procedures need to be finalized for a



v
significant proportion of the works, and all works on the project's critical path, before
implementation starts. Normally this will mean prior to appraisal, or negotiations as is now Bank
policy.
20.   A further cause of delay was that delegation of adequate powers to Chief Engineers
responsible for on-the-ground implementation did not take place as was agreed. Greater resolution
is required on the part of the Bank than was apparent in this project in establishing relevant
conditionalities, ensuring they are met and enforcing them during implementation.
21.   In order to encourage a proper sense of ownership, with its attendant focus on the timeliness
of asset creation, the ultimate asset owners (local bodies, in this case) should thoroughly participate
in the supervision and control of all stages of the project cycle. Moreover, the implementing
agency (TWAD) did not have adequate incentives, in the form of penalties or rewards, to perform
according to the agreed programs of preparation and implementation.
22.   Proportionately greater Bank supervision effort is required in the initial years of the project,
particularly when an agency is involved which is participating in a Bank project for the first time.
Additionally, this project would have benefited from greater consultant assistance to the
implementing agency in preparation and early phases of implementation.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT IDA 1454/SF 12 IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve water supply in three large urban towns
of Tamil Nadu and to provide a safe water supply to a number of smaller towns and rural areas
without these facilities; (b) provide proper low-cost sanitation (LCS) facilities to selected urban
communities to improve public health standards; (c) assist the Government of Tamil Nadu
(GOTN) and the implementing agency, the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board
(TWAD), in developing water resource management strategies aimed at achieving overall
economies in providing drinking water; (d) enable low-income groups to connect to the systems,
or alternatively to provide adequate standpost facilities; (e) strengthen TWAD's institutional,
managerial, and financial practices through training and technical assistance; and, (f) assist urban
local bodies in identifying measures to improve their resource base for proper operations and
maintenance of investments. These objectives were clear, realistic and important for the sector.
The project was restructured on January 7, 1991 to expand water supply service coverage by
adding six medium sized towns and several drought affected rural communities, more LCS units
and a sector plan study.
2.    The project did not include waste water disposal systems for the three large project towns
of Coimbatore, Salem and Madurai. Two of these three towns already had sewerage systems
covering old city areas. The GOTN had then intended to undertake expansion/introduction with
its own resources, and within the context of the Bank's Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project
(Cr. 1 923-IN). Sullage drainage and low cost sanitation components were included, however, in
14 of the small/medium towns. With hindsight, part of the LCS component, which following
restructuring ultimately covered 66 communities, could have also been included in the project for
the fringe areas of the three large towns although there was resistance at the outset by GOTN to
widening the LCS scope of the project.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
3.    The stated project objectives have by and large been met. However, because of
implementation delays, many of the beneficiaries did not receive the targeted benefits for almost
five years. Although their finances improved, not all the local bodies could accomplish the



2
targeted resource mobilization in the short term. The restructuring provided water supply
benefits to an additional eight drought prone rural communities and the low cost sanitation
program was extended. The major physical components of the three major towns of Coimbatore,
Salem and Madurai were projected in the SAR to have a rate of return of about 8% (Table 9).
Because of the delay, project costs increased, benefits were deferred and the rate of return was
significantly lower, at about 5%.
4.    Sector Policies: The project had a very positive effect on the State's water sector policy.
A Water Resources Management Study to ensure security of drinking water sources in Tamil
Nadu, starting with three river basins in Phase I, was successfully completed through the United
Nations Department of Technical Cooperation for Development (UTN/DTCD). Phase II of the
study covering three additional river basins was taken up under the restructured project. Based
on the study recommendations the GOTN has taken/initiated the following actions: (i) the State
Water Resources Council has been created under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister; (ii) the
Draft Water Legislation Act (surface and ground water) is under the active consideration of the
GOTN; and, (iii) the GOTN has framed and published the Tamil Nadu Water Policy. The
GOTN has to date completed the study of 12 out of a total of 17 basins in the State. The
remaining 5 basins would be studied under the Tamil Nadu Water Resource Consolidation
Project (Cr.2745-IN), which also embraces enactment of the Water Resources Legislation. The
GOTN has set up a multi-disciplinary team for this study which is headed by the Irrigation
Department.
5.    SustaiuakiliZ: In view of the limited capacity of Coimbatore, Salem and Madurai to
operate and maintain (O&M) their respective systems, TWAD will take on this responsibility for
both the existing and newly built production and transmission facilities and the complex feeder
systems until such time as these local bodies gain the necessary competence. In the meantime,
the local bodies will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the internal distribution
networks including metering, revenue collection and the reduction and control of unaccounted
for water. Also, hereafter TWAD will be responsible for O&M of all regional piped water
systems in the State, for both urban and rural areas, with the exception of internal distribution
networks. This is intended to improve the standard of O&M and sustainability. Long-term
sustainability depends on financial improvements at local body level, for which prospects are
reasonable (see para 7).
6.    Sector Plan Study: The study was intended to provide reliable sector data, identify and
analyze issues and recommend approaches for sustainable economic development which will
assist the GOTN in appropriate policy reforms for this water-short state. The setting up of an in-
house study team and the employment of consultants were delayed and the full team was in place
only in December 1994. The draft final report was submitted in February 1995. The study
recommendations form the basis for implementing further institutional reformn and the
formulation of a sound investment program.
7.    Financial objectives: Considerable progress has been made in this area. The principal
financial objectives were to improve resource generation in the local bodies of Coimbatore,



3
Madurai and Salem, for debt servicing and meeting increased O&M expenses. A number of
studies were successfully carried out for this purpose and the GOTN accepted and implemented
the recommendations of the study reports with the result that tariffs have been increased by 80%
to 140% and property tax raised by about 100%. What is particularly noteworthy is that the
tariff increases were effected even before the commissioning of the new schemes. Due to various
efforts under the project, the collection efficiency of both current and arrears demand has
improved in Coimbatore and Salem; however, additional efforts are needed in Madurai, which is
expected to gain further momentum on commissioning of the schemes. Billing efficiency has
improved after introduction of the 'card-billing system' in Coimbatore. Separate accounts are
maintained for water supply and sewerage and staff retained exclusively for this purpose. All
accounts have been updated and audits completed. All consumer connections have been metered
in Coimbatore and Salem, but in Madurai lack of drive by local officials to overcome public
resistance has delayed installation of meters on the existing connections. Based on the consultant
study, Coimbatore is actively considering implementation of stepped tariffs and Madurai has
expressed interest in studying the possibility of privatizing metering and revenue collection. With
these improvements and the continuing efforts to improve collection efficiency, Coimbatore,
Salem and Madurai should be able to meet full O&M costs as well as their debt servicing
obligations to the GOTN. Tariff increases have also been implemented in the forty-four small
towns in the project. However the implementation of a new tariff in twenty rural towns in the
Coimbatore system was delayed until the commissioning of the water supply services in these
towns. GOTN orders required to introduce water tariffs in I I rural towns of the Salem system
were also delayed. Also, based on study recommendations, the GOTN has permitted the local
bodies to increase the 'professional tax' to improve their resource base. Most urban local bodies
have since raised this tax. TWAD has computerized its financial accounting system and payroll
systems for project staff in all its field offices down to the divisional level.
8.   Institutional Obectives: The organization and management of TWAD's operations have
substantially improved as a result of the following actions taken through the project:
(a)   creation of new positions of Engineering, Finance and Administrative Directors
and decentralization of TWAD's operations through setting up of separate
regional and project Chief Engineers;
(b)   introduction of computerized project monitoring and materials management
systems in the project offices and procurement of office equipment (Computers,
Fax, Photocopiers, telephone lines, etc.);
(c)   establishment of a training center at Madras and regular training programs for
engineers, operators and accounts and administration staff, based on the training
needs assessment study carried out by consultants. However, there is scope for
improving the quality of training. Construction of buildings and other facilities
for the training center at Madras and a vocational training center at Trichinopoly
have been completed;



4
(d)   upgrading of water quality testing laboratories and the setting up of meter repair
facilities, strengthening of maintenance workshops, and procurement of leak
detection equipment; and
(e)   adoption of effective procurement procedures.
The improvement in TWAD's performance has encouraged the Bank to support a further project
in the sector, namely, the Second Madras Water Supply Project (Ln.3907-IN), in which TWAD
has a significant but managerially straight-forward role. However, TWAD has remained highly
centralized since adequate powers have not been delegated to field officers. For example, bid
award decision powers have been taken away from TWAD for all works costing more than Rs.
10 million (US$0.3 million). TWAD needs to be given greater operational autonomy to properly
fulfill its functions and obligations. The sector plan study has made several recommendations for
further institutional reforms.
9.    Physical objectives: All the physical objectives of the project have been met. Water
supply to 46 small towns, eight rural schemes in the restructured project and all towns and rural
habitations of the Salem system have been commissioned. The GOTN has provided adequate
finds to TWAD to meet the full scheme requirements beyond the Credit closing date. Targets
were achieved for the low cost sanitation program in all of the 14 towns in Phase 1. This
popular success of a relatively new program resulted in requests from 52 new towns in Phase 2
for inclusion in the restructured project. This target was also achieved by the final revised
closing date.
10.   The selection of project towns, both large and small, as well as the rural habitations, was
appropriate. Water supply provision in the larger towns had been insufficient to keep pace with
growing demand. The small towns had only skeletal piped water systems, or none at all. Since
the project was spread widely over the State, TWAD made an early decision to decentralize
project management by setting up, initially one and later two, field offices supported by an
adequate number of field teams. Despite this strategy the magnitude and complexity of the
project stretched TWAD's implementation capacity to the limits. Design changes and slow
procurement caused major delays in the first five years. Although the design changes improved
the quality of the project, it was at the cost of delay. TWAD learned from the initial experience
and performance improved. But only with extensions to the closing date was TWAD able to
complete its original program, and eventually undertake a much larger volume of physical works
than envisaged at appraisal. Eleven TWAD Managing Directors from the GOTN Administrative
Service, and with varying management skills, were put in charge of the project.
11.   Social aspects: In the towns of Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem about 30-50% of the
population are estimated to be below the poverty line and they mostly live in slums dispersed
throughout the town areas. The project has improved water supply services through the
provision of adequate standposts located at appropriate places, decided in consultation with
women in each community. In small towns and rural areas, more than 50% of the population is
below the poverty line. These habitations did not have piped water supply, but now receive



5
water through stand posts. Thus, the project will effectively improve/provide water supply
services to both the urban and rural poor in the project area. Pre-project, women had to travel
long distances and spend considerable time for fetching water for domestic purposes. This
situation has changed substantially as the project brings water within a short distance from the
dwelling places.
12.   Conversion of dry latrines and construction of new sanitary latrines in some 66 towns
through the project has relieved many scavengers in these towns from the inhuman and
hazardous tasks in collecting and disposing of human excreta. These scavengers are expected to
be redeployed for solid waste management within the towns. Though full coverage has not been
achieved, the large number of LCS units constructed through the project appears to have had a
demonstration effect since the demand for low cost sanitation has increased substantially, and is
receiving the support of other Government programs.
13.   Environmental aspects: Improved water supply and provision of low cost sanitation will
have a positive impact on the environment and health in the towns where these components have
been implemented. A GOI environmental clearance was not obtained for the Coimbatore water
supply scheme which resulted in 2 years' delay because of the need to redesign the scheme.
However, this GOI decision ensured that the natural habitat of elephant herds has been preserved.
14.   Private Sector: Although no foreign bidders participated in the project despite the use of
ICB procedures for procurement of major works, the response of qualified private contractors
from Tamil Nadu and other Indian states was positive and the quality of works was satisfactory.
TWAD and some of the large local bodies are actively considering privatization of O&M of
water treatment plants, pumping stations, meter reading, billing and revenue collection.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   Although all the project objectives have been substantially achieved, the following
uncertainties remain:
(a)   GOTN may delay in taking suitable measures, including passing legislation, to
control exploitation of groundwater, or fail rigorously to enforce them;
(b)   local bodies may defer tariff increases and fail to improve collections and so be
unable to recover costs and thereby fulfill their O&M and debt service
obligations; and,
(c)   leak detection units have yet to be adequately staffed and made functional. How
local bodies will utilize TWAD's expertise in this area has yet to be formulated.
16.   Cost overruns: During project implementation there was a near constant relationship
between the SDR and US$ but there was a large appreciation of the US$ against the Indian



6
Rupee. Project restructuring in January 1991 included additional works. The project cost in
Rupee terms increased from Rs 1490 to Rs 3720 millions as follows:
(a)   For the original project: a 53% cost increase occurred, due to inadequate
project preparation which caused major changes in design, deficient estimates of
physical quantities, unrealistic implementation schedules, implementation delays
and inadequate price contingencies. There was poor performance of one major
contractor.
(b)   For new works: an 8.5% cost increase occurred, resulting primarily from higher
bid prices as compared with TWAD estimates.
17.  Initial hesitation on the part of TWAD in adopting the Bank's procurement guidelines for
interest free mobilization advances and provision of a price escalation clause resulted in delays
and higher bids than were necessary. Later, contract price escalation and bonus clauses gave
incentives to major contractors to complete all works by the closing date.
18.   Disbursement Delays: By the original Credit closing date of June 30, 1990, the project
was already delayed by about three years with less than half the Credit disbursed due to: (i)
delayed credit effectiveness; (ii) design changes; (iii) delayed positioning of staff; and, (iv)
delayed environmental clearance. Had standard disbursement profiles for the sector and region
been used at appraisal, there would have been a closer correlation of estimated with actual
disbursements. The project was restructured at the time of original Credit closing and the closing
date extended to June 30, 1993. Later, the Credit was further extended by 18 months primarily
because of the non-performance of one main pipeline contractor for Coimbatore and Madurai,
who defaulted and who was eventually replaced.
19.  Implementation Delays: There were many reasons for the delay, mostly arising from
factors subject to either Government or implementing agency control. Because environmental
clearance from GOI for using a forest reserve for Coimbatore water supply scheme was not
granted, the proposed gravity scheme had to be redesigned and a more expensive pumping
scheme was adopted and as a result of this change this scheme was delayed by two years. Poor
performance due to inadequate financial and management capacity of one of the major pipeline
contractors (for Coimbatore and Madurai) resulted in replacement of the contractor involving
some two years delay. Unforeseen difficulties in construction of works upstream of Pillur
barrage arose due to failure of Tamil Nadu Electricity Board to lower water levels as agreed.
Unrealistic implementation schedules were adopted for construction of tunnels. For Madurai, a
design change from a pumping to a gravity scheme (involving deep excavations in rock),
resulted in delays. For Salem, there was also delay in construction of a bridge by the GOTN
Highways Department across a dam spillway. In the case of rural habitations, in spite of the
recommendations of the Bank for single responsibility contracts and fewer contract packages,
TWAD entrusted works to a large number of contractors and departmentally supplied the
materials, which delayed these works. This procedure was changed only in the final years. The
inadequacy of governrnent labor rates for preparing cost estimates resulted in under-estimation of



7
costs. Apart from these specific reasons for delay, there was general poor performance by
TWAD's management in the initial years in issuing invitations to bid, and by TWAD and GOTN
in the approval and award of contracts.
20.   Institutional Development: Attempts to strengthen TWAD as the main sector institution in
the State had mixed results. Certainly, the organizational and management capacity of TWAD has
improved. But its operations remain overly centralized. The Sector Plan Study has made a number
of recommendations for change in TWAD's role in statewide sector planning and management, and
has outlined needed organizational changes. GOTN is proceeding to implement the findings of the
study.
D.   Project Sustainability
21.   The project's sustainability has been rated as likely. As far as the physical water supply
sources selected for the project are concerned, all are dependable and sustainable. Sustainability
of O&M will depend on many factors such as: timely increases in tariffs and improved collection
efficiency by the local bodies to improve revenues; timely debt servicing and payment of
proportionate O&M expenses to TWAD; and, improved distribution system management and
reductions in unaccounted for water. The GOTN needs to closely monitor these factors and
ensure that local bodies generate and provide required resources.
E.    Bank Performance
22.   The Bank's performance in identification, was generally satisfactory. There were
shortcomings in preparation and appraisal. As the subsequent events demonstrated, prior to
appraisal the Bank should have insisted on completion of detailed field surveys and
investigations and preparation of final designs for a large proportion of the works, and for all
works on the critical path and environmental clearances. Implementation schedules were not
realistic.
23.   The frequency of, and resources devoted to initial supervision missions was inadequate.
As a result, these missions could not fully grasp the extent of the mounting problems and the
delays that would occur, nor take the necessary steps, in agreement with the borrower, to reduce
these problems. Later, supervision missions were more effective in timely identification of
visible and anticipated delays and provided support to the Government and implementing
agencies in resolving issues. Introduction of monthly telexes and summary progress reports to
the Bank's headquarters also helped in continuous progress monitoring.
F.    Borrower Performance
24.   TWAD prepared all the projects in-house. Preparation was to the level of preliminary
design. Other aspects of preparation which did not receive adequate attention were: (i) timely
environmental clearance from GOI; (ii) in-depth assessment of field conditions for pipeline
alignments, and selection of the headworks site at Coimbatore, resulting in major design changes



8
and cost overruns later on; (iii) acceptance by TWAD of Bank procurement procedures, causing
delays; and, (iv) participation of the local bodies and beneficiaries of the project towns and rural
habitations. Despite these problems, all schemes are reported to be working well. TWAD
introduced, under the project, computerized project monitoring. TWAD also introduced
computerized financial accounting.
25.   There were avoidable delays in: (i) taking decisions on bid awards for certain vital
works; (ii) scheduling and planning of implementation of various components; (iii) employment
of consultants for the sector plan study; and, (iv) implementation of consultants'
recommendations on organizational management improvements. However, tariff increases
envisaged to be implemented on commissioning of schemes were actually introduced ahead of
completion of works, which increased the resource mobilization of three large cities.
26.   The borrower complied with all covenants, sometimes after initial delays, except in
taking suitable measures to control the exploitation of groundwater. Though the GOTN was
agreeable to passing a Water Legislation Act, it was awaiting more field data that will be
generated through the Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project. The GOTN's
counterpart funding was consistently adequate and funds releases were always timely. This is
with the backdrop of poor experience in the other Bank assisted projects in the sector elsewhere
in India. The Borrower provided to the Bank timely monthly and quarterly progress reports to
agreed formats, illustrated with photographs. However, initiation of various studies included in
the project was delayed by about 1-2 years.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
27.   Satisfactory: the project achieved most of its major objectives, but with delays, and major
schemes are working well. The project is expected to achieve satisfactory and sustainable
development results with only a few shortcomings.
H.   Future Operations
28.   As per the Project Agreement, TWAD will be responsible for O&M of all the regional
piped water schemes (existing as well as new). The systems constructed for Coimbatore and
Salem are complex, involving long lines of transmission mains, treatment plants and pumping
systems, and will pose a particular challenge to TWAD. TWAD have committed to employ
trained engineers and skilled operators for this purpose, acquire and install appropriate bulk
meters and flow control devices and maintain proper water accounts for charging to local bodies.
29.   There is particular need to train the municipal engineers in proper management of local
distribution systems and minimizing unaccounted for water. TWAD will assist the three
municipal corporations by providing relevant training and carry out leak detection. TWAD will
set up/strengthen the water laboratories for continuous monitoring of water quality both in-plant
and at the users' end. Additional qualified staff need to be appointed and maintained in these
laboratories. TWAD should also consider operations which could be privatized to achieve



9
efficiency and economy. For example, O&M of pumping stations, water treatment plants and
billing and revenue collections would be candidates for contracting out.
30.   The GOTN will need to ensure that local bodies pay full O&M expenses to TWAD in
addition to agreed debt servicing. Agreement has been reached with the GOTN that any shortfall
in the resources required by TWAD for O&M will be met from the GOTN budget.
31.   Detailed performance indicators have been identified for monitoring and evaluating the
project's performance in the last supervision report. The GOTN/TWAD have proceeded to set
up and maintain a monitoring system for this purpose. The Bank will continue to be involved in
the sector in Tamil Nadu State through support for the Second Madras Water Supply and Tamil
Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Projects, and possibly a Third Madras Water Supply and
Environmental Sanitation Project, which is under preparation. Improvement in the performance
of TWAD's project-related activities over the project period has permitted the Bank to support
the Second Madras Project (paragraph 8).
32.   Because of the delay in the implementation of the project, and since the design horizon
for Madurai and Coimbatore cities was 1996, GOTN is recommended to introduce follow-up
projects for the expansion of water supply and sanitation facilities.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
33.   This project was insufficiently prepared at appraisal, and was too complex for the agency to
implement in an efficient manner without greater external support in the early years. These
deficiencies, of preparation and early implementation, account for much of the delay and cost
overrun.
34.   By appraisal there is a need to complete detailed site investigations and final engineering
designs for a substantial proportion of the works, and for all works on the critical path.
35.   Many of the delays could have been avoided with more expert and thorough planning.
There is a need for the borrower and the Bank to agree on realistic implementation schedules, duly
reflecting the likely procedural delays and technical and managerial limitations of the
implementation agency.
36.  In the planning of projects the Bank should ensure that extra support is given to executing
agencies participating in Bank projects for the first time, particularly in the initial years of project
implementation. A larger proportion of total Bank project supervision resources should be
provided in the early years as part of this support.
37.   Delegation of adequate powers from Government to operational staff in implementing
agencies is essential for reducing delays and for timely completion of projects. Bank pressure,
through the efforts of supervision missions, proved to be entirely inadequate in ensuring that such
delegation took place. The Bank should normally seek the implementation of administrative



10
reforms which involve greater delegations to field and other operational staff at least prior to Credit
effectiveness.
38.   Likewise, environmental clearances should be obtained by negotiations, as is current Bank
policy.
39.   The Bank needs to be satisfied that key staff postings are made in a timely fashion, which
could mean before effectiveness.
40.   Rather than sit on the sidelines, the ultimate asset owners (local bodies, in this case) should
play a central role in the control and supervision of the project from identification through to
completion. This will encourage, inter alia, timely completion since they have a direct interest in
the outcome. Additionally, they may more effectively take on their responsibilities as owners when
systems are completed and handed over to them. They need to be strengthened and prepared in
management capacity, public awareness, their repayment liabilities, cost recovery and other areas
requiring technical assistance, from an early stage.
41.   The implementing agency (TWAD) did not have adequate incentives, in the form of
penalties or rewards, to perform according to the agreed programs of preparation and
implementation.
42.   The Bank needs to be prepared to rigorously enforce timely completion of dated covenants.
For example, in this project leak detection was covenanted for completion in 1987 but was actually
completed in 1994, and audit reports were submitted late, sometimes by some 2 years.
43.   Delays in the execution of this project significantly reduced its economic rate of return,
from about 8% to about 5%, because of the joint effects of additional costs and deferred benefits.
44.   Contract packaging requires special attention at the project planning stage. This project
had too many small contracts.
45.   Government rates for cost estimating purposes were found to be unreliable, tending to
underestimate true costs.
46.   It is sometimes argued by borrowers that tariffs cannot be raised until the project benefits
actually start to flow. This project successfully demonstrated that delay before tariff reform for this
reason need not be necessary.



I1
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives  Substantial   Partial    Neglgible   Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                        W
Sector Policies                W
Financial Objectives         EDII
Institutional Development      W          I          m
Physical Objectives          FT]
Poverty Reduction                                                   FW 
Gender Issues                                                         W
Other Social Objectives       W                                      LI
Environmental Objectives                 L           L a      
Public Sector Management                 L           L               LI
Private Sector Development                                           LI



12
Table 1. Summary of Assessments (continued)
B. Project Sustainability         Likely              Unlikely          Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                                            ___1v_
Preparation Assistance                                                      W
Appraisal                                             |
Supervision                                             W
(Later)            (Earlier)
Highly
D. Borrowers Performance           Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                                                 W
Implementation                                                              W
Covenant compliance
Operation
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
z              zIw



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan / Credit Title                   Purpose                   Year of       Status
approval
Preceding Operations
1. Cr. 899 - IN        Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project  1979     Complete
2. Cr. 1046 - IN       Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project    1980     Complete
3. Cr. 1280 - IN       Gujarat Water Supply and Sanitation Project  1983       Complete
Following Operations
1. Cr. 1622 - IN       Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation Project  1985        Complete
2. Cr. 1750/Ln. 2769-IN   Third Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage   1987         Ongoing
Project
3. Ln. 2846 - IN       Madras Water Supply and Sanitation Project  1987         Ongoing
4. Cr. 2115 - IN        Hyderabad Water Supply and Sanitation Project  1990     Ongoing
5. Cr. 2234 - IN       Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and          1991         Ongoing
Environmental Sanitation Project
6. Cr. 2483 - IN       Kamataka Rural Water Supply and             1993         Ongoing
Environmental Sanitation Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned   |   latest estimate
Identification                                               -                1/16/81
Preparation                                                08/81             12/14/81
Appraisal                                                 01/27/83           01/27/83
Negotiations                                              02/22/84           02/22/84
Board presentation                                        03/29/84           03/29/84
Signing                                                      -               11/14/84
Effectiveness                                             02/22/85           02/22/85
Project Completion (original)                             12/31/89     _
Credit Closing (original)                                 06/30/90     _
Appraisal for restructuring                       04/24/90            04/24/90
Board presentation of restructured project        01/07/91            01/07/91
Signing of revised project                        03/21/91            03/21/91
Project Completion (revised)                              06/30/92           06/30/94
Credit Closing (revised)                                  10/30/92           12/31/94



14
Table 4: Credit/Special Fund Disbursements: Cumulated Estimate and Actual
(SDR ndllions)
Effective Date: 02/22/85
FY       1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Appraisal
Estimate:
IDA Credit   1.93   8.95  16.92  25.77  33.85  35.3
Special Fund    1.94   8.94  16.92  25.77  33.85  35.3
Total:      3.87  17.89  33.84  51.54  67.70  70.6   70.6   70.6.  70.6   70.6   70.6
Actual:
IDA Credit   0.53   0.53   5.19  10.10  15.38  18.28  20.27  20.91  21.59  27.68  35.3
Special Fund    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00    2.66  10.84  16.00  28.31  33.36  35.3
Total:      0.53   0.53   5.19  10.10  15.38  20.94  31.11  36.91  49.90  61.04  70.6
Actual as
Percentage    13.70   2.96  15.33  19.60  22.71  29.66  44.07  52.28  70.68  86.60  100.0
of Estimate:
Date of final disbursement: March 1, 1995
PERCENT DISBURSED
Actual vs. Estimated
120
408- 8---89,90--               ------921  -----
r98519861 98719881989199019911991199219931 99419 95



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation Indicators                Estimated                        Actual
(from SAR)
1. Urban Population (1996)- 3 Cities            2.4 million                    2.8 million
2. Rural / Town Population (1996)               1.3 million                     3.0 Million
3. Rural Town Communities (1996)              44 communities                 50 communities
11. Modified Indicators
(following Restructuring)
1. Urban Population (1996) - 3 Cities           2.8 million                    2.8 million
2. Rural / Town Population (1996)               3.0 Million                     3.0 Million
3. Rural Town Communities (1996)              50 communities                  50 communities
III. Other Indicators
1. Studies Completed                                10                             1 1
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key Operating Indicators                     Estimated                        Actual
(from SAR)
1. Water Service Connections                      90 lcd                         90 lcd
2. Standposts                                     30 lcd                        25 - 40 lcd
3. Unaccounted for Water                         25 - 30%                         30%
11. Modified Indicators
(following Restructuring)
1. Water Service Connections                      90 lcd                         90 lcd
2. Standposts                                   25 - 40 lcd                     25 - 40 lcd
3. Unaccounted for Water                           30%                         Not known
III. Other Indicators
1. Training (manweeks)                         2000/annum                       1000/ annum
3Additional study included during restructuring.



16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                at appraisal             Status           Impact of study
1. Socio-Economic study for      Project             Completed          Provided basis for
project towns                   preparation                              project appraisal
2. Financial projections for
TWAD Board                        Ditto                 Ditto                 Ditto
3. Financial projections for
project cities; and
accounting systems                Ditto                 Ditto                 Ditto
4. Resource mobilization    For cities of Salem                         Recommendations
studies                         Madurai &               Ditto          partially implemented
Coimbatore
5. Financial accounting;         Improve                                Audit reports now
materials management and       management               Ditto           prepared in a timely
project monitoring systems                                                   manner
for TWAD
6. Review of TWAD's
administrative systems, new       Ditto                 Ditto           Recommendations
MIS, personnel practices                                               partially implemented
and performance budgeting
7. Introduction of stepped   Improve revenues           Ditto         Coimbatore is about to
tariff in major cities                                                  implement stepped
tariffs
8. Reduction and control of  Reduce wastage.            Ditto          Implementation slow
unaccounted-for water        Improve revenues
9. Water Resource             Improve water                           Implementation by the
Management Study               conservation             Ditto          TN Water Resources
Consolidation Project
10. Training Needs Study   Prepare training plan        Ditto         Training centers under
construction
11. Sector Plan Study        Improve sector      Nearing completion    Institutional reform
program



17
TABLE 8A - PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(Rs. million)
Group    Details                          As per SAR   Revised in 1990        Actual
I         Coimbatore Area
Civil Works                     138.00       241.70                408.40
Materials & Equipment           144.90       261.06                331.10
Sub Total                      282.90        502.76                 739.50
11        Madurai Area
Civil Works                      75.60        83.15                217.90
Materials & Equipment           114.80       126.27                176.60
Sub Total                       190.40       209.42                394.50
IIl       Salem Area
Civil Works                      90.70        104.72               228.40
Materials& Equipment            137.80       159.10                207.90
Sub Total                       228.50       263.82                436.30
IV        44 Small/ Medium Towns
Civil Works                      52.60        61.96                 95.80
Materials & Equipment            86.80        102.25               116.20
Sub Total                       139.40        164.21               212.00
V         Low Cost Sanitation
Civil Works                      34.70        34.70                 62.20
Materials & Equipment             3.70        3.70                  0.00
Sub Total                        38.40       38.40                  62.20
VI        Training                          5.70          5.70                 2.50
Consultancy                      26.30        26.30                 28.50
Equipment                         3.00        35.00                 36.70
Sub Total                       35.00         35.00                 36.70
Revolving Fund                   10.00         10.00                10.00
6 Additional Towns                0.00       564.90                810.90
Coimbatore Rural                  0.00        131.95               172.40
Salem Rural                       0.00        43.77                 42.00
LCS Phase-ll                      0.00        35.56                 27.40
Computers & Machinery             0.00        98.55                109.50
WRMS                              0.00        10.00                 10.00
Training                          0.00         12.50                12.50
Sector Plan Study                0.00         10.00                 10.00
Land Acquisition                20.20         24.31                 12.30
Duties & Taxes                  67.20         123.36                75.60
Sub Total                     1012.00        2278.51              3173.80
Contingencies:
Physical                         67.10        150.70                 0.00
Price                            180.80       290.32                 0.00
Sub Total                        20.20         24.31                 12.30
Engineering Cost                 233.90       499.15                510.40
Total Project Cost              1493.80      3218.68               3684.20



18
TABLE 8B - PROJECT FINANCING
Source                    Appraisal Estimate                         Actual
Rs.         US$          SDR         Rs.         US$          SDR
(.                              Million .....
IDA 1454-IN               355.7        36.5        35.3         1046.3      48.1        35.3
(24%)       (24%)        (24%)       (28%)       (28%)        (28%)
SF 12 IN                  355.7        36.5        35.3         1196.4      48.8        35.3
(24%)       (24%)        (24%)       (32%)       (29%)        (28%)
GTN's Contribution        782.7        80.3         77.7        1441.5      74.2        50.5
(52%)       (52%)        (52%)       (39%)#      (43%)        (44%)
Total Project Cost        1494.1       153.3       148.3        3684.2      171.0       98.8
(100%)      (100%)       (100%)      (100%)      (100%)       (100%)
GTN's contribution was lower than the appraisal estimate due, to a large extent, to the increases in disbursement
percentages introduced during the restructuring of the project in 1991.



19
Table 9
Economic Costs and Benefits
Coimbatore. Salem, Madurai and Satellite Towns
The economic analysis in Annex 24 of the SAR estimated an Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) of just under 8% on the assumption that capital works would be completed by FY 1989
and with flows of operating costs and benefits, represented by operating revenues, to the year FY
2011/12. The ERR has been recalculated by TWAD with the new project completion date of
December 31, 1994 using actual capital costs and with revised assumptions on incremental water
sales and operating revenues. The recalculated ERR is just under 5%. Data were as follows:
SAR Estimates                                                         Actual
Incremental   Capital         Incremental    Incremental    Incremental    Capital        Incremental  Incremental
Year    water sold     Expenditure    Operating       Operating       water sold     Expenditure   Operating    Operating
(mid)         (Rs million)    Revenue        Expenditure    (mid)          (Rs. million)  Expenditure  Revenue
(Rs. million)   (Rs. million)                               (Rs.million)  (Rs. million)
1984/85          -            81.4
1985/86          -            242.3                                                         0.70
1986/87          -            326.8                                                         7.70
1987/88          -            282.8                                                       136.60
1988/89        117.4          160.6           56.7           13.5                         105.00
1989/90        133.4                         120.6           26.3                         109.30
1990/91        147.7                         133.5           27.1                         230.00
1991/92        149.4                         138.5           28.5                         276.00
1992/93        152.0                         138.6           28.8                         349.70
1993/94        154.9                         140.1           28.9                         240.90
1994/95        157.8                         140.7           30.2          117.40         372.30         21.60          167.64
1995/96        157.8                         140.7           30.2          133.40                        77.00         213.44
1996/97        157.8                         140.7           30.2          147.70                       161.70         236.32
1997/98        157.8                         140.7           30.2          149.40                       93.12          239.04
1998/99        157.8                         140.7           30.2          152.00                       102.43         243.20
1999/00        157.8                         140.7           30.2          154.90                       112.67         247.64
2000/01        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2001/02        157.8                          140.7          30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2002/03        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2003/04        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2004/05        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2005/06        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2006/07        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2007/08        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2008/09        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2009/10        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2010/11        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67         252.46
2011/12        157.8                         140.7           30.2          157.60                       112.67          252.46
2012/18#         0                             0              0            157.60                       112.67         252.46
# Annual quantities for the six year period 2012/13 to 2017/18.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original       Revised
Covenant   Present   fulfillment       fulfillment        Description of
Agreement       Section      type         status    date            date                  Covenant              Comments
Tamil Nadu      2.01 (a)     5            C                                        GTN to cause TWAD to   Very slow
Agreement                                                                          implement the project     implementation
components               of procurement
2.01 (b)     3            C         -               -              GTN to provide loan to
TWAD of $73 million
rupee equivalent
2-05         6            CD        01/01/87        08/01/88       GTN to employ experts    Study completed
to carry out a Water      July 1989
Resources Management
l__________               ________                                  Study
2.06         2            CD        04/01/85        03/01/86       GTN to employ             Study completed
consultants for Financial   March 1988
Resource Mobilization
Study
2.07         5            C                                        GTN to cause TWAD to
O&M water production
and transmission in the
larger cities and for two
I__________                                                       I years in small towns
2.08         6            NC                                       GTN to make best effort   Being
to introduce suitable     undertaken by
measures to monitor and   the TN Water
control groundwater       Resources
exploitation             Consolidation
l________  _______________   ______________                        Project
2.09         1            CD        04/01/85                       GTN to cause the three    Separate
large cities to separate  accounts
water supply and          established in
l______ ____________                     sanitation accounts       April 1986
2.10         6            CD         12/31/84                     GTN to cause small         Bylaws
town to pass bylaws to    approved by
regulate LCS latrine     November 1985
construction to prevent
pollution of the ground
l___________                         ______________Iwater  supply
2.11         2            C                                        GTN to cause Madurai    Bylaws passed
to pass bylaws for        April 1985
l___________                         ______________    _____________  metering  water services
3. 01 (a)     I           CD                                       GTN to cause project     Appropriate
cities to maintain        accounts now
l_______                                 appropriate accounts      maintained
3.01(b)      I            CD                        12/31/90      GTN to cause project      After initial
cities to audit their    delays full
accounts and financial   compliance in
statements each fiscal    later years
year
3.02(a) (i)    2          CD                                       GTN to cause project     Delayed to
cities to set water tariffs   FY 1995
and taxes by FY 90 to
cover O&M costs and
debt service
3.02(a) (ii)   2          CD                        04/01/89      GIN to cause 44 project   Bylaws
towns beginning 1990 to  approved
implement water tariffs
to cover O&M costs and
to the maximum extent
I_____________                                      ______________                 possible debt service
. ~             =.                                      _            .a



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Original       Revised
Covenant      Present    fulfillment    fulfillment         Description of
Agreement      Section    type           status      date           date                  Covenant             Comments
GTN to cover in project   Budgetary
3.02 (b)    II           C                                         towns any shortfall of    provisions
funds to cover O&M       made in each
costs and debt service in  fiscal year
I each fiscal year
3.03       2             C           04/01/85                      GTN to cause project      Interim Tariff
cities to make interim   increase made
tariff increases         in 1985
Project        2.01        5             C                                         TWAD to carry out         In compliance
Agreement                                                                          project according to
Schedule 2 of DCA and
l__________                                              Schedule of SFCA
2.02 (a)    5            CD          12/31/84                      TWAD to estahlish and    After slow
a project team           start now in
compliance
2.02 (b)    5            CD          12/31/84                      TWAD to appoint an        Engineering
Engineering Director,    Director's
Finance Director Chief    position
Accountant and Chief     currently
Auditor                  vacant
2.04       5             CD          06/30/85                      TWAD to make a study    Study results
of training needs for the   to be
I Sector                   implemented
2.10       10            C                                         TWAD to construct low    IDA's
cost sanitation units to    specifications
IDA agreed               followed
l___________              _____________                 specifications
4.01 (a)    I            C                                         TWAD to maintain         In compliance
accounts adequate to     after early
reflect its operations and   delays
financial conditions
4.01 (b)    I            CD                                        TWAD to send audit        Ditto
reports no later than 9
months after the end of
each fiscal year
Full Text of General Covenant Classification
Covenant Class:                                                                          Status:
1. Accounts/Audit                                                                        C - Complied with
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from  beneficiaries                            CD - Compliance after Delay
3. Flow and utilization of Project funds                                                 NC - Not Complied with
4. Counterpart funding                                                                   SOON - Compliance Expected in
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency                                    Reasonably Short Time
6. Environmental covenants                                                               CP - Complied with Partially
7. Involuntary resettlement                                                              NYD - Not Yet Due
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Other



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Comment on lack of compliance
OP 4.07  Water Resources Management   Water Resources Legislation prepared
July 1993                              under the project awaiting Government
enactment, on a "best effort" basis..



23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs4
Stage of               Planned                 Revised                  Actual
project cycle   Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$
Through Appraisal       n/a         n/a         n/a         n/a        47.6      122,500
Appraisal - Board       n/a         n/a        n/a         n/a        25.1       64,100
Board - Effectiveness    n/a         n/a         n/a         n/a         9.2       24,100
Supervision          n/a         n/a         n/a         n/a       112.3      310,700
Completion           n/a         n/a        10.0       23,800        0           0
TOTAL               n/a         n/a        10.0      23,800       194.2     521,400
4 Information not available in the MIS to complete this table is indicated n/a



24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of       Month/    Number  Days   Specialized  Implementation    Development  Types of
Project        Year       of        in      staff skills   status           impact         problems
Cycle                     Persons   Field   represented
Through         5/79 to   5          133    Sanitary      Satisfactory      Satisfactory    TWAD, a
appraisal      2/82; 21                     Engineers:                                     new
months                       Financial                                     borrower
Analysts:                                     took time to
Loan                                          understand
l_________    __________    _______    Officer                               procedures
Appraisal      2/7/83 to  3         59      Sanitary      Normal for the    Borrower       Resistance to
through        3/29/84                       Engineer:   sector             prepared the   foreign
Board             13                        Financial                       project        consultants
approval       months                       Analyst                                        WRM study
Training                                      approval by
l_________    _________    _______  Specialist                               GOI
Board          3/29/84   2          30      Sanitary      GOI needed        Delayed        Procurement
approval          to                        Engineer,   time to approve   project start   delays
through        2/22/85                      Financial    the Special Fund   up
effectiveness     11                        Analyst       Credit
months
Supervision    8/84 to    2         237        -ditto-    Physical works    Expected to   Institutional
11/94                                     completed          be positive    and
management
Completion    Draft ICR prepared during last supervision mission in 11/94



25
MISSION DETAILS
Stage of       Month/   Total days   Specialized staff    Total man-      Implementing
Project Cycle    Year     in field     skills represented    days         Issues and Types
of Problems
Pre-           5/29/79    21 m/d       Engineer           30 m/d
identification    to 6/79    estd      2 financial analysts
Mission                                (FA)
Preparation    7/22/79    7 m/d        Engineer           14 m/d
Mission        to ?       estd         FA
Identification    9/13/80    7 m/d     Engineer           14 m/d
Mission I      to ?       estd         FA
Preappraisal    2/20 to    21 m/d      Engineer           28 m/d
Mission 2      2/18/81                 FA
Preappraisal    10/29 to   12 m/d      Loan Officer       12 m/d
Mission 3       11/10/81
Preappraisal    12/14/81   21 m/d      Engineer           21 m/d
Mission 4      to ?                    FA
Preappraisal    2/11 to    14 m/d      Engineer           14 m/d
Mission 5      2/18/82                 FA
TOTAL MANDAYS TO APPRAISAL  133
Appraisal through Board approval on 3/29/84
Appraisal      2/7 to     48 m/d       Engineer           48 m/d          Water Resources
Mission I      2/18/83                 FA                                 Study & Tariffs
Appraisal      2/8 to     9 m/d        Training           9 m/d           NDO loan
Mission 2      2/16/83                 Specialist                         officer - 2 days
TOTAL MANDAYS FOR APPRAISAL THROUGH BOARD APPROVAL   59
Board Approval through Effectiveness on 2/22/85
Supervision    8/26 to    30 m/d       Engineer           30 m/d         Credit not yet
mission 1      9/6/84                  FA                                effective on
9/6/84
Delay caused by GOI wanting time to study the new Special Fund Credit arrangements
TOTAL MANDAYS FOR BOARD APPROVAL THROUGH EFFECTIVENESS    30



26
Supervision Missions (cont'd.)
Supervision    3/27 to    20 m/d     Engineer          20 m/d           Very slow start
Mission 2      4/5/85                FA
Training Spn.   4/29 to    5 m/d     Training           5 m/d           Prepare training
Mission 3      5/2/85                Specialist                         plan
Supervision    11/17 to   22 m/d     Engineer          22 m/d           Some
Mission 4      11/28/85              FA                                 improvement
Supervision    7/1 to    28 m/d      Engineer          50% for Project  6 month delay in
Mission 5      7/24/86               FA                 14 m/d          mobilization
7/1 to    n/a        Dep. Div Chief     n/a             Audits and SOE
No BTO in file  7/24/86                                                 procedures to be
implemented
Supervision/    7/14 to    6 m/d     Sanitation        2/3 for Project
LCS mission 6  7/16/86               specialists        4 m/d
Supervision    7/1 to     17 m/d     Engineer          17 mld           Major design
Mission 7      7/17/87                                                  changes made
Supervision    3/9 to    8 m/d       Engineer          8 m/d            Procurement
Mission 8      3/16/88                                                  problems
Supervision    11/12 to   2 m/d      Engineer          2 m/d            WRM Study
Mission 9      11/13/87                                                tripartite meeting
Supervision    3/9 to    9 m/d       Engineer          9 m/d            OAP and impl.
Mission 10     3/16/88                              _                   sched. revised
Supervision    7/7 to    20 m/d      Engineer          50% for Project  Slow
Mission 11     7/17/88               FA                 10 m/d          procurement
Supervision    12/2 to    2 m/d      Water Resources    2 m/d           Approved report
Mission 12     12/3/88               specialist
Supervision   r 11/29 to   5 m/d     Engineer          5 m/d            WRMS meeting
Mission 13     12/3/88
Review         4/12 to    9 m/d      FA                9 m/d
Mission 14     4/21/89
Supervision    7/16 to    28 m/d     Engineer          50% for Project  Procurement
Mission 15     8/3/89                FA                 14 m/d         issues dominate
Supervision    10/18 to   8 m/d      Engineer          50% for Project
Mission 16     10/21/89              FA                4 m/d
Supervision    4/19 to    12 m/d     Engineer          50% for Project  Review of
Mission 17     4/24/90               FA                6 m/d            proposed
restructuring
Procurement    5/2/90     1 m/d      Proc. Specialist  I m/d
Mission 18
Supervision    5/10 to    36 m/d     2 Engineers       50% for Project  Restructuring
Mission 19     5/22/90               FA                 18 m/d          appraisal mission



27
Supervision Missions (cont'd)
Supervision     11/1-3     6 m/d      Engineer            6 m/d             Engineering
Mission 20      11/21-24                                                    review! detailed
1990                                                        designs.
Restructured
Project
Limited         1/17 to    5 m/d      Engineer             3/5 of Project
Supervision     3/20/91               FA                   3 m/d
Mission 21                                                                                    l
Supervision     1/28 to    3 m/d      Engineer             3 m/d            Pioneer issue
Mission 22      2/1/92                                                      starts
Limited         2/12/92    6 m/d      Engineer             6m/d
Supervision                           FA
Mission 23                                                                                    l
Supervision     5/5 to     9 m/d      Engineer            9 m/d             Pioneer issue
Mission 24      5/13/93                                                                       l
Supervision     11/4 to    5 m/d      Engineer             5 m/d            Pioneer issue
Mission 25      11/8/93
Supervision     2/10 to    10 m/d    Engineer              10 m/d           New contractors
Mission 26      2/20/94                                                     producing results
Supervision     11/6 to    25 m/d       2 Engineers       25 m/d            Project expected
Mission 27      11/23/94                                                    to be completed
l ____________   _________   _________   ________________   ______________     by     closing  date
TOTAL MANDAYS FOR SUPERVISION (post Effectiveness)              237
5Prepared draft ICR in the field



28
Appendix A
Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire
TAM[L NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT IDA 1454/SF 12 IN
AIDE MEMOIRE
November 6-22, 1994
Full Supervision Mission
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs. A. Saravanapavan, (Consultant/Sanitary Engineer)
and G. V. Abhyankar, (SA2ND) visited Tamil Nadu (TN) from November 6-23, 1994 to carry
out a full supervision of the above captioned project, under implementation by the Tamil Water
Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD). The closing date for the project is December 31, 1994. The
mission made a progress review of physical comp]etion in the past nine months' and discussed the
completion of the Sector Plan Study (SPS), discussed the preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) by March 1995 and prepared an outline of the ICR for action by
TWAD. The mission met with senior officials of the Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN) and
contractors, and agreed detailed action plans for ensuring the positive physical completion of the
project by the closing date.
Wrap up Meeting
2.    The wrap up meeting, held on November 22, 1994 chaired by Mr. Gowri Shankar,
Secretary to the GTN, in charge of the Finance Department and TWAD's Managing Director
(MD), Mr. Karpoorasundarapandian discussed the main issue of completing the project by the
closing date. It was agreed that TWAD's Chief Engineers and their staff would make all out
efforts to complete all pipeline works, which are in an advanced state of construction, but on the
critical path to project completion. The mission stated that TWAD's Chief Engineers had agreed
on specific targets with the pipeline contractors and these would be firmly adhered to. TWAD's
Finance Director would expedite processing of upcoming payments and immediately clear the
remaining backlog of payments due to the contractor. The Chief Engineers and TWAD's Board
would similarly process payments, for long completed extra works in hard rock excavation, to be
approved at the next meeting of the Board of Directors, and the Finance Director would ensure
that all progress payments on all completed works are made expeditiously. Other less critical, but
important agreements reached are summarized in para.24. On November 23, final discussions
took place regarding the completion of the Sector Plan Study.
Recommendations
3.    The mission wishes to place on record the courtesies extended over the past six years to
Bank missions and the ready cooperation at all levels of TWAD staff in dealing with complex
contractual problems during project implementation. TWAD's MD and the two Chief Engineers
and project staffhave worked very hard and are to be congratulated for having overcome many
The last supervision mission was in February 1994.



29
hurdles in bringing the project to the present advanced stage of completion. About six weeks
remained to the closing date at the time of the mission's visit and based on the speed with which
TWAD and the contractor have responded to the mission's advice, the mission is cautiously
optimistic that TWAD and the contractors will rise to the challenge and complete physical works
by December 31, 1994, and the Sector Plan Study by February 28, 1994, provided that:
(a)   extraordinary efforts are taken by all concemed in the TWAD team and the IHP
contractor maintains the momentum generated by the mission;
(b)   the Finance Director does not delay scheduled payments to the contractor for
completed works; and
(c)   the Managing Director nominates a Chief Engineer, or staff of equal level, to take
charge of completing the Sector Plan Study by February 28, 1995.
In addition, for the sake of the sustained development of the project and the water supply
sector, TWAD should:
(d)   pivatize metering, billing and collection in Salem and Madurai;
(e)   send the final draft of the Sector Plan Study report for Bank comment;
(f)   seek GTN approval and budget for implementing the study;and
(g)   following Bank, GTN (and Cabinet) approval of the study, implement the
recommendations in the study, to an agreed time table starting with institutional
reforms.
Summary of Progress Review
4.    There has been reasonable progress in the works, since the February 1994 rnission, by the
IHP pipe laying contracts for Coimbatore and Madurai. However another contractor at
Coimbatore, Messrs. Bhovaratnam, had completed his work ahead of time. The [HP contractor,
in addition to some unforeseen past delays caused by exceptionally bad weather, had encountered
three problem areas at Coimbatore that are now being given special attention. Rock excavation
problems in four reaches, on the Madurai pipe line have been resolved and [HP is confident that
all of the pipeline works would be completed on time to enable commissioning of the Madurai and
Coimbatore water treatment plants by the closing date. These pipe line works which had been
progressing at a pace below that agreed in February 1994, have picked up considerably in the ten
days after the mission's arrival and supports the prediction of timely completion. All studies have
been completed except for the Sector Plan Study. The passing of the Water Resources Legislation
which is a project covenant has been overtaken by the requirements in the Bank's Water
Resources Consolidation Project which was appraised recently. TWAD is otherwise in
compliance with all covenants. (Detailed program review at Annex 1.)



30
5.    The Sector Plan Study team after a slow start, is expected to rpoduce the first draft report
in February 1995. Foreign consultant selection has been finalized. The mission presided at a well
attended public workshop in Trichimopoly. GTN's Finance Secretary had approached the Bank
regarding a delay in the study and the Bank has confirmed that it would process disbursements on
consulting contracts signed prior to December 31, 1994 up to April 30, 1995.
Payments to Contractor
6.    During the site visit, the IHP representative requested that the backlog of payments of
about Rs. 1.5 crores for completed works be released immediately. [HP indicated that this would
greatly assist them in meeting the agreed target dates for completing the Madurai and Coimbatore
pipeline construction. Following a meeting with the mission at TWAD office, it was agreed with
TWAD's Finance Director that the payments due to IHP for Pudukkottai and Salem would be
paid within a week. In fact, the payment was made within two days and there was an immediate
spurt in construction reported on the Madurai works.  -
Retention Money Payments During Warranty Period
7.    TWAD's was considering three options for payment of retention monies to contractors.
The MD requested that the matter awaints the decision of the Board of Directors before Bank
approval was sought. The matter has since been resolved.
TWAD's Performance
8.    From the inception of the Project (for the past nine years), eleven Managing Directors,
three Chief Engineers at Coimbatore, two Chief Engineers at Trichinopoly (after restructuring in
1990), several teams of engineers and other staff at various project units have greatly contributed
to its successful implementation. Most of the skilled and trained junior staff would be laid off in
April 1995. Start up of this first TWAD project financed under foreign aid was slow but progress
picked up gradually with the encouragement and guidance of Bank supervision/procurement
missions. This mission is pleased to place on record the ready assistance and willing cooperation
rendered by the project teams to the several supervision missions that visited Tamil Nadu during
the course of the implementation of the project.
Tariff Increases, Collection Performance and Privatization
9.    All the three major towns have implemented the required tariff increases during 1992-93.
Coimbatore has introduced, beginning October 1, 1994, the stepped tariff structure recommended
by the consultants, representing an increase of 25% over the existing tariff. Madurai and Salem
are expected to follow suit. Except for Madurai, collection performance has shown steady
improvement. In Coimbatore current collections have increased from 51% (FY89) to 75% (FY94)
and the collection of arrears has increased from 23% to 44% respectively. Current collection
increases at Madurai is 29% (FY90) to 52% (FY94). However the arrears collection figures has a
low performance with an increase of only 26% to 27%. In Salem the current collection figures are



31
66% (FY89) and 82% (FY94) and the arrears collection figures are 18% and 29% respectively.
The mission has recommended that TWAD create a privatization cell which would employ
consultants to make proposals for the privatization of metering, billing and collection in Salem
and Madurai. Details of meetings with Madurai, Coimbatore and Salem Municipal Corporations
is at Annex 2.
Studies
10.   Ten out of the eleven studies undertaken under the project have been satisfactorily
completed and the findings implemented. The Sector Plan Study would be completed on February
28, 1995 (see Annex-5). The Water Resources Study was completed in 1992 but the draft
legislation which it produced is with GTN and is now to be taken up under the Water Resources
Consolidation Project. List of Studies is at Annex 3.
Tariff studies for large towns
11.   M/s. Kirloskar Consultants have completed the stepped tariff studies satisfactorily in the
three cities and also in one town panchayat. The mission recommends that the stepped tariff
approach be extended selectively to some of the larger towns of Tamil Nadu. GTN through
TWAD should monitor implementation of the recommendation of the consultant in Salem and
Madurai and take all steps necessary to improve the financial performance of the sector.
Leak Detection Study
12.   The study has been completed. The consultants have submitted their draft final report
which is under review by TWAD and are expected to give comments by November 30, 1994; and
the final report is expected to be ready before December 31, 1994. AWWA guidelines or their
equivalent for distribution system management should be considered for implementation of the
study report. TWAD has placed orders for the procurement of leak detection equipment, the
supply of which would be completed before Dec. 31, 1994. Engineers from TWAD and local
bodies (Madurai, Salem and Coimbatore) have been trained (20 in India and 5 abroad) in leak
detection. TWAD should therefore fully staff its Leak Detection Teams and equip the three meter
repair workshops immediately and have them operational by the time the equipment is received.
Each meter repair workshop should be in the charge of a trained meter repair foreman. GTN
should monitor the performance of the local bodies to ensure that they honor their commitments
to TWAD, made in the respective Subsidiary Agreements with TWAD, to support the leak
detection program under the project and make best use of the equipment and engineers trained in
the reduction and control of Unaccounted for Water (UFW). The program should be based on
Bank Guidelines and include district metering, and infill, extension and rehabilitation programs.
Because of time constraints, further studies by the consultants (WAPCOS) for the implementation
of the findings of their study on UFW and the extension of the consumer education program
cannot be made within the Credit.



32-
TWAD's skill in Distribution System Analysis
13.   During the review of the proposals for the extensions to Coimbatore water distribution
system, the mission was pleased to find that TWAD is using the LOOP computer software
developed by the Bank/UNDP for distribution system hydraulic network analysis. TWAD has
young motivated trained engineers capable of analyzing the performance of existing and newly
constructed distribution pipe networks against design parameters. One such printout for
Tiruvannamalai town distribution system was shown to the mission. The field verification resulted
in the location of several blocked pipes and closed valves which were replaced/repaired, resulting
in improvements in pressures and water service. The mission recommnended the formation of a
separate design team by TWAD for making designs and analyzing the performance of the
distribution systems and transmission pipelines in the cities under the project to provide improved
and economical piped water services.
Low Cost Sanitation (LCS) - Phase H (Restructured Project)
14.   The February 1994 mission cleared the proposal for implementing of LCS program to 52
towns. In addition to these 52 towns, TWAD now wishes to include four more towns i.e. (I)
Pirattiyur (ii) Manachanallur (iii) Inamkarur and (iv) Musiri which have come forward with an
urgent request for LCS facilities. The cost of covering these four towns is expected to be within
the provision of Rs.4.00 Crores (40 million Rupees) already approved by the Bank.
Sector Plan Study
15.   The mission has requested that staff at the Chief Engineer level be appointed to be the
counterpart to Dr. Gordon Tamm, the team leader for the study. The mission met with Mr.
Asnani, the Solid Wastes consultant and found that he has an excellent agenda for his
work/training program. TWAD had approved the engagement of M/\\s. Binnie Thames Water,
United Kingdom for the Operation and Maintenance Training Consultancy (Foreign) and also the
Human Resources - Development Training Consultancy (Foreign). The firm was requested to
send these consultants on 6th November 1994 and offered to send them in the first week of
December 1994. Meanwhile TWAD had alerted the second group of eligible consultants (a) Mr.
B.J. Greenwood for Operation and Maintenance (b) Mr. A.A. Bird for Human Resources -
Development Training Consultant from M/s. Water Training International, Hampshire, U.K. to be
ready to come if needed. The mission approved the proposal. At the time of the mission's
departure from Madras both these assignments had been satisfactorily finalized. Water Quality &
Environmental Consultant - Mr. Venkataraman was offered this Consultancy as suggested by the
previous mission. However, Mr. Venkataraman did not accept the offer. TWAD has instead
selected NEERI - National Environrnental Engineering Research Institute, Nagpur. The mission
had no objection to the change.
16.   The mission participated in a televised SPS workshop arranged by TWAD in Trichinopoly
as part of a public awareness campaign. The mission was impressed by the coverage and interest
at the workshop and the public/media reaction. Because of the slow progress the rnission did not
meet, as was usual in past missions, with the Minister for MAW&AS. The next mission should



33
take up with him and possibly the Chief Minister, as appropriate, plans for implementation of the
study report after review by the Bank and GTN.
Audits
17.   Salem Corporations is in compliance with the audit covenant. Coimbatore and Madurai
are in arrears both in regard to General Fund audits and Water Supply and Drainage Accounts for
1993-94. The mission was informed that they are giving special attention to expediting the
submission of these reports before December 31, 1994.
Compliance with Major Covenants
18.   GTN and TWAD are in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit and Project
Agreements, with the exception of (i) the covenant on GTN passing Water Resources legislation
based on the legal draft prepared by the Water Resources Study; and (ii) audit covenant. GTN
had in principle agreed to the enactment of this comprehensive legislation and had included it in
the Tamil Nadu Water Policy Report. GTN also desired a more extensive field study before taking
up this major sensitive and legally complex exercise. At this point in time the legislation is
understood to be included in the Water Resources Consolidation Project currently under appraisal
by the Bank. Status of Covenants table is attached to Form 590.
Disbursement Performance
19.   TWAD reports that they have utilized SDR 65.0 million of the total credit of SDR 70.6
million (about 92% of the total credit). The remaining credit would be disbursed before April 30,
1995 (disbursement claims closing date). TWAD has also requested for the reallocation of funds
between categories based on the full utilization of the Credit. (Annex 4.)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
20.   The mission explained the purpose of preparing the ICR to the MD and discussed various
aspects that the ICR needed to cover, including the Borrower inputs. The MD assigned the Chief
Engineer (CE) based in Coimbatore, the task of organizing this activity. During November 8-13,
1994 the ICR mission visited a few work sites including the head works of Manapparai and
Pudukkottai schemes and the head works, treatment plant and transmission pipelines for the
Coimbatore and Salem projects including Salem and Athur town areas and some rural habitations.
The ICR mission had detailed discussions with the Municipal Commissioner of Athur municipality
regarding his proposed operational plan, since the water supply to the town has been very recently
commissioned. The mission also had useful discussions with the Chief Engineers and other staff of
TWAD regarding the outcome of the project and lessons leamnt.
21.   Consequently, the mission, with excellent support from the CE Coimbatore and his staff,
and with additional support from the CE Trichinopoly, as needed, prepared an outline ICR to
provide the basis for the final ICR. TWAD, represented by the CE Coimbatore, has agreed to
prepare, by December 31, 1994, the following additional data required for the final ICR:



34
(a)   TWAD's own evaluation report
(b)   A plan for the operational phase of the project;
(c)   Financial data pertaining to the three large towns;
(d)   TWAD's financial data per SAR page 84;
(e)   Updated economic Analysis Data per Annex 24 of SAR;
(f)   Financial data for small and medium towns per page 84 of SAR, to the extent
possible;
(g)   TWAD staffing data per SAR page 84; and
(h)   A table on key performance indicators covering actual data for the previous five
years and projections till the year 2000 (per format developed by the misison).
22.   The ICR is expected to be completed during the Bank's completion mission scheduled
tentatively in February/March 1995 when the project would be completed and the Sector Plan
Study would be ready for discussion with GTN for the implementation of the agreed policies and
institutional reforms and lessons learned during project implementation.
23.   The list of key officials met by the mission is at Annex 5.
Summary of Agreements reached with the Borrowe
24.   TWAD would:
(a)   complete the physical compnents by the closing date of December, 1994;
(b)   complete the Sector Plan Study Report by February 28, 1995 and send the first
draft report to the Bank;
(c) - establish a cell and employ a competent consultant to prepare terms of reference
for privatizing metering, billing and collections in Salem and Madurai; and
(d)   nominate officially the Chief Engineer, Coimbatore for preparing the Borrower's
portion of the ICR and provide the additional requested inputs, for the ICR
misison in February/March 1995.



35
Annex 1
Detailed Progress Review
I.    TWAD has an extremely tight schedule for the completion and commissioning of all sub
projects including water treatment plants by the closing date. The present status for the
commissioning of sub-projects is as listed below. AU of the smaller projects have been
commissioned. Of the major three projects only Madurai and Coimbatore remain to be
completed.
Prgiects alredy                           T.MainlFlMain          Elevated
commissioned           Outy. in m1d.          in                S.R. (Nos.)
44 small towns                                                     44
Kancheepuramn               16                  39                  5
Sankarankoil                7                  180                 46
Salem                       13                 267                 99
Pollachi                    14                  14                  10
Pukukkottai                 22                 133                  13
Manapparai                  8                  125                 46
Thiruvannamalai             14                  27                  4
Projects for start of commissioning before December 31. 1994
Qtv. in mJdd      T.MainlF.Main         Elevated
in km           S.R. (Ns.)
Coimbatore                 103                 299                  89
Madurai                     68                  76                  16
2.    After a close field review of all pipelaying contracts and a meeting with the principals of
IHP with the TWAD Managing Director, the mission is cautiously optimistic that, provided
TWAD acts upon it's recommendations, the project would be commissioned between December
17 and 24, 1994 and completed by the closing date, with the proceeds of the Credit filly
disbursed. The following paragraphs describe the actions being taken for all items of work in the
critical path to project completion.
Madurai Transrnission Main
3.    Unusually heavy and extensive monsoon rains and the encountering of very hard rock has
caused unforeseen delays in the raw water and clear water pipeline construction from keeping to
the schedule agreed with the February 94 mission. A revised and very detailed work breakdown
schedule to complete this work by December 17, 1994 has been made by TWAD. Both the IHP
Managing Director and Chief Engineer agreed to the requirements on labor and equipment needs
for completing very difficult reaches (identified by the mission as A,B,C and D) and in the critical
path.



36
Coimbatore Transmission Main
4.    Here too there have been difficulties in keeping to the schedule agreed in February
because of the heavy monsoon weather and more recently in three sections of pipeline excavation
delayed by special circumstances as listed below:
(a)   Problems with black cotton soils causing uplifting of pipes in one reach of about
0.5 km compounded by difficulties of access by soft earth to cranes and
excavators. Following the mission's advice, the issue was resolved, while the
mission was still in Coimbatore. The mission forecast that the work should be
completed by November 24, 1994. It was actually completed on November 22,
1994.
(b)   An overhead railway pipe bridge crossing which was expected to cause delay, was
followed up by the mission and is now under construction - the piers have been
completed and the pre-fabricated bridge is already at site. Erection is expected by
November 26, 1994 and the pipes laid by December 3, 1994.
(c)   A section of pipe located near a middle class settlement is damaging roof tiles
during controlled blasting. An additional gang of 75 laborers have been engaged,
on the mission's advice, to blast the reach where the rock is expected to have the
greatest thickness. Two other gangs are also working on either side also blasting
and laying pipe. Rock excavation is to be completed by Nov. 30, 1994 and pipe
laying by December 3, 1994. The IHP representative has agreed to this schedule.
Testing and closing of gaps would take up to December 17, 1994 and
commissioning on December 22.



37
Annex 2
Details of meetings with Coimbatore, Salem and
Madurai Municipal Corporations
Meeting with Madurai Corporation
1.    The Mission met with Mr.B.Anand, Commissioner. Tariff increases proposed by M/s.
Kirloskar Consultants were discussed. The proposed new tariffs (existing tariff within brackets)
per kiloliter are: domestic Rs.2.15 (Rs.2.00), Commercial Rs.4.30 (Rs.4.00) and Industrial
Rs.6.30 (Rs.6.00). The commissioner explained the difficulties faced during the last increase in
1992, when a section of the public went to the courts protesting the increase. The matter was
settled out of court after prolonged negotiations with help from a Bank rmission. The mission
emphasized the importance of cost recovery as an important development objective. Water
distribution would be improved with the new distribution system extensions including 14 new
distribution storage reservoirs that have been completed. Since operating the treatment plant and
transmission main at the existing tariff would cause a loss, the mnission advised TWAD to await
the tariff increase before any significant increase in present service levels. Full service would be
provided when the new tariffs had been implemented. Meanwhile TWAD and the Corporation
should launch a consumer education program. The mission noted that the collection performance
continued to be very poor. (see para above on Tariff and Billing and Collection performance).
This is attributed to the inadequate collection machinery. For an O&M budget of Rs.465.42
lakhs, there are only 10 bill collectors who are mostly employed in collecting the property tax.
The mission suggested that metering, billing and collection be privatized. The MC agreed to
study the proposal, since no one would be laid off.
Meeting with Coimbatore Corporation
2.    The mission met with the Coimbatore Corporation Special Officer Mr. S. Gurumurthy
and Commissioner Mr. C. Chandra Mouli. The following matters were discussed:
(a)   The Commissioner requested that because of the increase in urban population, he
had requested the next stage project be taken up by the Municipal Administration
and Water Supply (MA&WS) Department immediately. Also since the present
project did not include extensions to the distribution system the Corporation needs
financing for these works. The revolving fund for metering, that had been
approved by the Bank for purchasing pipes to a value of Rs.2. I crores could be
immediately utilized by TWAD for this purpose. The total cost of the distribution
system improvements is estimated to be Rs.2 1.00 crores. The World Bank's
Municipal Urban Development Fund (WBMUDF) has indicated that it would be
prepared to finance about Rs. 10.00 crores of work, provided a satisfactory
technical justification including feasibility studies are given for their review. The
WBMUDF would on reviewing the feasibility studies make needed suggestions for



38
the investment of Rs. 10.00 Crores. Including the Rs.2. 1 crore worth of pipe
purchased in this project the Rs. 12.1 crore would cover a little more than one half
of the required distribution works. The remaining Rs. 8.9 crore of works would
have to be completed in a second phase.
(b)   Coimbatore has implemented a higher stepped tariff for water supply based on the
recommendation of consultants. The collection, billing and management of
metering are reported to be satisfactory. Non-paying customers are cut-off and
are not reconnected, until their tum in line, which could take several weeks.
However this performance has to be improved further if the Corporation has to
support the new investments it is seeking for the next stage of improvement in
water supply.
Meeting with Salem Municipality.
3.          The Municipal Commissioner (MC) was not available. He was represented by Mr.
Chandrasekaran, Municipal Engineer. He requested 24 hours water supply to be provided by
TWAD. At present it is only 3 hours in the morning and 3 hours in the evening. Unaccounted for
water (LJFW) is about 30%. The Commissioner was advised by the mission to take action to
reduce UFW to about 12% To do this correctly they would need one experienced foreign
training consultant to design the IUFW reduction and control program based on the technical
guidelines of the Bank. Billing and collection performance in Salem is showing recent signs of
imnprovement (see para on Tariff and Billing Performance). TWAD should also assist with
experienced consultant services to design a program for the privatization of billing, collection and
metering. The Municipal Engineer agreed to convey this advice to the Municipal Commissioner
and start inimediate action as recommended. The mission discussed problems related to the short
life of galvanized iron (GI) pipe service connections and recommended switching over to flexible
high density polyethylene (HDPE) which could be laid below ground and under storm drains and
has a longer life than GI pipe.



39
Annex 3
Studies under the Project
The following studies were taken up under the project. Of them all the studies except
Sector Plan Study have been completed by TVAD satisfactorily and recommendations implemented.
Sector Plan Study could also be expected to be completed satisfactorily if the small extension of two
months sought for by TWAD is agreed to by the Bank. The details of study and their out come are
Study                                  Outcome
K.   Socio-Economic and Tariff study for project    The study formed basis for project preparation
towns                                    and appraisal and reports included in the
_  project appraisal file of the Bank
2.  | Financial projections for TWAD Board.          d0. 
3.    Firncial projections for the project cities and   The study reports were included in the project
towns and accounting systems for water supply  appraisal file of the Bank.
and sanitation accounts of the project cities.
4.    Resource Mobilisation Study for Coimbatore,   Study completed and recommendations
Madurai and Salem                        implemented.
5.    Financial Accounting, Project monitoring and   Study completed. Computers functioning in
Material Management Systems for TWAD     the project offices. Computerised systems
Board                                    would be installed in rest of TWAD on receipt
of ordered computers by December 31, 1994.
6.    Review of TWAD's administative systems,    Study completed. Recommendations
Managernent Infonnation System, Personnel  implemented
and performance budgeting
7.   Introduction of Stepped Tariff Structure in the   Study completed. Coimbatore has
local bodies of Tamilnadu                implemented the stepped tariff for its water
tariff billing.
8.    Study on Unaccounted for Water - Reduction    Study completed. TWAD has plae orders
and Control Program                      for Leak Detection Equipments. Local Body
and 1WAD Engineers have been traine in
India and Abroad.
9.    Water Resource Management Study - Phase I   Study completed. Water legislation prepared
& I                                      by the study is under consideration of GTN.
GTN is awaiting additional field details from
the Water Resources Consolidation Project
under negotiation with Bank.
10.   Study on training needs of TWAD Board    Study completed. Separate trauiing centre
established within TWAD Board.
I 1    Sector Plan Study                       Selection of consultants completed. Study in
progress.



40
Annex 4
Proposed Reallocation of Funds between Categories
Category                         Provision in    As restructure  Actuals up to  Future  Total to be
credit agt.                 Nov. 94        roquirement  reallocated
IDA 1454 IN
1. Equipments and Materials        13.73           10.00        11.50         0.80        12.30
2. Civil Works                     15.72           19.39        15.80          3.70       19.50
3. Training, Consultancy, etc.     3.48             5.30         2.30          1.20       3.50
4. Loan under Part G               0.97             0.61         0.61         -0.61'       Nil
5. Unallocated                      1.40                          -             -           -
35.30           35.30        30.21          5.09      35.30
SF12 I
I. Equipments and Materials       22.53            14.07        12.75         0.45       13.20
2. Civil Works                    11.37            21.23       22.10           -         22.10
3. Unallocated                     1.40              -            -            -           -
35.30           35.30        34.85          0.45      35.30
* TWAD made disbursements under Part G of the Projoct for providing meters to house service
connections in Coimbatore Corporation (CC). Hence, the amount disbursed under Category 4 is now
tamnsferred to Category 1. At the request of CC, which is already metered, the Bank approved the transfer
of these funds for the purchase of pipes to extend the distribution network.



41
Annex 5
List of Key Officials Met
At Madras
Mr. Gowri Shankar, LAS         Secretary to GTN (in charge) Finance Department
Mr. Prithiviraj Langthasa,IAS   Joint Secretary to GTN, MA&WS Dept.
Mr. R. Ekanathan                Deputy Secretary to GTN,MA&WS Dept.
Mr. R.Karpoorasundarapandian    Managing Director, TWAD Board
Mr. S. Subramanian              Finance Director, TWAD Board
Mr. D. Sarna Rao                General Manager, TWAD Board
Mr. E.V. Rengarajan             Chief Audit Officer, TWAD Board
Mr. K. Narasimhalu              Chief Engineer (Planning & Designs), TWAD Board
Mr.V.R.Vaidyanathan             Chief Engineer, World Bank Project, Coimbatore
Mr. S.A.M. Mohideen             Chief Engineer, World Bank Project, Trichy
Mr. Gordon Tamm                 Consultant, Sector Plan Study
At Madurai
Mr. Krishnasarny Rajeevan       District Collector, Madurai
Mr. Anand                       Commissioner, Madurai Corporation
Mr. N. Basheer Ahaned           Superintending Engineer, TWAD,
World Bank Project Circle, Madurai
Mr. N. Sankiliraj               Superintending Engineer, TWAD,
World Bank Project Circle,Sankarankoil



42
At Tric
Mr. D. Chakravarthy            Superintending Engineer, TWAD
World Bank Project Circle, Trichy
Mr. M. Lakshmana Piflai        Superintending Engineer, TWAD, in charge of
construction of Training Centre at Trichy
At Coimbatore
Mr. S. Gurumurthy              Special Officer, Coimbatore Corporation
Mr. C. Chandra Mouli           Commissioner, Coimbatore Corporation
Mr. K. Narayanasamy            Superintending Engineer, TWAD,
World Bank Project Circle-i,Coimbatore
Mr. K.P.Aiyappan Pillai        Superintending Engineer, TWAD,
World Bank Project Circle-2,Coimbatore
At Salem
Mr. Chandrasekaran             Municipal Engineer, Salem Municipality
Mr. Syed Hyder                 Superintending Engineer, TWAD,World Bank
Project Circle, Salem
At Kancheuram
Mr. Abraham Thomas             Superintending Engineer, TWAD World Bank
Project Circle, Kancheepuram
Mr. Sivaprakasam              Executive Engineer, TWAD, World Bank Project
Kancheepuram



43
Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMBI^TION REPORT:
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Credit IDA 1454/SF 12 IN)
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
As a first time borrower from the Bank TWAD rates its own performance as good for the following
reasons:
1.     All the designed objectives of the project have been achieved.
2.     Though this is a mammoth project of size taken up by TWAD for the first time, TWAD
brought all the works taken up under the project to beneficial use before the project closing
date.
3.     TWAD achieved full utilization of the project funds.
4.     TWAD improved its own functioning as a result of participation in the project.
5.     TWAD helped other local bodies to improve their performance also as part of the project.
All the following project objectives have been achieved.
1.    Improve water supply in larger urban areas and to provide safe water supply to certain
smaller towns and rural areas which are currently without these facilities.
2.     Provide proper low cost sanitation to selected urban communities to improve public health
standards.
3.     Assist GTN and TWAD in developing water resource management strategies aimed at
achieving overall economies in providing drinking water.
4.     Enable low income groups to connect to the systems or alternatively to provide adequate
standpost facilities.
5.     Strengthen TWAD's institutional, managerial and financial practices through training and
technical assistance.
6.     Assist urban local bodies to identify measures to improve their resource base for proper
O&M investments.
At the time of appraisal the project formed 45% of GTN's Sectoral investment over the project
implementation period. The project is unique for the following reasons. This was the first project which
combined both water supply and sanitation. For the first time the financial capacity of the local body and



44
paying capacity of the beneficiaries were scientifically assessed through field survey and desk work done
with assistance of consultants and the desired loan grant mix in each of the towns were assessed and
adopted. The tunnels provided under the Coimbatore Project are likely to be the longest tunnel in India
constructed exclusively for conveyance of drinking water. Detailed analysis in association with premier
educational institutions were made regarding problems involved in high head and large dia long pumping
mains and protective arrangements in the form of pressure vessels were provided under the Salem sub
project for the first time in Tamilnadu. The project including water supply for a number of small and
medium towns for which protected water supply was being proposed for the first time. The town deserving
special mention in this regard is Gudalur in Nilgiris District. This is a town located in hilly and heavy rain
fall area but starving for protected water supply. Against innumerable odds such as hilly terrain with steep
gradients, cold weather, restricted number of working days the scheme was completed successfully and the
public are at present enjoying the fruits of the project. Though low cost sanitation technique was under
practice on a small experimental scale in the state of Tamilnadu, for the first time coverage of entire
selected towns with this technique truly resulted in freeing of the scavengers from the inhumane practice of
carrying night soil on their heads. The Coimbatore and Salem Water Supply systems are the largest water
supply systems in Tamilnadu covering two cities, 33 small/medium towns and over 880 villages spread
over a distance of hundreds of kilometers. They are also likely to be largest in the country.
All the water supply sub projects and low cost sanitation works taken up under the project have
been commissioned before the project closing date of December 31, 1994 benefiting more than the targeted
number of people. This was the biggest project taken up by TWAD and first project with World Bank
assistance. As a first time borrower TWAD had initial hiccups but overcame them with the passage of time.
The experience gained by TWAD can be judged by comparing the time taken for completion of the
additional projects taken up while restructuring the project during 1990 (about 3 to 4 years) and the original
projects conceived at the time of signing of project agreement in 1984 (about 5 to 10 years). One of the
reasons for quicker execution of the additional projects was due to introduction of turn key job system in the
bidding process and limited number of packages for sub project.
Tumr Key Jo: Introduction of Turn Key Job after restructuring has reduced the workload involved in
procurement, storage and distribution of materials. The number of bid packages to be processed got reduced
easing the pressure on accounting system to a considerable extent. The field staff were able to concentrate
more on the quality of works instead of spending much time on arranging and accounting for materials and
coordinating between material suppliers and civil work contractors. They were also freed from the burden
of storage and security of materials. As full responsibility for completion of works was vested with single
contractor, hold up due to delayed supply of materials by TWAD was averted and the contractor could pace
his work at this own will and complete the works in time.
Monitoring of Works: With well timed supervision missions and regular close review and monitoring by
the top management (MD/CE) the works could be speeded up. Funds made available in time by GTN
helped in building up of confidence in the contractors minds. The management was able to assure prompt
payment for the quality works completed on time. Specially in the final stage of the projects with the
guidance of the supervision missions, TWAD was able to force the contractors to plan their works and
complete them on time.
The fund flow for the project from GTN was never a constraint and TWAD achieved the distinction
of full utilization of credit as a first time borrower. It is pertinent to note that full utilization have taken place
despite over 400% appreciation in value of SDR against Indian Rupee from project appraisal to project
completion. TWAD took full advantage of the above SDR value appreciation to its advantage and



45
completed more sub-projects within the project scope, thereby benefiting far more people than envisaged
originally.
TWAD improved its own performance and practice during the currency of the project as envisaged
at the time of project appraisal.
As a result of organizational studies taken up, TWAD at present have more full time directors
responsible for engineering, financial and administrative functions and have decentralized its operations
through setting up of separate regional and project Chief Engineer's offices. For the first time, advance
office automation and communication facilities were introduced within TWAD. Computers have been
installed upto the division level offices.
Computerized project monitoring, financial accounting, material management and payroll systems
introduced under the project helped in effective monitoring of project implementation and completion. With
introduction of computers TWAD made use of COSTAB and distribution network analysis software
developed by World Bank for the preparation of reports for additional projects taken up while restructuring
the project. TWAD was successful in establishing new water analysis laboratories and upgrading existing
ones with project funds which would help in effective water quality monitoring and supply of safe water to
millions.
TWAD developed skills in reduction and control of Unaccounted-For-Water and has prepared the
modem equipment which would help in continuation of the program on a permanent basis. The TWAD and
Local Body Engineers have also been trained in the skill of leak detection both abroad and in India and can
work independently.
Meter repair facilities have been established in all the three cities. They will help in maintenance of
domestic water meters efficiently resulting in reduction of unaccounted for water and hence realization of
full revenue by the local body.
Inclusion of clause on submission of audit and accounts of TWAD's own accounts and project
accounts every year and persistent insistence by the repeated supervision missions enabled TWAD to clear
the backlog of 3 to 4 years in closing of accounts at the time of project appraisal to make them current at the
time of project closing. Similar is the case with local body accounts.
The studies on Resource Mobilization, Socio-Economic and Tariff, accounting systems and
introduction of stepped tariff structure for water supply billing has enabled the local bodies to improve their
resource base considerably.
The demand by Bank on interim tariff and tax increases have enabled the local bodies in levying
reasonable charges for water over the period of project implementation. In fact the property tax revisions
have taken place in the case of most of the urban local bodies after nearly two decades. Assured of
improved quality and increased service level, the public reconciled to tariff increases effected in small
periodic doses without much pain.
Introduction of separate water supply and drainage accounts in the three cities have brought to light
the real financial position water supply operation in these cities and helped in improving the same.



46
Sector Plan Study: This unique study taken up while restructuring of the project aims at provision of
reliable sector data, identify and analyze sector issues and recommend approaches for sustainable and
economic development of water supply and waste disposal sector of the state of Tamilnadu. Though there
have been some delay in formation of in-house study team and identification of team of consultants for
guidance, the study is expected to be completed by February '95.
While the above have been the brighter side of the project implementation, the following short
coming could have been avoided during the project execution.
1.    There were some initial delay in mobilizing the project team resulting in loss of about one
year of project implementation time.
2.     The delay on account of getting environmental and forest clearance could have been
minimized if the involvement of higher ups at political level have been ensured.
3.     Though the project involved many new and advanced engineering features they were
carried out by the Engineers on their own without much training. More training in India
and abroad for all the level of staff of TWAD would have helped in better planning and
speedier execution of the project.
4.    In the absence of adequate training, more close consultation and involvement of eminent
personalities from leading Educational institutions would also have helped in overcoming
the difficulties to some extent.
5.    During the final phases of project at the time of commissioning, the local bodies did not
evince keen interest in making available the benefits of project to their residents. Unless the
local bodies are coerced to evince more interest and arrange for effecting the designed
number of IISCs, neither the public will derive full benefit of the project nor the local
bodies will raise sufficient revenue to meet the O&M costs and repay the debt.
6.    While TWAD was experienced in construction of the project, it could not take timely
decisions on the components included under the Institutional Development head,
consequently most of the procurement of office automation and communication equipment
and training activities were taken up in the final phases of the project only, depriving the
project of the full benefits of the expenditure under Institutional Development.



47
Annex C
MAPS



I



yr.                                   7'-                                    7SO*
I N  D  I A                                                                                      r  /.
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT TOWNS                                                      ANDHRA  PRADESH
TWAD Circle Boundary                                                                                    ' f'...,.
Projwct Towns                                     ~                                        .".
*     To Tns selected fo- woter supply ougmentionto
*     Towns sected fo  prowiding new  water supply schemes5,
*    Towns selected for providing low  cost sonitatlon focilitesJ
0    Other Selected Towns
Notionol Highwoys
Selected Railrods             r. 5..g.Mi.    < 
- - sR   ct floundaries 
-   Stote ond Union Ter.itory                    \
Boundories                                                                                          if
i2~~                                                     I, I                                                                                      ?./
8   Dl4Ar3erlR              '    ~~tnnhort                                   PODCAFI
N   A R N A T              A K A
it                 *i**7                                         ; *1'd} r/  'cn      t0'    *n' 1              ng    d                  )PQbICffI     IYe,
t'll :1 111                       r5s                          v 6@   S A  I IF M Fe/eDeel. h g/olXd5 / 0-
nb*                                                                          tn
t;;   A              i . 2     i~~tA   A   D    U      I                                                             Sfo
KEA-    i-t- ArPPb=0   hV.U   Soo 
- *; *  t| j  / A#o 
k rV '<f^lra r gC.1" C
7  1DUR                                              -t           ! -






IBRD 27860
...~~~~~~7                                                                         'I.NDIA
N I L GI R I S                                                                                                                                                      TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Mettuppolo,yam                                                                                           COIMBATORE WATER SUPPLY SUBPROJECT
PROPOSED WORKS
PROJECT COMPONENTS:                         EXISTING FEATURES:
* 1l Ka madaI\ a                                                                                       City selected for water                     Trans-,ssion mains
k   @ _  $:  t  '   Annur                                                supply augmentatmon                  3      Da.
Towns selected For proniding          f     P.ck-up weirs
new  water supply schemes            i      Treatment plant
4_ S-11,                                                                                                                     A vonosh,                           Transmission ma.ns                    0      Settling tank
fa: anan,        /            / Rho Intake                       t        Break pressure tanks
Periana-,kenp.ioon,                                                                               Ta /iropsrr,,                 treatment works                             Tunnel
>5t  )  .\>i-t  Gudolur*  n   \   /                                                                              O      Break pressure tonks
*y    >r                                                                                                                                                                     -     Raw water tunnel                      0    Other selected towns
-*  ,                 .j               Voros m ocke naor                                      somIkolor n                                                                -      Cleor water tunnel                          Notional hig1hway
01d,kka,.                                                                                               ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Major roads
-----Railroads
Vello-nbr   t            Sn K onopnt:                                                                                                                              Rivers
State boundaries
I;                                                                                                                                                       I 4 t R ; _ _ nternotin son:nal boundaries
\                                 |     S              .C^ertlpcllosom                      \       /~~~~~~~~~.n~n,.lyo  CII
Ve.l. _ yio /  T ,reollorno
'N'..                Ett~~~~~~~~~~~~,                     O~~~C hett:polo,rn,
KERAZA   STATE                                                                       No pbllchi
KILOMETERS 0           5         10        15
Th. b-.,d--ne  cobra, dnmaoin.and any n,h., intfninon-a
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa !n -agmn onae oh 5ga 10                                                                                         O   of any win-roor anyfo
MILES 0                5               tO                       *ndom.m.nm or ooo.ptano. of *anh baondan.ra.
~~d--t -1  -Pf.-   f ..ch b...d..... ~ ~    ~    in.ARC Q7






to <    0'/"0'       78                        *NDIA                                                                                       IBRD 27861
*b \\   r'    rri,hchirape//                  TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
COIMBATORE                                                                                        0 \r\h\ ap    <                            MADURAI WATER SUPPLY SUBPROJECT
PROPOSED WORKS
~ \ g \ Dindig                       \                                  .  ... PROJECT COMPONENTS:
City selected For water supply augmentation
.r. Kodoikonral                                                  /                                                          \ *. * Towns selected for providing new water supply schemes
-         Transmission lines
To Jiruppott /c,.I Intake                                    EXISTING FEATURES:
;) zQ\Kot d  -Treatment works                 0     Other selected towns
{< 9 \ VAIGAI                                                                                                       BAE Break pressure tank      -National highways
\    Xheni-Allingorom/   Itcan@ S&                                                 /                    V      (                                                        Major roads
- 0      Allinagar                          Vgo, Reservoir                                                                                                                                    Railroads             lo-
-- -Rivers
Usi arnpatti     ci                       -0,                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Darn
-  ...-  District boundaries
/Thevorom                                                                                    Al  (  { _6 F > State boundories
*<   //   Veerapondi                                                                                                                                              In/ternrOionaloboundaIt oa
c:       )    *Pon apurom             \                                               /              .
_4  -.** .C r rto Arvppuikuto,
Ti,Jt Ko/toyom       J                     fioSr v //IPVirudunogar
to Soatu,
.'  RRAMANATHAPURAM
KILOMETERS  0         10       20       30       40
MILES O               0            20                                                                       h.h.T  nformB
. TI~~RUNELVELI 78.c-o






IBRD 27862
78 XH  -                                                      78- 30                                                      79-00            INDIA
to^ormoP>,, *.*                  D H A R M A P U R I                                              TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SALEM WATER SUPPLY SU8PROJECT
PROPOSED WORKS
._rser,                                          I' CJ   .  .  /   1/  t  rPROJECT COMPONENTS:
/   ~   t ~  ~ ~ SM ec  er,  /                  I/j        \                    r          j                         \   City selected for water supply augmentation
* Town selected for providing new water supply scheme
Metu 9 rl                                                      Yercoud   t 
- Transmission marns
It'                                                                                                               C3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Offtoke
annankur                                         /2                                             A/  OTreatment works
6  &5                 hap"                                                 (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D Break pressure tanks
a  Psc /,,.e, PSC sr   ~      ~     ~      oaan~ckerpYe,an                              V   Booster
A   d,opot                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING FEATURES:
1~~  ,    -    Tronsmnission hees                   National highways
roahccac'   T                                                                                     Noros rgpro       -     ____                                   Heodworks                              Major roads
\   '~~~   ~   Treatment works            ..r--.Ra.lroads
N{   V    Booster                      -         District boundaries
0   Other selected towns         _.  _  State boundaries
-.  International boundaries    1130
j   v   /  q  ^          tRaSlPuram                        s                 - [^/                \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b.,m6Iu
rogrod\<       >1/      \  /              /   /uchongo
EIO SodO   ,V                        \.                                                                       ').
KILOMETERS  0           10        20          30         40         50
-.\   \  t  \                                               f   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~T I R U C H C H I R A P PA L L I        KLMTR                    o703                              05
MILES  0                 10                20                30
\   \ s                  \   ~~~~~Nmamkkal         
P E R I Y A             t\i /                                    \.
/The boundaresd cola..
g   t  J   |   \   |  roMussrz                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~other nfar8maeian shownl
on  thi,  mop  do  -ot
i pKy,   onthe po,r of
Th.   at    akGop
lt.00. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~t.o                                                                   II 00
_                                              78-00'               &o/Ka-,r                                 78'30'                                                       79-00'                                                           11,00-
MACH 595






I



IMAGING
Report No:        15475
Type: ICR



