Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4707-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
March 1, 1984
Urban and Water Supply Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
US$1.00      Rs 9.75
Rs 1.00  =  US$0.1025
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm          -             millimeter (0.04 inches)
cm          -             centimeter (0.39 inches)
m           -             meter (39.37 inches or 3.28 ft)
km          -             kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha          -             hectare (10,000 square mters or 2.47
sq km       -             square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
1           -             liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd         -             liters per capita per day
cu.m        -             cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
ml          -             million liters or 1,000 cubic meters
mld         -             million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial
gallons per day or 0.264 million US gallons per day)
mgd         -             million gallons (Imperial) per day
Rs 1 Lakh  -              Rs 100,000
Rs 1 crore -              Rs 10,000,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC         -             Average Incremental Cost
CLPA        -             Coimbatore Local Planning Area
CMS         -             Cities of Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem
GTN         -             Government of Tamil Nadu
GOI         -             Government of India
IDWSSD      -             International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade Program
ROR         -             Rate of Return
LIC         -             Life Insurance Corporation of India
MMWSSB      -             Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
PWD         -             Public Works Department
TWAD        -             Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board
UNDP        -             United Nations Development Programme
WHO         -             World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
MANAGEMENT SUMMARY .................... ............................. . .        i - iii
I. BACKGROUND                         ....
A.  India - National Urbanization Trends    .                   .
B.  The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector             .        .                   1
C.   The State of Tamil Nadu .... ....                         .      .       ..  2
D. Water Resources ..3...................                                         3
E.   Service Levels ....................                 ................         3
F. Sector Organization in Tamil Nadu               ..                             5
G. Sector Investment in Tamil Nadu                .. .                            6
H.   Bank Group Operations and Experience in the Water Supply
and Sewerage Sector in India ...................................  7
I. Context of the Proposed Project                   .         .10
II.  POPULATION FORECASTS AND DEMAND PROJECTIONS IN PROJECT AREA .... 11
A. The Project Area . ...                                                        11
B. Present Water Supply in Project Area    .                   .12
C. Existing Sewerage Systems.                                                    13
D. Proposed Service Levels    ..13
E.   Population Forecasts ............... ............. . ............ 14
F.   Future Water Demands and Supplies ........................ . ... 14
III. THE PROJECT ..15
A. Project Objectives                      ... .15
B.   Project Selection Criteria .            . .      .          . .....         16
C.  Project Description ....... . . .16
D. Operational Action Plan                    ......18
E.   Engineering Feasibility Studies           ..........
F. Cost Estimates                          ... . 18
G. Financing                       ..............20
H. Consulting Services ........                                  .20
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission consisting of
Messrs. D. B. Clement (Mission Leader), G. Sengupta, and H. W. Barker
who visited Tamil Nadu in February, 1983. Mmes. M. Keane, M. Alloun
and D. Sison assisted in preparing this report in Washington, D. C.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
I.    Implementation Schedule ......................................... 20
J.   Procurement and Contracts  .......               ............................... 21
K.    Disbursement ...................................................  23
L.    Water Resources Management Study  ......                ......................... 24
M.   Licensing of Wells                ............................................. 26
N.    Leak Detection             .................................................  26
0.    Land Acquisition              ...............................................  26
P. Metering                                  ............ 27
Q.   Revolving Fund for Metered Connections  ......................... 27
R. Low-Cost Sanitation                                   .....  28
S.    Public Health Education                  ........................................  29
T.    Manpower Evaluation and Training  ......                ......................... 29
U.    Water Rights  .          ................................................. 30
IV.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ............................ 30
A.    Implementing Responsibility and Ownership of Assets  ..........                  .. 30
B.    The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD)  ....                    ...... 30
C.    Operation and Maintenance  ...             ..................................... 31
D.   Organization and Management Systems of TWAD  .................... 32
E.    The Project Team  ...........             .................................... 32
F.   Accounts for Water Supply and Sanitation Operations ............. 33
G.    Progress Reporting and Supervision .............................. 33
V.    FINANCIAL ASPECTS  .............................................. 34
A.    The Project and Sector Investments  ......                 ....................... 34
B.    Financial Objectives and Cost Recovery  .....                 .................... 35
C.    Financing Plan and Project Financing  .....                 ...................... 36
D.   On-lending Terms               ...............................................  37
E.    Guarantee of Payment to TWAD  .......                ............................ 37
F.    Tariffs        ........................................................  38
G.    Financial Condition of Local Bodies  .....                 ....................... 40
H.    Coimbatore's Finances  ........            ..................................  42
I.    Resource Mobilization of Local Bodies  ...................                ....... 42
J.   Billing and Collection                  ......................................... 43
K.    Financial Condition of TWAD  .......                ............................. 43
L. Financial Ratios                          .................... 45
M.   Accounts and Audits                     .........................   47
N.  Insurance ......................... 47



-iii-
VI.   ECONOMIC  AND  SOCIAL  ASPECTS  .................................... 48
A.    Marginal Cost Analysis  .........                       ................................  48
B.    Rate  of Return  .            ................................................  49
C.    Environmental Health  Impact  ....................................  49
D.    Impact on  Poverty  Groups  .......................................  50
E.    Least Cost Solution  and  Evaluation  of Alternatives  ....                             ......... 50
F.    Project Risks and  Safeguards  ................................... 50
VII.  AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND  RECOMMENDATIONS ......................... 51
List of Annexes
1.    Sector Investments  ............................................. 54
2.    Water Supply  Service  Levels  - Summary  .......................... 55
3.    Urban  Areas Water Supply  - Salient Data  and  Service  Levels  ..... 56
4.    Urban  Areas  Sewerage  - Salient Data  and  Service  Levels  ...                          ...... 57
5.    Urban  Water Supply  Demands  - Summary  ........................... 58
6.    Rural Water Supply  Demands  ..................................... 59
7.    Project Description  ............................................  60
8.    Operational  Action  Plan .......................................  61
9.    Summary  of Cost Estimates  ......................................   65
10.   Engineering  Design  and  Construction  Schedule  .....                           .............. 67
11.   Materials  and  Equipment Contracts  ..............................  68
12.   Estimated  Schedule  of Disbursements ............................. 69
13.   Domestic  Metering  Program  ......................................   70
14.   Cost Recovery  Guidelines  for Low  Cost Sanitation  Program  ...                            .... 71
15.   Low  Cost Sanitation  ............................................  73
16.   Manpower and  Training  ..........................................  74
17.   Existing  Organization  Structure  - TWAD  ......................... 80
18.   Proposed  Organization  Structure  - TWAD  ......................... 81
19.   World  Bank  Project  Cell TWAD .................................... 82
20.   Monitoring  Indicators  ..........                     ................................  83
21.   Summary  of Assumptions  for Financial Projections
Coimbatore,  Madurai  and  Salem ................................. 86
22.   Financial Projections  - Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem  ....                               ......... 88
23.   Sources and  Uses  of Funds  - TWAD  ............................... 97
24.   Economic  Analysis  Data ......................................... 98
25.   Mortality  Statistics  of Water Related  Diseases  ....                            ............. 99
26.   List  of  Selected  Documents  in  Project  File ..................... 100
Maps   IBRD  17229,  17230,  17231, and  17232.






INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Management Summmary
i.      The rapid growth of  cities in India is  leading to serious deficien-
cies in the  provision of  urban services.   Close to  7 million  persons are
added to India's urban population annually and close to half of the national
population increase over the next two decades will be located in urban areas.
The proposed project would assist in providing water and sanitation services
mainly to urban areas.   It would be the  first Bank Group-financed statewide
Water Supply and Sanitation project in the State of Tamil Nadu, following
similar projects in five other Indian states.
ii.     The objectives of  the proposed project  are : (i)  to provide better
water supply to specific urban and rural areas; (ii) to provide low cost
sanitation to selected urban communities; (iii) to assist in improving water
resource management strategies; (iv) to strengthen the principal implementing
agency's managerial and financial practices; and (v) to assist local bodies
in improving their resource base for proper operations and maintenance.
Particular emphasis is placed on objectives (iii), (iv) and (v) which provide
the basic rationale  for IDA support  to this project.   The proposed project
incorporates the lessons learned from completed and ongoing water supply
projects in India particularly with regard to (a) the need to involve local
governments in the project and support their traditional sector role in
retailing and operations and maintenance, (b) the need to use existing agen-
cies with well defined sector roles and objectives, and (c) the need to
emphasize carefully phased specific action programs to achieve operational
and financial improvements.
iii.    The project is a part of  the Government of Tamil Nadu's (GTN) sector
investment program during the Sixth (80-85) and the Seventh (86-91) Plan.
Total investments in water supply in the State are about 8.5% of total State
Plan,  compared  to  about  4%  India  average.   The  project  represents  a
reasonable share of the State's sector investments (about 37% during the
implementation period of 5 years). Project costs total Rs 149.4 crores
(US$153.3 million) with a proposed credit of Rs 71.2 crores (US$73 m.illion).
iv.     Water is a  scarce resource throughout the  State and the alternative
options for  supply are  limited.   However,  the  engineering  studies  have
examined all feasible alternatives to determine the least cost solutions.
Careful examination has been made of ground water potential, availability of
surface water, and the most economic methods of transmission. The economy of
deferring capital expenditure by staging capacity has also been studied. Due
to unavailability of convenient water sources, in the three large project
cities, and generally throughout the State, even the least-cost solutions are
expensive. It is unlikely that GTN can continue to sustain the necessary
levels of investments in the sector to provide adequate drinking water
throughout the State unless less expensive sources can be developed in the
future. In the prevailing situation where the most readily obtainable water
resources have been almost entirely exploited for irrigation purposes,



-ii-
increasing drinking water demands have to be met from diminishing and ever
more costly alternative sources. There is a real need for a comprehensive
state-wide water management policy which recognizes the necessity of allocat-
ing available resources on a basis of priority usage, and in a manner which
achieves overall economy in transmission and distribution. Until such a
policy is implemented, new water supply projects will become increasingly
burdensome for the consumer and, in consequence, less financially viable for
the supplier. Therefore as a long-term objective of the project, a Stat:ewide
Water Resources Management Study is included in order to identify future
strategies and options to manage and optimally allocate all available water
sources based on inter-sectoral priority of usages, such that overall economy
is achieved in transmission and distribution of the already limited water
resources. This Study will aim at developing less expensive future water
supply  schemes,  and  will  probably   require  substantial  re-ordering  of
priorities and usage before such economies can be achieved. Schemes included
under the proposed project are such that their design would not be affected
by the findings of the study.
V.      The Tamil Nadu Water Supply  and Drainage Board (TWAD) will implement
the project in five years, on behalf of the beneficiary local bodies. The
proposed project is well within TWAD's current implementation capacity,
representing about 45% of its investments during the implementation period.
The ownership of the assets will vest with participating local bodies who
will be responsible for servicing the associated debts. Division of respon-
sibility for construction and operation and maintenance have been assigned on
technical grounds as well as on the basis of current allocation of respon-
sibility so that institutional arrangements under the proposed project will
cause minimum  disruption of  current practices.   TWAD  will  construct  all
facilities and operate and maintain all production systems. Local distribu-
tion and levying of tariffs and taxes will be done by each local body.
Measures to strengthen overall municipal finance and management have also
been provided in the project. In addition, administrative and financial
practices of TWAD, the key sector agency in the State, will also be improved
through simple and practical modifications.
vi.     To ensure cost recovery, maximum affordable tariffs and taxes will be
imposed upon commissioning of works.   However, because certain components of
the project are expensive, full recovery of total investments will ncot be
possible even  with the  maximum  affordable  tariffs  and  taxes.   Adequate
revenues can be generated to recover all operations and maintenance costs
under the proposed project, but due to (a) the relatively high cost of water
supply in Tamil Nadu combined with the limited affordability of the con-
sumers, (b) the need for providing significant amount of water through stand-
pipes to serve the poor, and (c) the generally low resource base of the local
bodies, there will not be enough revenues to recover total investments, after
meeting operation and maintenance costs. The extent to which debt service
can be met, varies with each local body, depending on specific affordability
and resource constraints.   Therefore, a  financing plan  on a  city specific



-iii-
basis has been incorporated in the project. GTN will pass on the capital
costs in varying mixes of grants and loans to different cities based on their
specific capacity to  pay debt service.   In the three  large project cities,
the loan to grant ratio varies between 100% loan to 20% loan, while for the
small towns the grant component is about 75% of capital costs. For the
project as a whole, total capital costs will be passed on in approximately
equal loan/grant portions. The overall loan/grant mix in other statewide
water supply and sewerage projects in India ranges from about 33% to 75% of
loan and 67% to about 25% of grant. Specific annual financial performance
targets, while considering the related capital structure and the resource
potential, have been established on a city specific basis with the aim of
achieving full coverage of operations and maintenance costs and assigned debt
service by 1989/90. By April 1, 1985, there will also be an interim tariff
increase in Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem where prevailing tariffs are well
below affordable levels.
vii.    There are  a number of  interrelated project activities  to be under-
taken by all participating entities with the common aim of improving operat-
ing efficiency  and  financial  viability.   These  activities  draw  on  the
experience of other water supply and sewerage projects and cover (a) institu-
tional aspects (staffing, training, financial and administrative systems,
etc.); (b) operational aspects (leak detection, billing and collection,
metering, etc.); and (c) financial aspects (resource mobilization, financial
targets, etc.).   All these  activities have  been grouped  into a  timebound
Operational Action Plan which will be closely monitored, annually reviewed
and updated to ensure that project objectives are achieved.



I



I. BACKGROUND
A.      India - National Urbanization Trends
1.01    India  is primarily  an agricultural  country with  about 76%  of its
people living in rural areas. According to the 1981 Provisional Census data,
the total  population is  estimated at  684  million.   Recently,  the  urban
population of India has expanded rapidly, from about 109 million in 1971
(20.2% of total population) to about 156 million in 1981 (23.7% of total
population). During 1971-81, the urban population grew at 3.9% annually
(compared to 3.3% during 1961-71) while the rural population grew at an
annual rate of 1.75%. Miuch of the growth in urban population is taking place
in the large  and medium cities.   According to  the 1981  Provisional Census
data, about 60.4% of the urban population live in 216 large and medium cities
of more than 100,000 people. An additional 11.6% of urban population live in
about 270 towns with population between 50,000 and 100,000. If the present
trend continues, the total urban population in India will be about 300 mil-
lion by the year 2000, and about 43 cities will have population of over a
million. The growth of cities of all sizes is leading to serious deficien-
cies in all urban services.
B.      The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
1.02    While the Central  Government exercises some influence  in the sector
by providing financial support, the State Governments have primary respon-
sibility to develop water supply and sewerage facilities through various
departments and agencies which, in turn, may delegate part or all of their
duties to local authorities. In certain cases, legislation has been enacted
to permit municipal authorities or other agencies to assume the entire
responsibility for planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance
of water supply and sewerage services within their jurisdictions.
1.03    State  Governments have  endeavored to  meet  the  increasing  sector
demands caused by unprecedented rates of urban growth. Prior to 1975, due to
competing demands for resources by other sectors, lack of management and
planning skills and shortages of key materials and equipment, investments in
the sector amounted to only 1 to 2% of total public expenditures. This has
led to inadequate levels of water supply and sewerage services. In 1975, it
was estimated 1/ that in India 193 million people, or 31% of the then total
population of 620 million, had access to reasonably safe drinking water and
that 125 million (20%) had acceptable means of disposing of sewage. These
levels were lower than the average levels for all developing countries, in
which water and waste disposal services reached 38% and 33% of the popula-
tion, respectively. While some improvement in water supply service has since
1/ World Health Organization, Community Supply and Wastewater Disposal,
Mid-Decade Progress Report, May 1976.



-2-
been achieved, the percentage of the population receiving waste disposal
services has actually declined.
1.04    India's goals of the International  Drinking Water Supply and Sanita-
tion Decade, to be achieved by 1990, are (a) urban and rural water supply -
100% coverage, (b) urban wastes disposal - 80% coverage, and (c) rural
sanitation - 25% coverage. For urban water supply and sewerage in India, the
investment in the Fifth Five-year plan for 1974 - 1979 averaged about Rs
1,100 million per year, about 1.5% of the total Plan investment; annual
investment in the rural water sector in the same period was Rs 750 million,
or about 1.0% of the total Plan investments. More investment will be neces-
sary if significant progress towards Decade targets is to be seriously
attempted. The Government of India (GOI) and the State Governments are
cotmitted to the objectives of the Drinking Water Decade. In GOI's Sixth
Five-year Plan (1980-85), 4% of the total Plan provision has been allocated
to the sector. The rural water sector under this plan will receive an
average of Rs  4,300 million per  year, about  2.2% of  the Plan.   The urban
water supply and sanitation sector will receive an average of Rs 3,500 mil-
lion about  1.8% of  the Plan.   These figures  represent approximately  four
times and three times, respectively, the investments made in the individual
sectors under the previous Plan, and reflect the importance which GOI
attaches to the  Decade program.   Estimates for  the Seventh  Five-year Plan
(1986-1991) are currently being prepared by individual states. Preliminary
indications are that the proportional allocation to the sector in the Seventh
Plan will be even higher than that of the Sixth Plan. GOI appreciates that
the financial demands of the program can only be met by the use of low-cost
techniques in both water supply and sanitation, and has consequently urged
State Governments to adopt these techniques where appropriate. The efficient
operation and effective maintenance of water and sewerage systems have always
presented a serious challenge to Central, State and local bodies. Increases
in capital works occasioned by the Decade program must be accompanied by an
intensive training of personnel in the sector to achieve a compatible stand-
ard of operational competence.
C.      The State of Tamil Nadu
1.05    Tamil Nadu covers an area of 130,000 sq  km, which is about 4% of the
national territory and has a population of about 50 million, about 7.3% of
natUional total. It is a densely populated State with 372 persons per sq km,
compared to the national average of 208. It is the second most urbanized
state with  33% of  its population  in urban  areas, compared  to a  national
average of 24%.
1.06    The climate, though tropical, is tempered because of its proximity to
the sea, with maximum and minimum temperatures of 43 and 18 degrees C. The
annual average rainfall is 946 mm, the greater part of which occurs during
the two monsoon periods: the southwest monsoon from June to September (307
mm) and the northeast monsoon from October to December (450 mm).



-3-
1.07    Tamil  Nadu's agricultural  area  covers  approximately  56%  of  the
state's surface, of  which approximately  35% is  irrigated.  Its  economy is
primarily agricultural, and agricultural production  increased 55% during the
last decade.  Industrial development  in recent years has  declined, which in
some cases have been partly due to inadequate water supply. The average per
capita income was estimated at Rs 1,030/annum for 1977/78 which approximates
to the all-India average for the same period.
D.      Water Resources
1.08    Almost the entire surface water in  Tamil Nadu has been harnessed and
utilized for irrigation. The primary sources are the five independent major
river basins of the Palar, Pennar, Cauvery, Vaigai and the Tambiraparani.
Most rivers in the State rise in the adjoining states of Karnataka and
Kerala. Abstractions from these rivers generally require an interstate
agreement. Only the Cauvery and Tambiraparani are perennial rivers, and
there is extensive impounding on the lesser, non-perennial rivers to permit
greater exploitation for irrigation needs.
1.09    The average annual discharge of the rivers in Tamil Nadu is less than
1% of the total national potential whereas the population represents about
7.3% of the national total. As most of the surface water resources are
reserved for irrigation, the water supply demands of the increasing popula-
tion have to be met either by an increased dependence on groundwater or by
bringing scarce surface supplies from long distances at great expense. Fur-
thermore, the State has poor groundwater reserves which are often isolated
from population centers. Deep aquifers capable of yielding potable water in
sufficient quantities for urban water supply have only been discovered near
the coastal belt.   Limited groundwater  reserves are  progressively becoming
depleted and,  currently, about  two-thirds is  being extracted  annually for
drinking water supply.
E.      Service Levels
1.10    The overall  service levels in  the State are  far from satisfactory.
Although the rural population was hitherto given little priority in State
Plans, the  situation in  rural water  supply is  now improving.   Currently,
about 47% of the rural population is served. The State Government's goal is
to serve all problem villages 1/ with safe drinking water by 1985, but this
goal may not be achieved by then.   The problem villages which fall under the
1/ Problem villages are villages without wells, with wells which are
seasonally dry, with wells of water which do not fulfill drinking water
standards and where the distance to a safe water source is more than 1
km.



-4-
category of "no source" villages will be given priority attention in this
program. In all villages, drinking water is provided through public stand-
posts.
1.11    On the  basis of population  served, the urban  situation is somewhat
better. Of 740 towns, 222 have an organized water supply system, and schemes
for 70 more towns are currently under execution. However, the population of
the 448 remaining towns which lack these facilities represents only 28% of
the urban population. The provision of water supply to those 448 towns and
improvement to existing systems in 72 towns are proposed as part of the
International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade program (IDWSSD).
New water supply schemes in 97 towns and for upgrading existing supplies in
20 more towns are currently being examined.   In all urban areas, only inter-
mittent service is available. A large proportion of the urban population is
served by standposts.
1.12    Sewerage systems in Tamil Nadu  are less developed than water supply.
Thirteen towns have  water-borne sewerage facilities.   Execution of sewerage
schemes is in progress in six more towns, and the provision of sewerage
facilities for five more towns is currently being investigated. Within the
scope of the IDWSSD program, new sewerage systems for all nine larger Class I
(Population > 100,000) towns are proposed; in the remaining towns (Classes
II, III, and IV) sanitation facilities will be based on low-cost sanitation
techniques as demonstrated in the UNDP Global Project. These will involve
the conversion of bucket latrines into water-seal latrines and the provision
of these units to the population which presently have no such facilities.
Provision of limited sullage disposal facilities in urban communities located
near major watercourses is also planned.
1.13    Rural  sanitation has  hitherto received  scant  attention,  priority
being given to the more congested urban areas. In accordance with India's
IDWSSD goals, 25% of the rural population are targetted to be provided with
low-cost sanitation by 1990. But this goal is not likely to be achieved
because of financial constraints.
1.14    The existing and planned service levels are summarized as follows:



-5-
Table 1.1: POPULATION RECEIVING WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SERVICE
Service Level                            Population Served
1971             1980               1985 1/
Million  %        Million   %       Million    %
Urban Water Supply         7.6      56         10.4    65       13.4      86
- by house connection    2.6       17          3.6    23        5.4      34
- by standpost            5.0      39          6.8    42        8.0      52
Rural Water Supply         2.5      10         13.5    47       30.0      92
- by house connection      -        -         -        -         -        -
- by standposts           0.5       2         7.5    26        16.0      49
- by handpumps            2.0       8          6.0    21       14.0      43
Urban Sewerage             3.6      23          3.8    25        5.7      37
- by house connections   1.1        7          1.3     9        2.3      15
- by septic tank          N/A      N/A        N/A    N/A        N/A      N/A
- by conservancy systems N/A       N/A        N/A    N/A       N/A       N/A
N/A - Not available
1/ Based on actual physical progress to date, it is unlikely that these
targets will be met.
F.      Sector Organization in Tamil Nadu
1.15    With the exception  of the Madras Corporation,  the statewide respon-
sibility for the planning, design, and construction of water supply and
sewerage systems rests with the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board
(TWAD). Generally, after commissioning, TWAD hands projects over to the
urban local bodies for operation and maintenance. TWAD may also assume
responsibility for the operations and maintenance of rural systems in the
State. In 1978, the Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
(MMWSSB) was created as an autonomous body to assume the sector respon-
sibilities formerly held by the Madras Corporation within its city limits.
In time, its jurisdiction will extend to the Madras suburban areas, which are
currently TWAD's responsibility.
1.16    TWAD,  as the  oldest board  of this  type in  the country,  has well
developed policies and procedures. It is currently reviewing these to assure
continued  applicability.   To  date,   the  divided  responsibility  between
implementation and operation and maintenance has not caused any major
problems. However, to ensure efficient operations and maintenance, espe-
cially because water is scarce in Tamil Nadu and schemes are expensive, TWAD
will need to be more involved in the operational aspects of the sector. This



-6-
is particularly true of major regional schemes where a single source may
supply many individual communities.   The operation of  production and trans-
mission facilities in such cases should sensibly be vested in one authority
suchi as TWAD.
C.      Sector Investment in Tamil Nadu
1.17    The proposed  project is a  part of  GTN's sector  investment program
during the  State's current  Sixth Plan  Period (1980-85)  and the  following
Seventh Plan Period (1986-91). Annex 1 shows past and future investments in
the sector by Government of Tamil Nadu (GTN) and Life Insurance Corporation
of India (LIC). A detailed breakdown of total sector investment is not
available, but the order of magnitude of investments is presented.
1.18    The Sixth Plan  shows a 250% increase  in the outlay  for rural water
supply over the Fifth plan.   There is an urgency to  overcome the backlog in
rural water supply. The level of urban water supply investments in the Sixth
Plan shows an increase of 400% over that of the Fifth Plan. This program was
based on the assumption that IDA assistance would have been available mostly
during the Sixth Plan. However, the proposed project will now fall mainly
within the Seventh Plan.
1.19    Under the Sixth Plan, GTN has allocated about 8.5% of the total State
Plan for water supply and sanitation (para 5.01) as compared to about 4%
India average, which reflects both the priority the State Government attaches
to the sector and the high cost of providing water in Tamil Nadu. Annual
investments in the sector are currently averaging about Rs 75 crores (US$ 77
million). Firm estimates for the Seventh Plan period are not yet available
but early indications are that there would be a significant increase over
current levels of investment.   However, if future  annual investments remain
at the current level in real terms, the proposed project would account for
about 37% of the GTN sector investment program during the project period.
1.20    Water is a scarce  resource in the State  and alternative options for
supply are limited (para 1.09). It is expensive to develop new sources of
drinking water and these investments are generally beyond the affordability
level of consumers.   The combination  of high  capital costs  and inadequaite
opportunity for full cost recovery has eventually caused GTN to provide
significant amounts of subsidies by way of capital and operating grants. In
the proposed project, about half of total project cost would be provided by
GTN to sector agencies on a grant basis. Beneficiary charges will be suffi-
cient to cover operation and maintenance costs fully, as well as debt servic-
ing on the loan portion (paras 5.04-5.06). This financing formula would
allow GTN to sustain its ambitious sector investment program over the longer
term but this requires that future sources of water be exploited at affor-
dable cost levels.



-7-
1.21    Future sources of  water, beyond the proposed  project, are, however,
likely to become more expensive as lower cost sources are gradually
exploited. This suggests the possibility of an increasing capital grant
requirement for future sector investments which would threaten the financial
viability of  the program.   There is  an  immediate  need  to  address  this
long-term issue by developing a comprehensive statewide water resources
management policy which recognizes more fully the necessity of allocating
available resources on a priority basis and to achieve better overall economy
in water  utilization in  the State.   Such a  policy will  need  to  address
inter-sectoral issues. Conservation of water through measures such as reduc-
ing wastage, improved recycling and better pricing policies in all water
using sectors will be necessary to reduce the future financial burden on the
State for making adequate drinking water available. Drinking water repre-
sents about 5% of total water use in the State. Thus, even a small increase
in irrigation efficiency through greater conservation could provide sig-
nificant amounts of water for drinking purposes. The proposed project will
include a Water Resources Management Study (paras 3.19-3.25) to address this
fundamental sector objective. A good data base has been established in Tamil
Nadu through several previous studies focusing on more narrow sector issues,
largely of a technical nature, and the availability of data would therefore
permit the proposed study to focus on broader issues of sector management and
policy. An expert panel, on which IDA would have observer status, will be
established to guide this study.
H.      Bank Group Operations and Experience in the Water Supply
and Sewerage Sector in India
Projects and Approaches
1.22    The Bank Group's involvement in  the water supply and sewerage sector
in India began in 1974 with a US$55 million credit for the Bombay Water
Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390-IN of January 1974). Since then, the
Bank has made available seven credits totalling US$529 million for water
supply and sewerage projects and provided a further US$190 million for water
supply and sewerage as part of a broader program of infrastructure develop-
ment in  urban areas.   The Bombay  Water Supply  and Sewerage  Project which
financed water transmission, distribution and treatment facilities and expan-
sion of the sewerage system in the Greater Bombay area, and a US$40 million
credit for the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project Credit 585-IN
of September 1975), which supported the constructioni of water supply and
sewerage facilities for five large towns and provided safe piped water to a
number of  smaller towns  and villages,  have been  completed.   The  ongoing
projects include the Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit
842-IN of November  1978); Punjab Water  Supply and Sewerage  Project (Credit
848-IN of  October 1978);  Maharashtra  Water  Supply  and  Sewerage  Project
(Credit 899-IN of  June 1979);  Rajasthan Water  Supply and  Sewerage Project
(Credit 1046-IN of June 1980) and the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Credit 1280-IN of November 1982).



-8-
1.23    All projects with the exception  of the Bombay Water Supply Projects,
have been formulated on a statewide basis with responsibility for construc-
tion of  facilities entrusted  to a  state-level agency.   The Second  Bombay
Water Supply Project like its predecessor (Credit 390-IN), addresses the
specific water supply and sewerage needs of a single city viz. the Bombay
Municipal Corporation.   A third  approach has  been the  provision of  water
supply and sewerage facilities as part of a composite program of urban
infrastructure development as under the First, Second and Third Calcutta
Urban Development Projects (Credit 427-IN, 756-IN and 1369-IN, respectively)
and the Madras Urban Development Project (Credit 687-IN). Credits 427-IN and
687-IN have been fully disbursed.
1.24    The sector objective of the Government of India and the State Govern-
ments is to extend water and sanitation services to a majority of the popula-
tion (para 1.04).  The purpose of the  Bank Group's involvement in the sector
is to assist in establishing viable sector policies and programs in support
of this overall objective, with particular attention being given to (a)
institutional development, (b) financial viability and pricing issues, and
(c) choice of  technology and promotion  of lower  cost designs.   Our sector
lending program has now matured sufficiently to permit a critical evaluation
of achievements or lack thereof in these three areas.
Performance and Problems
1.25    The physical and technological objectives of the Bank Group supported
water supply and sewerage projects in India have generally been met. Actual
implementation of construction works  has been satisfactory.   There has also
been some progress in lowering per capita costs, partly through efforts made
to encourage a more analytical and thorough search for alternative technical
solutions as part of project preparation, and partly through a Bank-executed
UNDP-financed program to develop, test and disseminate lower cost sanitation
technologies (UNDP GLO/78/006) which are now becoming widely accepted in
India. Of major concern on the physical side are the relatively unsatisfac-
tory standards in the operation and maintenance of completed facilities,
which is directly linked to institutional and financial issues (paras
1.27-1.28).
1.26    Achievement of  project institutional and  financial goals, including
cost recovery, has been unsatisfactory. GOI shares our concern in this
regard and is collaborating with us through the Central Ministry of Works and
Housing and all concerned State Governments in a close review of the institu-
tional and financial performance of all completed and on-going water supply
projects. The objective of this review, which was initiated in mid-1983, is
to identify the underlying causes and the corrective actions needed to
improve institutional and financial performance in the sector, based on the
lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects. The data collection
phase of this review has been completed and preliminary findings are under



-.9-
review. When completed by June 1984, the review should provide the basis for
further dialogue with GOI and State Covernments on the issues identified and
also provide options and guidelines for future project formulation which are
practical and adaptable under local circumstances.
1.27    Initial findings from the review  indicate that poor cost recovery is
symptomatic of several underlying institutional and operational problems.
While there is a lack of political will on the part of some State Governments
to increase tariffs, resolution of the underlying institutional and opera-
tional problems which have been identified, may also result in a beneficial
political effect on tariff  and cost recovery issues.   The review has tenta-
tively identified three such problem areas related to unsatisfactory institu-
tional and operational performance:
(i) new sector agencies have been established through most
of the Bank-supported water supply and sewerage projects
in India but their appropriate sector roles and objectives
have not yet become sufficiently well defined, incentives
for effective sector management remain ambiguous, and the
relationship between the internal processes of these agencies
and the political decision-making processes at state and
local government levels needs to be more fully considered;
(ii) traditional roles of local governments in the sector require
more attention in project design and execution, partic-
ularly as regards retailing of water, operation and mainte-
nance, billing and collection, and public education; and
(iii)  specific programs and actions to improve sector management
and operational efficiency have not generally been identified
in sufficient detail and vigorously pursued during project
implementation by the agencies and local governments con-
cerned, partly because of the lack of an appropriate incen-
tive structure, as noted above.
1.28    In considering the above causes  for poor institutional and financial
performance and in identifying potential counter-measures, it should be
stressed that the delivery of water has traditionally been perceived in India
as a local government function of providing a municipal service, with the
cost covered by general tax revenues, particularly property tax revenues.
The concept of water supply as a separate utility operation is not fully
accepted by  policy makers  or by  the public.   Strong public  opposition to
tariff increases and metering of consumption has arisen from the traditional
concept held by both consumer and government alike that water and sewer
services are a "public good" which should be provided free of charge, as are
medical care and education. However, there is now a growing recognition,
particularly among policy makers, that in order to extend service coverage to
the majority of the population, the sector must strengthen its institutions



-10-
and generate a larger portion of its funds through direct user charges.
Contributing to this recognition are also the increasingly competitive
demands on limited property tax revenues for the provision of a wide range of
other local services where the opportunities for direct user charges are more
limited, such as traffic management, road maintenance, solid waste collection
and disposal, and drainage.
1.29    The  on-going review  of Bank-supported  water  supply  and  sewerage
projects in India, combined with the growing acceptance by the Government of
the fundamental objectives incorporated into these projects, suggests that
there is a substantial potential to achieve improved sector performance over
the medium  to long-term.   Intensified supervision  of ongoing  projects and
strengthened sector policy content in upcoming projects will be required to
achieve this.   It must,  however, be  recognized that  the  attitudinal  and
institutional adjustments under way in the sector are far reaching and will
take time and that project objectives need to be carefully tailored to this
reality. Follow-up projects will be required to maintain continuity and
consistency in the sector policy dialogue and to pursue the issues now being
identified in more detail. At the same time, more active participation by
Central Government agencies as policy intermediaries for dissemination of
sector policies and experiences to the different State governments is
envisaged.
I.      Context of the Proposed Project
1.30    Although the  sector portfolio review  and evaluation is  still under
way, and no definitive conclusions can therefore be drawn, the preliminary
findings discussed above suggest that no drastic departure from our current
sector assistance strategy and basic sector objectives (para 1.24) will be
required. Rather, increased attention to the sector issues referred to above
(paras 1.24-1.29), including a fuller recognition of the time and effort
required to affect change through a series of projects, is suggested. Only a
gradual adjustment of our sector work program to incorporate these findings
is required at this stage. Accordingly, the proposed project does not
reflect a significantly different sector approach but is, in its content and
design, consistent with the  findings referred to above.   Firstly, the prin-
cipal project implementing agency is well  established and has a proven track
record with a well accepted sector role in the State. It will be further
strengthened through a carefully designed support program of simple yet
practical improvements in staffing, administrative and financial systems and
procedures, and  monitoring  practices.   Secondly,  steps  are  being  taken
through the project to support and strengthen the traditional sector role of
local governments in distribution and retailing of water through better
training and staffing, and through improved local government systems and
procedures for billing, collection and operation and maintenance (such as
metering, leak detection, etc.). Measures are also being taken to improve
not only the revenues from water supply operations, but also the general
resource base of the local governments through a Resource Mobilization Study.



- l -
Thirdly, a detailed Program of Action to improve sector management and opera-
tional efficiency of all participating agencies has been developed which
outlines specific timebound steps to achieve agreed objectives and provide a
better basis for project supervision and monitoring (para 3.05 and Annex 8).
Finally, in order to move the GTN towards taking a broader view of the sector
and identifying cost-effective alternatives for its longer-term sector
development, a state-wide Water Resources Management study will be undertaken
(paras 3.19 and 3.25).
1.31    The nature  of investments in  the towns  under the  proposed project
represent least cost solutions and the results of this Study will not affect
the current selection. The City of Madras, the State capital, is not one of
the towns under the proposed project. The acute water crisis in Madras is a
well known fact. GTN has now embarked upon the ultimate and long-term solu-
tion to Madras's water needs by bringing water to the city from the
Krishna-Pennar source (para 5.02). This is an expensive scheme and is now at
a very early stage of planning. It is unlikely that Madras will benefit from
this scheme in the near future; certainly not during the implementation of
the proposed project. Therefore, means for providing immediate supplementary
supplies to Madras from the internal water resources of the State must be
explored as a priority. The above Study will accordingly examine means of
achieving interim relief for Madras from sources not yet fully identified.
Meanwhile, the proposed project will attend to the equally urgent needs of
the towns included.
II. POPULATION FORECASTS AND DEMAND PROJECTIONS IN PROJECT AREA
A.      The Project Area
2.01    A  water supply  and sanitation  sector memorandum  for the  State of
Tamil Nadu was prepared by the World Bank/WHO Cooperative program (IBRD/WHO
CP) in late 1979, where the status of the sector and investment priorities
were identified. In keeping with these priorities, GTN prepared a project
package consisting of: (i) water supply augmentation for the 3 major cities
of Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem; (ii) new water supplies for 75 small towns,
20 of which lie within the Coimbatore Local Planning Area (CLPA), 11 belong-
ing to the Salem system and 44 others spread throughout the State; (iii) new
water supplies for villages within the CLPA and Salem systems; and (iv) low
cost sanitation for 14 small towns. The justification for the selection of
these components which form the project is given in paragraph 3.02.



-12-
B.      Present Water Supply in Project Area
Major Project Cities
2.02    Coimbatore,  Salem, and  Madurai rely  almost exclusively  on surface
water for their supply. To meet seasonal demand, supplemental groundwater is
pumped in limited quantities from wells either within or close to municipal
boundaries. Coimbatore receives its water by direct abstraction from distant
river sources. Madurai and Salem are supplied through allocations granted to
them by GTN from the Irrigation Department's impounding reservoirs. Existing
resources are insufficient to keep up with the demand of expanding domestic
and industrial usage, and current service levels are barely adequate.
2.03    Service levels in Coimbatore are expected to improve significantly by
the end of 1984 when a new augmentation scheme from the Siruvani river is
completed. This is barely adequate for current needs, and additional sup-
plies will be needed to meet the demand of a rapidly expanding population.
Madurai has an annual allocation of water reserved in the Vagai irrigation
dam.. This allocation has never been properly exploited because there is no
transmission line between the dam and the city. Releases of water into the
river bed in dry weather do not effectively recharge the river bed acquifers
at the existing points of abstraction, and supplies at these times become
severely restricted. Salem is currently facing a water shortage because its
existing allocation from the  Mettur dam is inadequate.   Salem will continue
to meet is needs from Mettur and abstractions from this source are not likely
to be restricted.
2.04    Extensive distribution systems  exist in the major  cities, and these
have been  extended periodically.   The  Coimbatore  distribution  system  is
currently being upgraded under the Siruvani project to fully meet future flow
requirements and will not need further extension under this project. Because
of the poor conditions of water supply in Madurai, its distribution system is
less developed and is particularly deficient in elevated reservoir capacity.
The existing distribution system of Salem will only require some additional
elevated storage and minor augmentation in new areas to meet future needs.
Small Towns
2.05    Almost all the  small towns, comprising the  satellite towns of Coim-
batore and Salem and others located elsewhere within the project area, pos-
sess only skeletal piped water systems served either by open wells or by
infiltration gallery systems.   Over time,  these sources  have proved  to be
unreliable in quality and yield. In summer months the populace use old
private wells located at considerable distances which are also liable to
contamination. The average per capita supply from these existing systems
ranges from 5 lcd to 20 lcd.



-13-
2.06    Existing water service levels in the urban project areas are shown in
Annexes 2 and 3.
C.      Existing Sewerage Systems
2.07    In  Coimbatore and  Madurai, extensive  water borne  sewerage systems
already exist and are now being upgraded to accommodate the higher discharges
anticipated from increased water supply. There is no water borne sewerage
system in Salem. However, a new system with extensive coverage has been
approved for Salem by GTN, and its construction is expected to start in 1984.
2.08    In project areas where no water borne sewerage systems exist, sanita-
tion is  generally provided  in the  form of  bucket  or  pit  latrines.   In
municipal areas, an increasing number of water seal latrines connected to
septic tanks or leaching pits is being used.
2.09    Present and  proposed sanitation levels  and information  on sewerage
systems in the major project towns are shown in Annex 4.
D.      Proposed Service Levels
2.10    The objective of the proposed project  is to provide a minimum domes-
tic supply of 90 lcd to connected consumers and 30 lcd to standpipe users.
In Coimbatore and Salem, where future supply is assured, these objectives may
be realized within project period. In Coimbatore levels somewhat in excess
of these standards will be achieved in the initial years. Madurai's access
to water supply is limited to an irrigation source and no other economically
viable alternative  source of  supply exists.   Under the  proposed  project,
although supply levels in Madurai will double from present, the levels of
service will  be somewhat  less than  in Coimbatore  and Salem.  To maintain
reasonable levels of service in Madurai, for the increasing population,
additional supplies will be needed early in the next decade.
2.11    Smaller towns within each group will also aim at 90 lcd for connected
consumers and a slightly lower standpipe level of 25 lcd. Rural water sup-
plies will be provided to consumers entirely by standpost at an assumed
average level of 40 lcd.
2.12    Future  service levels  and projected  total demand  for urban  water
supply projects are summarized in Annexes 2 and 3. Industrial and commercial
demands have been based on projected requirements and have been included in
the projections for total demand. Proposed domestic service levels are
modest compared with urban service levels in other parts of India, where 140
lcd for connected consumers and 40 lcd for standpipe users are normally
accepted design criteria.



-14-
E.      Population Forecasts
2.13    Forecasting of future population in  the project areas has been based
on past population growth rates, adjusted where appropriate to take into
account factors such  as migration and  the impact of  other policy measures.
Present and forecast population  in the project area  are summarized in Table
2.1.
Table 2.1:   POPULATION IN PROJECT AREA
Urban Areas           Present           Intermediate            Long Term
1982               1996                     2011
-----------------Thousands-----------------------
Group I
Coimbatore              700                  975                     1,325
20 rowns                175                  374                       564
Group II
Madurai                 940                1,281                     1,700
Group III
Salem                   361                  520                       700
11 Towns                166                  248                       335
Group IV
44 Towns                488                  636                       792
Total                 2,830                4,034                    5,416
Rural Areas
Group I                 368                  424                       479
Group II                205                  236                       266
Total                   573                  660                       745
F.      Future Water Demands and Supplies
2.14    Demand projections for water supply for  urban and rural areas of the
project are summarized in  Annex 5 and 6,  respectively.  Accurate production
and consumption data are not available for any of the project towns, as bulk
metering is non-existent and consumer metering is incomplete. Present system
losses vary from one town to another but the projections assume that during
project implementation, through improved operations and maintenance and the
implementation of a leak detection program, the unaccounted for water in all
towns will be reduced to a reasonable level of 25% to 30%.



-15-
2.15    Extensive studies  have established that  no additional  supplies can
economically be obtained from ground water sources in the three large project
cities.
2.16    The future requirements of Salem and other beneficiaries in the Salem
group will be met by increased abstraction from the Cauvery river downstream
of Mettur dam, to which  GTN has already agreed.   In Coimbatore, the commis-
sioning of the Siruvani augmentation project (para 2.03) will fully exploit
the resources of this river. The Bhavani River is the immediate alternative
source which can meet the future needs of Coimbatore. Long term gaugings
have demonstrated that there is adequate flow in the river at all times to
meet demands up to the design year of 1996. Present minimum river flows are
inadequate for Coimbatore's requirements beyond this year. To meet require-
ments beyond 1996, additional water will have to be released into the upper
reaches of the Bhavani river from Kerala State. Madurai, so far, has not
effectively exploited the volume reserved for it in the Vagai dam (para
2.03). If piped, this entitlement together with yields from existing sources
will double the present supply. Future augmentation beyond these limits
will, however, present major difficulties. The proposal currently being
considered by GTN for meeting future demands of Madurai will involve costly
capital works and an interstate agreement with Kerala. Other less costly
alternatives are: (i) the appropriation of additional quantities of water
from the Vagai dam on grounds of priority, and (ii) the generation of surplus
reserves in the dam through more conservative use of irrigation water. The
Water Resources Management Study included in the proposed project (paras
3.19-3.25) will focus on such problems.
2.17    All proposed groundwater sources for the small towns have been tested
and proven.
III. THE PROJECT
A.      Project Objectives
3.01    The proposed project will have the following objectives:
(i) to improve water supply in larger urban areas and to
provide a safe water supply to certain smaller towns
and rural areas which are currently without these facilities;
(ii) to provide proper low-cost sanitation to selected urban
communities to improve public health standards;
(iii) to assist GTN and TWAD in developing water resource management
strategies aimed at achieving overall economies in providing
drinking water;



-16-
(iv) to enable low-income groups to connect to the systems, or
alternatively to provide adequate standpost facilities;
(v) to strengthen TWAD's institutional, managerial, and financial
practices through training and technical assistance; and
(vi) to assist urban local bodies in identifying measures to improve
their resource base for proper operations and maintenance of
investments.
B.      Project Selection Criteria
3.02     The  technical  and  administrative   capability  of  TWAD  and  the
manageability of the number of subprojects are key factors in identifying
suitable project components. The priority placed by GTN on water supply
development in small towns which have no safe supply merit the inclusion of
this component. Impact of coverage in urban water supply is optimized by
concentrating investments in the augmentation of supplies in three major
population centers currently facing a water crisis and where distribution
capacity already exists. Financial constraints and low affordability exclude
investments in expensive water borne sewerage schemes. To compensate for
this, a low cost sanitation component is included. The following factors,
which will also simplify project implementation, were also taken into account
when defining the project:
(i)   the investments in the major cities are
mainly in new production facilities,
principally long transmission mains with limited
distribution works;
(ii) the source development for the small towns has
already been partially completed, and the remainder
will be executed under one drilling program, while the
associated rudimentary distribution systems
may be easily implemented in small contracts
of short duration.
C.      Project Description
3.03    The principal  project elements are  illustrated in Maps  IBRD 17229,
17230, 17231  and 17232.   A physical  description of  major  subprojects  is
included in Annex 7. The project is summarized below:
tGroup I.    Design and construction of intake, treatment,
transmission and distribution works to provide
an additional gravity supply of about 125 mld
from the Bhavani River to Coimbatore,



-17-
20 urban communities and various
rural areas within CLPA.
Group II.   Design and construction of intake, treatment,
transmission and distribution works drawing a
new gravity supply from the Vaigai Dam to
provide an assured total supply averaging
90 mld to Madurai.
Group III. Design and construction of intake, treatment,
pumping, transmission and distribution works to
provide Salem, 11 satellite towns and peripheral
rural communities with an additional 85 mld pumped
from immediately downstream of the Mettur Reservoir.
Group IV.   Provision of acceptable amounts of drinking water
to about 44 small towns currently lacking a
protected reliable source. New sources will
comprise tube wells, open wells, and infiltration
galleries.
Group V.    A prototype subproject to provide low-cost sanitation
facilities to 14 towns throughout Tamil Nadu selected
under the Global UNDP Low-Cost Sanitation Project.
Group VI.   Provision of services by TWAD for sectorwide training,
leak detection, and meter repair. In addition,
consultant services for a Statewide Water Resource
Management Study, implementation of accounting and
material management systems for TWAD, implementation
of water supply sector accounting system for local
bodies and a resource mobilization study for local
bodies are also included.
Group VII. A revolving fund for the provision of meter connection
loans in Coimbatore, specifically for low income
households.
3.04    Although the subprojects  in groups I and  III are designed primarily
to provide water to Coimbatore and Salem, they will also serve en route a
number of rural communities which would otherwise have no viable source of
supply. In both cases, the headworks, treatment plants and main transmission
lines, are commonly shared for both urban and rural supplies. The total cost
of shared facilities is included in the project, although rural distribution
facilities will be constructed separately.



-18-
D.      Operational Action Plan
3.05    There are  a number of  interrelated project activities  to be under-
taken by  participating agencies  with the  common  aim  of  improving  their
operating efficiency and financial viability. Although these actions are
discussed in various  places of the  SAR, because  of their  relevance, these
have been grouped into an Operational Action Plan. The components of this
Plan were discussed and agreed during appraisal with GTN and TWAD and the
timing of their implementation was reviewed and confirmed during nego-
tiations. Assurances were obtained from TWAD that the progress on this Plan
will be annually reviewed and updated in consultation with IDA. The elements
of the Plan are included in Annex 8 (references are made to the paragraphs in
this SAR).
E.      Engineering Feasibility Studies
3.06    From an  engineering point of  view, the project  has been  well con-
ceived. Feasibility studies for all project towns have been completed by
TWAD staff and the schemes proposed represent the least-cost solutions.
Because of unavailability of convenient water sources, the water supply
components are  costly and  capital intensive.   In Coimbatore,  Madurai  and
Salem, which together account for approximately 50% of total project costs,
there are  large investments  in conveying  water over  long  distances.   In
Salem, there is the added high operational cost of pumping water from Mettur
to Salem, with further expensive boosting to Attur.
F.      Cost Estimates
3.07    The  estimated cost  of  the  total  project  is  Rs.  1,494  million
(US$153.3 million) including contingencies, duties and taxes. The estimated
costs of the various components are summarized in Table 3.1. Detailed cost
breakdowns and estimated annual expenditures are included in Annex 9. Duties
and taxes are about US$7.0 million, and land acquisition is about US$2.0
million.
3.08    Civil works costs are  based on estimates of  work for which prelimi-
nary designs have been completed. Materials and equipment costs are based on
estimates from Indian and foreign suppliers. Physical contingencies of ].0%
have been allowed for civil works and 5% for materials and equipment. Price
contingencies for both local and foreign costs have been projected as follows
(base costs as of April 1, 1983): 1983/84 - 7.0%; 1984/85 - 7.0%; 1985/86 -
7.0%; 1986/87 - 6.0%.



-19-
Table 3.1:  SUIMAMRY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
% Of    %
Group   Details        Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    Total Foreign
-----US$ million -----      ----- Rs million-----      Cost  Exchange
I. Coimbatore Area:
Civil Works       10.4      3.7       14.1    101.8    36.2       138.0     9.2
Materials &
Equipment        13.5      1.4      14.9    131.2    13.7        144.9     9.7
Subtotal      23.9     5.1       29.0    233.0    49.9       283.0    18.9    17.6
II. Madurai:
Civil Works        5.7      2.0        7.7     56.2    19.4        75.6     5.0
Materials &
Equipment         9.7      2.1      11.8      94.2    20.6       114.8     7.6
Subtotal      15.4     4.1       19.5    150.4    40.0       190.4    12.7    21.0
III. Salem Area:
Civil Works       7.3      2.0       9.3      70.9    19.8        90.7     6.0
Materials &
Equipment       10.6      3.5      14.1    103.8    34.0       137.8      9.2
Subtotal      17.9     5.5       23.4    174.7    53.8       223.5    15.3    24.1
IV. 44-Small Towns:
Civil Works       4.5      0.9       5.4      43.8      8.8       52.6     3.5
Materials &
Equipment        5.8      3.0       8.8      57.4    29.4       86.8      5.8
Subtotal      10.3     3.9       14.2    101.2    38.2       139.4      9.3    27.4
V. Low Cost Sanitation:
Civil Works       2.8      0.7       3.5      27.4      7.3       34.7     2.3
Materials &
Equipment        0.4       -        0.4       3.7       -         3.7     0.2
Subtotal       3.2     0.7        3.9      31.1      7.3      38.4      2.5    17.9
VI.   Training           0.5     0.1        0.6       4.6     1.1        5.7      0.3
Consultants       1.5      1.2        2.7     14.3    12.0        26.3     1.7
Equipment         0.3       -        0.3       3.0       -         3.0     0.2
Subtotal       2.3     1.3        3.6      21.9    13.1       35.0      2.3    37.4
VII.  Others
Revolving Fund   1.0         -       1.0      10.0       -        10.0     0.6
Land Acquisition 2.1         -        2.1     20.2       -        20.2     1.3
Duties & Taxes   6.9         -        6.9     67.2       -        67.2     4.5
Total Before
Contingencies   83.1    20.6       103.7    809.8   202.5    1012.3    67.7    20.0
Contingencies
a)  Physical          5.4      1.4        6.8     53.0    14.1        67.1      4.4
b)  Price            15.4      3.4       18.8    148.0    32.8       180.8    12.1
Subtotal      20.8     4.8       25.-6    201.0    46.9      247.9    16.6    18.9
Eng. Cost    24.0        -       24.0    233.9        -      233.9    15.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST   127.9    25.4        153.3   1244.7   249.4    1494.1   100.0    16.7



-20-
G.      Financing
3.09    A total of US$73.0 million, representing about 50% of the total
project cost of US$153.3 million excluding duties and taxes, is proposed to
be financed by US$36.5 million from IDA's Special Fund and the remaining
US$36.5 million as a regular IDA credit.
H.      Consulting Services
3.10    In addition to the engineering feasibility studies, four other
studies were carried out by consultants as a part of project preparation:
(i)   Socio-economic study to determine affordability
thresholds of consumers in each subproject area;
(ii)  Study of the urban poor to locate slums, recommend
provision for their water supply, and collect relevant
data for appraisal purposes;
(iii) Study reviewing management systems and procedures to
improve TWAD's operations; and
(iv)  Studies to design commercial accounting systems for
Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem and modified cash account-
ing systems for all other local bodies for the water
supply and sewerage operations only; and to report TWAD's
own financial position.
3.11    Consulting  studies to  be undertaken  as part  of  the  project  and
financed under the credit will include (i) a Water Resource Management Study
(para 3.19); (ii) Training Study (para 3.41); and (iii) a Resource Mobi-
lization Study for  the three major  cities (para 5.22).   Total cost  of the
above studies will be about US$2.5 million with an estimated input of about
600 man months, including a provision for 130 man months of foreign exper-
tise. Cost of local consultants has been estimated at about US$2,500 per man
month and that of foreign consultants at about US$10,000 per man month.
I.      Implementation Schedule
3.12    TWAD will  implement the project  over five  years with  a completion
date early in 1989 and credit closing date of September 30, 1989. The small
town components are expected to be completed about eighteen months before
other subprojects as these can be constructed in short duration and in paral-
lel with one another. The preliminary engineering is already sufficiently
detailed to define the broad elements of the projects so that with minimal
refinement  the  material  and  equipment   requirements  can  be  specified.
Although detailed design will continue throughout the first project year,
preparation of tender documents are sufficiently well advanced to bid and



-21-
award some of the major material and equipment contracts by September 1984.
Civil enginering contracts  can be awarded  shortly thereafter.   Pert charts
have been prepared for all components of the project. Annex 10 includes
simplified bar charts showing major activities for all project components.
The schedules are realistic and provide reasonable allowance for contingen-
cies. However, careful planning and good management will be required to
complete all works in time.
J.      Procurement and Contracts
3.13    50% of the  total credit would  be financed from  IDA's Special Fund.
An allocation of this has been made against various disbursement categories.
Countries eligible for tender submission for contracts to be awarded under
the IDA's Special Fund would be restricted to the participants in the Fund
(Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, Finland,
France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, United
Kingdom and Part Two Countries). Procurement restricted to the above
countries would not adversely affect the Borrower's ability to obtain the
required standards and quality of goods and services necessary to complete
the project satisfactorily.
3.14    Equipment and materials contracts will be awarded under international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines with the following
exceptions: contracts valued under US$150,000; contracts for fragile water
supply or sewer pipes of glazed stoneware, asbestos cement, and concrete
construction and other materials which are difficult to transport and are
readily available locally. These items would be procured under local bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.15    Most  civil works  would be  carried out  through a  large number  of
relatively simple contracts by contractors registered in Tamil Nadu or other
parts of India. These works which are widely dispersed do not require spe-
cial equipment  or techniques  and are  labor intensive.   Such works,  which
include  water  transmission   mains,  pumping  stations,   and  distribution
facilities, would not attract foreign bidders since overseas firms could not
successfully compete with local bidders for works of this type and size.
These would be subject to local competitive bidding. Major treatment plants
to be constructed on a turnkey basis, if combined in one package, may attract
foreign interest and would be bid internationally.
3.16    In  evaluating bids  for equipment  and materials,  domestic manufac-
turers would be given a preferential margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. of
the competing imports, or the existing rate of customs duty, whichever is
lower. A preferential margin of 7 1/2% would be allowed for local contrac-
tors on evaluating  civil works bids.   Most of the  contracts for equipment,
materials and civil works are likely to be won by local firms. Materials and
equipment requirements for the project and tentative contract values are
shown in Annex 11. All bidding packages over US$150,000 equivalent, all bids



-22-
for treatment plant and pumping equipment, and civil works contracts over
US$500,000 equivalent, would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement
documentation. These would cover about 85% of the total estimated project
costs. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post review by
IDA after contract award. The consulting services will be awarded in accord-
ance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants (August 1981).
Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element           ICB         LCB         N.A.        Cost
Civil Works                6.5        47.0         -          53.5
(4.5)     (23.5)        -          (28.0)
Equipment and             12.5        49.7         -          62.2
Materials                (12.5)      (25.0)        -          (37.5)
Training, Consultants      1.3         2.3         -           3.6
and Special Equipment    (1.3)       ( 2.3)        -         ( 3.6)
House Connection Fund       -           -         1.0           1.0
(1.0)        (1.0)
Land                        -           -         2.1          2.1
Engineering                 -           -        24.0         24.0
Duties & Taxes              -           -         6.9          6.9
20.3       99.0       34.0         153.3
(18.3)     (51.8)      (1.0)        (70.1) *
Notes:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Credit.
*      An amount of US$2.9 million of the credit has not been allocated to
any specific project element.
N.A:   Not applicable.



-23-
K.      Disbursement
3.17   The proceeds of the credit would  be disbursed over a six-year period.
An estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 12. Amount of disburse-
ments by category is shown in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3:   DISBURSEMENT BY CATEGORY
Amount of Credit    Disbursement
Category                          Allocated              Rate
(US$ Million)
1. (a)  Equipment and material procured       12.5         100% of foreign
under international bidding.                      expenditures or 100%
of local expenditures
ex-factory.
(b)  Equipment and material procured       25.0        50% of expenditures
under local bidding.
2. (a)  Civil works awarded under              4.5        70% of expenditures
international bidding
(b)  Civil works awarded under             23.5        50% of expenditures
local bidding
3.      Consulting services and training;    3.6           100% of expenditures
4.      Loan Fund for house connections.       1.0         100% of amounts
disbursed.
5.      Unallocated                            2.9
No disbursements would be made against administrative costs. Disbursements
for small civil works payments for about Rs 300,000 or less, for equipment
and material payments for about Rs 150,000 or less, and for amounts disbursed
under the house connections loan fund, will be made against Statements Of
Expenditures (SOE), certified by the Project Director (or other appropriate
officer). Supporting documentation for items disbursed against SOEs will be
retained centrally and made available for IDA for review on request. The
expenditures disbursed under SOEs will be audited annually by independent
auditors, acceptable to IDA (para 5.32).
3.18    The  expected  pattern  of  disbursement  for  the  project  compares
reasonably with the Bankwide disbursement profile for the subsector, although
the period of disbursement of six years is somewhat shorter than the average
of about eight years. This is based on the assumption that the project would



-24-
progress according  to the  estimated  implementation  schedule.   There  are
several factors which are reassuring in this regard:
(i)   At appraisal, preliminary engineering had been completed
in some detail and TWAD staff are currently working on
preparation of bid documents for equipment which involve
long delivery times, so that critical contracts may be
awarded at an early stage;
(ii)  Topographical surveys are already well advanced and all
hydrogeological investigations have been satisfactorily
concluded;
(iii) TWAD staff has had considerable experience working together
in projects of similar magnitude and scope and design and
operational procedures within TWAD are well established and
proven in practice;
(iv)  The principal elements of the major subprojects which
represent over 70% of total project costs, will be executed
in a few simple contracts of a repetitive nature. A similar
project, the Siruvani project for Coimbatore, was recently
designed and is being executed by TWAD well within the project
schedule.
L.      Water Resources Management Study
3.19    The problem of  obtaining drinking water in  sufficient quantities at
an affordable cost to consumers is becoming increasingly acute in Tamil Nadu,
and merits a comprehensive  review and study.   Extensive groundwater studies
incorporating modern technological methods are continuing on a Statewide
basis to  assess more  accurately its  groundwater potential.   These studies
have demonstrated that the State has poor groundwater reserves which are
generally distant from population centers. Deep aquifers capable of yielding
potable water in sufficient quantities for urban water supplies have only
been discovered near the coastal belt. Surface water resources have also
been investigated and quantified thoroughly for many years, but almost all
have been harnessed and committed.
3.20    Currently,  most  of  the  readily  obtainable  water  resources  are
reserved for irrigation purposes. Therefore, increasing drinking water needs
have to  be met  from diminishing  and expensive  alternative sources.   More
efficient use of irrigation water by reducing losses and improving irrigation
methods can free substantial additional water resources and provide drinking
water more economically. The tradeoff of groundwater conveniently available
for local irrigation in exchange for surface water currently reserved for
this purpose may permit the release of surface water which could be economli-
cally' transmitted by gravity for use in urban centers.



-25-
3.21    There could  be substantial benefits  from a  comprehensive Statewide
Water Resources Management Study which recognizes the need for and develops
water management strategies and options to allocate available resources on
the basis of priority usage and to achieve overall economy in transmission
and distribution. This would help in developing less costly water supply
schemes in the future.
3.22    Exhaustive  data on  groundwater  and  surface  water  potential  has
already been compiled by PWD over a number of years, and previous studies
have provided  valuable information.   The availability  of  this  data  will
greatly assist the execution of the proposed study and reduce study costs.
However, expertise of a high order will be required to compile and analyze
this data. To fully use local expertise, GTN has agreed to employ the United
Nations Department of Technical Cooperation for Development (UN/DTCD) who
would collaborate with a team of local specialized personnel to conduct the
Study, under terms of reference agreed with  IDA.   The Study would be super-
vised and guided by a Review Panel of GOI and GTN representatives and an
independent local  expert satisfactory  to IDA.   IDA will  be provided  with
reports of this Panel for review and comment at regular intervals during
implementation of the Study.
3.23    To keep the scope of the  study reasonable and within funding limits,
it would focus only on those priority areas which will face severe problems
in obtaining adequate supplies at affordable cost over the next twenty five
years. If there are competing claims on the same source of water for both
urban and agricultural purposes, the alternative water uses will be evaluated
to determine the most appropriate allocation.
3.24    The first part of  the study will i-dentify those  areas which will be
the subject of the study together with full justification for their inclu-
sion. Because of acute water shortage in Madras Corporation, means of
providing immediate supplementary supplies to Madras from the internal water
resources of the  State should be  investigated in  this Study.   Although an
ultimate solution to the Madras problem is being pursued by GTN, obtaining
lnterim relief from sources not yet fully identified is still a worthwhile
objective.
3.25    The study will  probably take two years  to complete. Assurances were
obtained from GTN that a team of experts will be engaged to commence the
study by January 1, 1985, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and
with the objective of completing the study in two years (Action Plan, Annex
8). The services of UN/DTCD will be paid for as a consulting service under
the Credit.



-26-
M.      Licensing of Wells
3.26    Throughout Tamil Nadu, industrial  consumers frequently develop their
own water sources from private wells and do not use the municipal water
supply systems. Although they bear the cost of constructing these wells,
this unrestricted exploitation of groundwater resources by private industry
deprives the community at large of this public resource. It also does not
contribute towards meeting the operating costs of the public water supply
systems. Appropriate legislation requiring industrial consumers to obtain
license for existing wells, meter supplies from these sources and obtain
permits for the construction or reconstruction of wells would benefit the
sector.
3.27    GTN is  actively considering a  draft bill --  The Tamil  Nadu Ground
Water (Control  and Regulation)  Bill, 1983  -- which  addresses  the  issues
outlined above. A select committee has been formed to review the bill and
make recommendations. Enactment of such legislation has been endorsed by IDA
and GTN  has been  urged to  give this  matter priority  attention.   Certain
measures  have  already  been  taken  by   GTN  to  regulate  abstraction  of
groundwater for industrial and agricultural use in certain scheduled areas.
Assurances were obtained from GTN that it will make its best efforts to
introduce suitable measures to monitor and control the exploitation of
groundwater by commercial and industrial users taking into consideration the
findings of the Water Resources Management Study and thereafter will keep IDA
informed in this regard.
N.      Leak Detection
3.28    With  low pressure  and  intermittent  supply,  current  distribution
losses are estimated  at between 20%  and 25%.   These losses  might increase
significantly when normal system pressure and continuous supply are achieved.
Losses could be substantially reduced by proper maintenance of the systems.
TWAD will establish a unit to undertake a program to reduce unaccounted for
water and make a leakage survey on behalf of local bodies who will pay TWAD
for this service. This program will initially be limited to the project
towns and is to be later extended to the whole sector. TWAD will prepare a
leak detection program for review with IDA by June 30, 1985 and that it will
ensure that the leak detection unit would be fully equipped, trained and
operational by December 31, 1985. Thereafter, this program would be imple-
mented and its progress reviewed with IDA at regular intervals (Action Plan,
Annex 8).
0.      Land Acquisition
3.29    Not much land would be required  during the first year of implementa-
tion. Land to be acquired has been assessed and the estimated cost has been
included in project costs. In instances where long transmission mains would
traverse large tracts of land, TWAD has confirmed that the acquisition of



-27-
such land would present no problem because it has little or no agricultural
or commercial value. Not much land would be required during the first year
of implementation. TWAD has provided a firm timetable for land acquisition.
P.      Metering
3.30    In view of the scarcity of  water resources in the State, metering is
desirable as a measure to reduce wastage. However, given the poor main-
tenance record of existing meters in Tamil Nadu and generally in India, their
use on  a large  scale should  be approached  with caution.   In  Coimbatore,
Madurai and Salem, where use of domestic metering is well established, there
is merit in progressing towards eventual total metering. TWAD has agreed to
implement from June 1985, an annual metering program for each of these cities
as indicated in Annex 13. These targets for both conversion of unmetered
connections and metering of new connections will be monitored closely during
implementation to achieve maximum possible coverage (Action Plan, Annex 8).
3.31    Domestic  metering  in  small  towns  will  be  deferred  until  more
experience with their use has been gained and maintenance facilities are more
accessible. Therefore, proper meter repair workshops will be established by
December 31, 1985 as part of TWAD-s metering program (Action Plan, Annex 8).
Since TWAD will be providing centralized services to the sector, it would own
and operate meter repair shops at its regional centers and provide service to
local bodies at  a reasonable charge.   Costs of meter  repair facilities for
the metered areas are included in the project.
3.32    In Coimbatore and  Salem, legislation exists  for compulsory metering
of both existing and new connections, and the accompanying bylaws have been
strengthened to  provide greater  enforcement powers.   No  such  legislation
exists in Madurai. The enactment of new bylaws to ensure metering of both
existing  and   new  connections   in  Madurai   will  be   a  condition   of
disbursement 1/ for the Madurai subproject (Action Plan, Annex 8).
Q.      Revolving Fund for Metered Connections
3.33    Costs  of meters  and connections  for Madurai  and Salem  have  been
included in the project, to be recovered from consumers on quarterly install-
ments at 8 1/2% annual  interest over 10 years.   In Coimbatore the distribu-
tion system is being constructed under the Siruvani scheme wherein meters are
compulsorily installed and paid for by consumers when provided with new
connections. To comply with existing bylaws, unmetered connections are also
being gradually metered. The costs of this metering program are not included
1/ It was agreed during negotiations that if this disbursement condition
was met prior to the signing of the Development Credit Agreement, it
would be deleted.



-28-
in the construction costs for Coimbatore.   To facilitate the agreed metering
targets in Coimbatore (Annex 13), a separate revolving fund of Rs 10 million
has been included in  the project to  provide loans for  meter connections to
low income households  in Coimbatore.   To qualify  for this  loan, consumers
will have to meet certain affordability criteria, to be agreed with IDA by
September 30, 1984 (Action Plan, Annex 8).
R.       Low-Cost Sanitation
3.34    The efforts  of the Technology  Advisory Group  (TAG) of  UNDP Global
Project GLO/78/006 to promote low cost technology to meet Decade sanitation
goals have resulted in an increasing commitment by Central and State Govern-
ments to adopt these techniques. A feasibility study for a low-cost sanita-
tion program for 15 towns in Tamil Nadu was carried out by TAG under the
first stage of this UNDP Project. One Class I town has since been excluded
from the  scope of  this program.   The first  stage of  the program  for the
remaining 14 towns is included in the project. TWAD would be responsible for
implementating this component and will establish a new low-cost sanitation
cell for this purpose by December 31, 1984 (Action Plan, Annex 8).
3.35    TWAD will train and license small  contractors to carry out this type
of work. Provision for this has been made in the training component of the
project. TWAD already possesses the technical infrastructure to implement
the program, and the low-cost sanitation cell would form a part of the over-
all project team. A State level monitoring body on the lines recommended by
the UNDP project would also be formed. This body would also assist in
co-ordinating and promoting related project activities such as public health
education.
3.36    Cost recovery from  households benefitting from  the low-cost sanita-
tion subproject in the form of monthly charges will be in accordance with the
recommendations made  in the  UNDP Global  Project Report.   The schedule  of
these charges, which are acceptable, is indicated in Annex 14. Appropriate
legislation has been enacted for these arrangements.
3.37    Assurances  were obtained  from GTN  that in  order to  regulate  the
construction of low-cost sanitation units and to confine their use to areas
where pollution of water sources would not result, bylaws satisfactory to IDA
based on the model included in the UNDP Global Project Feasibility Report No.
GLO/78/006 would be passed by December 31, 1984 by each participating town
(Action Plan, Annex 8).
3.38    Present and proposed  sanitation service levels in  towns included in
the low cost sanitation program are shown in Annex 15.



-29-
S.      Public Health Education
3.39    Potential benefits from the project  will be maximized if accompanied
by a comprehensive public health education program to improve sanitation
habits and encouraging the use of the facilities provided. Traditionally,
public health education has been the responsibility of government public
health departments. Recently voluntary non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
have also been providing increasing role in the health education to the
poorer segments of the public. Bilateral donors and United Nations agencies
have been active in this field by sponsoring public health education either
directly or through projects financed by them. Their experience makes them
the most effective  for this purpose.   There is  no public  health education
component in this project, but NGO participation in promoting health educa-
tion is actively being sought as part of the low-cost sanitation program.
Public health courses aimed at the operator level will also be given emphasis
in the project training program.
T.      Manpower Evaluation and Training
3.40    The  systematic provision  of in-service  training is  not  currently
provided by TWAD. As a component of the project, TWAD will begin to develop
a comprehensive scheme of education and training and establish, or secure the
provision of, commensurate training facilities. The training system to be
developed will not  be limited to   project-related training needs,  but will
also provide a continuing capability to identify and meet sector manpower
development requirements beyond the project period. With respect to sanita-
tion, the training program will have a practical emphasis and will take
account of evaluation studies to be made on the operation and use of
facilities, as they are installed.
3.41    The total staff employed within the  urban water sector of Tamil Nadu
including  TWAD,   municipal   corporations   (less   Metropolitan   Madras),
municipalities and town panchayats, is estimated at 10,800 in all categories
(including work-charged staff). The manpower required for the planning,
construction, operation and maintenance of the subprojects covered by the
project is likely to increase this number by about one-third over the project
period. The project training component, although substantial, clearly would
be unable to address the needs of such a large, diverse and widely dispersed
work-force. It will therefore be designed as the first phase of a long term
training strategy for the whole sectcr. The component will include a Stage I
Training Study to formulate training policy, determine training strategy, and
identify and  design priority  training programs.   Stage I  of the  study is
expected to commence by January 1, 1985 and is expected to be completed
within six  months. (Action  Plan, Annex 8).   Assistance in  setting up  the
embryo training organization and implementing priority training programs will
represent Stage II. Invitations to consultants to submit proposals for Stage
II of the training component will not be extended until a TWAD Training
Steering Committee has accepted the Stage I study report. The timing of



-30-
implementation of Stage II will be later agreed with TWAD (Action Plan, Annex
8). It is expected, however, that this sector training plan will be
developed and executed in co-operation with the comprehensive training system
currently being operated by the MWSSB.
3.42    The capital and start-up costs of  the sector training scheme will be
met by 100% grant from GTN. Operating costs would be met by TWAD who will
pro-rate appropriate charges to the local bodies benefiting from the training
scheme. Any shortfall in annual operating costs will be covered by GTN.
3.43    The total cost  of the training component  is estimated at US$570,000
(excluding  contingencies)  of  which   about  US$110,000  represent  foreign
exchange. Further details are in Annex 16. Assurances were obtained from
TWAD that Consultants, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, will be
engaged to complete Stage I of the Training Study by June 30, 1985.
U.      Water Rights
3.44    Government notifications granting the  allocation of water to Madurai
and Salem from surface water sources have already been issued. Government
Notification granting allocation of adequate surface water from the Bhawani
River for the Coimbatore subproject will be a condition of disbursement 1/
for the subproject. No new allocations are required from rivers rising
outside Tamil Nadu, and interstate agreements are not necessary under the
proposed project.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.      Implementing Responsibility and Ownership of Assets
4.01    TWAD will be  the implementing agency for  the proposed project.  GTN
will make funds available to TWAD for the execution of subprojects. The
ownership of all assets (source treatment, transmission and distribution
facilities) will vest in the respective local bodies who will also be respon-
sible for servicing the associated debts to TWAD based upon an agreed financ-
ing plan.   TWAD, in turn, would repay GTN.
B.      The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD)
4.02    TWAD was created  under the TWAD Act  of 1971 from  the Public Health
Engineering wing  of  the  Tamil  Nadu  Public  Works  Department.   TWAD  is
primarily responsible for investigating, preparing and executing water supply
1/ I't was agreed during negotiations that if this disbursement condition
was met prior to the signing of the Development Credit Agreement, it
would be deleted.



-31-
and sewerage schemes, subject to reimbursement of all costs by the local
bodies concerned. After completion, projects are normally handed over to the
local authorities who are thereafter responsible for operation and main-
tenance. TWAD engineers are however seconded to municipalities as Municipal
Engineers for ensuring effective maintenance and repairs.
4.03    TWAD is managed by a Board  of Directors, with a non-executive Chair-
man, nominated by the Government. The Managing Director, is the chief execu-
tive officer and a full time functionary, also nominated by the Government.
By tradition, TWAD's Managing Directors have been officers of the Indian
Administrative Service (IAS). The other members of the Board consist of
ex-officio members including secretaries of the departments of public works,
finance, public health, rural development and individuals nominated by the
Government. To permit greater operational efficiency, the organization has
been decentralized into several  regionally based circles.   At present, TWAD
employs  around  1,200   engineers,  400  technical   staff  and   about  500
non-technical staff. Existing and proposed Organizational Charts of TWAD are
shown in Annexes 17 and 18 respectively.
C.      Operation and Maintenance
4.04    There are certain operational and engineering features of the present
project which will require modifications in the current operational and
maintenance responsibilities of TWAD and the beneficiary authorities:
(a) In Coimbatore and Salem, the supply transmission capacity is
shared by more  than one community.   In Madurai,  as well  as the  above two
subprojects, the new supply and transmission facilities are capable of being
operated independently of the existing supply systems. In all of these three
cities, there are advantages in vesting the responsibility of supply in one
central authority. Accordingly, TWAD will be responsible for operating and
maintaining both new and existing production and primary transmission
facilities for Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem on a long term basis. For the
service, TWAD will be paid a semi-annual fee (para 5.09) by the respective
local bodies. The distribution systems downstream of terminal meters will be
handed over to the local bodies for operation.
(b) In the small towns, there are virtually no piped water supply
systems in existence and little or no skill exists for proper operation and
maintenance. The operation and maintenance of both production facilities and
distribution systems for all small towns will be done jointly by TWAD and
these small towns for at least two years after commissioning. During these
two years, TWAD will train and assist the local bodies in improving their
capacity  to  operate  and  maintain   and  will  receive  reimbursement  for
associated administration costs.   TWAD's involvement  will terminate  at the
end of the two years or when the local bodies can satisfactorily demonstrate
to TWAD and GTN that they are capable of assuming full responsibility, in
accordance with good maintenance practices.



-32-
4.05    GTN has already authorized TWAD  to operate the production facilities
in the three major cities and has granted TWAD the authority to operate and
maintain systems for the small towns as outlined in para 4.04(b). Assurances
were obtained that GTN will cause TWAD to operate and maintain (a) the
production and transmission facilities in Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem for
the :Life of the project; and (b) the production and distribution facilities
in the small towns for at least two years after commissioning of such
faciLities.
D.      Organization and Management Systems of TWAD
4.06    Consultants  have already  completed a  review of  the Organizational
Structure, Staffing, Systems and Procedures for TWAD. Their recommendations
include specific improvements in the organizational plan, staffing pattern,
delegation of powers, material systems, accounting systems, project plann:ing
and control systems,  and job responsibilities.   There is an  urgent need to
appoiLnt an Engineering Director, a Finance Director, a Chief Accountant and a
Chief Audit Officer.   The appointments of  Engineering Director  and Finanace
Director would first require amendment to the TWAD Act. Assurances were
obtained from TWAD   that above four  positions will be  staffed by Septemlber
30, 1984 (Action Plan, Annex 8). Under the project, TWAD will engage con-
sultants to implement the already recommended improvements in material
management systems, project accounting systems and centralized financial
management systems. These systems would be fully implemented by April 1,
1985,. Furthermore, TWAD will engage consultants for periodic post implemen-
tation review and support for about two man weeks per quarter for at least
two years after the implementation of these systems (Action Plan, Annex 8).
Funds for the implementation of all the above systems have been included in
the project.
E.      The Project Team
4.07    TWAD has agreed  to establish a  Project Team, acceptable  to IDA, to
implement the project.  The  structure of the  team as shown  in Annex 19 has
been with IDA.   Assurances were obtained  that in order  to ensure effective
design and implementation, TWAD will fully staff the agreed Project Team by
September 30, 1984 and will maintain continuity of key personnel in the team
to the extent possible.   In view of the  magnitude of the  works included in
the project and its relation to the overall investment program of TWAD, GTN
and TWAD have agreed that a senior engineer, of the rank of Chief Engineer,
will be appointed to head the Project Team (Action Plan, Annex 8).
4.08    At appraisal preliminary engineering had been completed in sufficient
detail to permit detailed design to proceed. Topographical surveys of the
major project elements are well advanced and hydrogeological investigations
to prove groundwater sources have been satisfactorily concluded. However, a
concerted effort will have to be made by TWAD to complete detailed design on



-33-
time. To achieve this, the design section of the Project Team is now fully
staffed and functional.
F.      Accounts for Water Supply and Sanitation Operations
4.09    In order to manage and monitor water supply and sanitation operations
more effectively, assurances were obtained that GTN will cause Coimbatore,
Salem and Madurai to establish and maintain separate accounts for their water
supply and sanitation operations by April 1, 1985, (Action Plan, Annex 8).
In small towns, water supply and sanitation will continue to operate as an
integral part of the overall operations due to their relatively small-scale.
4.10    Consultants have   completed a study  of the  required organizational
structure and staffing of the finance and accounting functions for the water
supply and sanitation operations for the three large cities. The recommenda-
tions include position description  and a manning timetable.   Maximum use of
existing personnel will be made in the implementation of the accounting
systems with consultants' assistance. The positions suggested by consultants
will be in place by April 1, 1985 (Action Plan, Annex 8). The consultants
have also completed the design of (a) an accrual accounting system and (b)
management information systems for the water supply and sewerage operations
of Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem. In addition, a simpler, modified cash
accounting system, also for water supply and sewerage for the small towns has
been designed.   These systems  will  be  fully  implemented  in  Coimbatore,
Madurai and Salem and in the small towns by April 1, 1986 (Action Plan, Annex
8). The systems will be implemented under TWAD's supervision with consultant
assistance. Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem will also engage consultants for
periodic post implementation review and support for about two man weeks per
quarter for at least two years after implementation of these systems, (Action
Plan, Annex 8). Funds for the implementation of the above systems have been
included in the project.
G.      Progress Reporting and Supervision
4.11    The  Project Team  will be  responsible  for  reporting  progress  on
various physical, financial, technical and institutional aspects of the
project to IDA on a quarterly basis.   The general nature of such information
has been agreed with TWAD. As an integral part of the financial and informa-
tion management systems in TWAD (para 4.07), a progress reporting format and
systems procedure for review of project implementation status will be
developed in a manner satisfactory to IDA by September 30, 1984 (Action Plan,
Annex 8). Suggested project monitoring indicators are included in Annex 20.
It is estimated that about 100 staff-weeks of IDA field supervision will be
required during implementation, with more effort during initial years of the
project.



-34-
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.      The Project and Sector Investments
5.01    The project is a  part of GTN's and  TWAD's investment program during
the current Sixth Plan (1980-85) and the forthcoming Seventh Plan (1986-91).
Under the Sixth Plan, the total capital outlay for all sectors in Tamil Nadu
is about Rs 3150 crores (US$3230 million). Of this, planned outlay for water
supply and sanitation (both rural and urban) is expected to amount to about
Rs 270 crores, (US$277 million) or about 8.5% of total State Plan.
5.02    Of the Rs 270 crores investment in water supply and sanitation during
the Sixth Plan, TWAD will be executing about Rs 204 crores of works (about
Rs 127 crores for urban (62%) and about Rs 77 crores (38%) for rural
schemes), representing about 76% of total State investments in the sector.
The balance will be executed by: (a) the MMWSSB for the Madras Metropolitan
Area (about Rs 61 crores) and (b) the Department of Rural Development for
various rural water supply schemes (about Rs 5 crores). During 1982/83 TWAD
actually executed about Rs 60 crores of works.  The project would extend well
into the Seventh Plan.   Preliminary indications are that  during the Seventh
Plan both total Plan outlay and water and sanitation sector outlay are likely
to be more than the Sixth Plan. Although GTN is initiating a major capital
investment project to bring water to Madras City from the Krishna-Pennar
source, this project is still at a very preliminary planning stage. It is
unlikely that GTN will incur any significant expenditure on account of this
scheme during the implementaton period of the proposed project. Therefore,
in the absence of any reliable data relating to the Seventh Plan, under a set
of conservative assumptions, a scenario of sector investments and its
relationship to  the proposed  project  is  indicated  in  Table  5.1.   This
scenario assumes that (a) there will be a small increase per year in total
outlay in the sector and (b) TWAD's share of the total sector investments
will remain comparable to current levels.
Table 5.1: SECTOR INVESTMENTS AND THE PROPOSED PROJECT: FINANCIAL RELATIONSHIP
(Rs in crores)
Total    Recent
Sixth Plan   Annual   ---------- ---------Project Period--- ------------  Total
(1980-85)    Average    1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89   (84/85 - 88/89)
GTN's Sector
Investments   270 (100%)  75 (100%)  75 (100%) 75 (100%) 80 (100%) 85 (100%) 90 (100%)  405.0 (100%)
TWAD's
Program      204 (76%)  60 (80%)  60 (80%) 65 (87%) 65 (81%) 70 (82%) 75 (83%)   335.0 (83%)
Of which:
The Project    -  (0%)   -  (0%)  14 (23%) 40 (62%) 47 (72%) 35 (50%) 13 (17%)  149.0 (45%)
Other Works  204 (100%)  60 (100%)  46 (77%) 25 (38%) 18 (28%) 35 (50%) 62 (83%)  186.0 (55%)
204 (100%)  60 (100%)  60 (100%) 65 (100%) 65 (100%) 70 (100%) 75 (100%)   335.0 (100%)



-35-
5.03    The project would be well  within the current implementation capacity
of TWAD, representing about 45% of TWAD's investment program during the
implementation period, assuming only modest increases in TWAD's current
investment levels.   At peak  expenditure level  during  the  third  year  of
implementation, the project would represent about 72% of TWAD's capacity.
Moreover, the project will not divert investments away from the rural schemes
to the urban schemes. During the Sixth Plan, TWAD's investments consisted of
about 62% for urban  and 38% for rural  schemes (para 5.02).   The project of
Rs 149 crores includes about Rs 135 crores for urban schemes and about Rs 14
crores for  rural schemes.   During the  project period,  only about  40%  of
TWAD's total program will be invested on urban schemes. Majority of the
remaining 60% will be available for rural schemes, and would be more than the
Sixth Plan level of 38% of TWAD's program for the rural sector.
B.      Financial Objectives and Cost Recovery
5.04    The financial objectives of this project are significantly influenced
by engineering factors and affordability considerations. As stated earlier,
even the least-cost solutions are expensive, varying in degree among cities
depending on  their specific  physical circumstances  (para  3.06).   Maximum
affordable tariffs and taxes will be imposed at commissioning of works.
However, full recovery of the total investments will not be possible, even
with maximum affordable tariffs and taxes.   Furthermore, because of the need
for extensive use of standpipes to serve a large poverty group, it would also
be unreasonable to expect the metered consumers to meet virtually all costs.
The tariffs vary among cities, depending on each city's economic base, and
are discussed later (paras 5.10 to 5.14).
5.05    Adequate revenues will be generated in all project cities through the
proposed tariffs and taxes to cover all operating expenses excluding
depreciation. However, except in Coimbatore, after meeting operating expen-
ses, excluding depreciation, there will not be enough funds to recover total
investments in any other project city. The extent to which the cities can
assume debts within the constraints of cost and affordability, and the
associated financing plan, have been determined on a city specific basis
(para 5.06).   In those  cases  where  internal  revenues  from  tariffs  and
specifically earmarked water taxes 1/ will not be enough to meet full debt
service payments, after covering operations and maintenance costs, excluding
depreciation, there are two possible ways to finance the shortfalls. First,
if the capital costs are passed on to the local bodies as 100% loan, then GTN
will have to provide annual revenue grants to cover the cash shortfall in
making debt service payments.   The second choice is  for GTN to  pass on the
capital costs in varying mixes of grants and loans to the local bodies based
on specific capacity to pay debt service from their revenue base. Although
it is financially more prudent for a State to share costs of operating a
1/ Although the specific water tax is a percentage of annual assessed value
of the property, this tax is over and above the general property tax and
is not an arbritarily allocated portion of the general property tax.



-36-
local body on an annual basis, GTN prefers the second choice administra-
tive:Ly, which is also an acceptable practice in similar water supply projects
in India.   This arrangement can be accepted  since it does not infringe upon
the basic financial objectives of the proposed project.
C.      Financing Plan and Project Financing
5.06    GTN recognizes the  need for and will  provide capital grants towards
major works to  the local bodies  which need it.   Additional capital invest-
ments in the water supply sector in these local bodies will not be needed in
the near future since the designed capacity of works will in general serve
their needs through at least 1995/96. This initial grant, amounting to about
Rs 87 crores over the project period, will not be a major burden on GTN's
resources. The grant element represents about 3% of GTN's total Plan outlay
of Rs 3150 crores during the Sixth Plan (1980-85) and about half of project
investments. The former percentage is likely to be even smaller since the
project would extend into GTN's Seventh Plan (1986-91) when both total Plan
outlay and water sector outlay are expected to be significantly more. Table
5.2 indicates the proposed financing plan on a city-specific basis.
Table 5.2:   FINANCING PLAN
Clity                        Loan             Grant              TOTAL
Coimbatore                     100                -                 100
Madurai                         80                20                100
Salem                           20                80                100
Small Towns:
Group I                       25                75                100
Group III                     -                100                100
Group IV                      25                75                100
Rural Schemes                   -                100                100
Low Cost Sanitation             63                37                100
Consultancy, Training, etc.,   -                 100                100
PROJECT AVERAGE /1              49                51                100
/1  Including capitalized interest during construction.  The financing plan
in other similar IDA financed state-wide water supply and sewerage
projects in India are: (a) Rajasthan - 33% loan, 67% grant;
(b) Maharashtra - 50% loan, 35% grant, 15% internal contribution;
(c) Punjab - 68.5% loan, 31.5% internal contribution; (d) Gujarat - 72%
loan, 23% grant and 5% internal contribution; and (e) Uttar Pradesh - 75%
loan, 25% grant.
5.07    Based on the above financing plan, the project financing is indicated
in Table 5.3.



-37-
Table 5.3: PROJECT FINANCING
(Rs in Crores, US$ in Millions)
Sources                                   Rs           US$           Percentage
GTN Loans                              80.3         82.4              49%
GTN Grants                             84.7         86.9              51%
Total Financing Required            165.0        169.3             100%
Application
Project Costs                         149.4        153.3              91%
Interest during construction           15.6         16.0               9%
Total Application                   165.0        169.3             100%
D.      On-lending Terms
5.08    The proposed credit  of US$73.0 million will  be passed on  by GOI to
GTN on standard center - state arrangements. GTN will make available all
funds, including the proceeds of the credit, required for the project to TWAD
in a combination of loans and grants. The loan funds to TWAD will be at 8.5%
annual rate of interest, payable over 25 years in equal quarterly interest
and principal payments to GTN.   TWAD will pass on the  loan funds to various
local bodies based on the financing plan as indicated in Table 5.2, with the
same terms as  the GTN loans  to TWAD.   The local  bodies would  repay TWAD,
which would in turn use  the proceeds to repay GTN.   Since revenues from the
proposed project will commence only after commissioning, there will be a
moratorium of principal and interest for both GTN loans to TWAD and TWAD
loans to local bodies, for the first five years, but interest during these
five years will be accrued and added to the outstanding principal balance for
amortization. All local bodies under the project have adopted resolutions
agreeing to participate in the project and to conform to these terms and
other associated financial, operational, and institutional requirements.
TWAD will enter into Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) with each local body
covering the  specific aspects  of subprojects.   Completion of  SLAs,  in  a
manner acceptable  to IDA,   will be  a condition  of disbursements  on  each
subproject (Action Plan, Annex 8).
E.      Guarantee of Payment to TWAD
5.09    Assurance were obtained from  GTN that in case a  local body fails to
pay TWAD the semiannual charges for operations and maintenance (para 4.04),
GTN will  pay TWAD  such amounts.   TWAD will  recover costs  for centralized
services of training, leak detection and meter repair to the extent possible,
through appropriate charges. Assurances were obtained   from GTN that it will
meet any shortfall incurred by TWAD in providing such services.



-38-
F.      Tariffs
5.10    Socio-economic  studies recently  completed by  consultants  for  all
project cities  indicate that  the maximum  average  affordable  1/   monthly
expenditure for water supply is about 4% of average household income. At
commissioning (expected during 1988/89) the total maximum affordable monthly
expenditure, which includes earmarked water taxes and direct user charges,
per household for water will be about Rs 35, Rs 40, and Rs 45 for Coimbatore,
Madurai and Salem, respectively, and about Rs 18-21 for the small towns,
expressed in  1988/89 prices.   Table  5.4  indicates  the  average  domestic
metered tariff  rates 2/  which will  be imposed  at commissioning   in Coim-
batore, Madurai  and Salem.   The socio-economic  study indicates  that these
rates would be affordable on average to households in the cities concerned
and would generate adequate revenues to cover operations, maintenance and
debt service requirements.
Table 5.4:   DOMESTIC METERED RATES (Rs/1000 liters)
Current                At Commissioning /1
Coimbatore                0.35                        1.35
Madurai                    0.50                       1.80
Salem                     0.50                        1.90
/1  Represents maximum affordable tariffs, in 1988/89 prices.
5.l1    Although the  socio-economic study has  provided adequate infornation
on1 average income levels in the cities with which to establish the affor-
dability of the investments and overall financial feasibility, more precise
income distribution data would be required to establish consumption based
graduated tariff schedules for these three cities. By April 1987, TWAI) will
examine the feasibility of introducing stepped tariffs for metered consumers
in  Coimbatore,  Madurai  and  Salem  after  taking  into  consideration  the
experience from introducing an interim tariff increase (para 5.15) (Action
Plan, Annex 8).
1/ Affordability calculations have been based on likely increases in income
levels and likely increases in price levels for the future years.
2/ The categories of tariffs include (a) domestic metered rates, (b) in case
of unmetered domestic consumers, equivalent domestic flat monthly rates
based on average household size and estimated per capita consumption,
(c) metered commercial rates which are twice the domestic metered rates,
and (d) metered industrial rates which are three times domestic metered
rates. All further discussion on tariff rates in this SAR provides data
only for domestic metered rates, with all other types of rates being
implicit in the discussion, based on the above relationship.



-39-
5.12    In the small towns, where there will be no metering flat charges will
be imposed at commissioning. These would be maximum affordable charges of
between Rs 12.60 to Rs 15.45 per connection per month, varying among groups
of towns. There is inadequate water supply in these towns to merit imposi-
tion of any tariff prior to commissioning. After commissioning, all small
towns would be able to cover the full cost of operation and maintenance.
However, due to the limited resource base, tariffs and taxes will not, in
each case, generate enough revenues to fully cover debt service. The annual
cash deficits for the selected towns are expected to be marginal and will be
met by GTN from marginal surpluses generated by other towns.
5.13    Assurances were obtained that GTN  will (a) cause Coimbatore, Madurai
and Salem to impose necessary tariffs and take other necessary actions, which
will generate adequate revenues by 1989/90 to cover operations and main-
tenance costs (excluding depreciation) and debt service requirements; (b)
cause all small towns to impose necessary tariffs and take other necessary
actions which will generate adequate revenues by 1989/90 to fully cover
operations and maintenance costs (excluding depreciation) and to the maximum
extent possible, cover debt service requiements; and (c) provide necessary
revenue support to those individual small  towns which lack revenues to fully
cover debt service after covering operations and maintenance costs (excluding
depreciation).
5.14    In Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem, tariffs have not been revised since
1970. Current water supply revenues in these cities cover operations and
maintenance costs  but are  not  adequate  to  recover  capital  costs.   The
prevailing tariffs are also  below affordable tariffs.   The production costs
in these cities are also generally higher than other comparable cities (para
3.06). An interim tariff increase during the project implementation period
will be necessary to (a) reduce the impact of a likely large increase at
commissioning; (b) keep pace with normal increases in operating costs before
commissioning of proposed investments; and (c) achieve improved financial
performance during  project implementation  period.   However,  it  would  be
politically difficult to revise tariffs prior to local elections, especially
in Coimbatore and Salem where local elections will take place within the next
12 months. It would be also easier to achieve public acceptance, if there is
evidence of works in progress.
5.15    GTN feels  that, given the  above factors, April  1, 1985 would  be a
suitable date for an  interim increase in tariffs.   Assurances were obtained
that GTN will cause Coimbatore, Madurai, and Salem to adopt the rates indi-
cated in Table 5.5, by April 1, 1985.



-40-
Table 5.5: INTERIM TARIFF INCREASE
Domestic Metered Rate (Rs/1000 liters)
Interim Increase
Current   From April 1, 1985   % Increase
Coimbatore         0.35           0.90 /1             170%
Madurai            0.50           0.75                50%
Salem              0.50           0.75                50%
/I  This large increase is likely to be possible since
significant improvements in service levels are expected
by end 1984 through an ongoing TWAD project in Coimbatore
(para 5.21)._
G.      Financial Condition of Local Bodies
5.16    The accounts of all the local bodies  are kept on a cash basis.  Con-
sultants were engaged to estimate the financial position of the water supply
operations of Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem on an accrual basis, to the
extent possible.
5.17    Table 5.6 indicates  the order of magnitude  of financial performance
(on an accrual basis) of the water supply and sanitation services for Coim-
batore, Madurai and Salem. It must be noted that while the operating revenue
data is reasonably accurate, operating expense data is possibly understated
due to (a) absence of payables "information"; and (b) exclusion of propor-
tionate overhead costs of the city.   Therefore, net income is probably over-
stated and net deficit is understated.



-41-
Table 5.6: ESTIMATED FINANCIAL POSITION OF CITIES
IN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION OPERATIONS
(Rs in Million)
Coimbatore           Madurai            Salem
1981/82 1982/83 1981/82 1982/83 1981/82 1982/83
Part               Part               Part
Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual
Water Sold
(MLD)                     26.9      26.9      45.5     45.4      16.8      16.8
Revenues:
From Taxes                 10.3     10.4      10.6      10.7      4.5       4.5
From Direct Charges         1.2      1.2       2.9       2.9      3.1       3.1
11.5     11.6      13.5     13.6       7.6       7.6
Expenses:
For Water Supply            8.9      9.2       5.8       6.5      3.9       3.9
For Sanitation              1.2      1.2       2.6       2.7      0.7       0.9
10.1     10.4       8.4      9.2       4.6       4.8
Operating Income
<Deficit>                   1.4      1.2       5.1       4.4      3.0       2.8
Interest Exp.              14.8     20.0       2.4       2.7      1.6       2.7
Net Income
<Deficit>                <13.4>   <18.8>       2.7       1.7      1.4       0.1
Revenues/1000
liters (Rs)                 1.17     1.17      0.81     0.81      1.24      1.24
Expenses/1000
(exc. interest)
liters (Rs)                1.03      1.06      0.51     0.56      0.75      0.78
5.18    The financial performance has  varied.  Coimbatore is incurring major
losses (para 5.21). Madurai and Salem, although operating in a marginal
surplus, are showing a deteriorating trend. Revenues/1000 liters vary widely
among the cities and are declining in real terms. Operating expenses (exclud-
ing interest)/1000 liters also vary among cities but in each case are rising.
A common feature in all these cities is that operating deficits for water
supply have  been funded  from the  general revenues  of the  city.   If  the
present trend continues, in absence of the financial reforms proposed under
the project, water supply and sanitation services will become a major burden
on the overall resources of these cities.
5.19    Assumptions and financial  projections for the  years 1984/85 through
1994/95 (Balance Sheets, Income Statements and Sources and Uses of Funds) for



-42-
Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem incorporating the impacts of proposed institu-
tional, operational and financial improvements are included in Annexes 21 and
22, respectively.
5.20    Little information is  available on the  current financial activities
of individual water supply operations in the small towns, with populations
ranging between 10,000-15,000. Due to very limited scale of operations, the
revenues and expenditures related to water supply are very small compared to
the overall budgets.   The general tax  revenues of  these towns  support the
water supply  operations.   After  commissioning  of  the  proposed  project,
average revenues from water supply operations in these towns will be less
than Rs 1 million/year per town, representing about 10%-15% of total revenues
of these towns.  Detailed  cash flow projections related  to the water supply
operations of all the 75 towns are available in project files.
H.      Coimbatore's Finances
5.21    In Coimbatore, the full benefit  and maximum revenue potential of the
Siruvani Project (para 2.03) will be realized only upon completion of the
distribution system  under the  proposed IDA  financed  project.   Meanwhile,
Coimbatore is incurring large debt service obligations (around Rs 30 million
per year in interest and principal) which must be paid annually, without the
benefit of the revenues. Up to 1988/89, Coimbatore will incur annual cash
deficits amounting to about 60% of the debt service requirements arising out
of the ongoing project.   Even the large interim  tariff increase proposed in
1985/86 (para 5.15)  will not generate  enough surplus  to cover  this annual
deficit. Coimbatore has up to now been meeting this shortfall from its
general revenues, leaving little money to operate and maintain olther
municipal services adequately. The above debt is to the Life Insurance
Corporation of India and is guaranteed by GTN. GTN is legally required to
meet any shortfall in Coimbatore's debt service obligation. Therefore upto
1988/89, by  when Coimbatore  will have  adequate  revenues  to  assume  full
obligation of debt service on this debt, GTN will assume this obligation to
the extent necessary.
I.      Resource Mobilization of Local Bodies
5.22    Investments, operations  and maintenance for  water supply  cannot be
evaluated in isolation from the overall management of resources and expendi-
tures of the local bodies. To gradually reduce the burden on GTN budget, the
overall resources of the local bodies also need to be improved. To achieve
this objective, GTN will undertake a Resource Mobilization Study for
Coimbatore, Salem and Madurai.   The Study will focus  on short-term measures
to improve the revenue base of the cities. While the immediate impact of
these measures may be marginal because of the fundamental constraints in
locELl resource mobilization due to the practiced system of property tax
administration generally in India, the Study nevertheless will identify
clearly such issues which can then be addressed independently at both GOI and
GTN levels as a longterm program for improving local resources. The Rural
Development and Local Administration Department (RDLA) of GTN will be respon-
sible for this Study. Terms of reference for this Study has been agreed



-43-
between GTN and IDA. Assurances were obtained that GTN will employ consult-
ants acceptable to IDA to commence the study by April 1, 1985 (Action Plan,
Annex 8).
J.      Billing and Collection
5.23    There  is scope  for improving  billing and  collection of  taxes and
charges in all local bodies, especially in Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem.
Due to the present nature of the accounting systems, it is difficult to
determine the effectiveness of collection in these three cities. Consultants
have analyzed the current overall collection efficiency of these cities, but
specific performance measures for separate arrears and current collection can
be established and introduced only after the proposed accounting systems have
been installed  (para 4.10).   For these  three cities,  specific  collection
performance targets indicating (a) general property tax collection percent-
ages to be achieved; and (b) current and arrears collection percentages for
water tax and water charges to be achieved, will be established by GTN in
consultation with IDA after the proposed accounting systems are installed
(Action Plan, Annex 8).
5.24    The local bodies  will bill the water  tax on a  semi-annual basis in
keeping with  the normal  property tax  collection practice.   However, water
charges (both metered and flat rate charges) will be billed at least on a
quarterly basis from quarter ending June 30, 1985. GTN will cause all the
local bodies to observe the above frequency of billing for taxes and water
charges (Action Plan, Annex 8).
K.      Financial Condition of TWAD
5.25    TWAD, an  implementation agency,  undertakes design  and construction
supervision on behalf of other government agencies and local bodies. For
this, TWAD charges a fee of 19.5% of the value of works executed, which is
the major  source of  revenue to  cover its  operating expenses.   Table  5.7
summarizes the financial position of TWAD in recent years.



-44-
Table 5.7: FINANCIAL POSITION OF TWAD BOARD
1980/81        1981/82        1982/83
Actual        Actual         Part Actual
(Rs in Millions)
Income Statement Summary
Revenues:
Centage Charges                 50              76             81
Interest Income                 49              58             23
Others                          29              59             10
Total                        128             193            114
Operating Expenses
Personnel                       34              42             62
Administrative                  10              11             12
Others                          26              53             23
Total                         70             106             97
Interest Expense                  52              52             15
Net Income Before
Appropriations                    6              35              2
Less: Appropriation
for Sinking Fund                 -             <30> /1          -
Net Income                     6               5              2
Balance Sheet (Summary)
Assets:
Cash and deposits              189              81             59
Inventory                       32              91            107
Due from Govt. Agencies        246             337            337
Due from Local Bodies          378             401            400
Fixed Assets (Net)              17              28             32
Work in Process                404             431            454
Suspense & Others              223             293            194
Total Assets               1,489           1,662          1,583
Liabilities:
Deposit Works                  199             199            199
Materials bills payable        277             392            320
Others                          50              90            101
Unsecured loans and
advances from GTN/LIC         947             956            936
Equity:
Grant                            6              10             10
Earned Surplus                  10              15             17
Total Liabilities & Equity   1,489             1,662          1,583
/1 The money is invested in interest-bearing securities.
5.26    With  respect to  the proposed  project, TWAD  will essentially  be a
"flow through" organization. The financial viability of the project is
primarily determined by the financial strength and arrangements of the par-
ticipating local bodies. Although TWAD's own future financial position will
not directly effect the financial viability of the proposed project, it is
nevertheless important in the  context of the  sector at large.   TWAD has so
far been able to more than cover its operations, maintenance and debt service



-45-
interest requirements from its own operating revenues, leaving marginal
surpluses. TWAD's major source of capital is unsecured loans from GTN and
LIC.  So far  TWAD has not  repaid any principal  on these loans.   The first
tranche of principal will become due in 1988/89 amounting to about Rs 50
million. In 1981/82, TWAD made a provision of Rs 30 million on sinking fund
towards this amount.   Although not adequate,  TWAD has begun  to address its
debt maturity requirements.
5.27    TWAD uses these unsecured loans to execute works for other government
agencies or local bodies with the understanding that such amounts will be
paid to it by the agency or local body upon completion and transfer of con-
structed facilities.   TWAD's long  term financial  viability  is  critically
dependent on it receiving monies due to it from the agencies and various
local bodies. Current outstanding dues from agencies and local bodies are
high, amounting to about Rs 737 million in 1982/83. TWAD's financial infor-
mation indicates that these receivables have continued to increase in recent
years and  that the  agencies and  local bodies  are not  repaying TWAD.   In
1982/83, these dues account for about 47% of its total assets and 80% of its
tnsecured loans.   TWAD can  repay its  long term  debt only  if it  receives
monies from these agencies and local bodies. Reliable information on TWAD's
debt maturity structure is not presently available, nor is there any definite
program to address its debt maturity requirements. Therefore, in absence of
such information, it is not feasible at this stage to provide any meaningful
financial projections (balance sheets, income statements and sources and uses
of funds) for the  overall operations of TWAD.  TWAD's projected sources and
uses of funds under the proposed project for the period 1984/85 through
1991/92 are included in Annex 23.
5.28    As a part of project implementation, basic information on TWAD's long
term financial structure would be analyzed and a program will be developed to
prevent its potential debt maturity problem. Assurances were obtained that
TWAD, in consultation with GTN and LIC, will provide IDA by December 31, 1984
with a satisfactory (a) detailed debt maturity schedule for the period
1985186 through 1995/96; (b) annual program of debt retirement to adequately
match its debt maturity schedule from year ending March 31, 1986; and (c) a
phased annual program to reduce outstanding receivables so that by March 31,
1989 and for each fiscal year thereafter, such receivables are not more than
one and a half times the work-in-progress as of that date. Assurances were
obtained that TWAD will conform to the agreed annual program for items (b)
and (c) above.
L.      Financial Ratios
5.29    In order to  achieve the financial objectives  of the project, finan-
cial performance ratios for the water supply and sanitation operations have
been established on a city specific basis.   Para 5.30 and Table 5.8 indicate
targets for Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem.   Para 5.31 and Table 5.9 indicate
targets for small towns. These ratios will serve as guidelines to achieve
the ultimate financial objectives as set forth in para 5.13. These targets
are based on  detailed financial  analysis done  at appraisal.   They reflect
realistic achievement possibilities and take into consideration both finan-
cial (tariffs, collection, etc.) and operational (metering, leakage, etc.)



-46-
improvements envisioned under the project. TWAD will annually monitor the
financial performance of the three large cities, beginning 1984/85, using
these ratios as indicators and review such performance with IDA (Action Plan,
Annex 8).
5.30     For Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem,  the targets are indicated in Table
5.8. Working ratio is defined as the ratio of operating expenses excluding
depreciation and  interest expenses   to revenues.    Debt service  coverage is
defined as the ratio of total internal cash generation to the debt service
requirement on all outstanding loans.
Table 5.8; FINANCIAL RATIOS FOR COIMBATORE, MADURAI AND SALEM
Coimbatore       Madurai       Salem
Working Ratio
(not more than)
1982/83  /1                     75               56           59
1984/85                         70               55           35
1985/86 /2                      50               55           35
1986/87                         50               45           35
1987/88                         50               45           35
1988/89                         45               50           50
1989/90                         30               35           50
User Charges as a % of
Total Operating Revenues
(not less than)
1982/83                         11%              21%          20%
1984/85                         25%              20%          20%
1985/86                         45%              20%          20%
1986/87                         50%              20%          20%
1987/88                         50%              20%          25%
1988/89                         60%              30%          30%
1989/90                         75%              60%          50%
Debt Service Ratio
(not less than)
1982/83                      /3 0.1              1.5          0.8
1984/85                         0.3              1.8          1.0
1985/86                         0.4              2.0          1.1
1986/87                         0.4              2.0          1.1
1987/88                         0.4              2.0          1.1
1988/89                         0.9              2.0          1.1
1989/90                         1.1              1.2          1.1
/1 Part actual data for 1982/83.
77 Expected year of interim tariff increase.
/3 See para 5.21.
5.31     In small towns currently, there is insufficient water supply to merit
financial targets prior to commissioning of works. Due to their simple ope-
rations, the targets will include the following:



-47-
Table 5.9: FINANCIAL TARGETS FOR SMALL TOWNS
Operating and Maintenance Expenses   Direct Charges
First      (excluding Depreciation) plus Debt    as a % of
Full Year           Service as % of Total           Total Operating
Commissioning           Operating Revenue                Revenue
(not more than)             (not less than)
(a) 20 towns
of Coimbatore      1989/90                 120%                     80%
(b) 11 towns
of Salem           1989/90                 100%                     75%
(c) 44 other
small towns        1988/89                 120%                     85%
M.      Accounts and Audits
5.32    TWAD will maintain separate project accounts which will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The first year to be audited will be
1984/85. These audit reports will include balance sheets, income statements
and funds flow statements, to be submitted to IDA within nine months of the
end of each fiscal year. The audit of the total operations of TWAD (invest-
ments under the proposed project as well as TWAD's other capital investments)
will be done by the commercial wing of Accountant General as currently prac-
ticed. These audit reports will also be submitted to IDA within nine months
of the end of each fiscal year. All local bodies will also maintain separate
Project accounts. However, only these accounts for Coimbatore, Madurai and
Salem will be audited and the audit reports would include balance sheets,
income statements  and funds  flow statements.   The audit  of these  project
accounts for these three cities will be done by Examiner of Local Fund
Accounts, as currently practiced, and will be submitted to IDA within nine
months of the end of the fiscal year, beginning 1985/86. In addition, when
IDA reimbursements are requested through the Statement of Expenditure prac-
tices, independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, will certify that underlying
files and data fully support the requests for disbursements. Assurances were
obtained from TWAD and GTN that these audit practices will be followed.
N.      Insurance
5.33    GTN, like other Government undertakings in India, will cover property
loss or damage risks by the process of self insurance, providing funds for
losses if, and when they occur.



-48-
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ASPECTS
A.      Marginal Cost Analysis
6.0L    The long-term  marginal cost for  water has been  estimated using the
long-run average incremental cost (AIC). Price distortions are judged to be
of minor significance  except for wages  paid to  unskilled labor.   Thus the
analysis has been carried out considering labor cost at the nominal wage rate
and at  a shadow  wage rate  equal to  70% of  the nominal  rate.   Annex  24
provides data relating to incremental water sold, incremental costs and
revenues. All calculations refer to constant 1987/88 prices. Incremental
revenues include both  direct charges and  earmarked water taxes.   The water
tax has been included because it is clearly identified as being for water
supply and thus reflects in part households' willingness to pay for water
supply. The proportion of taxes in total revenue will gradually decrease
from about 80% - 90% at present to about 50% - 75% by commissioning. Table
6.1 indicates the AIC per  1000 liters, at discount  rates ranging between 6%
to 12%.
Table 6.1: AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST/1000 LITERS
Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem
and Satellite Towns                    44 Small Towns
AIC at        AIC at               AIC at           AIC at
Discount       Market        Shadow               Market            Shadow
Rate        Prices         Prices               Prices           Prices
6%           2.09           1.87                 2.01              1.47
8%          2.44            2.18                 2.33             2.02
10%          2.83            2.52                 2.68             2.33
12%           3.05           2.89                 3.06             2.65
6.02    In Coimbatore, Madurai  and Salem, the average  domestic rate at com-
missioning will range between Rs 1.35 - Rs 1.90/1000 liters which is below
the AIC. However, these rates reflect the households maximum ability to pay.
The high consumption users such as commercial and industrial customers will
pay rates above the AIC. The average incremental revenue in these cities
upon commissioning will be about Rs 2.48/1000 liters (in constant 1987/88
prices) which compares favorably with the range of AIC's.
6.03    In  the 44  small  and  medium  towns,  AIC  is  considerably  higher
(approximately twice)  than the  average  monthly  flat  rate  charges.   The
proposed project will provide safe drinking water for the first time in these
towns. Due to generally low income levels, higher charges than those
proposed would not be  affordable by the consumers.   Moreover, tariffs based
on volumetric consumption would not be economic since the cost of metering
would exceed total operating revenues. Finally, approximately 60% of popula-
tion in these towns will be served through standposts. The overriding jus-
tification for investing in these small towns is the urgent necessity for
providing safe water supply. In view of this priority, CTN will bear the
costs of these investments as capital grants to the extent necessary (paras
5.06 and 6.06).



-49-
B.      Rate of Return
6.04    The subprojects serving the three  major cities are clearly justified
on the basis of quantifiable economic returns. Rates of return (RORs) have
been calculated for Coimbatore, MIadurai and Salem which will share facilities
with their satellite towns, using revenues as the surrogate for benefits.
Costs have been adjusted for wage distortions and revenues have been calcu-
lated at the highest real tariffs in effect, following these adjustments.
The adjusted ROR is a conservative measure of economic rate of return because
it does not capture consumer surplus and such benefits as improvements in
health which accrue to the community at large. Table 6.2 provides the RORs
so calculated:
Table 6.2: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem
and Satellite Towns
Labor Rate @ 100%              7.7%
Labor Rate @ 70%               9.2%
6.05     In  Coimbatore,  Madurai,  Salem  and  their  satellite  towns,  the
methodology used to determine the ROR yields an adequate rate of return
primarily because (a) unit charges for commercial and industrial consumers
exceed the AIC and (b) low costs which reflect high utilization of existing
distribution capacity. Considering the conservative nature of the methodol-
ogy used, it is expected that the true economic rate of return is substan-
tially higher than the 8%-9% indicated above.
6.06    The proposed project will  also provide, for the  first time, a basic
level of safe water supply to 44 small towns. Nearly half a million people
will benefit - more than half of whom are poor. These towns were selected
primarily because the minimal water presently available poses a health hazard
through contamination.   With the  increase in  clean and  safe water  supply
under the proposed project, supply will only meet basic human needs. At
these low levels of consumption, demand-based pricing is not feasible to the
same extent as in the larger towns and, hence attempts at quantification of
benefits are not practical. Most of the supply will be via standpipes so
that there will be no practical way to collect revenues through the measure-
ment of volumetric consumption.   Use of a pricing  mechanism to control con-
sumption will also not be desirable at such low levels of consumption. The
revenues that will be collected through taxes and flat charges are neverthe-
less sufficient to cover the full cost of operation and maintenance and also
to recover approximately 60% of total investments. In these 44 small towns,
the balance of the investments, which, due to the choice of least-cost solu-
tions, amounts to only about US$12 per capita, will be borne by GTN. The
potential benefit will outweigh this small subsidy.
C.      Environmental Health Impact
6.07    The urban water supply component will improve present service levels,
despite increased  demand due  to the  population growth.   The incidence  of
water related disease shown in Annex 25 should decline with the more uniform
distribution of piped water, improved pressures, and longer supply hours,



-50-
particularly for consumers using public taps. In the rural areas where the
high incidence of diseases is directly attributable to the poor quality of
existing water sources, the impact of improved water supply will be more
marked. The Low Cost Sanitation Component will further improve the health
aspects of the associated communities. By ensuring an equitable distribution
of wholesome water, and improved disposal of human waste, potential sources
of disease that presently pervade both urban and rural communities, par-
ticularly in slum areas, will be reduced.
D.      Impact on Poverty Groups
6.08    Increased standpost  supply in the  urban areas will  improve service
levels for the urban poor.   These public taps will  be provided primarily to
serve the slum areas, currently not connected  to a water system.  The design
targets in this respect are 100 people per public tap, and a distance of not
more than 100 meters between dwellings and taps. Consequently, the daily
wa-iting times for water collection will also be reduced and walking distances
shortened. In rural communities where the supply is only by standpipe, the
design criteria for the physical location of standpipes will ensure thalt all
sections of the  community will  enjoy an  equal level  of service.   For the
low-cost sanitation program, a means test will ensure that a significant
proportion  of  the  program  expenditure  is   devoted  to  the  low  income
beneficiaries, free of charge. It is difficult to isolate with any degrese of
precision that portion of the investment which is allocated specifical:Ly to
poverty groups, as the urban poor in the project are not concentrated in
well-defined slum areas but dispersed. It is reasonable to assume that the
poverty groups will receive benefits which are proportional to their popula-
tion. Components such as low-cost sanitation and the revolving fund for
house connections will benefit a higher proportion of the poverty group.
Approximately 45% of the total urban population in Tamil Nadu fall below the
absolute poverty threshold, estimated at Rs 360 per month per household. On
that basis, about 30% of the total project investments of US$153.3 million,
or about 43% of the investments in the urban areas of US$138.8 million will
be allocated to the urban poor.
E.      Least Cost Solution and Evaluation of Alternatives
6.09    Water is a scarce resource  throughout the state, and the alternative
options for  supply  are  limited.   However  the  engineering  studies  have
examined all feasible alternatives and have costed options at discount rates
of 8%, 10%, and 12% to determine the least cost solutions. Careful exanmina-
tion has been made of ground  water potential, availability of surface water,
and the most economic methods of transmission and utilization of sources.
The design of water distribution systems has been programmed to define the
most economic network considering configuration and pipe size. The staging
capacity of long transmission lines and the economies of deferring capital
expenditure by staggered duplication have also been studied in all sub-
projects.
F.      Project Risks and Safeguards
6.10    The project  is complex  and extensive.   Its execution  will require
effective management and good coordination by TWAD to avoid delays. TWAD is
a well established organization and has experience in executing similar



-51-
projects, albeit, on  a smaller scale.   Nevertheless, several  measures have
been taken to minimize risk of delays. Engineering design will be substan-
tially complete early during project implementation (para 4.08). Organiza-
tion, management and staffing of TWAD are being strengthened (para 4.06).
Extended post implementation support, through consultants, is also being
provided for effective implementation of improved financial and management
information systems (para 4.06).
6.11    The  other project  risk concerns  the local  bodies being  unable to
achieve the financial objectives of the project. To minimize this risk,
realistic and easily measurable financial targets have been established (para
5.29). Improved financial and accounting systems are also being implemented
with extended post  implementation support  (para 4.10).   Nevertheless, some
delays in achieving the set targets may be expected. The Operational Action
Plan (Annex 8) has been designed to closely monitor and update annually the
progress in the institutional, operational and financial aspects of the
project.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations the following assurances were obtained:
From GTN:
(a) GTN shall employ a team of experts to undertake a Water
Resources Management Study in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, to begin by January 1, 1985
and to be completed in about two years (para 3.25):
(b) GTN, while taking into consideration the findings of the Water
Resources Management Study, will take suitable measures to
control exploitation of groundwater by industrial and com-
mercial users and keep IDA informed of such actions
(para 3.27);
(c) GTN will cause each participating town under the Low Cost
Sanitation component of the project to pass necessary bylaws
by December 31, 1984, regulating construction of such units
(para 3.37);
(d) GTN will cause TWAD to operate and maintain (a) the produc-
tion and transmission facilities in Coimbatore, Madurai and
Salem on a long-term basis and (b) the production and dis-
tribution facilities in the small towns for at least two
years after commissioning of such facilities (para 4.05);
(e) GTN will cause Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem to establish
and maintain separate water supply and sanitation accounts
by April 1, 1985 (para 4.09);
(f) GTN will guarantee payment to TWAD in the event of default
by local bodies in reimbursing TWAD for operations and
maintenance costs (para 5.09);



-52-
(g) GTN will meet operating shortfalls of TWAD's provision of
centralized services (para 5.09);
(h) GTN will cause Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem to implement
appropriate tariffs and take other necessary actions to gene-
rate adequate revenues by 1989/90 to cover all operations and
maintenance costs (excluding depreciation) and debt service
requirements (para 5.13);
(i) GTN will cause the small towns to implement appropriate
tariffs and take other necessary actions to generate adequate
revenues by 1989/90 to cover all operations and maintenance
costs (excluding depreciation) and to the maximum extent
possible, cover debt service requirements (para 5.13);
(j) GTN will prcvide revenue support to the small towns to
meet cash shortfalls, as and when necessaru (para 5.13);
(k) GTN will cause Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem to implement
an agreed interim tariff increase by April 1, 1985 (para
5.15);
(1) GTN will employ consultants acceptable to IDA to commence
the Resource Mobilization Study for Coimbatore, Madurai,
and Salem by April 1, 1985 (para 5.22);
(m) GTN will cause Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem to submit
audited financial statements, in a manner acceptable to
IDA, within nine months from the end of each fiscal year,
beginning from fiscal year 1985/86 (para 5.32);
From TWAD:
(a) TWAD will submit quarterly progress reports to monitor the
project using indicators to be developed by September 30, 1984
(para 4.11) and to indicate progress on the implementation
of actions contained in the agreed Operational Action Plan
(Annex 8), to be adhered to by TWAD and all local bodies under
the project in order to improve operational, institutional
and financial performance of TWAD and all local bodies;
the said Operational Action Plan to be reviewed and updated
annually between TWAD and IDA (para 3.05);
(b) TWAD will employ consultants, satisfactory to IDA, to
complete the Stage I of the Training Study by June 30, 1985
(para 3.43);
(c) TWAD will appoint an Engineering Director, a Finance
Director, a Chief Accountant and a Chief Audit Officer
by September 30, 1984 (4.06);
(d) TWAD will fully staff the agreed Project Team by September 30,
1984 and will ensure continuity of key personnel in the
project team (para 4.07);



-53-
(e) TWAD will provide IDA by December 31, 1984, with a satisfactory
(i) debt maturity schedule for 1985/86 - 1995/96; (ii) an
annual program for sinking fund contribution beginning from
year ending March 31, 1986; and (iii) an annual program to
reduce outstanding receivables from agencies beginning from
year ending March 31, 1986 such that by March 31, 1989 and
at the end of each fiscal year thereafter, such dues are
not more than one and a half times the work-in-progress as of
that date and (iv) that TWAD will conform to the annual program
outlined in items (ii) and (iii) above, commencing 1984/85;
(para 5.28); and
(f) TWAD will submit audited financial statements in a manner
acceptable to IDA, within nine months from the end of each
fiscal year, beginning from fiscal year 1984/85 (para 5.32).
Conditions of Disbursement
7.02    It was  agreed during negotiations  that, the following  actions will
need to be completed before funds are disbursed against expenditures of the
related subprojects:
(a) GTN will cause Madurai to pass new bylaws to ensure
metering of existing and new connections (para 3.32);
(b) GTN will issue necessary Government Notification covering
allocation of adequate surface water for Coimbatore
(para 3.44); and
(c) TWAD will enter into subsidiary loan agreements, satis-
factory to IDA, with each local body under the project
covering the financial, operational and institutional
requirements of specific subprojects (para 5.08).
Recommendation
7.03    Subject to above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$36.5 million equivalent and an IDA Special Fund Credit of
US$36.5 million equivalent to the Government of India.



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Sector Investmentg
(In current prices)
1974-1978                         1978-1980                          1980-1985
1966-1974                            (Fifth Plan)                       (Annual Plan)                      (Sixth Plan)
Subsector                            Annual Average                          Annual Average                    Annual Average                        Annual Average              Increase in
Total Rs         Rs         Rs Per *   Total Rs         Rs       Rs Per**  Total Rs   Rs            Rs Per *** Total Rs         Rs        Rs Per @          Sixth Plan
Million        Million      Capita       Million    Million   Capita    Million   Million   Capita              Million      Million      Capita              Over
Fifth Plan
Urban Water Supply          329.00          41.13        9.96         310.00      77.50       23.10       115.10     57.55       17.97       1324.90        264.98    19.17              427
Urban Sewerage
Rural Water Supply           183.08          22.89        -           328.89      82.22       --          242.90    121.45         -          819.20         163.84      -                249
Latrine Conversion
Program                     -               -            -           -            -           -          1.75       0.87        -            -              -          --
Public Latrine                 2.67          0.33        0.02           3.56       0.89        0.05         -          -
Research & Development         -               -           -            1.75       0.44         -
Total Govt. Allocation   514.75                -           -          644.20         -          -        359.75        -           -         2144.10           -         -                333
L.I.C Loans                 151.49             -           -          194.80         -          -         113.50       -                      _ 558.30         _         _                287
TOTAL INVESTMENTS           666.24            3-           _           39.00        _                    473 25        -           _         2702.40 &         -         -                322
*    Based on 1974 population (Projected)                   & - Urban Water Supply & Sewerage                      1267.50
**   Based on 1978 population (Projected)                        Rural Water Supply                                 766.70
***  Based on 1980 population (Projected)                        Rural Water Supply to be executed by DRD            52.50
@    Based on 1985 population (Projected)                        M.M.W.S.S. Board                                   615.70



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Water Supply Service Levels - Suimmary
Present Service Levels (1981-1982)                              Future Service Levels (1996-1997)
No.   Group        House        Standposts  Other      Consumption Consumption   House         Standposts  Other        Consumption      Consumtpion
No.   Group      Connection    Municipal   Sources   (lcd) for   (lcd) for    Connection   Municipal  Sources    (lcd) for               (lcd) for
(Municipal      Water      Non-       Population  Population   (Municipal    Water        Non         Population       Population
Water)                  Municipal  Served by   Served by         Water)                 Municipal  Served by          Served by
Water     House Con-  Standposts                               Water       House            Standposts
nection                                                        Connections
1. Group I
Coimbatore      52             32        16          61           15            84           13           3            100            48
20 Towns         2             73        25          57           23            42           58           -             90            25
2.  Group II        40             53          7         60           29            60           40           -             68            27
3. Group III
Salem           64            34          2          60           20            69           31           -             90            30
11 Towns        15            47         37          16           13            44           56          -              94            26
4.  Group IV         3             55         42         20           14            38           62           -             90            25



INDIIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PLROJ.ECT
URBAN AREAS WATER SUPPLY
Solicnt DaiL and 8ervice Leon0
Group I                                        GIoUP 11                                        Group III                                    Group TV
CoEibaLor                     20 Towns                      Modura.                           Salem                           11 To.ns                     44 Tnnnn
1981-82    1988-89    1996-97    1981-82    1988-89   996-97   1981 82  1988-89    1996-9    1981-82   198l8-8   1996 07  1981-82   1988-R9  1996-97   1991-82   1986-811996-97
1.       PopulsiEon (non.)              700923      808670     975000      176549      268070   373430   817502    1050000    1281000  361177   440000    520000    163708   214000    252100   488186   535581    636450
2.       PopulORioE     S-rd
2.01     Byonnernlnns  (nn..-           367565    679860       918790         3458     109900   155720    323350   630000         768600   231030    308000   360000         25430      92760    110300       16015    189290   239370
2 of tntrl Popoultion               52         84          84           2         41         42        40        60          60         64         70        69         15        43         44          3        35         38
Averoge Nn. Connntinons             13         12          14           6           5         5        10         15         16         10         10        10         13          5         5          7         5          5
2.02     By stntdponts (now.)           224814      104550      128520     129130      158170   217710   43701:    420000         512400    121440    132000    160000        77178   121240    141800   268689   346291    397080
of  -otal Popultion                32         13          13          73         59         58        53         40         40         34         30        31         47        57         56         55        60         62
Average No. Cpnnecti.ns            101        138         170         135        399        394       230        187        200        114        114       114        183       323        322        174       352        352
2.03     By o-her muons (ono.)          108544       24260       27690      43961        -          -        57200       -                     8707      -          -        61100       -          -       198387                  -
Z of total Pnpulatio-               16          3           3         25        -                       7      -                         2                 -            37      -          -            42
3.       Cn.notl..ns/wtandpontw  (ano)
3.01    Dnme sti
Wetered                         24019       56655      58485        -           -         -          -        40335       49200     22019      30800      36800       1605      1605       1605         91        91         91
Unmestred                        5010        -          -            551       21980     31144      32335      -           -          1084      -                      399     16047      20455      2063      37717    47783
TotaE                           29029       56655       58485         501      21980     31144      32335    40335        49200     23103      30800      36800       2004     18552      22060      2154      37808     47874
3.02     C.o -eroial (tket-od)                        1250        1650                    693        817      2480       3500       4270        397        500       600         58        292       369          4      3000       3500
754
3.03     InduRtrial (smererd)                          350         430       -             89        146        120       200        240          6          8         12      -            301       51       -           220       300
3.04     Tonal C--nnEtio.s (now.)        29783       58255       60565         551      22702      32117    34935      44035       53710      23516     31308      37412       2062     18878      21880       4312    41028       51674
3.05     Staudpostn                        2216        756         756         957        396        552     1900        2242       2560       1065       1158      1335        420       375        440       1548       983       1127
4.       waner Demund (Max./day lcd)
4.01     Dumestio                            61         110        100         57          90         90       60          83         68         60         90        90         16         94        94        20          90        90
4.02     Standposts                          15          49         48         23           25        25       29          33          27        20         30        30         13         26        26        14          25        23
5.       Water Demand (M3/day)
5.01     Do-ostic -o-rnwmption           22300       74800       81900        189        9892       13815   19401      52000       52000      13862     27720      33120        422      8762      10399        319     17120      21525
5.02     Snudposts onsu.mptioo            3315        5150        6200      2948         3959        5518    12774     14000       14000       2588      3960       4560       1027      3176       3916      3699       8639       9944
5.03     Coamercial  -o-sumptiou                     10550       19000        -          1390        1938     3500      5400        5400        183      2218       2638         41      1083       1280          9      2502       3036
1351
5.04     Industrial  -onn-npnion                     19350       26800       -            696         967     1148       1791       1791        183      1584       1884      -           596        701      -          1103       1450
5.05     othnr.                             922       1045        1385       615         -                     420      -           -          -         -                     1154                 -          883       -          -
5.06     Unoocpunotd fEr                   1112      25900      29100        241         3984        5560     8177     16809       16809       5684      8871      10551        290      3404       4074        401      7353       9097
5.07     Tntal DIRod (M3/day)            29000      136595      164385      4003        19921       27798   45420      90000       90000      22500     44353      52753       2934     17021    20370        5321      36717      45050
6.       Water Produtinon oap. (M3/day)
6.01     S-rf-ue Watwn                   27900      163000      163000       -          27798       27798   45420    90000         90000     22500      68761       2934                26745      76745        273      8448       8448
6.02      ..ound sater                     1100       1383        1385      4003         -               -         -          -                -         -          -          2934      -                     5048     49486      49486
No. of  r-holwn                                  7          7        46         -                              -             -                  -                    -                    -           467         44         44
6.03     Tonal                           29000      164385      164385      h003        27798       27798   45420    90000         90000      22500     68761      68761       2934     26745      26745       5321     57934      57934
7.       Water Supply System
7.01     Storage RCs-r.oorw (sos.)            2          13         18        96           34          34         8        18          10         5         15        15         28         19        19        111        89         89
Capacity (5)                    10456       23956      23956       1080        11320      11320    12408    37908         37908      5454      23354     23354       2017       8924      8924       2105      20195     20195
Y nf Den..d                         36         21          19        27           57          38       28        42          42         24        55         45        69         58         47        40         35         35
7.02     Tramsolsioo Msins (IC,)             37         92          92       -                                  7 20      125        125         48         98        98        125        22         22         819      294        294
7.03    Dritrthotton -MainR  (lM)           167        167         167      39.5          169         169      171        299        299        132       240        240         18       159        159          81      627        627
The quastity includes also indoNslT roqulremen no outside Coimbatoto Corpora ton.



-57-
ANNEX 4
IND [A
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
URBAN AREAS SEWERAGE
Salient Data and Service Levels
Coimbatore                            Madurai                                  Salem
S1. No.  Description              1981-82   1988-89   1996-97          1981-82   1988-89   1996-97           1981-82   1988-89   1996-97
1.      Population (Nos.)         700,923   808,670   975,000          817,562   1,050,000  1,281,000    361,177   440,000   520,000
2.      Population in areas
to be provided with
sewerage system (Nos.) 405,000   490,000   600,000            519,000      666,550    813,190         -        440,000   520,000
3.      Population served
3.01    By connections (Nos.)  205,000   380,000   597,000             298,000      466,580    813,190         -        190,000   311,000
Percentage of (2)        50.6       77.6       99.5           57.5         70.0        100.0          -        43.2       59.8
Percentage of (1)        29.3       47.0       61.2           36.5         44.4         63.5          -        43.2       59.8
Persons per Connection  -             -          -              -            -          -             -          -         -
3.02    By septic tanks (Nos.) 148,600    98,000    99,500             163,500      136,500    128,100    182,357   125,000   122,000
Percentage of (1)        21.2       12.1       10.2           20.0         13.0        10.0         50.5       28.4       23.5
3.03    By Conservancy
System (Nos.)            347,323   330,670   278,500          355,640      447,300    339,470    178,820   125,000    86,800
Percentage of (1)        49.5       40.9       28.6           43.5         42.6        26.5        49.5        28.4       16.7
3.04    By other means (Nos.)   -              -          -              -            -           -            -          -          -
Percentage of (l)         -           -          -              -            -            -           -          -          -
4.       Connections
Domestic                  -           -          -             37,200       51,840       67,760       -         33,600    48,300
Commercial                -           -          -              4,340        4,800        5,300       -            520        618
Industrial                -           -          -                960        1,050       1,125        -            280        315
Total                     17,778    30,190   101,195           42,500       57,690       74,185       -         34,400    49,233
5.      Sewerage systems
Laterals (km)            123.711   119.145   119.145            -            -            -           -         80.00      86.842
Interceptors (km)          8.889    27.845    27.845            -            -           -            -         25.00      22.432
Outfalls (km)             -           5.570       5.570         -            -            -           -          9.60       9.60
Pumping Stations (Nos.)   1             2          2            8            8            8           -           1           1
Treatment Works (Nos.)       1          2          2            -            -            -           -           1           1



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Urban Water Supply Demands - Summary
Total Supply (Gross) Present Supply (1981-82)             Proposed Water Supply (1996-97)
Si.                Design      Present   Design       Total (Net)    Domestic (Net)    Total (Net)   Domestic (Net)
No.    Group        Year        (Mld)    (Mld)         (Mld)             (Mld)              (Mld)          (Mld)
1.    Group I
Coimbatore   1996       29.000    164.385       27.888         25.615              135.285        88.100
20 Towns     1996        4.003      27.798       3.762          3.137               22.238        19.333
2.    Group II      1988       45.420      90.000      37.243         32.175              73.191         66.000
3.    Group III
Salem         2011      22.500      68.761      16.816         16.450               42.202        37.680
11 Towns      2011       2.934      26.745       2.644          1.449               16.296        14.315
4.    Group IV      2011        5.321      57.934       4.920          4.018              35.953         31.467
Unaccounted-for water assumed to be 25-30X of gross demand.



-59-
ANNE;X 6
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Rural Water Supply Demands
Union                     1981-82                 1988-89                 1996-97                 2011-12
No. of Village
Panchayats          Population  Net Demand   Population Net Demand   Population Net Demand   Population Net Demand
(Mld)                   (ld)                    (Hld)                   (Mld)
GROUP I:   1. Madukkarai (9)      24,900    0.996         26,768    1.071        28,635      1.145        32,370     1.295
2. P.N. Palayam (8)    58,640    2.346         63,038    2.522        67,436      2.697        76,232     3.049
3. S.S. Kulam (7)      28,390    1.136         30,519    1.221         32,648     1.306        36,907     1.476
4. Sulur (13)          46,425    1.857         49,907    1.996        53,388      2.136        60,353     2.414
5. Palladan (21)       57,561    2.302         61,878    2.475         66,195     2.648        74,829     2.993
6. Pongalur (16)       74,395    2.976         79,975    3.199         85,554     3.422        96,714     3.869
7. Sultanpet (20)      78,130    3.125         83,990    3.360        89,850      3.594       101,569     4.063
TOTAL             368,411   14.738         396,075   15.844       423,706    16.948       478,974    19.159
GItOUP III: 1. Mangavalli (3)      7,942    0.318          8,538    0.342         9,133      0.365        10,325     0.413
2. Mecheri (5)         12,303    0.492         13,226    0.529        14,148      0.566        15,994     0.640
3. Tharamangalam (5)    6,176    0.247          6,639    0.266         7,102      0.284         8,029     0.321
4. Omalur (17)         22,572    0.903         24,265    0.971         25,958     1.038        29,344     1.174
5. Salem (18)          60,628    2.425         65,175    2.607        69,722      2.789        78,816     3.153
6. Ayothiapattinam (11) 34,744    1.390        37,350    1.494        39,956      1.598        45,167     1.807
7. Valapadi (5)        11,330    0.453         12,180    0.487        13,030      0.521        14,729     0.589
8. Peddanaicken-
pakayam (7)      12,592    0.504          13,536    0.541        14,481     0.579        16,370     0.655
9. Attur (18)          36.675    1.466         39.426    1.577        42,176      1.687        47,678     1.907
TOTAL             204,960    8.198         220,335    8.814       235,706     9.427       266,452    10.659



-60-
INDA                                           ANNEX 7
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Dlecription
Component                   Location                      Description                      Capacity/size                      Function
GSIWP I - MAIN PROJECT
Pick up weir               At Bh-vani River near                                           131.25 mld                   For drawol of
the border of ger.ia                                                                         water from thi
and Tasil Nad. States                                                                        n.urce.
inside Tasil Nadu territory.
RSw water tranesio              -                         Tunnel:  Bed slope -             262.5 mld/                   Tc convey rw
1 in  5900                       3.3 en, 1.5c                 water frio  pick up
Length - 6300m                                                weir to the treat-
cnnt works,
Tr-eatment Works           At Anscor village 6.3 km       Foil scale treatment units       131.25 rld                   In treat the rw
from head works               with aeratre. clarifloc-                                       water.
oularer, rapid sand filters
and chlorination plant
Clear water rranmmission        -                         Gravity mains of PSC pipcn       125 mId                      To convey clear
1500 me die, 32270 n         water to the
1200 me dis, 4013 a            riou  benefici-
rise.
800  m  dia, 9727 o
600 me die, 7630 c
300 =m dia, 10780 =
Tunnel 2100 n long               262.5 rld/3.3 an 1.5 =
GROUP II - MADIRAI
Headwork.                  River Vaigai - 70 km           4.5 = n 10.0 = in-take well    71.6 mld                       River Ictake
away (upstream) from          channel.
Madur-i City.
Raw water ponpeters        Over the ic-take well          S omits Turbine punpsetn         71.6 mld                     Pumping rw   atoer
Each unit of 100 HP with    from in-take well
a duty of 16565 lpn          to the treatment
against 16 a head            works.
Raw water transm.ission    Headworks to treatment         Pumping main of PSC pipes        71.6 mid, 1000 =  die        Conveying raw water
man                        works eit.                                                      300 m 10-6                   from heed works tu
treatment works.
Treatment works            300 a way from hkedworks    Pull scale treatment unite          71.6 mid                     To treat rw water
with Aerator, Clarifloc-
culatore, rapid sand
filters and chlorimation
plant
Clear water Tr.sn.id-      Treatment works to the         Gravity Main of PSC pipes        67 mid, 1000 - dia,          To convey clear
nion main                  storage reservoirs in                                           42228 m                      water from treat-
the town                                                       1100    di, 9000               ent works to thk
town
900  e dis, 17700 =
GROUP III - MAIN PROJECT
Headworks                  500 = downstream of            In-take well and pumphou.e       68.341 mld (2nd stage)       Rw water intake
Stanley reservoir at Mnttor  in Cauvery river.
Row water pumpse.t         Over the in-take well          3 turbine pumpeets (one as       21,700 lp=/650 HP/82=        To pump
standby)                        head
Rfw water trBansission    Between panphiume and           Pumping maie of Steel 1          2 x 900 me die steel -       To convey water
main                       treatment works                PSC pipes                        000 =, 1000 m  die PSC       from  in-take well to
2800n
Treatment works            33 k- away from head-          Full scale treatment unite       63.0 mld.                    To treat rw water
works at Eorburankadu         with aeraptor,  lanifl-ccl-   (First stage)
torn rapid sand filters&
chlorination plant
Clear water pumpeeta       At the treatment workc         3 turbine puapsets (sne an       20675 lp=/800 HP/            Pumping clear water
standby)                        105  hbad                     from  treatment work*
to various bene-
ficiaries.
Clear water trans..asion   1)  Treatment works to         i)   pumping maims of steel    1100 m die steel -             To convey treated
maim                        break pressure task No.2   and PSC pipes                       1700 m                       water to various
1100 m  die PSC -            beneficiaries
5500 m
2)  B.P. Tank No. 2 tr       ii)  gravity mains of PSC and  1100 me PSC -
B.P. Tank (El-vated) Ne.3   steel pipee                       1975 On
1100 m  Steel -
3500 =
3)  B.P. Tank No.3 to        iii) gravity/pumping mains       1100  u dia PSC - 7800 m
B.P. Task No. 4              of PSC and steel pipes            600 me di. PSC - 3000 =
500  = dis PSC - 3450 m
700 me die Steel - 1000 a
700 an die PSC - 10600 =
4)  B.P. Tank Ro. 4 to       iv)  gravity main- of PSC         500 nn dia PSC - 11000 a
B. P. Tank No. 3             pip..                             400 m  di. PSC - 3320 c
5)  B. P. Tank No. S         v)   gravity maims of PSC         50   m  dia PSC - 15600 =
to Attor                     pipes                             400 m  dia PSC - 3000 m
350 me dia PSC - 2480 a



-61-                            ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4 pages
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Operational Action Plan
(Dated February 14, 1984) I/
A.  Operational and Technical Considerations          Agency       Due Date
1.       Commence Water Resources                     TWAD         January 1, 1985.
Management Study (para 3.25).
2.       Take measures to control exploitation        GTN         --
of groundwater by industrial and
commercial users (para 3.27).
3.  (a)  Prepare a leak detection program for         TWAD        June 30, 1985.
review by IDA (para 3.28);
(b)  Leak detection unit of TWAD to be           TWAD         December 31, 1985.
fully equipped, staffed, trained and
operational (para 3.28);
(c)  Implement the leak detection program        TWAD         From January 1, 1986
(para 3.28).                                             and to be reviewed
periodically with IDA.
4.  (a)  Implement a metering program according    TWAD, CMS*  June 1985.
to targets agreed (para 3.30).
(b)  Establish meter repair facilities           TWAD         December 31, 1985.
(para 3.31).
5.       Enact new bylaws in Madural to ensure        GTN/CMS      Condition of disburse-
metering of existing and new connec-                     ment for Madurai sub-
tions (para 3.32).                                       project.
6.       Establish criteria for house connection   TWAD            To be agreed by
loans (para 3.33).                                       September 30, 1984.
7.  (a)  Establish a low cost sanitation              TWAD         December 31, 1984.
cell (para 3.34);
1/ Paragraph references are to the relevant sections of the Staff Appraisal
Report. The specific actions and related dates were reviewed and agreed
during negotiations.



-62-                             ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4 pages
(b)  Pass bylaws to regulate the                  Local        December 31, 1984.
construction of low cost                     bodies
sanitation units (para 3.37).
8.  (a)  Training component (Stage I):                TWAD         Date of completion by
study to formulate training policy,                       June 30, 1985.
determine training strategy and identify-
ing priority training needs (para 3.41);
(b)  Training component (Stage II):               TWAD         To be later agreed
implement the training program                           with IDA.
based on results of Stage I (3.41).
B. Institutional and Legal Aspects
1.  (a)  Appoint an Engineering Director, a           TWAD         September 30, 1984.
Finance Director, a Chief Accountant
and a Chief Audit Officer (para 4.06);
(b)  Implement improvements in material           TWAD         April 1, 1985.
management system, project accounting
system and financial management system
(para 4.06);
(c)  Use consultants for post implementation   TWAD            Periodic review
review and support for about two man-                     by IDA.
weeks per quarter for two years after
implementation of (para 4.06).
2.       Fully staff the Project Team (para 4.07). TWAD            September 30, 1984.
3.  (a)  Establish Water Supply and Sewerage          CMS          April 1, 1985.
Accounts (para 4.09);
(b)  Fully staff accounting and finance           CMS          April 1, 1985.
functions (para 4.10) for maintaining
water supply and sewerage accounts;
(c)  Implement accounting, and management         CMS          April 1, 1986.
information systems for water supply
operations (para 4.10);
(d)  Implement modified cash accounting           All other   April 1, 1986.
system (para 4.10);                          local
bodies



-63-                            ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4 pages
(e)  Use consultants for post implementation   CMS            Periodic review
review and support for about two                         by IDA.
man weeks per quarter for two years
after implementation (para 4.10).
4.  Prepare a progress reporting system               TWAD        September 30, 1984.
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.11).
C.  Financial Aspects
1.  Complete subsidiary loan agreements between    TWAD           Condition of
TWAD and local bodies (para 5.08).                            disbursement.
2.  TWAD to examine the feasibility of introduc-   TWAD           April, 1987.
ing stepped tariffs for metered consumer based
on volumetric consumption in the Project Cities
and advise IDA on its findings (para 5.11).
3. GTN to cause Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem         GTN         April 1, 1985.
to set interim tariffs (para 5.15).
4.  Commence Resource Mobilization                    GTN         April 1, 1985
Study for Coimbatore, Salem, and
Madurai (para 5.22).
5.  (a)  Establish billing and collection             GTN/CMS     Upon installation
percentages for current and arrears                      of accounting
amounts for both property tax and                        systems.
water taxes and charges (para 5.23);
(b)  Bill water charges at least on a quar-    CMS/All        Beginning quarter
terly basis (for both metered and           other lo-   ending
flat rate charges) (para 5.24).             cal Towns   June 30, 1985.
6.  (a)  Prepare a debt maturity schedule             TWAD        December 31, 1984.
for the period 1985/86 through
1995/96 (para 5.28);
(b)  Prepare an annual program of debt           TWAD         December 31, 1984.
fund contributions to match its debt
maturity schedule from year ending
March 31, 1986 (para 5.28);
(c)  Prepare a phased program to reduce          TWAD         December 31, 1984.
outstanding receivables so that by
March 31, 1989 and each fiscal year
thereafter, receivables do not exceed



-64-                            ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4 pages
one and a half times the value of
work-in-progress as of that date
(para 5.28); and
(d)  Implement (b) and (c) above                  TWAD         Commencing
(para 5.28).                                             FY 85/86.
7.  Monitor and review achievement of financial    TWAD/CMS    Commencing
performance of Project Cities with respect                     FY 84/85.
to the indicative financial performance
ratios (para 5.29).
* CMS - Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem.



-65-                                                    ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2 pages
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Summary of Cost Estimates (Rural Component)
%on
Particulars       1984-85   1985-86   1986-87   1987-88   1988-89   Total   1984-85   1985-86  1986-87  1987-88  1988-89  Total Total
Cost
-----------------Rs in thousands -------------------  ---------------------US$ equivalent----------------------
GROUP I
Civil Works       2,400      6,854     8,436      7,030      2,812    27,532       246       703       866       721      288    2,824  19.5
Materials and
Equipment       2,997      7,492     8,990      7,492      2,996    29,967      307        769       922       769      307    3,074  21.2
Duties & Taxes      429      1,073      1,287     1,073        429      4,291       44       110       132       110        44      440   3.0
Subtotal          5,826    15,419    18,713    15,595        6,237    61,790      597      1,582    1,920    1,600        639    6,338  43.7
GROUP III
Civil Works         416      2,439     3,275      2,729      1,092      9,951      43        250       336       280      112    1,021   7.0
Materials &
Equipment       1,759     4,397      5,275      4,397      1,758    17,586      180        451       542       451      180    1,804  12.4
Duties & Taxes      236        590        707       590        236      2,359       24        61        72        61       24       242   1.7
Subtotal          2,411      7,426     9,257      7,716      3,086    29,896      247        762       950       792      316    3,067  21.1
Total             8,237    22,845    27,970    23,311        9.323    91,686       844     2,344    2,870    2,392        955    9,405  64.8
Land Acquisition 1,088         466             -               -        1,554      112        47       -         -        -         159   1.1
Total Before
Contingencies    9,325    23,311    27,970    23,311         9,323    93,240      956      2,391    2,870    2,392        955    9,546  65.9
CONTINGENCIES
a)  Physical        607      1,631     1,984      1,653        661      6,536       62       167       203       170       68       670   4.6
b)  Prior           372      2,808      5,537     6,386      3,113    18,216        38       286       568       655       319    1,868  12.9
Subtotal            979      4,439     7,521      8,039      3,774    24,752      100        455       771       825      387    2,538  17.5
Engineering Cost 2,360       5,411     6,921      6,113      2,554    23,359      242        555       710       627      262    2,396  16.6
Total Cost       12,664    33,161    42,412    37,463    15,651   141,351   1,298          3,401    4,351    3,844    1,604   14,498 100.0
_=_=== ~ ~~~~ ~ =_= ==== = = = =-=  ==_   =    ==-,=     =  ==     A  ==     =  ==- -sB        =  -=  X:



-66-
ANNEX 9
Summary of Cost Estimates (Urban and Rural)                        Page 2 of 2 pages
%on
Particulars      1984-85   1985-86   1986-87   1987-88   1988-89   Total   1984-85   1985-86  1986-87  1987-88  1988-89  Total  Total
Cost
---------Rs thousandsU------------------------------   ----------------uS$ equivalent--------------------
GROUP I
Civil Works      10,418    32,050    45,758    37,640    12,204   138,070  1,068            3,287    4,694       3,860   1,251   14,160   9.2
Materials and
Equipment       13,007    34,865    44,442    36,389    13,005   141,708  1,334            3,577    4,558       3,732   1,334   14,535   9.5
Water Meters       -          -           977      2,281       -         3,258   -           -          100        234    -           334   0.2
Duties & Taxes   1,863       4,941      6,286      5,422      1,862    20,374    191          507       645        556      191    2,090   1.4
Subtotal         25,288    71,856    97,463    81,732    27,071   303,410  2,593            7,371    9,997       8,382   2,776   31,119  20.3
GRO1P II
Civil Works       1,998    18,438    25,185    20,525         8,071    74,217    205        1,891    2,583       2,105      828    7,612   5.0
Materials &
Equipment      11,483    28,706    33,376    26,025         9,876   109,466  1,178        2,944    3,423       2,669   1,013   11,227   7.3
House Service
Connections      -          -           997      2,492      1,494      4,983    -           -         102        256      153       511   0.3
Water Meters       -          -            353        883        530     1,766    -           -          36         91       54       181   0.1
Duties & Taxes   1,519       3,797      4,556       ,797      1,518    15,187    156          389       467        389      156    1,557   1.0
Subtotal         15,000    50,941    64,467    53,722    21,489   205,619  1,539            5,224    6,611       5,510   2,204   21,088  13.7
GROUP III
Civil Works       2,618    23,499      31,440    24,353       6,879    88,789    268        2,410    3,225       2,498      706   9,107    5.9
Materials &
Equipment      11,082    32,779    40,345    33,002    11,080   128,288  1,136            3,362    4,138       3,385   1,136  13,157    8.6
House Service
Connections      -          -         2,343      5,468        -        7,811    -           -         240        561      -        801    0.5
Water Meters       -          -         1,099      2,567         -       3,666    -           -         113        263      -        376    0.2
Duties & Taxes   1,487       4,520      5,838    5A164        1,487    18,496    152          464       599        530      152   1,897    1.2
Subtotal         15,187    60,798    81,065    70,554    19,446   247,050  1,556            6,236    8,315       7,237   1,994  25,338   16.4
GROUP IV
Civil Works       6,020    27,550    19,063         -           -       52,638    617       2,826    1,956         -        -      5,399     3.5
Materials &
Equipment      13,765    39,782    27,895         -           -       81,442  1,412       4,080    2,861         -        -     8,353    5.5
Water Meters       -            721     4,599       -           -        5,320    -            74       472        -        -        546    0.4
Duties & Taxes   2,166       5,900      4,920       -           -       12,986    222         605       505        -        -      1,332    0.9
Subtotal         21,951    73,953    56,482         -           -      152,386  2,251       7,585    5,794         -        -    15,630   10.3
GROUP V
Civil Works       4,220      8,646    10,626    11,278           -      34,750    433         887    1,090       1,155      -      3,565    2.3
Materials &
Equipment         445        911      1,119      1,186        -        3,661      46         93       115        122      -        376    0.2
Duties & Taxes        24         50         61         65       -           200       2         5         6          7      -         20    0.0
Subtotal          4,689      9,607    11,806    12,509          -       38,611    481         985    1,211       1,284      -      3,590    2.5
GROUP VI
Training             570        855     1,140      1,995       1,140    5,700       58         88       117        205      117      585    0.4
Consultants      10,520    15,780        -          -           -       26,300  1,079       1,618       -          -        -      2,697    1.8
Equipment         1,200        800       -            700         300    3,000    123          82       -           72       31      308    0.2
Subtotal         12,290    17,435       1,140      2,695       1,440   35,000  1,260        1,788       117        277      148   3,590    2.4
GROUP VII
Others:
Revolving fund for
financing supply of
Domestic Water meters in
Coimbatore Corp.for the
weaker sections  2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000        2,000   10,000    205         205       206        205      205   1,026    0.7
Land Acquis.    12,651       6,599         975       -           -      20,225  1,298         676       100         _       -      2,074    1.4
Total Before
Contirngencies  109,056   293,189   315,398   223,212         71,446 1,012,301 11,183   30,070   32,351    22,895   7,327 103,826   67.7
CONTINGENCIES
a)  Physical      5,931    17,314    21,944    15,143           4,778    67,110    609   -1,980    2,250         1,554      490   6,883    4.5
b)  Price         5,549    31,865    59,707    61.072         22,695   180,888    569    3,268    6,124          6,264   2,327  18,552   12.1
Subtotal         11,480    51,179    81,651    76,215          27,473   247,998  1,178    5,248    8,374         7,818   2,817  25,435   16.6
Eng. Ccst        23,392    64,136    74,153    53,592         18,619   233,892   2,400    6,578    7,605         5,497   1,909  23,989   15.7
TOTAL PROJECT
COST            143,928   408,504   471 202   353.019    117,538 1,494.191 14 761   41 896   48.330    36.210  12.053 153 250  100.0



INDIA
TAMILNADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Engineering Design and Construction Schedule
CALENDER YEAR         1983      |       1984       |       1985              1986               1987               1988
INDIAN FISCAL YEAR         1983-84             984-85      |    1985-86            1986-87             987-88         1988-89
IDA FISCAL YEAR                1984               1985              1986              1987               1988
QURTR      MA  IJSI  DJ     AJJ   0DJMAJJ   SIOD JMA JJ  SO DJ MA  J JSODJMA  J J SO D
PRODUCTION JIJ!   h IjI.M                               J
- -- - -                           -       -    - -            --            -
GROUP I
DIST91UTION  ........ ... .... . ___t______...._,           
DISTRIBUTION
PRODUCTION   _   .
GROUPII                                           _
PROUCO _..  ,...    .        __-X.................................X_X- ........................ 
DISTRIBUION--                                       -
PRODUCTIONI                                                                
GROUP III             -_          -       -    -             ~ - -                                            
GROUP IVDISTRIBUTION    __
....... Design                                                           Productlon - Head Works, Treatment Works, Pumping Statlon,
Tender Preparation & Contract                                                 Transmission Main & Feeder Mains
- - - Supply of Materials                                                Distribution - Storage Reservoir & Distribution System
Construction & Commissioning
Design & Drawings in Respect of Group V Have Been Completed by the UNDP Global Project                          World Bank-25030



-68-
INDIA                                            ANNEX 11
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Materials and Equipment Requirement
(Groups I to IV)
S1.        Description of                 Quantities                            Cost Estimate                         Contracts
No.         Materials                  Units    Total        Basic       * Basic            Basic          *Basic            Nos    Average Remarks
Contingencies                   Contingencies                 Size
R-------Rs, '000      --  ) (-------US$-------------)              (US $ '000)
1.  PIPES
i)   Asbestos Cement               KM       524.105     49062        86902            5164            9148              5       1033      LCB
ii)  PVC                            KM      888.044     26367        37754            2775            3974              6        463      LCB
iii) Cast Iron 1/                   KM       77.000     25688        39523            2704            4160              1       2704      ICB
iv)  Galvanized Iron               KM        16.290      2506          3855             264            406              1        264      LCB
v)   Concrete (PSC)
including laying and
jointing (turnkey)           KM      264.652   267775         450420           28187          47413               3      9396       LCB
vi)  Steel 1/                       KM       13.212    13702          22457           1442            2364              1       1442      ICB
2.  VALVES
i)   Butterfly valves              Nos.          29       872          1338              92            141              1         92      LCB
ii)  Sluice valves                 Nos.        3219      6931        10249              730           1079              3        243      LCB
iii) Air valves                     Nos.        751       388           670              41              71             1         41      LCB
3.  Chlorination Equipment              Nos.          57      1144         1796             120             189              2         60      LCB
4.  PUMPS 2/
i)   Submersible pump               Nos.         92      2604          4114             274            433              1        274      ICB
ii)  Turbine pump                   Nos.         41    12436          21297           1309            2242              1       1309      ICB
iii) Centrifugal pump              Nos.          53      6095         10261            642            1080              1        642      ICB
5. WATER METERS
i)   Bulk                           Nos.         36       339           592              36              62             1          36     LCB
ii)  Domestic 1/                    Nos.    117586    18077           29958           1903            3153              1       1903      ICB
6.  Casings                             KM        1.702        350          513              37              54              1         37      LCB
7.  TREATMENT WORKS
INCLUDING CIVIL WORKS
(Turnkey)
i)   For Madurai 2/                Nos.           1    11593         18565            1220            1954              1       1220      ICB
ii)  For Coimbatore 2/             Nos.           1    21437         34294            2257            3610              1       2257      ICB
iii) For Salem 2/                  Nos.           1    10721         17112            1129            1801              1       1129      ICB
iv)  For Thevoor                    Nos.          1       326           504              34             53              1         34      LCB
v)   For Arasiramani                Nos.          1       574           863              60             91              1         60      LCB
vi)  For Kaniyur                    Nos.          1       364           516              38             54              1         38      LCB
vii) For Kugalur-Athani             Nos.          1       911          1385              96             146             1         96      LCB
8.  CEMENT
i)   Group I                       M.T.   26659         14665         29328           1544            3087              1       1544
ii)  Group II                       M.T.   19183        10553         21104           1111            2221              1       1111
iii) Group III                     M.T.   16842          9265        18528             975            1950              1        975
iv)  Group IV                      M.T.   15993          8798         16593             926           1747              1        926
v)   Group V             y.T.   13289                    7310         13503             769           1421              1        769
Note:  KM - Kilometers
Nos. - Numbers
M.T. - Metric Tonne
* - Includes taxes and duties, administrative charges, contingencies.
LCB  - Local Contract Bid
ICB  - International Contract Bid
1/ Items to be procured by proceeds from IDA Special Fund Credit.
2/ Items to be procured by proceeds from IDA Credit.



-69-                                ANNEX 12
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements_
IDA Fiscal Year and                   Quarterly         Cumulative    % of Total
Quarter Ending                                                         Credit
1984
June 30, 1984
1985
September 30, 1984                        0.1              0.1              0.1
December 31, 1984                         0.6               0.7             1.0
March 31, 1985                            0.8               1.5             2.0
June 30, 1985                             2.5               4.0             5.5
1986
September 30, 1985                        2.9               6.9             9.5
December 31, 1985                         3.7              10.6            14.2
March 31, 1986                            3.9              14.5            20.0
June 30, 1986                             4.0              18.5            25.0
1987
September 30, 1986                        4.0             22.5             31.0
December 31, 1986                         4.1              26.6            36.0
March 31, 1987                            4.1              30.7            42.0
June 30, 1987                             4.3             35.0             48.0
1988
September 30, 1987                        4.3             39.3             54.0
December 31, 1987                         4.3             43.6             60.0
March 31, 1988                            4.4              48.0            66.0
June 30, 1988                             5.3             53.3             73.0
1989
September 30, 1988                        5.8             59.1             81.0
December 31, 1988                         5.1             64.2             88.0
March 31, 1989                            3.8              68.0            94.0
June 30, 1989                             2.0             70.0             96.0
1990
September 30, 1989                        1.5             71.5             98.0
December 31, 1989                         1.0              72.5            99.0
March 31, 1990                            0.5              73.0           100.0



-70-
ANNEX 13
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Domestic Metering Program
Si.
No.                       1983-84       1984-85       1985-86      1986-87      1987-88
1.  SALEM
(a) Old unmetered      -              500          551            -           -           -
(b) New metered        -              -             -           6430         500         500
(c) Total metered
connections        22019        22519        23070         29500      30000        30500
(Old & New)
2. MADURAI
(a) Old unmetered      -              -             -           6400       6400         6735
(b) New metered        -              -             -           2500        2500        3000
(c) Total metered
connections        -             -             -           8900       17800        27535
(Old & New)
3. COIMBATORE
(a) Old unmetered      -             1000         1000          1000       1000         1010
(b) New metered        -             6000        10000         10000        8000        1058
(c) Total metered
connections        16587        23587        34587        45587       54587        56655
(Old & New)



-71-
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Cost Recovery Guidelines for Low Cost Sanitation'
(Excerpt from UNDP Global Project Report No. GLO/78/006)
Almost 45% of the urban population in Tamil Nadu is below the poverty
line and even these could be broadly divided into two categories depending
upon their capacity to pay. The distribution of households in the different
project towns based on income level, annual rental value (ARV), avalability
of latrine and type of latrine (flush, dry - bucket or dry earth),
availability of water and electric connections within the premises also point
to the necessity of minimum categorisation of the households into three - for
financial assistance with varying elements of subsidy.
As most of the population are of non-salary class and assessments are
pending revision for nearly two decades (and are prone to several inherent
defects), the customary categorisation by income tax or ARV is not recom-
mended. The more reliable index of affordability by relating to the
availability of the three basic utilities - electricity and water connections
and dry latrines - has been recommended with the loan elements of 100%, 50%
and 25% with the balance as grant element. Based on this classification, the
break up of the total project households would be as under:
Overall % of
Access to           Loan/Grant          households to
Category           utilities            mix                be served
Households
Latrines
I               2 or 3                100/0                 22
II               Only one               50/50                22
III               None                   25/75                47
Community           Impracticability
Latrines            of construction
of household
latrines



-72-
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
Since the latrine as well as the superstructure proposed last for at
least 25 years and GTN would be providing loan to the municipalities at 9.5%
interest to be repaid in 25 years including a 4-year moratorium, it is recom-
mended that the loan element provided to the householder is recovered from
the householder at the same rate of interest in 25 years in monthly instal-
ments beginning from the month following the completion of the installation.
The Municipality will be responsible for the recovery of the loan
instalment as a charge to be collected as a first charge along with
house-tax, water tax, water charges and other taxes at quarterly or six
monthly intervals or whatever is the existing system. As the loan repayment
amount would be much smaller than the other dues any payment by the
householder should first cover this item so that the balance dues could be
recovered even with the existing legal provisions. However, the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act 1920 would be suitably amended to provide for
recovery of loan instalments together with interest as arrears of tax and
rent through destrainment of the local authorities in case of default. The
State Level Low Cost Sanitation Unit (LOSANU) which is in the overall charge
of implementation of the Project would also ensure the timely recovery of the
loan instalments from the municipalities.



IND)IA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
LO4 JC0oT :.ANMTLTION
6XIhTINM; Ali PFPOUD :l'ACILITit,.
- -                         _, - - - -_                 -                                                                        - - - - - - - - - T- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Existing Facilities (1981)                                                   Proposed during I - Stage
-------------------------------------------------____ -------------------   ---t - -- - -- - ------------      ------------~~~~ ~-~ ~   -~ ---    -~~~~ -~~~--- -- -- --- - - -----~
Sl.                            ,Population  Population  Percentage  Population  Percentage  Percen-   No.of   Popula-  Peroen-  No.of  Population  Peroen- Total in Servioe ievel
No.    Name of Town                 in      served       of total    served        of total    tage of   units   tion        tage of  seats  served         tage  of pereen-  at end of
19d1     through      population  through       population  total      propo-  proposed total                           total   tage       1 987-68
private        (1981)    existing        (1981)    popula-   sed.    to be    popula-                          popula-           expressed as
water seal               water aeal                tion                served   tion                           tion               peroentage of
latrines                 cov,ullity                served                       (1981)                         (1981)            total
latrinee
.L. -                                                                                                       _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
1.  Ambur                        66026        6795        10.3         2100          3.2        13.5       3886    23337    35.3        96      2400        3.6     38.9       52.4
2. Attur                         50537        3497          6.9        3820          7.6        14.5       2991    17916    35.5       131      3275        6.5     42.0        56.5
3.  Lranthangi                   23227       2510         10.8          750          3.2        14.0       1354      6607    28.4       15       375        1.6     30.0       44.0
4.  Chengalpattu                 47324        8265        17.5         2820          6.0        23.5       2776    14644    30.9        88      2200        4.6      35.5       59.0
5.  Coonoor                     44750       12667         28.3         7360         16.4        44.7   *  21t6       9908    22.1      272      6800       15.2     37.3       82.0
6. Gobichettipalayam             43846       8496         19.4         2540           5.8       25.2       2946    14810    33.8       109      2725        6.2     40.0       65.2       _1
7. Kodaikanal                    20451        7765        38.0          1540         7.5        45.5       1061      4446    21.7       72      1800        8.8      30.5      76.0
8. Panruti                       43036       4037          9.4         2440          5.7        15.1       2206    11105    25.8        90      2250        5.3     31.1       46.2
9. Pattukottai                   49484       4180          8.4          520          1.1         9.5       3555    17702    35.8        25       625        1.3     37.1        46.6
10. Pollachi                     82115        9219         11.2         2700          3.3        14.5       3623    25145    30.6        51      1275        1.6     32.2       46.7
11.  w,irkali                     25508       2692         10.6         1020          4.0        14.6       1616      8695    34.1       54      1350        5.3     39.4       54.0
12. Theni-Alinagarara             53023       4857          9.2         4920          9.3        18.5       3066    15330    28.9       195      4875        9.2     38.1       56.6
13. Tenkasi                      49214        4841          9.8         1720          3.5        13.3       3512    16963    34.5        54      1350        2.7     37.2       50.5
14. Thuraiyur                    23599        1953          8.3          140          0.6         8.9       1684     8420    35.7         6       150        0.6     36.3       45.2
Total                622140       81774         13.1        34390          5.5        18.6     36392   195028    31.3    1258    31450           5.1      36.4       55.0
_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ __-          N
Fr-



-74-
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Manpower and Training
Present Situation
1.1.      The authorized staff establishment of TWAD at February 1983 was
5,556 staff in all categories. Additionally, the Board employs a total of
2,841 work-charged staff. A summary of TWAD's manpower distribution by
main occupational groupings and projected recruitment rates over the period
1984--1990 is given in Attachment 1. Current staffing levels, particularly
among junior administrative and technical grades were considered to be
high. Projected recruitment rates given in Attachment 1 have been modified
accordingly. Recruitment rates at Attachment 1 also cover:
(a) additional salaried staff required for operational expansion and
organizational changes recommended by the Organization and
Management Study;
(b) projections for key work-charged staff; and
(c) new staff required to operate and maintain water production and
distribution installations within the proposed project package.
Detailed inventories of these staffing cadres are available in the project
files. The net staffing increase for TWAD by end 1986 (less unskilled) is
estimated to be about 2,000 staff in all grades, creating a total staff
complement in excess of 10,000.
1.2.      Based upon manpower data provided by the Directors of Town
Panchayats and Municipalities, the number of staff currently enaged in the
provision of water services in the State (less Metropolitan Madras) is
estimated to be about 2,300.
1.3.      Chapter V, paragraph 16(b) of the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and
Drainage Board Act 1970, gives the Board powers to provide technical
assistance to local authorities in the execution and maintenance of water
supply and drainage works. The Chairman of TWAD and his senior staff were
fully aware of the importance of manpower development to the institutional
development objectives of the Board and to the objectives established by
GTN for the water supply and sanitation sector in its Sixth Five-Year Plan
(1980-1985). TWAD is, therefore, committed to including within its
statewide responsibility for the planning, design and construction of water
supply and sewerage systems, the provision of appropriate training
services.



-75-
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 4
1.4.      The situation in Tamil Nadu regarding the local availability of
sector training staff training resources, and sector-related training
programs is unbalanced. Whereas MMWSSB, with a concentrated labor force of
4,500 staff, has established an impressive training facility which is a
model of its kind in the Region, the remainder of the sector, with a
larger, dispersed, labor force covering a wider range of skills, has no
training resources. Useful as the local availability of the MMWSSB
facility will be to TWAD it can, at best, only complement the training
resources that now need to be developed for the remainder of the sector.
The other principal source of training for state water sector staff is the
annual program of national courses arranged and provided by the Central
Public Health Engineering and Environmental Health Engineering Organization
(PHEEO) of GOI, and to a lesser extent by the National Environmental
Research Institute. Inevitably, the allocation of these course places to
state water institutions is extremely small, the course content is
necessarily of a generalized nature, and the bias of the program is heavily
oriented to the needs of senior and professional staff.
Sector Training Policy
2.1.      TWAD's tentative policy for human resources development includes
the following:
(a)  establishing, under the Chairmanship of the Board, a Training
Executive Committee to be responsible for the overall direction,
coordination and monitoring of sector training activities and to
include members representative of related sector agencies;
(b)  the early appointment of a senior level training officer to be
responsible to the Senior Deputy Chief Engineer (Personnel), as
recommended by the Organization and Management Study, to provide,
inter-alia, a secretariat to the Training Executive Committe;
(c)  establishing a sector training strategy and a corporate plan for
training, and related education, geared to the needs of the Tamil
Nadu water sector as a whole; and
(d)  developing a sector training capability and organization, which,
in collaboration with the centralized facility of MMWSSB would
provide a model and a catalyst, to State water agencies elsewhere
in India.
2.2       The training component of the proposed project would be designed
to assist TWAD to develop and confirm this policy and implement the first
phase of its longer term training strategy.
Proposed Project Training Component
3.1.      Because some in-country provision is currently available for
senior staff, it was agreed that initially the main thrust of the training
program to be designed and implemented under the project would focus on the
training needs of junior and sub-professional grades. Priority would be
given to those employed at divisional level in TWAD's Construction Circles



-76-
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 4
and the staff employed both by TWAD and local bodies on the operation and
maintenance of water production and distribution installations. The siLze
of the main training cadres are indicated by the number of staff currently
in post, as follows:
Asst/Junior Engineers                          900
Administrative/Office Assistants              1300
Works Inspectors                               500
Maintenance Fitters (electro-mechanical)    500
Junior Accountants                             100
Waterworks Operators                          1000
Total               4300
3.2.      The project training component would consist of the following
elements:
(a) A short training study of from 4-6 man-month duration to: (i)
up-date the 1980 training survey and review the current validity
of its recommendations; (ii) assist TWAD to formulate sector
training policy and an implementation strategy; (iii) define
job-related training program content for priority training cadres
and draw up a corporate training plan in detail for two years
ahead, and in outline for the remainder of the project period
(the two-year plan will include provision for the special
training programs associated with setting up and staffing the
proposed central support units for meter repair and leak
detection); (iv) compare priority training needs of TWAD with
existing MMWSSB training programs and, where smiliarities exist,
adapt MMWSSB programs for early implementation by TWAD;         (v)
forecast the broad staffing requirements of TWAD up to 1990 for
the sub-professional grades not covered by the Organization and
Management Study; and (vi) devise a system for monitoring the
effectiveness of training to be provided.
(b) An order-of-magnitude assessment of the sector's in-service
training requirements indicates an annual training load of about
2000 man-weeks. This commitment can not be met through a
combination of on-the-job training and the use of possible
surplus MMWSSB training capacity. The scope, capacity and
optimum location of TWAD operated, simple, off-the-job training
accommodation would therefore be evaluated under the training
study, and financial provision for the construction of these
first-phase facilities would be included in the training
component.
(c) A technical assistance component would be provided to assist TWAD
to select and develop a small cadre of full-time and part-time
training staff, and to assist the training staff to commission
the training facilities and prepare and introduce pilot,
priority, in-house training programs for training cadres
identified at para 3.1 above. This component would also provide
a series of short, training orientation seminars for managers at



-77-
ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 4
all levels of Headquarters, Circles, and Divisions; towns covered
by the project package would also be invited to participate.
(d)  The TWAD training program will include provision for meeting the
training needs associated with the low cost sanitation
sub-project. Training would be provided at three levels, as
follows:
(i)     orientation training for Municipal Members and Officers
of the participating sub-project towns;
(ii)    sub-project supervisory training for executive and junior
engineers located at appropriate Construction Circles;
and
(iii)   a licensing course for small contractors interested in
constructing latrines under this sub-project.
(e)  A training attachment and fellowship program for senior and
middle level staff will be drawn up by the proposed TWAD Training
Executive Committee for inclusion within the four year training
plan (para. 3.2(a)). The program will give priority to arranging
short, intensive training attachments to appropriate water
utilities either locally or abroad, and will emphasize the
development of practical skills and experience in the areas of
project planning and control systems, inventory control,
preventive maintenance, water metering, leakage detection, water
quality control, accounting systems, and human resources
development. Appropriate senior municipal staff would also be
included in this program.
Technical Assistance
4.1.      Expertise is not currently available within TWAD to conduct the
manpower and training study, or to design and implement the training
delivery system. The Board accepts that technical assistance would be
required for these activities and financial provision for this is included
in the project financing plan. The training consultant would be appointed
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The study would
represent Phase I of the training component and assistance in implementing
the training program will represent Phase II. Invitations to consultants
to submit proposals for Phase I will not be extended until the TWAD
Training Executive Committee has accepted the Phase I study report.
4.2       The training component cost estimate is given at Attachment 2.



Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Boardl/
Manpower Forecast and Recruitment Rate 1983-1990
Minimum Pre-         Sanctioned           Recruitment Rate2/         Estimated
Serial     Staff Category   Entry Qualification   Strength 1983          1984    1987      1990    Strength 1990
a        Operators               Nil                     752           70       85       100         1352
b        Craftsmen         Trade Certificate            1320          125      150       175         2370
c              Junior      School Certificate           3531          300      400       500         6331
Inter-     School Certificate
d              mediate   - - - - - - - - - -             353           30       40        50          633
Diploma
Higher Diploma                                                                               X
e              Senior   - - - - - - - - - -              108            8       10        12          194 l
Degree
Prmotions from (e)
f       Management       -- - - - - - - - - -            28             3        4         5           52
New Appointments
Totals                  6092           536      689      842        10,932
Unskilled               1324
Security                 981
>
Grand Total             8397                                                              X
1/  Manpower Inventory includes all work-charged staff.                                                                   C
rt
2/ Except for Assistant Engineers labour turnover is minimal and has been ommitted.                                      HF



-79-                          Attachment 2
INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Training Component - Cost Estimates
Foreign   Local    Total
Costs    Costs    Costs
Item                            US$000    US$000   US$000
(a) Training Study and Program Definition:
Training Consultants Remuneration
at 6 man-months (Stage I).                               21        21
(b) Technical Assistance for Training
Program Implementation. Training
Consultants Remuneration at
18 man-months (Stage II).                                63        63
(c) Consultant local support/services/
transportation.                                          10        10
(d) Provision of Training Accommodation:
- Land 10,000 sq.m. at Rs. 40 per sq.m.                  40        40
- Construction (average cost) at
Rs. 1000 per sq. m.- 2000 sq.m.                       200       200
- Equipment                                   50         20        70
(e)  Low Cost Sanitation Training Program                       25        25
(f) Fellowships, study tour, attachments,
training of training staff
(60 man-months).                              60         75       135
(g) Printed and consumable training
materials and training aids                               5         5
Total                       110        459       569
Recurrent Costs, less debt servicing - 8 Lakhs, increasing by 2 Lakhs per
year over project period.



INDIA
TAMILNADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Existing Organization Structure TWAD
Chair,-r & Booro
ofDiretor
Chief Erglree
P,oject
Forurlatiorr
SE
SF (C)               SE (D)               WorOd Bock            P,jSE
M.d-  M.d.rt                S~~~~~~~~~~~~h.Prjet CirCle
Modros  Meouroc            SOherrres              ~~~~CBE
SE Mooros        ~~~SE                 SE                   E                   SF               SE Perlyr &               E               SE Trctry &         SE Tirsoeceli             SE                   SE
Chengorpotta    Booth Aeco           Nrh Arcot             Moduri               'SrIe-             Dhrormpur;           Ramonothe            Pukokttid          K-oyoku,,er           Coi,r,brto,e           T-flloss
C role         ~~Circe.             Circle              Circle                Circl               Circle            P,ro  Crrcle            CiOro                C rol             Nilgris Circle          Circle
PA toSF              PArS                PA SE  SE            peoyProE                                    tSE               c A t. S             y~ArI-SI              AI                   PA t.S IFuS
EEPP  -t       ~~~EEP UrbEPE-.EPP                                  - EEPP    -t                   EEP       -tEP                                        t        SEE        t         EPE      -             Et     -
E                                                    E         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEWooyt
ABEE  -- Assist-ntEoect.cEhnglrrees       SW'S    -  ure1 WaterSupply
EEs      Exect - Engineers                LA     -- cOom,ic Anelyst
CBE     _ Coirobot_r                      CPSO   -Centrol Porhase & Stoes OrgOrtrtfiorr
CS    - Depot'S                           PA to SE - Pers-Io Arist.,t to the S.perrrrteding Ergrneer
S, rICE - Senor Drsp~ty Chiet Fogirre     PPF     -P,noj-t PorrulOtiOr
Mc      _ M-oitrirrg Cell                 C       - Derigor                                                                                                                                                   WellS Bonk--2531



INDIA
TAMILNADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Proposed Organization Structure TWAD
Corporate Organization
Chairman
& Board of
Directors
Managing
Director
Engineering                                                                                                      nance
Director                                                                                                      Director
Chief Engineer                              Chief Engineer           Chief Engineer
(Project                                  World Bank              Other Ptoects
oTnNumation)                                  Projects
Supdt.                                                          Senior De                  P.A to                                  Chief                       Chief
Bogineer                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ChiefginEngineering                                    Accounts                      Audit
- CPSO                                                                                     Director                                Officer                     Officer
L    Mechanical
Secret ary 
World Bank-25032



INDIA
TAMILNADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Proposed Organization Structure TWAD
World Bank Project Cell
Fngineering                                                                                                 Finance
Director                                                                                                  Directoi
Chiet Engineer
World Bank
Projects
Superintending                                  SE World Bank           SE World Bank           SE World Bank S=E. World Bank
Engineer                                         Project                 Project                 Project                 Project
Design                                       Cornrbatore               Maducrac                 Salem                   Tiruchi
Accounts             AdtI
OfficerOfie
4                                                                                                                                          DPUt CIe
Executive             Deputy Chiet              Execufive               Executive               Executive               Executive               Eng ineer
Engineers               Engineer                Engineers               Engineers               Engineers               Engineers                Project
Design                 Materials                                                                                                              Monitoring
DISTRICTS               DISTRICTS               DISTRICTS               DISTRICTS
Coimbatore              Madurai                     Salem                 Tiruchi
(Main Scheme)           Ramrnotha                                        Chengalpattu
Materil                                        Purom                                            North Arcot
MPlaterial &  | |                              Thirunelveli                                      South Arcot
Planning & 
Inventory                                                                                        Pudukotoi
Control                                                                                         Periyar
Procurement                                                                                       Nilgiris
Coimbotore
Insp-cfion                                                                                    (Satellite Towns
Group TV & V Towns)
World Bank-25033



-83-
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 3 pages
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
1.      The following indicators will be monitored, on a quarterly basis,
during and after the execution of the project to measure the achivement of
the technical, financial and administrative goals set for this project. The
beneficiary will be requested to include the required data in its Quarterly
Progress Reports to IDA. In each case, figures will be shown for the quarter
and the corresponding quarter one year earlier. The indicators will apply
to each of the subproject entities.
Physical Criteria
2. (a) Water Production
(i) average daily production for each month of the quarter;
(ii) total production during the quarter and a cumulative total
production for the year.
(b) Water Quality
(i) chlorine residual laving treatment plant. Daily/hourly
frequency;
(ii) chlorine residual in the distribution area. Sampling
pattern and frequency in accordance with WHO recommendations.
(c) Water Connections
(i) number of new connections for the quarter;
(ii) cumulative total connections at end of quarter.
(d) Standpipes
(i) number of new standpipes for the quarter;
(ii) cumulative total number of standpipes at end of quarter.
(e) Leaks
(i) number of major leaks investigated for repair during
quarter and to end of quarter since beginning of
repair program;



-84-
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 3 pages
(ii) number of major leaks repaired during quarter and to
end of quarter since beginning of repair program.
(f) Low-Cost Sanitation
(i) number of individual units installed for the quarter,
and cumulative total;
(ii) number of seats installed in communal facilities, for the
quarter, and cumulative total.
Staffing
3.      The number of permanent employees engaged in sector activities at
end of quarter detailed as follows:
(a) headquarters (top management, engineers, accountants and others);
(b) operational districts (management, engineers, accountants,
operation and maintenance, metering and collection and others).
Financial Indicators
4. (a) For Major Cities:
(i)   Working Ratio;
(ii) Debt Service Coverage;
(iii) Proportion of revenue from user charges to total revenues.
(b) For small/medium towns:
(i)   Coverage of operating expenses excluding depreciation
plus debt service.
(ii) Proportion of revenuefrom user charges to total revenues.
(c) For TWAD:
(i)   Annual sinking fund contribution;
(ii) Ratio of receivables to work in progress.
5.      The following indicators relating to population and service level
will be monitored on a yearly basis:



-85-                             ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 3 pages
(a) population in urban areas;
(b) population in rural areas;
(c) total population served by private water connections in both
urban and rural areas;
(d) total population served by standpipes in both urban and rural
areas.



-86-
ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 2 pages
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Summary of Assumptions for Financial Projections
- Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem
1.      Financial projections for the project areas have been prepared for
the fiscal years 1984/85 through 1994/95. The financial statements included
as Annex 23 are summaries - the detailed statements are included in the
Feasibility Studies and available in project files.
Income Statement
Revenues
2.      Water and sewerage taxes have been projected at an increased rate
of 1% per year and 15% every five years, based on the experience of the prior
10 years. The water usage charges have been calculated on the basis of
proposed tariff rates for each local body through the fiscal year 1994/95
reflecting the estimated increase in water connections anticipated, by
category of users.
Operating Expenses
3.      Power charges have been based on the capacity of pumping equipment
and hours of pumping at rates provided by the Electricity Board. The costs
have been escalated by 10% every three years, based on both TWAD's past
experience and the Electricity Board's information.
4.      Chemical costs were projected based on method of treatment and esca-
lated utilizing the applicable inflation factors.
5.      Maintenance costs were projected at 0.5% of the gross fixed asset
value (excluding interest during construction capitalized) increased at a 6%
annual compunding rate.
6.      Salaries and wages have been calculated based on the additional staff
requirement utilizing current pay rates plus a 20% provision for indirect
payroll costs. These current rates were then projected utilizing the
applicable inflation factors.
7.      Administrative expenses were projected at 2% of all other expenses.
8.      The provision for bad debts was projected at an amount that would
insure the Reserve for Doubtful Accounts was maintained at 5% of Accounts
Receivable.



-87-                          ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 2 pages
9.      Depreciation was calculated at the rate of 2.5% of the value of fixed
assets excluding land.
10.     Casual labor charges for rural areas were estimated at 2% of total
expenses exclusive of the TWAD's administrative charges.
11.     Interest on GTN loans including to IDA fund component was calculated
at 8 1/2% per annum, payable over 25 years, with five years moratorium on
principal and interest. Interest accrued during construction was added to
the principal amount of the loans at project completion.
Balance Sheet
12.     Plant in Service reflects all costs experienced or expected to be
experienced to complete their construction including enginering costs, con-
tingencies, and interest accrued during construction capitalized. The exist-
ing assets at April 1, 1980 were revalued to reflect current costs at that
date. No further revaluation has been reflected.
13.     The value of Work in Progress was closed to Gross Fixed Assets
in accordance with the construction schedule for that plant.
14.     Cash was estimated at an amount equal to one half month's operating
expenses exclusive of depreciation, provision for bad debts and administra-
tive expenses.
15.     Inventories were estimated at four months purchases of maintenance
stores and chemicals.
16.     Accounts receivable were assumed to be equal to 25% of the annual
revenues.
17.     Accounts payable were estimated at one month's purchases of main-
tenance stores and chemicals plus one month's salaries and wages and one
month's power charges.



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Coimbatore : Income Statement for Water Supply and Sanitation
(Rs. in Millions)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
WATER SOLD                      70.2     70.2      70.2      70.2     109.8    117.0    125.5    129.1    130.0    131.0    131.9
REVENUES
1. Water Supply
Taxes                  10.4      10.6     10.7      10.8       12.4      12.6     12.7      12.9      13.0      15.0     15.1
Direct Charges          6.2      16.3     16.3      16.3       28.9     77.3      86.3      89.9      95.9     96.5    100.7
2. Sanitation and Drainage   5.0        5.1       5.1      5.2        6.0       6.0      6.2       6.2       6.3       7.3       7.3
Total                  21.6      32.0     32.1      32.3       47.3     95.9    105.2    109.0    115.2    118.8    123.1
OPERATING EXPENSES
1. Water Supply
Operating Costs        13.2      13.9       14.5    15.0       18.1     21.4      12.3      23.4      24.7     25.8      27.0
Depreciation            7.8       7.8       7.8      7.8       11.0     14.3      14.3      14.3      14.3     14.3      14.3
Sub Total              21.0      21.7      22.3    22.8        29.1     35.7      36.6      37.7     39.0      40.1      41.3
2. Sanitation and Drainage   1.3        1.3        1.9     2.2        2.2       2.3      2.1       2.3       2.2       2.3      2.7
Total                  22.3      23.0      24.2    25.0        31.3     38.0      38.7      40.0     41.2      42.4      44.0   > 
INTEREST EXPENSES  1/           22.6     22.0       21.0    20.2       19.4      40.7     39.4      38.1      36.8      35.4     33.9    e
NET INCOME (DEFICIT)           (23.3)   (13.0)    (13.1)  (12.9)       (3.4)    17.2      27.1      30.9      37.2      41.0      45.2
WORKING RATIO                    67       48         51       50        43        25        23       24        23        24        24
I/ See Explanation in Para 5.21



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Madurai   Income Statement for Water Supply and Sanitation
(Rs. in Millions)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
WATER SOLD                      45.4      45-4      45-4     45-4      90.0      90.0      90.0      90.0      90.0     90.0      90.0
REVENUES
1. Water Supply
Taxes                   4.3       4.3       8.8       8.9      9.0       9.1       9.2      10.7      10.8      10.9      11.0
Direct Charges          2.9       4.2       4.3       4.3      8.4      43.0      43.1      43.2      44.3      44.3     47.6
2. Sanitation and Drainage   8.2         8.3      8.3       8.9      10.0      10.0     10.0      10.1      10.2      12.0      12.0            1
'00
Total                  15.4      16.8      21.4      22.1     27.4      62.1      62.3      64.0      65.3     67.0      70.6
OPERATING EXPENSES
1. Water Supply
Operating Costs         5.4       5.6       5.9       6.4     10.2      14.7      15.1      16.0      16.6      17.0      18.1
Depreciation            1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5      6.2      11.0      11.0      11.0      11.0      11.0      11.0               P
Sub Total               6.9       7.1       7.4       7.9     16.4      25.7      26.1      27.0      27.6      28.0     29.1
2. Sanitation and Drainage   2.8        2.9       3.1       3.1       3.2       3.3      3.4       3.5       3.5       3.8       3.9
Total                   9.7      10.0      10.5      11.0     19.6      29.0      29.5      30.5      31.1      31.8     33.0   I'd
INTEREST EXPENSES                2.6       2.5       2.5      2.3       2.1      29.1      28.5     27.8      27.0      26.2      25.3      m
NET INCOME (DEFICIT)             3.1       4.3       8.4      8.8       5.7       4.0       4.3       5.7      7.2       9.0      12.3     k
WORKING   RATi O          53        51       42        43        49        29       30        30        29        30       31
WORKING RATIO                    53        51        42       43        49        29        30       30        29        30       31



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Salem : Income Statement for Water Supply and Sanitation
(Rs. in Millions)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
WATER SOLD                       16.9     16.9      16.9      16.9      35.4      36.3      37.2      38.1      39.0      40.0      40.4
REVENUES
1. Water Supply
Taxes                    4.1       4.1      4.1        4.2      4.9       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.1       5.9       6.0
Direct Charges           3.1       4.6      4.6       4.6       7.1      22.3      22.9      23.5      24.6      25.1      27.3
2. Sanitation and Drainage  10.4        10.4      10.5      10.5      12.2      12.4     12.5      12.6      12.7       14.7     14.8               o
Total                   17.6      19.1     19.2      19.3      24.2      39.7      40.4      41.1      42.4      45.7      48.1
OPERATING EXPENSES
1. Water Supply
Operating Costs          3.9       4.1      4.3       4.5       7.3      10.2      11.1      12.2      12.5      13.0      14.1
Depreciation             0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3       2.5       4.6       4.6       4.6       4.6       4.6       4.6
Sub Total                4.2       4.4      4.6       4.8       9.8      14.8      15.7      16.8      17.1      17.6      18.7
2. Sanitation and Drainage   1.0         1.2       1.2       1.2       1.2       8.2      8.5       8.7       8.9        9.1      9-4
Total                    5.2       5.6      5.8       6.0      11.0      23.0      24.2      25.5      26.0      26.7      28.1
INTEREST EXPENSES                5.9       7.3       8.9      10.2      11.6      15.4      14.8     14.3      13.4       12.7      12.0
NET INCOME (DEFICIT)             6.5       6.2       4.5       3.1       1.6       1.3       1.4       1.3       3.0       6.3       8.0
WORKING RATIO                    28        28        29        30        35        46        49       51        51        48        49



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Coimbatore : Balance Sheet for Water Supply and Sanitation
(Rs. in Millions)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
a. Net Fixed Assets        294.2    286.0    277.7    269.3    518.1    503.3    488.6    473.8    459.0    444.2    429.4
b. Work-in-progress         19.8      73.4    146.1    217.2      -         -                 -         -
Total Fixed Assets      314.0    359.4    423.8    486.5    518.1    503.3    488.6    473.8    459.0    444.2    429.4
CURRENT ASSETS 1/           (12.7)   (24.6)   (39.2)   (53.5)   (55.2)   (38.4)   (12.9)    16.0        50.7     88.2    129.4
TOTAL ASSETS                301.6    334.8    384.6    443.0    462.9    464.9    475.7    489.8    509.7    532.4    559.0
LIABILITIES
EQUITY/EARNED INCOME        21.9       9.0     (4.2)   (17.0)   (20.7)    (4.0)    22.9       53.7     90.9    131.8    177.1
RESERVE FOR
DOUBTFUL DEBTS               0.2       0.4      0.4      0.4       0.6      1.1      1.3       1.3      1.4     1.4        1.6
LONG TERM LOANS
a.  LIC                    258.5    250.8    241.0    231.0    221.0    210.9    200.4    190.0    179.3    168.6         157.6
b.  GTN                     19.8      73.4    146.1    217.2    260.2    254.9    249.0    242.7    235.9    228.3        220.2
Sub-Total               278.3    324.2    387.1    448.2    481.2    465.8    450.4    432.7    415.2    396.9         377.8
c. Less:                                                                                                                           t
Current Maturities       (7.9)    (9.8)    (9.9)   (10.0)   (15.4)   (16.2)   (17.3)   (17.6)   (18.3)   (19.0)    (19.8)    x
Net Long Term Loans     270.4   314.4    377.2    438.2    465.8    449.6    432.7    415.1    396.9    377.9          358.0
CURRENT LIABILITIES          9.1      11.0     11.2     11.4      17.2     18.2     18.8      19.7     20.5      21.3      22.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES          301.6    334.8    384.6    433.0    462.9    464.9    475.7    489.8    509.7    532.4         559.0
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO           12:1      35:1      -        -        -         -       19:1      8:1       4:1      3:1        2:1
1/ See explanation in para 5.21.



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Madurai : Balance Sheet for Water Supply and Sanitation
(Rs. in Millions)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
a. Net Fixed Assets            20.6    19.0      17.5       16.0   393.4    382.3    371.2    360.1    349.0    338.0    326.9
b. Work-in-progress            30.0   110.9    219.4       323.9      -        -         _                        -              -
Total Fixed Assets          50.6   129.9    236.9       340.0   393.4    382.3    371.2    360.1    349.0    338.0    326.9
CURRENT ASSETS                 12.0    16.2      24.6       32.8    43.2      50.5      57.0      64.0      72.0      81.0      92.4
TOTAL ASSETS                   62.4   146.1    261.5       372.8   436.7    432.8    428.2    424.1    421.0    419.0    419.3
LIABILITIES
EQUITY/EARNED SURPLUS           5.8    25.2      53.0       78.7    91.2       94.9    99.1    104.7    111.8    120.7    132.8
RESERVE FOR
DOUBTFUL DEBTS                  0.1     0.2       0.2        0.2      0.3       0.8      0.8       0.8       0.9       0.9       0.9
LONG TERM LOANS
a. LIC                         31.8    30.1      28.6       27.0    25.2       23.6    21.8       20.0      18.0    16.1       14.1
b. GTN                         24.1    90.0    178.9       266.0   318.7      312.0   305.0    297.1    288.8   279.6         269.7
Sub-Total                   55.9   120.0    207.5       293.0   343.9      335.6   326.8    317.0    306.8   295.7         283.8
c. Less:
Current Maturities          (1.6)   (1.7)    _(1.6)      (1.8)   (8.2)      (8.9)   (9.8)   (10.1)   (11.0)  (11.8)    (12.7)
Net Long Term Loans        54.3   118.3    205.9        291.2   335.7      326.7   317.0    306.9    295.8   283.9         271.1
CURRENT LIABILITIES             2.2     2.4       2.4        2.7      9.5      10.4    11.3       11.7      12.5    13.5       14.5   ui,
TOTAL LIABILITIES              62.4   146.1    261.5       372.8   436.7      432.7   428e1    424.1    421.0   419.0         419.3     f
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO               9:1     5:1       4:1        4:1     4:1        3:1      3:1       3:1      3:1      2:1        2:1



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Salem Municipality : Balance Sheet for Water Supply and Sanitation
(Rs. in Millions)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
a. Net Fixed Assets             21.2    21.0      20.7       20.2   187.4    300.0   292.3    284.8    277.1    269.6             262.0
b. Work-in-progress             51.0   111.6    185.7       253.1   120.0        -        -         -         -          -          -
Total Fixed Assets          72.3   132.6    206.4        273.3   307.4    300.0   292.3    284.8    277.1    269.6            262.0
CURRENT ASSETS                   8.5    12.6      14.4       13.9    13.0       15.3    16.7       16.5      17.9       22.6       28.7
TOTAL ASSETS                    80.8   145.2    220.8       287.2   320.4    315.3   309.0    301.3    295.0    292.2             290.7
LIABILITIES
EQUITY/EARNED SURPLUS           15.0    53.0    100.0       139.0   151.4    152.6   154.0    155.3    158.2    164.6             172.6
RESERVE FOR
DOUBTFUL DEBTS                   0.2     0.2       0.2         0.2     0.3       0.4      0.6       0.6       0.6        0.6        0.7
LONG TERM LOANS
a. LIC                         62.9    80.7       97.4      113.3   128.2       122.6  115.0    107.0        98.8       90.4       82.1
b. GTN                           2.2    10.9      22.6       34.0    39.8        39.0   38.0       37.1      36.0      35.0        33.7
Sub-Total                   65.1    91.6    120.0        147.3   168.0       161.0  153.0    144.0    134.8    125.4          115.8
c. Less:
Current Maturities           2.1      3.4       4.0        5.1      7.0        8.0    9.0        9.2       9.5       9.5         9.8
Net Long Term Loans         63.0    88.2    116.0        142.2   161.0       153.0  144.0    134.8    125.3    115.9          106.0
CURRENT LIABILITIES              2.6      3.8      4.6         5.8     7.7        9.3   10.4       10.6      10.9       11.1       11.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES              80.8   145.2    220.8        287.2   320.4       315.3  309.0    301.3    295.0    292.2           290.7
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                4:1     2:1       1:1        1:1      1:1        1:1    1:1        1:1    1:2:1    1:3:1        1:6:1



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Coimbatore : Sources and Uses of Funds for Water Supply and Sanitation
(Rs. in Millions)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
INTERNAL SOURCES              7.6       17.3      16.1      15.8     27.5      72.9      81.1      83.8      88.8      91.1      94.1
OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENT
a. Debt Servicing (P+I)1/  29.0         29.6      30.8     30.1      29.5      56.3      55.6      55.0      54.2      53.7      53.0
b. Working Capital
Requirement
Increase/Decrease         (1.1)       2.5     (0.0)    (0.0)       3.8      12.7       2.5       1.0       1.8       1.0       1.2
Sub-Total                 27.9      32.1      30.8      30.1      33.2      69.0      58.1      56.0      56.0      54.7      54.2
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) FROM    (20.3)    (14.8)   (14.7)   (14.3)    (5.8)           3.9      23.0      27.8      32.8      36.4      39.9
OPERATIONS
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENT
a. The Project               18.9       49.9      63.7      56.2    23.6                  -          -         -         -         -
b. Interest during
construction
capitalised                0.8        3.8      9.0      14.9    19.4                    -                   - 
Sub-Total                 19.7       53.7     72,7      71.1    43.0          -        -          -         -         -         -
SURPLUS OR (BALANCE)
TO BE FINANCED              (40.0)    (68.5)   (87.4)   (85.4)  (48.8)          3.9    23.0        27.8      32.8      36.4      39.9
FINANCED BY
a. Loan from GTN             19.7       53.7      72.7      71.1    43.0         -        -          -         -         -         -
b. Capital Grant from GTN    -                          -          -        -         -                      _                      -     z
c. Sub-Total                 19.7       53.7      72.7      71.1    43.0         -        -          -         -         -         -
SURPLUS(DEFICIT) 1/         (20.3)    (14.8)   (14.7)   (14.3)   (5.8)          3.9    23.0        27,8      32.8      36.4      39.9
1/ See Explanation in Para 5.21



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Madurai : Sources and Uses of Funds for Water Supply and Sanitation
(Rs. in Millions)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
INTERNAL SOURCES             7.3        8.3      12.4      12.1    13.9       44.3    43.9        44.4     45.2      46.3      48.6
OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENT
a) Debt Servicing (P+I)       4.0       4.0       4.1       3.9     3.9       37.5    37.4        37.4      37.3      37.3     37.2
b) Working Capital
Requirement
Increase/Decrease        (0.6)       0.3       1.1       0.0     1.1        8.3      0.0        0.3       0.3      0.4       0.8
Sub-Total                 3.4        4.3       5.2       3.9     5.0       45.8    37.4        37.7      37.6     37.7      38.0
SURPLUS/ (DEFICIT) FROM
OPERATIONS                    3.9       4.0       7.2       8.2      8.9      (1.5)    6.5         6.7       7.6       8.6      10.6
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENT
a) The Project               29.0      76.2      97.6      86.2    36.0         -        _          _         _
b) Interest during
construction
capitalised                1.0       4.7      11.0      18.1    23.9         -        -          -         -         -         -
Sub-Total                30.0       80.9    108.6    104.3    59.9           -        -          -         -         -         -
SURPLUS OR (BALANCE)
TO BE FINANCED               26.1       76.9    101.4      96.1    51.0        (1.5)    6.5        6.7       7.6       8.6      10.6
FINANCED BY
a. Loan from CTN            24.2       65.7      89.0      87.1    52.7          -       -          -         -         -         -
b. Capital Grant from GTN   5.8        15.2      19.6      17.2      7.2         -        _         -         _
c. Sub-Total                30.0       80.9    108.6    104.3    59.9            -       -          -         -         -         -
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)             3.9       4.0       7.2       8.2      8.9       (1.5)    6.5        6.7       7.6       8.6      10.6



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Salem : Sources and Uses of Funds for Water Supply and Sanitation
(Rs. in Millions)
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
INTERNAL SOURCES             12.7       13.9      13.7      13.7    15.7       24.2    23.7        23.2      23.9      26.7      27.6
OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENT
a. Debt Servicing (P+I)       7.5        9.6      12.0      14.4    16.8       22.2    22.8        23.3      22.7      22.1      21.5
b. Working Capital
Requirement
Increase/Decrease          1.3        0.3      0.0       0.0      1.2        3.8      0.2        0.1       0.3       0.9       0.6
Sub-Total                  8.8        9.9     12.0      14.4    18.0        26.0    23.0        23.4      23.0      23.0      22.1
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) FROM
OPERATIONS                    3.9        4.0      1.7       (0.7)   (2.3)       (1.8)    0.8       (0.2)      0.9       3.7       5.5
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENT
a) The Project               11.0       39.9    52.8        45.2    13.5         ---                                     -
b) Interest during
construction
capitalised                0.1        0.5     1.4        2.3       3.0        -         -         -         _         -         -
Sub-Total                 11.1      40.4    54.2        47.5      16.5        -         -         -         -         -         -
SURPLUS OR (BALANCE)                                                                                                                     w
TO BE FINANCED               (7.2)    (36.4)  (52.5)    (48.2)   (18.8)    (1.8)          0.7      (0.2)      0.9       3.7       5.5    X M
FINANCED BY                                                                                                                              0 N
a. Loan from GTN              2.3        8.5    11.9        11.3      5.7        -         _         _         _         _
b. Capital Grant from GTN   8.8         31.9    42.2        36.1     10.9        -         -        _          -         -         -
c. Sub-Total                 11.1       40.4    54.1       47.4      16.6        -         -         -         -         -         -
SURPLUS (DEFICIT)             3.9        4.0      1.6       (0.8)    (2.2)    (1.8)       0.7      (0.2)      0.9       3.7       5.5



-97-                                          ANNEX 23
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
TWAD Board: Project Related Sources and Uses of Funds
(Rs in Millions)
1984/85    1985/86    1986/87   1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92
REVENUE-'ACCOUNT
SOURCES
a.  Income from design and construction
management charges for water supply   16.2            47.4        52.7       37.1        13.3           -          -            -
b.  Income from design and constrution
management for low-cost sanitation
schemes                                    0.6         1.3         1.6        1.7         -            -           -            -
c.  Administrative charges for water
production facilities maintained
by TWAD                                     -            -           -        0.1         0.9          1.1         1.1         1.2
d.  Reimbursement of O&M charges for water
production facilities maintained by TWAD
(i)  Urban                                      -                  -        6.3        28.9        35.8        37.1        37.5
(ii) rural                               -                         -         -          2.3         3.6         3.8         4.1
Total Sources                          16.8         47.7        54.3       45.2        45.4        40.5        42.0        42.8
USES
a.  Additional personnel cost for project
execution and overhead at 201.            12.1       22.3          25.2      19.3        15.4         -                        -
b.  Expenditures (personnel, supplies and
utilities) related to maintaining
production facilities                      -           -            -         6.3        28.9        35.8        37.1         37.5
c.  Working capital requirements for
maintaining production facilities          -           -            -         0.5         1.9         0.6         0.1          0.1
Total Uses                             12.1         22.3         25.2      26.1        46.2        36.4        37.2        37.6
Revenue Account Surplus <Deficit>              4.7        26.4         29.1      19.1         <0.8>        4.1         4.8         5.2
CAPITAL ACCOUNT
SOURCES
a.  Loans from GTN                            63.6       178.6        230.7    209.5        120.6          -
b.  Grant from GTN                            82.5       250.1        271.7    183.9         59.0          -            -          _
Subtotal                              146.1       428.7         502.4    393.4        179.6                      -          -
c.  Repayment of debt by local bodies          -          -             -         -           -          85.0          85.0       85.0
Total Sources                         146.1       428.7         502.4    393.4        179.6        85.0         85.0       85.0
USES
a.  Works Expenditure                        143.9       408.5        471.2    353.0        117.6          -              -         -
b.  Capitalized interest during constr.    2.6            12.5         29.2      47.1        64.6                        -
Subtotal                              146.5       421.0         500.4    400.1        182.2         -             -          -
c.  Payment of debt to GTN                     -           -            -        -             -          85.0          85.0       85.0
Total Uses                            146.5       421.0         500.4    400.1        182.2        -0-           -0-         -0-
Capital Account Surplus <Deficit>            <0.4>         7.7           2.0    <6.7>       <2.6>         -0-           -0-        --



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis Data                                             Incremental
operating revenue
Incremental       Capital Expenditures           Incremental Operating Expenditures            (Rs in millions) 1/
Water Sold           (Rs in Millions)                (Rs in millions)  I/
(mld)     Total   Material   Labor  Labor   Total  Materials  Labor  Labor
Coimbatore, Madurai,                        and other  (100)  (70)              and other  (100)  (70)                                          
Salem and their
satellite towns:
1984/85               -          81.4      48.8       32.6   22.8        - 
1985/86               -         242.3    145.4        96.9   67.8        -         -          -      -
1986/87               -         326.8    196.1       130.7   91.5                  -              -              -
1987/88               -         282.8    169.7       113.1   79.2        -         -          -      -
1988/89             117.4       160.6      60.4       40.2   28.1       13.5    11.4         2.1    1.5                   56.7
1989/90             133.4         -         -          -       -        26.3    21.6        4.7    3.3                   120.6
1990/91             143.7         -         -          -       -        27.1    21.9        5.2    3.6                   133.5
1991/92             149.4         -         -          -       -        28.5    23.0         5.5    3.9                  138.5
1992/93             152.0         -         -          -       -        28.8    27.8         6.0    4.2                  138.6
1993/94             154.9         -         -          -       -        28.9    22.8        6.1    4.3                   140.1
1994/95             157.8         -         -          -       -        30.2    23.7        6.5    4.6                   140.7
1995/96-2011/12          157.8         -        _          _       _        30.2    23.7         6.5    4.6                   140.7
Rate of Return : 9.2% @ L70;   7.7% @ LIOO
1/  Represents constant 1987/88 Rupees.



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Number of Deaths per year due to Water-Related Diseases
Para-typhoid                                                                                                             I    All other In-              Total
Fever & Other   Bacillary         Other         Viral                                                                          fective &         Total  Population    Cases
same of                   Typhoid   Salmonella         Dysentery       B Racterial   Ence-       Infectioua  Relapsing  Filarial   Ancyloeto-  Other Hel-   parasitic dis-  Per    of the                      Par
District                  Fever      Infection         Amoebtasia    Diseases    phalitis  Hiepatitis   Fever              Infection  midasis        minthissis   eases                Ycar   District         IOO.OW
1971 Census
Chengalpattu                19            -                  6             -          4                          -           5              -             -            21              60      2.907.599         2.1
Worth Arcot                 33            1                 21             26        16            1;            -           2              -             -            14             130      3.755.797         3.4
South Arcot                  9            -                 21             -         10             ^            _-                         -                          -               40      3.617.723         1.1
Sales                        8            - m                               7        15            19            -           -              -             I            69             120      2.992.616         4.0
Coi=batore                  19            1                  8              5        18             19          -                                                      6              77      4.373,178         1.8
hilgiris                    20            -                 It              -          I   4        8            -           -              -             I             6              47         494.015        9SS
Dhar=apure                   I            I                  -              -         -             I            -           -              -             -             -               3      1.677.775         0.2
Thanjavur                   12            S                 30              -        21             e            1            3             -             -             5              as      3.654.681         2:3
Tiruchirapalli               9            1                '33              6         10           2C            3           -              -             -             5              87      3.290.763         2.6
Puduiottal                   I            -                  3              -         -             2            -           -              -             -             -               6         744.104        0.8
Madurat                                                                                            18 -  -                                   _ 18                      20              38      3.938.197         1.0
l.w.snathspursm              9            -                  8 B            -          I            8            -           -              -             -             2              28      2.860.207         1.0
Tirunelveli                 15            _                  8              2         11           58            2            -             _             _            12             108       3.200.515        3.4
lanyakuaurt                  f            -                 16             15          2            3            -           -              -             I             2              47       1.222.549        3.9
TOTAL                    163            9                166             61       109           186            6           10              1            3           162             876    38.729.719          2.3
Rote; Figures given above are the average of deaths occurred in 1974 and 1975.
1*



-100-
ANNEX 26
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
LIST OF SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.      Engineering Feasibility Reports on all Project Towns
- TWAD
2.      Final Report on Accounting Systems for Water Supply and
Sewerage Operations of all Local Bodies
- By M/s Thakur, Vaidyanath Aiyar & Co.
3.      Report on Organization and Staffing of Finance and Accounts
Wing in the Local Bodies
- By M/s Thakur, Vaidyanath Aiyar & Co.
4.      Final Report on Organizational Structure, Staffing Systems
and Procedures of TWAD Board
- By Mls A.F. Ferguson & Co.
5.      Report on Socio-Economic and Tariff Study of the Urban Poor
- By M/s Kirloskar Consulants, Ltd.
6.      Financial Projection for all Local Bodies
- By Mls Thakur, Vaidyanath Aiyar & Co.
7.      Financial Projection of the TWAD Board
- By M/s Kirloskar Consultants Ltd.
8.      District Municipality Act, 1920 of Tamil Nadu
9.      Salem Municipality Water Supply By-Laws
10.     Economic Analysis Work Sheets.



77-                                     7n8                                      19
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
LOCATION  OF PROJECT TOWNS                                                         A NL7H-/A  PRAADESH                            ni 1
TWAD  Circle Boundary                                                 '59C                                                              PAAc
Proiect Towns:' 
Towns Selected  for water supply augmentation                                                *7&..CA"t-*s                              MDRA
,S Towns Selected  for providing new water supply schemes                                                                                      /
ZA   Towns selected for providin,g low  cost sonitatio anocaiitlen                                  .     1s
0 Other Selected  Tomes                                                          f         e~
Notional Highways                                                                           g                              CENAPT
Selected  Railroads            O  ece
R~ Rvers                                                                                                                                    f -
Distr~ct Boundaries                                                                                                     .-c c&dvcA52    AOP~
State and Union Territory           c
Boundaries                       jtNORTH  ~ARCOT
DHARA4APIJRKv
KAdANATA                A0                                                                                       zpnc  i
i2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'i
-t               ~~~~SOUTH ARCO/rC                          Tms
sg~~~~cco~~~~cjc'c'c ~ ~ ~     ~      Vr Pa
NILG IRI S              Ar!o,,S                                LIE  M                /vd             ,4/
Ncc,,c,,,,c.  NfiA&~~~~~~fi00fic~~~                 9                            0>~~                          p-cog 
crc/Ni,   ,,,cc   A       DcU, /  R   A   !                                                 A
AO'ci5epficcii/                                                      ,Arr,yrc/        r,~.          / 
K E R A,ce                   //ccc                                   ccZ> c,A/
fS/-  tfi~~~~~~~~~~~0<                         tA/rt~~~~~~~~~~~cAcA   ,Kc/Acnt%A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JA
,,~  ?cr~Z~    ~   ~"~""   oce                HIRAPALt                 X
T"16~~~~~~~~~~~cA,,a,p,co/N
j  Pd/ceo,   c,,,,                                                    -'N...  THANJAVUm......                    -
cj,A,_e                _j isiNe.(                   > 
I  M  A 0 IR  A I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   DIA    AGLDS
KE/l'A/AAN IYA                                    -'-  LRski   rc4ece
\S0I LANKA 






IBRD 17230
77                                                                                                                INC)IA                                 JUNE 1983
NILGIRIS                                                                                                                                               TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLYAND                      SANITATION PROJECT
)ettuppalayam                                                                                   COIMBATORE WATER SUPPLY SUBPROJECT
%.-.. __1 "' )                                                                                                                                  PROPOSED WORKS
&4A                                                                                                                          P PROJECT COMPONENTS:                     EXISTING FEATURES:
,   tz2.2>1500   lKormadai   Annur                                                               City selected for woater        -        Transmission mains
ins   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~radiAnrsupply ougmentatin-                                                                                                                                  Dam
2ZPSc                \                           /                                                               e     Towns selected for providing        D    Pick-up weirs
new water supply schemes         b       Treatment plont
> 2-22 fX v / shi 2- Traesm,ss,on mains  0    Settling tank
Tn/t  Bvezo   /  /  S avrunsi  El   Intake                      4D    Break pressure tanks
Perionoickenplaoyo/                                                                         TeTi,uppW       v 2         Treatment works                   fxc   Tunnel
G G  1dolu                                                                                               CA    Break pressure tanks
Naors,mhanoackenpolayo. -                   iSrkssroo ual m                  /       k                                         Clear water tunnel               -        National highway
I t Idikk.r.ira_                                                                                                                           Major roads
ud 1   ry   l  1 6   jo ,    Kgavonampotti   /      <\cthampatti             |                                                                    * -   Railroads
Vellaik rIale"  19    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-                                                Rivers
r-0<45                s -   ?                                 \t        /                                                                            KILOMETERS 0         5         10       15      -    -  District boundaries
State boundaries
MILES               O 5              to
international boundaries
"~~~~~~~~~~vc                                                             Kanmooa _  ;   :Loo  p   m      c             m                           tWS1R                     : 0tza, 
Vhp reaesn GsIIs.ely ror ,he  /nt mKARNATAKA
IRUVANI DAM                                                                                                                                                                3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PKI5A  ANGIADESH
mSo hetfpaUot hWd   mt lerat 'tra'5ny.m                 on Ahl ma do Lo    ;..KN3rrbs;;;
thele almanyondolapaom             uu//t f             t 3COMP'TORE t
Th,irumaloyon1nlonam
KE-RAZA           STATE                                                         ro PeI/e-hi                                                                         AA      NADU           ---
511
h,,cn', - ,d,- P,,t-,d , ho4 W,I ,lh, -d-1-f  M,ld lhan n ehenSnlII                             19-                              LANKA
F.nnncCn,prnn-nThnacnd---nn,,sun,hu,da,a,, ,,rnn,wun   -~-
77-             tl~nn, n-4a-ta   0. n b-daa                                                                                ONDIA               0CC- N






IBRD 17231
To Paloesei78                                                                                 I N  D  IA                          JUNE 1983
.To7iruchchraoppao/i    )       TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
COII\ABATORE )                                                    \   \  \   ,5,                                   4                  MADURAI WATER SUPPLY SUBPROJECT
Din                                        I.. V.                                \ /. PROPOSED WORKS
'4..                                                               \                                                                   . \ Dindi  \. .. PROJECT COMPONENTS:
? .                    \ >                          X       t            \                                 i           S    City selected for water supply augmentation
.J\- Kodaikl onal                                                                 O/mX  / \ l *. : Towns selected for providing new water supply schemes
I        ..                                            /          \/                                     _ L                          -  . .  Transmission lines
InzQKotagi                         //ip;rlTtke  EXISTING FEATURES:
K Treatment works                  0    Other selected towns
9   \   VAIGAIzDAM    xtr9Bc<;    < >       &&                                                           "    Break pressure tank           .         National highways
Then *   \t Allingarampt   { J                        zb2\\+                    /                  1/t.                                                            Major roads
-w-      Alinagaram                      labagoiA'ervoir                  J7                                                                                                     -  Railroads              los
_   ss     X.!Rivers
Si am p      s    i l    Pra\r                 odadQ iUu oN  /,*r                                                              Dam
}/ / | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-                                                                               /tDistrict  boundaries
Thevararn  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-State boundaries
CD rhr vararrl   xjx  (                                                >       i    -       I        KILOMETERS  0         10      20       30      40Strt boundaries
/--_J   .       -.-. International boundaries
V oerapondi
To                     MILESnoth sa rA
C,,z     J       .r oepromn         1_                                                                                                                                                             -,-- :
L44 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LANDHRA -"A_'~1~A
/                                                                                                                    KARNATAKA                                |AKITAN 
Km  niialpai                                                                                                                                                                          BANGL1ADESH
:fx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
< / 72t Jc )         To5rivil/hpuftur         Virudunagar                                        TAMI L  NADU
To So fh,y0
.'RAMANATHAPURAM                                                  ~EAA
Thne etaP has bees  rpare-d by The World R,nk' sIff -1-lssey to, the  oen,neot-0a
the  1 re ders  a -)-ehshnly tor the t- -nha  us   olThe Wd1d Sank and the let-rnh-nl1,)5                              I.
.FanceCorportbt 7he den-enahnflshS -and thehnbda-ne shon on thisnapdonot          _J                                                LAN-A
-ply en the part of The World Bash -nd the Intermatlonal FPn-ne Corporabon any,dgment  r =  '=,
/41   R  U   N  E L V  E L I   )           on the legal stans ht anW y lhh,t- r  or any -s-oroen-nt or nhh-ptshse ot su-h b-ondan-s
TI RUNELVELI            '17155                                                                                                     ksI.t~E               NZYv IAN             C






IBRD 17232
78-00'                             To Ho...                     78-30'                                                        7900                                                          JUNE 1983
r12o0                                                  ro Dbo,in,r                                                                                                                              tINDIA12'00'-
2-00 /  iNof7harm  D H A R M A P U R I                            TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SALEM WATER SUPPLY SUBPROJECT
PROPOSED WORKS
PROJECT COMPONENTS:
j    City selected for water supply augmentation
o '                                                                                                                         ;)  t)haeehrSri f9   / .-;/ / "-_ .   | Town selected for providing new water supply scheme
"'  Met tur                                                        Y   SCercaud         fftk
s 0   U T H             ~~~Trainsmission mains
m Ur                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Off take
*Kosul i -tir-   S'emU4l3   )',Eannonkur   i   t    ,</                                                   Treatment works
600  annankur                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Break pressure tanks
NOd 3S irasrrnrrx  //lriwa                                     ' PS(           4Hoi i = _i~ iMu Ic v'dszu1rials -iu                  Booster
Ayndioport:  icr     Voi                                                                  Transmission lines                      National highways
01  5ir                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Va//or    To Ke//okk-orkh,/,
To8hOeaOa        Th oloir 6rosrnii c                                                                                                        =                             -Headworks                               Major roads
A Treatment works               --i-. Railroads
'V   Booster                     ~~~~~~District boundaries
0   Other selected towns         -      - State boundaries
4aZ   /   /  \  L    r bS- -  ;Rivers  ._._. International boundaries    11 30
KILOMETERS  0            10         20          30          40         50
o r   \ /-  \MILES  0     10                 20                30
TO                                                                                                                                                                            ANDHRA) -orndTAo/er                                 79   TAN
KARNATAKA                                      L PRADESH,JS
.-a                         BANGLADES'H
ft  \   c i  \  i   T I R U C H C H I R A P P A L L I  \          (                            PAKISTAN                               2
NmT  o i b   eakkal             !                                                         ",
P E R I Y A                                                                                                                   4 \  <  J   \  \   s  6= e cony nence oS Me   t  <   T A M I L  N A D U  - z.: @iS : S1.; L: % In beno,,,:e.:eof iEeiN K  '
Copona-con The fetnnann                                                                          Sce, oTAMILlNA
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~i ma en nu \iy an ikrst     hd.d'eon       eshm      mm ii;ERALA0                                   Ara; b/onl;;(,  ;\    V>    )n
n\ave rhe Woy bank anv                                                                                  I  /  a  N mdiI
-dtennabnnei-mao Conec-n                                                ArTh  n1..70
-anyTh udet~ 0n  -d feet ensi 1
r/ any, j\ny t {onany                 j                                                            It RI LANKA
To Kay,T  osy.nn.eetncctnee
7o Msii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~esibonan
1100,                                         78 0'0 oKre                                                        G                                                 ',i                      Kc tesitqts           tl.. N              OCtl NI
7800,               ro KarUr                                   78-30                                            :  t: V 19 1A                                                         : OrA P:B\:\ 



