Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
F ILE COPFY~
Report No. P-3741-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 35.3 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED IDA SPECIAL FUND CREDIT OF SDR 35.3 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
March 2, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 30, 1984)
US$1.00        =  Rs 10.775249
Rs 1.00        =  US$0.09280528
Rs 1 million   =  US$92,805
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 = Rs 9.75, which represents the average exchange
rate projected over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
GTN     -  Government of Tamil Nadu
GOI     -  Government of India
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
IDWSSD  -  International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade
MMWSSB  -  Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
PWD     -  Public Works Department
TWAD    -  Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board
lcd     -  liters per capita per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:                 The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage
Board (TWAD) and participating local bodies.
Amount:                        SDR 70.6 million (US$73 million equivalent),
of which SDR 35.3 million (US$36.5 million
equivalent) will be an allocation from the
IDA Special Fund.
Terms:                         Standard.
Relending Terms:               India to Tamil Nadu:  As part of Central
assistance for State development projects on
terms and conditions applicable at the time.
Tamil Nadu to TWAD and TWAD to the par-
ticipating local bodies:
25 years, including five years of grace at
8 1/2% interest per annum. The foreign
exchange risk will be borne by the Government
of India.
Proiect Description:           The project consists of (i) the construction
of intake, treatment, transmission and dis-
tribution facilities to augment the supply of
piped water by about 300 million liters per
day to (a) the city of Coimbatore, 20 satel-
lite towns, and rural areas in the Coimbatore
planning district; (b) the city of Salem,
11 satellite towns and peripheral rural
communities; and (c) the city of Madurai;
(ii) the provision of safe drinking water
to about 44 small towns with no protected
reliable source; and (iii) the installation
of low-cost sanitation in 14 middle-sized
towns. By 1988/89, about 3.3 million people
in the project cities and towns, and about
500,000 people in the project villages will
be served with safe drinking water and a
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
further 200,000 people will benefit through
better sanitary facilities. Funds will be
provided to (i) TWAD for a sectorwide train-
ing program, improved leak detection and
meter repair services and implementation of
improved accounting and material management
systems; and to (ii) the Government of Tamil
Nadu for consultancy services for a Statewide
water resources management study; a municipal
resource mobilization study, and implementa-
tion of sector accounting systems for par-
ticipating local bodies.
The project is complex and its timely execu-
tion will require careful planning and good
management. TWAD is a well-established
organization with experience in executing
similar projects. Nevertheless, several
anticipatory measures will be taken under the
project including the strengthening of the
organization, management and staffing of
TWAD, and the use of consultants for the
implementation of improved financial and
management information systems. An Action
Plan has also been designed to closely
monitor project implementation.
Consequently, completion of the project
within the planned implementation period
would seem feasible.



-iii-
(US$ Millions)
Estimated Costs                        Local           Foreign           Total
Urban Water Supply                     60.8              16.7              77.5
Urban Low-Cost Sanitation               3.2               0.7               3.9
Rural Water Supply                      6.8               1.9               8.7
Loan Fund for House Connections         1.0                -                1.0
Training                                0.5               0.1               0.6
Consultancy Services                    1.5               1.2               2.7
Miscellaneous Equipment & Works         0.3                -                0.3
Land Acquisition                        2.1                                 2.1
Taxes and Duties                        6.9                -                6.9
Sub-total                           83.1               20.6            103.7
Physical Contingencies                  5.4               1.4               6.8
Price Contingencies                    15.4               3.4              18.8
Design, Supervision
and Management                       24.0               _               24.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    127.9              25.4            153.3
Project Costs Net of Taxes
and Duties                            121.0              25.4             146.4
Financing Plan:                                        (US$ Millions)
Local           Foreign           Total
IDA                                    24.1             12.4              36.5
IDA Special Fund                       23.5             13.0              36.5
GTN Loans/Grants 1/                    80.3               -                80.3
TOTAL                                 127.9             25.4              153.3
Estimated Disbursements of IDA and IDA Special Fund Credits:
(US$ Millions)
IDA FY                  FY85      FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89     FY90
Annual                    4.0      14.5     16.5      18.3      16.7       3.0
Cumulative               4.0      18.5      35.0      53.3      70.0     73.0
Rate of Return:      About 9%, for the urban water supply component.
Appraisal Report:   No. 4707-IN, dated March 1, 1984.
1/ Includes US$6.9 million of taxes and duties.



I
I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
AND IDA SPECIAL FUND CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to India in an amount equivalent to SDR 35.3 million
(US$36.5 million equivalent) and a proposed Special Fund Credit in an amount
equivalent to SDR 35.3 million (US$36.5 million) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a water supply and sanitation project in the State of Tamil Nadu. The
proceeds of both credits would be channelled to the Government of Tamil Nadu
(GTN) in accordance with the Government of India's standard terms and arrange-
ments for the financing of State development projects. GTN will relend the
credit to the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) for 25 years,
including five years of grace, at 8 1/2% interest per annum. TWAD would in
turn make these funds available to the participating local bodies on the same
terms and conditions. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the
Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation of India and Resource
Mobilization Issues" (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Dudhichua Coal Project
(No. P-3735-IN), dated February 27, 1984.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in Indias agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improve-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important



-4-
that India maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec--
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted
commercial loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of
about US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development



-5--
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased nonr-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India-s development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government s share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings.  Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been
made. As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-



-6-
ing to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India-s development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of



-7-
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts.  The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly
overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth
rate has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed,
firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
health and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise
in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  I-lore than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India-s poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 million, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 9 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$30 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$18
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-



-9-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India-s needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,932 million, of which
US$2,100 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly.  In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
29.     While the Central Government exercises some influence in the water
supply and sewerage sector in India through the provision of financial
support, State Governments have primary responsibility for the development
of this sector. They execute their responsibilities through various
Government departments and agencies which, in turn, may delegate part or
all of their duties to local authorities. In a number of cases, municipal
authorities or other agencies have the entire responsibility for planning,
design, construction, operation and maintenance of water supply and
sewerage services within their jurisdictions.
30.     Since the early 1950's, State Governments have endeavored to meet
the increasing demands on the Sector caused by rapidly expanding popula-
tion and unprecedented rates of urban growth. However, competing demands
for resources by other sectors, lack of management and planning skills,
shortages of key materials and equipment, as well as foreign exchange
constraints, have resulted in only 1 to 2% of public expenditures being
invested in the sector. This has led to inadequate levels of water supply
and sewerage services. In 1975, it was estimated 1/ that in India only
193 million people, or 31% of the total population of 620 million, had
access to reasonably safe drinking water and that only 125 million (20%)
had acceptable means of disposing sewage. These levels were lower than
the average levels for all developing countries, in which water and waste
disposal services reached 38% and 33% of the population, respectively.
31.     The State of Tamil Nadu, located in southern India, covers an area
of 130,000 sq km, (about 4% of the national territory). With a population
of about 50 million, Tamil Nadu is one of India's more densely populated
States with 372 persons per sq km, compared with a national average of
208.  The agricultural area of Tamil Nadu covers approximately 56% of the
State's cultivable land surface, of which approximately 35% is irrigated.
The per capita income (1977/78) in Tamil Nadu was estimated at Rs 1,030
(US$121) 2/ which corresponds approximately to the all-India average for
the same period.
32.     The primary sources of surface water in the State are the Palar,
Pennar, Cauvery, Vaigai and the Tambiraparani rivers. Most rivers flowing
through the State rise in the adjoining States of Karnataka and Kerala and
abstractions from them are under interstate agreements. Only the Cauvery
and Tambiraparani are perennial rivers, while there is extensive impound-
ing on the lesser, non-perennial rivers to permit greater exploitation for
irrigation needs. The average annual discharge of the rivers in Tamil
Nadu is less than 1% of the total national potential, as compared with the
State's population which currently represents about 7.3% of the national
total. Most (about 95%) of the available surface water resources are
reserved for irrigation and the drinking water supply needs of Tamil
1/ World Health Organization, Community Supply and Wastewater Disposal,
Mid-Decade Progress Report, May 1976.
2/ 1977/78 rate of exchange Rs 8.50=US$1.00.



-11-
Nadu's increasing population have to be met either by an increased depend-
ence on groundwater, or by bringing scarce supplies of surface water over
long distances at great expense.
33.     The overall service levels in Tamil Nadu are far from
satisfactory. However, the supply of safe piped water to the rural areas
has improved over the past decade and currently about 47% of the rural
population is served. The Tamil Nadu Government's (GTN) goal is to serve
all problem villages 1/ with safe drinking water by 1985, but progress to
date indicates that this goal would most likely have to be revised. In
urban areas, of 740 towns, 222 have organized water supply systems, while
schemes for a further 70 towns are currently under execution.
Approximately 65% of the population in the towns presently served is
supplied with piped water. The 448 remaining towns which lack these
facilities represent approximately 28% of the urban population. The
supply of water to these towns, as well as improvement to existing systems
in 72 towns are proposed as part of the International Drinking Water
Supply and Sanitation Decade (IDWSSD) program. In all urban areas
however, only intermittent service is available and a large proportion of
the urban population is served through standposts.
34.     Sewerage systems in Tamil Nadu are even less developed than water
supply. Only thirteen towns have water-borne sewerage facilities at
present. Execution of sewerage schemes is in progress in six more towns,
and the provision of sewerage facilities for a further five towns is
currently under investigation. Within the scope of India's IDWSSD
program, new sewerage systems are proposed for Tamil Nadu's nine Class I
towns; 2/ in the remaining towns sanitation facilities will be based on
low-cost sanitation techniques (para. 54). Rural sanitation has so far
received little attention. In accordance with IDWSSD goals, 3/ 25% of the
rural population is targetted to be provided with low-cost sanitation by
1990. However, due to financial constraints this goal is not likely to be
met.
Sector Organization
35.     With the exception of the city of Madras, the statewide respon-
sibility for the planning, design, and construction of water supply and
sewerage systems rests with the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage
Board (TWAD), which was founded in 1971. TWAD executes, finances, and
co missions projects and in most cases hands them over to urban local
bodies for operation and maintenance.  TWAD engineers are seconded to
1/ Villages without an assured safe water source within a distance of
1 km from the village.
2/ Towns with a population of 100,000 or more.
3/ The goals are: Urban and Rural Water Supply - 100% coverage.
Urban Wastes disposal           -   80% coverage.
Rural Sanitation                -   25% coverage.



-12-
municipalities to ensure effective maintenance and repair of systems after
commissioning. TWAD is also entrusted with the responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of all rural water supply systems in the State.
Until recently, the Madras Corporation was responsible for the construc-
tion and maintenance of water supply and drainage schemes within the city
limits. In 1978, however, the Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and
Sewerage Board (MMWSSB) was set up as an autonomous body with respon-
sibility for all water supply and sewerage schemes formerly held by the
Corporation.
Sector Investment
36.     The proposed project is a part of GTN's and TWAD's sector invest-
ment program under the State's current Sixth Plan (1980-85) and the
forthcoming Seventh Plan (1986-1991). Under the Sixth Plan, GTN has
allocated about 8.5% (about US$277 million) of total State Plan outlays
for water supply and sanitation as compared with the All-India average
of about 4% reflecting both the priority the State Government attaches
to the sector and the high cost of providing water in Tamil Nadu. Annual
investments in the sector currently average about Rs 75 crores
(US$77 million). Early indications are that the Seventh Plan would
provide a significant increase over current levels of investment.
37.     Water is a very scarce resource in the State and alternative
options for supply are limited (para. 32). It is therefore costly for GTN
to develop new sources of drinking water while consumers generally cannot
afford water charges which enable full cost recovery. Consequently, GTN
is required to subsidize local authorities with significant capital and
operating grants. In the proposed project, about half the total project
cost would be provided by GTN to sector agencies on a grant basis.
Beneficiary charges will in most cases be sufficient to cover operation
and maintenance costs, as well as debt service on the loan portion. This
financing pattern would allow GTN to sustain its ambitious sector invest-
ment program over the longer term, but it requires that future sources of
water be exploited at affordable cost levels.
Bank Group Operations in the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
38.     The Bank Group's involvement in the water supply and sewerage
sector in India began in 1974 with a US$55 million credit for the Bombay
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390-IN of JaLnuary 1974). Since
then, the Bank has made seven credits totalling US$529 million for water
supply and sewerage projects and provided a further US$190 million for
water supply and sewerage as part of a broader program of infrastructure
development in urban areas. Credit 390-IN which financed water
transmission, distribution and treatment facilities in the Greater Bombay
area and the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Credit 585-IN of September 1975), which supported the construction of
water supply and sewerage facilities for five large towns and provided
safe piped water to a number of smaller towns and villages in three
regional water authorities, have been completed. The Project Completion
Report of Credit 585-IN is under preparation. Ongoing projects include
the Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 842-IN of



-13-
November 1978); Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 848-IN of
October 1978); Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Credit 899-IN of June 1979); Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Credit 1046-IN of June 1980) and the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Credit 1280-IN of November 1982).
39.     All on-going projects with the exception of the First and Second
Bombay Water Supply Projects, have been formulated on a statewide basis
with responsibility for construction of facilities entrusted to a state-
level agency. The Second Bombay Water Supply Project like its predecessor
(Credit 390-IN), addresses the specific water supply and sewerage needs of
a single city viz. the Bombay Metropolitan area. A third approach has
been the provision of water supply and sewerage facilities as part of a
composite program of urban infrastructure development as under the First,
Second and Third Calcutta Urban Development Projects (Credit 427-IN,
756-IN and 1369-IN, respectively) and the Madras Urban Development Project
(Credft 687-IN). Credits 427-IN and 687-IN have been fully disbursed.
Sectoral Objectives and Performance
40.     Through its involvement in the water supply sector in India the
Bank Group is assisting in developing viable sector policies and programs
in support of GOI's overall objective of progressing towards IDWSSD goals
(para. 34). Particular attention is being given to (a) institutional
development, (b) financial viability and pricing issues, and (c) the
choice of technology an'd promotion of less costly designs.
41.     The physical and technological objectives of Bank Group supported
water supply and sewerage projects in India have been met in most cases.
Implementation of construction works has been satisfactory. There has
also been some progress in lowering per capita costs, partly through
efforts to encourage a search for alternative technical solutions as a
part of project preparation, and partly as a result of efforts through a
Bank-executed UNDP-financed program to develop, test and disseminate low
cost sanitation technologies (UNDP GLO/78/006) which are now becoming
widely accepted in India. Of major concern on the physical side however,
is the relatively poor standard of operation and maintenance of completed
facilities, which is directly linked to institutional and financial issues
(see para. 42).
42.     Achievement of project institutional and financial goals, includ-
ing cost recovery, however has not been up to expectation.  GOI shares
IDA's concern in this regard and is collaborating with IDA through the
Central Ministry of Works and Housing and concerned State Governments in a
detailed review of the institutional and financial performance of all
completed and on-going water supply projects. The objective of this
review, which was initiated in mid-1983, is to identify the underlying
causes and the corrective actions needed to improve institutional and
financial performance in the sector. The data collection phase of the
review has been completed and findings are presently under review. When
completed by June 1984, the review should provide the basis for further
dialogue with GOI and State Governments on the issues identified and



-14-
provide options and guidelines for future project formulation which are
practical and adaptable under local circumstances.
43.     Initial findings of the review indicate that poor cost recovery is
symptomatic of several underlying institutional and operational problems.
While there is a lack of political will on the part of some State
Governments to increase tariffs, resolution of the underlying institu-
tional and operational problems may result in a beneficial effect on
tariff and cost recovery issues. The review has tentatively identified
three problem areas related to unsatisfactory institutional and opera-
tional performance:
(i)  the appropriate roles and objectives of new sector agencies
remain insufficiently defined, incentives for effective
sector management are somewhat ambiguous, and the relation-
ship between the internal processes of these agencies and
the political decision-making processes at state and local
government levels need to be more fully considered;
(ii)  traditional roles of local governments in the sector require
more attention in project design and execution, particularly
in regard to the retailing of water, operation and
maintenance, billing and collection, and public education;
and
(iii)  specific programs and actions to improve sector management
and operational efficiency have not been adequately iden-
tified and vigorously pursued during project implementation
by the agencies and local governments concerned, partly
because of the lack of an appropriate incentive structure,
as noted above.
44.     In considering the above causes for poor institutional and finan-
cial performance, it should be noted that the delivery of water has been
traditionally perceived in India as a local government function financed
through general tax revenues, particularly property tax revenues.
Furthermore, the concept of water supply as a separate utility operation
has not yet been fully accepted in India by policy makers and the public
alike. Strong public opposition to tariff increases and the metering of
consumption has arisen due to the prevalence of the traditional notion
that water is a "free public good". However, there is now a growing
awareness particularly among policy makers, that in order to extend serv-
ice coverage the sector must be strengthened and be made to generate a
larger proportion of its own funding through direct user charges. There
is added support for this view due to the demands on limited property tax
revenues for the provision of a wide range of other local services
(e.g. road maintenance, waste collection and disposal etc.) for which the
opportunities for direct user charges are more limited.
45.     The initial findings also suggest that there is scope for improved
sector performance over the medium to long-term. Intensified supervision
of ongoing projects and emphasis on well defined sectoral policies in
upcoming projects will be required to achieve this objective. The sec-



-15-
toral adjustments contemplated are far reaching and will take time.
Follow-up projects will be required to maintain continuity and consistency
in the sector policy dialogue envisaged and to pursue in greater detail
the issues now being identified.
46.     Although the sectoral review and evaluation is still under way,
and no definitive conclusions can therefore be drawn, the preliminary
findings discussed above suggest that no drastic departure from current
sector assistance strategy and basic sector objectives (para. 40) is
required. Instead, increased attention to the sector issues discussed
above, including an appreciation of the time and effort required to effect
change through a series of projects, is suggested. Accordingly, the
proposed project does not reflect a significantly different sector
approach but is, in its content and design, consistent with the findings
referred to above. Firstly, the principal project implementing agency is
well established and has a proven track record with a well accepted sector
role. It will be further strengthened through a carefully designed sup-
port program of simple yet practical improvements in staffing, administra-
tive and financial systems and procedures, and monitoring practices.
Secondly, steps are being taken through the project to support and
strengthen the traditional sector role of local governments in the dis-
tribution and retailing of water through better training and staffing, and
through improved procedures for billing, collection and operation and
maintenance. Measures are also being taken to improve not only the
revenues from water supply operations, but also the general resource base
of the local governments through a Resource Mobilization Study (para. 66).
Thirdly, a detailed Program of Action to improve sector management and
operational efficiency of all participating agencies has been developed
which outlines specific timebound steps to achieve agreed objectives and
to provide a better basis for project supervision and monitoring.
Finally, in order to move the GTN towards taking a broader view of the
sector and identifying cost-effective alternatives for its longer-term
sector development, a state-wide Water Resources Management Study will be
undertaken (para. 53).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.     The proposed project was prepared by TWAD with assistance from
Bank staff and consultants and was appraised in February 1983. The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 4707-IN dated March 1, 1984 is being distributed
separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet appears in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington in February, 1984 with
Mr. S.P. Bajpai, of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of
Finance, as coordinator of the Indian Delegation.
Project Description and Objectives
48.     The proposed project will be implemented over five years (1984/89)
during the State's Sixth (1980/85) and Seventh (1986/91) Five Year Plan
periods. It represents a significant portion (37%) of GTN's current water
supply sector investment program. The project aims at providing an
improved supply of water to selected urban communities and a safe supply
of new piped water to a number of smaller towns and rural areas.



-16-
Low-income groups would be provided with assistance to connect to the
water supply system, or alternatively be served with standpost water.
Public health standards would be improved in 14 towns through the provi-
sion of low-cost sanitation. Finally, the project would aim at
strengthening TWAD's institutional, managerial and financial capabilities
through the provision of training and technical assistance. The project
would consist of the following:
(a) the design and construction of intake, treatment, transmission
and distribution facilities to provide an additional 300 mil-
lion liters per day of piped water to (i) the city of
Coimbatore, 20 urban communities, and surrounding rural areas
in the Coimbatore area; (ii) the city of Salem, 11 satellite
towns and peripheral rural communities and (iii) the city of
Madurai;
(b) the provision of new piped water to about 44 small towns
currently lacking a protected reliable source; and
(c) a low-cost sanitation component for 14 middle-sized towns
identified under the UNDP Global Low-Cost Sanitation Project.
49.     The project will also provide funds for a sectorwide staff train-
ing program, and the installation of leak detection and meter repair
services for TWAD. TWAD will also be provided with consultant services
for the implementation of accounting and materials management systems.
Consultant assistance for a Statewide Water Resources Management Study,
for the installation of appropriate water supply sector accounting systems
and for a Resource Mobilization Study for participating local bodies are
also included in the project. To monitor the implementation of a number
of interrelated project activities aimed at improving the operational
efficiency and financial viability of the project entities, an Action Plan
was discussed with GTN and TWAD during appraisal and agreed to during
negotiations (para. 46). The Action Plan will be reviewed annually and
updated by TWAD in consultation with the Association (Section 2.07(b)(iii)
of the Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
50.     TWAD will implement the project except for the Water Resources
Management Study (para. 53) and the Resource Mobilization Study
(para. 66), which will be implemented by GTNo TWAD's chairman, nominated
by the Government, heads its Board of Directors. He is assisted by a full
time Managing Director drawn from the Indian Administrative Service (IAS).
TWAD employs around 1,200 engineers, 400 technical staff and about 500
non-technical staff.
51.     As the oldest water board in the country, TWAD has well developed
policies and procedures which it is currently reviewing to ensure their
continued appropriateness. As part of project preparation, consultants
were appointed to review TWAD's activities. Their recommendations include
specific improvements in TWAD's organizational plan, staffing pattern,
delegation of powers, material management systems, aLccounting systems,



-17--
project planning and control systems, as well as job responsibilities.
Of specific importance is the need to appoint an Engineering Director, a
Finance Director, a Chief Accountant and a Chief Audit Officer. TWAD
would ensure that the above positions are staffed on a full-time basis by
September 30, 1984 (Section 2.02(b) of the Project Agreement). In
addition, TWAD will engage consultants to implement the recommended
improvements in material management, project accounting, and centralized
financial management systems which would be fully implemented by April 1,
1986 according to the Action Plan.
52.     In view of the magnitude of the works involved, careful planning
and good management would be required to complete the project by the first
quarter of 1989. The design section of the project team has already been
established and is fully operational and by September 30, 1984, TWAD will
complete the staffing of the project team by the inclusion of supervisory
personnel in accordance with an organizational structure satisfactory to
the Association (Section 2.02(a) of the Project Agreement). Separate
water supply and sanitation accounting systems will be established within
the Municipalities of Coimbatore, Salem and Madurai by April 1, 1985
(Section 2.09 of the Tamil Nadu Agreement). Consultants have also
designed accrual accounting, and management information systems for the
water supply and sanitation operations in these cities. In the small
towns under the project, water supply and sanitation are relatively modest
operations and will therefore continue to function as an integral part of
municipal undertakings based on a simpler modified cash accounting system.
The systems designed for the three cities and small towns will be fully
implemented by TWAD with consultant assistance by April 1, 1986 in accord-
ance with the Action Plan (para. 49).
Water Resources Management Study
53.     The problem of providing drinking water in sufficient quantities
at an affordable cost is becoming increasingly acute in Tamil Nadu. Most
of the readily available water resources have been reserved for irrigation
purposes and drinking water needs have to be met from diminishing expen-
sive alternative sources (para. 32). There could be substantial benefits
from a Statewide Water Resources Management Study in helping to develop
appropriate water management strategies and options. Such a study would
be particularly important for Madras, the State capital which regularly
suffers from water crises. Under the proposed project, a team of local
experts will collaborate with the United Nations, Department of Technical
Cooperation for Development (UN/DTCD) in undertaking a study covering a
selected number of priority areas in the State based on agreed terms of
reference. The Study will commence by January 1, 1985 and will be com-
pleted in about two years thereafter (Section 2.05 of the Tamil Nadu
Agreement). GTN also proposes to take into consideration the findings of
the proposed Study in regard to the exploitation of groundwater resources
and thereafter endeavor to introduce suitable measures to monitor and
control its use by commercial and industrial users (Section 2.08 of the
Tamil Nadu Agreement).



-18-
Low Cost Sanitation
54.     Under the proposed project, fourteen medium-sized towns for which
feasibility studies have been completed under the UNDP Global Low-Cost
Sanitation Project executed by the World Bank would also be provided with
pour-flush waterseal type latrines. Construction of these units would be
regulated, confining their use to areas where pollution of groundwater
sources would not present a problem. Each participating local authority
would be required to pass bylaws for this purpose by December 31, 1984
(Section 2.10 of the Tamil Nadu Agreement). The financing plan and cost
recovery measures for this component would be based on affordability
criteria established under the UNDP Project which is acceptable to the
Association.
Training
55.     The systematic provision of in-service training is not currently
provided by TWAD. Under the project, TWAD will develop a comprehensive
scheme of education and training and establish, or secure commensurate
training facilities. Apart from meeting project-related training needs,
the training system will also provide a continuing capability to identify
and meet Statewide sector manpower development requirements beyond the
project period. With respect to sanitation, the training program will
have a practical emphasis and will take account of evaluation studies to
be made on the operation and use of facilities as they are installed. The
total staff of all categories employed within the urban water sector of
Tamil Nadu excluding MMWSSB, is estimated at 10,800. The manpower
required for the planning, construction, operation and maintenance by the
project is likely to increase by a further one-third over the project
period. The project training component, although substantial, clearly
would be unable to address the needs of such a large, diverse and widely
dispersed work-force. It will therefore be designed as the first phase oE
a long term training strategy for the whole sector. The component will
include a Stage I Training Study to formulate training policy, determine
training strategy, and identify and design priority training programs
which will be completed by June 30, 1985. Assistance in setting up the
embryo training organization and implementing priority training programs
will represent Stage II. The timing of implementation of Stage II will be
agreed with TWAD later in accordance with the Action Plan. The sector
training plan will be developed and executed in coordination with the
comprehensive training system currently being operated by the MMWSSB.
Proiect Costs and Financing
56.     The estimated cost of the proposed project is about
US$153.3 million equivalent, including about US$6.9 million in taxes and
duties. Physical contingencies amount to approximately US$6.8 million,
while price contingencies of US$18.8 million are based on annual price
increases for both foreign and local costs of 7% from 1983/84, through
1985/86 and 6% for 1986/87 and thereafter. Details of project costs are
included in the Credit and Project summary. Approximately 130 man-months
of foreign and 470 man-months of local consultancy services are needed for
the project. These services are required to carry out the Water Resources



-19-
Management Study, Resource Mobilization Study and a Training Study. The
man-month cost including salary, fees and subsistence for both foreign and
local consultants would average about US$10,000 and US$2,500 respectively.
57.     The proposed IDA Credit of US$36.5 million equivalent and IDA
Special Fund Credit of US$36.5 million equivalent will finance about 50%
of project costs, net of duties and taxes. The Credits will finance all
direct and indirect foreign costs (approximately US$25.4 million) and
US$47.6 million of local costs. The balance of funding required for the
project of approximately US$80.3 million, will be provided by GTN as a
loan/grant mix. Capital grants will be made to local authorities where
internal revenues from tariffs and water taxes based on affordability
criteria will not be adequate to recover the full investment cost. For
the project as a whole, total capital assistance will be passed on in
approximately equal loan/grant portions. GTN loans to the participating
local authorities made through TWAD will be at 8 1/2% interest per annum
over a period of 25 years, including five years of grace. The proposed
relending rate is comparable with the current interest charged by finan-
cial institutions in India on loans for similar purposes and is expected
to be positive in real terms, since the average annual rate of inflation
over the project period is not expected to exceed 8%.  On execution of the
subproject.s by TWAD, the ownership of the assets will be vested in the
respective local bodies who will be responsible for servicing the
associated debts to TWAD. TWAD, in turn, would repay GTN.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.     Contracts for equipment and materials, estimated at about
US$12.5 million including contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA's
guidelines for procurement. However, proceeds provided under the IDA
Special Fund credit for this component may only be used to finance expen-
ditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, eligible Special
Fund countries. A preference margin of 15% of the c.i.f. value or current
import duty, whichever is lower, would be granted to local manufacturers
in bid evaluation. Other contracts for equipment and materials would
involve either small items (below US$150,000) which cannot readily be
grouped into larger bulk contracts or items unsuitable for ICB because
of high transportation costs and/or high risk of damage in transit
(e.g. concrete, asbestos cement and stoneware pipes). These contracts,
with a total value estimated at about US$49.7 million would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with local
bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA.
59.     The total value of civil works under the project is estimated at
US$53.5 million, including contingencies. Most civil works (approximately
US$47.0 million) would consist of a large number of relatively small
contracts, which are widely dispersed throughout the project area, do not
require any special equipment or techniques, are labor-intensive, and are
traditionally carried out by registered contractors established in Tamil
Nadu or other Indian States. These works, which include labor-intensive
pipe laying and the construction of pumping stations, would not attract
foreign bidders since it is clear that overseas firms could not success-



-20-
fully compete with local bidders for works of this type and size. Major
water treatment plants (estimated value US$6.5 million) to be constructed
would be combined into a single package and submitted to ICB. Although
some local contractors are well qualified to bid for its construction, it
may also attract foreign bidders. A preferential margin of 7 1/2% would
be allowed to local contractors in evaluating bids for civil works under
ICB. Most of the contracts for equipment, materials and civil works are
likely to be won by local contractors.
60.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of the
cost of equipment and materials or 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured goods procured under ICB; 50% of the expenditures of locally
procured equipment and materials; 50% of the cost of civil works contracts
subject to LCB and 70% of the cost of civil works contracts submitted to
ICB, 100% of the cost of contracts for consultant services and training,
and loan fund expenditures. No disbursements would be made against
administrative costs. Disbursements against small civil works contracts,
for one or more progress payments not exceeding Rs 300,000 (about
US$30,770), for equipment and materials for payments not exceeding
Rs 150,000 (about US$15,380) and for loan fund expenditures on house
connections would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures. The
supporting documentation for these expenditures would be subject to inde-
pendent audit and would be retained for inspection by review missions.
Disbursements against expenditures for all other items would be fully
documented.
The Financial Position of Proiect Entities
61.     Local Bodies:  All local bodies in Tamil Nadu have traditionally
maintained their accounts on a simple cash basis. As a part of the
feasibility study for this project, TWAD engaged consultants to prepare
financial statements for the cities of Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem in
accordance with commercial practice. Income statements for the year
1981/82 and 1982/83 indicate a varied performance ranging from a marginal
surplus in Madurai and Salem to a major deficit in Coimbatore on account
of its large interest obligation of about Rs 20 million (about
US$2.0 million) per annum due to a major water supply augmentation scheme
presently underway 1/. In the absence of financial reforms, the water
supply and sanitation services will become a major burden on the overall
resources of these cities. Little information is available on the finan-
cial activities of the water supply operations in each of the small towns
under the project.  Due to their very limited scale, the costs of such
operations have been met out of general tax revenues.
1/ Although Coimbatore will receive additional water under this augmen-
tation scheme (the Siruvani Project) due to be completed by end 1984,
the full benefits of it would be realized on completion of the
proposed project in 1988/89. Coimbatore's debt service obligation on
the Siruvani Project is guaranteed by GTN.



-21-
62.     TWAD:  TWAD's financial position is important in view of its
sectoral role and responsibility for project implementation. TWAD does
not levy tariffs and obtains its income through a charge of 19 1/2% of
base construction costs for the work it undertakes on behalf of local
bodies. TWAD has been able to generate enough revenues to cover its
operating costs and produce a marginal surplus. However to execute
projects for local bodies and other Government agencies, TWAD has obtained
unsecured loans from GTN and the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
TWAD's long term financial viability is critically dependent on the repay-
ment of these monies. In 1982/83 the amounts outstanding were estimated
to be about Rs 737 million (US$75.6 million). TWAD has no specific debt
repayment program, nor is reliable information available on its debt
maturity structure. To ensure TWAD's continued financial viability under
the proposed project, TWAD will be required to furnish IDA by December 31,
1984 with (i) a debt maturity schedule for the period 1985/86 through
1995/96; (ii) an annual program for debt retirement beginning from fiscal
year 1985/86; and (iii) an annual program to reduce outstanding receiv-
ables from fiscal year 1985/86, so that such receivables will not be more
than one and one-half times the value of the work in progress by fiscal
year 1988/89 and thereafter. TWAD will implement the annual programs
under (ii) and (iii) above beginning fiscal year 1985/86 (Section 4.02 of
the Project Agreement).
Tariffs
63.     Although maxim'im affordable tariffs and taxes will be imposed upon
the commissioning of works, full recovery of the proposed project invest-
ments will not be possible (para. 37). Adequate revenues are however
expected to be generated to cover operation and maintenance costs in the
project cities and in a majority of the project towns. Based on the
findings of socio-economic studies undertaken for the cities of
Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem, the monthly household expenditure for water
supply through earmarked water taxes 1/ and direct user charges is about
4% of total household income. In addition to the water taxes (currently
about 80% of revenues), the average domestic metered tariff rate required
to cover operation, maintenance and assigned debt service on the commis-
sioning of schemes in the above project cities in 1988/89, has been
estimated at Rs 1.35 (US$0.14) Rs 1.80 (US$0.18) and Rs 1.90 (US$0.19)
per thousand liters respectively. These rates are expected to be affor-
dable by consumers. GTN will cause Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem to make
suitable adjustments to water supply tariffs and taxes as shall be
required to produce sufficient revenues to cover their operation, main-
tenance and debt service obligations each year starting from the fiscal
year ending March 31, 1990 (Section 3.02(a)(i) of the Tamil Nadu
Agreement).  The extent to which debt service can be met varies with each
local body, GTN will therefore pass on the capital costs to the project
cities in varying mixes of grants and loans based on the capacity of each
1/ The earmarked water tax is a specific tax collected annually along
with the general property tax. It appears as a separate billing item
and represents a percentage of the annual assessed value of property.



-22-
to meet its debt service obligation. In addition, GTN will impose a
tariff increase effective April 1, 1985 (Section 3.03 of the Tamil Nadu
Agreement). As a result of this measure, the domestic metered rates in
Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem would rise to Rs 0.90 (US$0.09), Rs 0.75
(US$0.08) and Rs 0.75 (US$0.08) above prevailing tariff levels of Rs 0.35
(US$0.04), Rs 0.50 (US$0.05), and Rs 0.50 (US$0.05) per thousand liters,
respectively 1/. The revenues generated through this measure would
produce a marginal surplus though not adequate to recover all capital
costs. The interim tariff increase will however help to reduce the impact
of the tariff increases due at commissioning and improve the financial
performance of the project cities.
64.     In the 75 small towns, where there will be no metering, GTN will
impose a flat monthly charge per connection upon the commissioning of
works (about 1988/89) at a level that would enable each town to generate
adequate revenues to cover its operation and maintenance costs and to the
maximum extent possible, its debt service requirements. Due to the
limited resource base of these towns, the water charges collected will not
in all cases be adequate to fully cover operating costs and debt service.
Consequently, GTN will provide such towns with funds to cover any short-
fall in their operating costs and debt service obligations when they are
unable to do so from their own revenues (Section 3.02(a)(ii) and (b) of
the Tamil Nadu Agreement).
65.     In order to help to monitor the achievement of the overall finan-
cial objectives of the project, annual financial performance ratios have
been established for each of the project cities. These ratios based on
detailed financial analyses, reflect realistic achievement possibilities
taking into consideration both financial and operational improvements.
GTN would ensure that the project cities take all necessary action to
enable these targets to be met in accordance with the agreed Action Plan.
66.     To further improve local government finances, including sector
finances, a Resource Mobilization Study has been proposed for the project
cities. GTN will employ consultants by January 1, 1985 to undertake such
a study for the cities of Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem in accordance with
satisfactory terms of reference (Section 2.06 of the Tamil Nadu
Agreement). Although the Study will focus on short-term measures to
improve the revenue base of the project cities, it will also help to
identify constraints in resource mobilization enabling GTN to address such
issues as a long term program for improving local resource mobilization.
1/ Corresponding commercial and industrial metered water rates per
thousand liters for Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem would be as follows.
Commercial: Rs 1.80 (US$0.18), Rs 1.50 (US$0.15), Rs 1.50 (US$0.15)
respectively. Industrial: Rs 2.70 (US$0.27), Rs 2.25 (US$0.23), Rs
2.25 (US$0.23) respectively.



-23-
Benefits
67.     The project would provide an improved water supply service to
approximately 3.3 million people by 1988/89 in the three cities and
75 small towns to be served. Consumers in nearly all these cities and
towns connected to the system will be provided a minimum supply of
90 liters per day (lcd) of safe piped water. Standpipe users will receive
about 30 lcd in the cities and 25 lcd in the smaller towns. The rural
areas covered by the project presently served with unsafe water drawn from
wells and other occasional sources will receive about 40 lcd of safe piped
water supplied through standposts. The population served in these vil-
lages will be approximately 500,000 by 1988/89. The low-cost sanitation
program will benefit about 200,000 people in the 14 middle sized towns.
68e     Because of the absence of convenient water sources, the water
supply components for all project towns are costly and capital intensive.
All feasible alternatives have been examined and options costed to deter-
mine the least cost solutions that would be pursued. The design of water
distribution systems has been programmed to define the most economic
network having regard to configuration and pipe size. A rate of return of
about 9% has been calculated for Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem and the satel-
lite towns using revenues as the surrogate for benefits. The project's
rate of return is a conservative measure of the economic rate of return
because it does not capture consumer surpluses and benefits which accrue
to the community at large.
69.     The project will also provide for the first time, a safe supply of
piped water to 44 small towns benefitting nearly half a million people
below the poverty threshold of about US$35 per household per month whose
present water sources pose a health hazard. Due to the low levels of
consumption, demand-based pricing is not feasible for these towns to the
same extent as for the project cities and larger project towns.
Consequently, attempts at the quantification of benefits for them will not
be practical.
70.     Among the non-quantifiable benefits of the project is the allevia-
tion of the hardship and drudgery of the poor in urban areas, through the
provision of new and increased supplies of standpost water. Also not
reflected in the rates of return are the benefits from an improvement of
environmental quality and health conditions and their impact on increased
productivity and lower medical costs through the availability of safe
water and better sanitation facilities provided under the project.
Project Risks
71.     The technical risks involved in the project are no greater than
can normally be expected with operations of this type. The project is
complex and its timely execution will require considerable management
effort and input coordination by TWAD. Therefore, the possibilities of
delays occurring cannot be excluded. Although TWAD is a well established
organization with experience in executing similar projects on a smaller
scale, several measures have been taken to minimize the risk of delays.
Provision has been made for the strengthening of TWAD's organization,



-24-
management and staffing, and for consultant assistance in providing
improved financial and management and information systems. An Action Plan
has also been designed to closely monitor the progress of project
implementation. Consequently, completion of the project within the
planned implementation period would seem feasible.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement between India and the
Association acting as the Administrator of the Special Fund, the draft
Tamil Nadu Agreement between the Association and the State of Tamil Nadu,
the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the Tamil Nadu
Water Supply and Drainage Board, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
73.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements by TWAD with each
of the project cities and towns, the passing of by-laws to ensure the
metering of both new and existing connections in Madurai and the issue of
a Government Notification allocating an additional 125 mld of water to
Coimbatore will be conditions of disbursement for their respective com-
ponents of the Project (Schedule I, para. 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
74.     I am satisfied that the proposed credits would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and Resolution No. IDA-82-6
adopted on October 26, 1982, of the Executive Directors of the
Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credits.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
March 2, 1984



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b      1971/b  RECENT  /b           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970- ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THtNSAD SQ. K1)
TOTAL                               3287.6      3287.6      3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                        1760.7      1780.5      1811.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     70.0       100.0       260.0               276.7                     1028.6
ENERGY CON5StmprION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       114.0       165.0       210.0               398.4                      792.8
POPDLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0    690183.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)-        18.0        19.8        23.7                21.5                       32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                            1001.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                              1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                              2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        132.3       166.6       205.3               161.7                     260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND            247.0        307.5       372.7              363.1                     1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                           40.9        42.7        39.7                36.6                       39.4
15-64 YRS                          54.5         54.2        57.2                59.2                      57.2
65 AND ABOVE                        4.6          3.1         3.0                 4.2                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                1.8         2.1         2.1                 1.9                        2.3
URBAN                               2.5          3.3         3.7                 4.0                        3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         43.7         40.0        35.4                29.3                       31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         21.8         16.7        13.3                10.9                        9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.9         2.7         2.4                 2.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)          64.0       3 782.0     682 6.0
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..        12.0        23.0                48.1                      46.6
FOO  AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        98.0        102.0       107.0               111.4                     125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)       96.0         90.0        87.0                98.1                     114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           54.0         50.0        47,0                56.7                      57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0        15.0        13.0/c              13.9                      14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          26.2         20.7        17.0                12.2                        7.6
flMLTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         43.2        48.1        52.2                59.6                       60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       165.0        139.0       121.2               96.6                       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0        33.0/d              32.9                       37.1
URBAN                                ..         60.0        83.07               70.8                      54.8
RURAL                                 . .        6.0        20.07?              22.2                      26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ,         18.0        20.0/e              18.1                       41.4
URBAN                                 . .       85.0        87.0/e              72.7                      47.5
*                      RURAL                                 ..         1.0         2.07.               4.7                       33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4850.0       4890.0      3640.0/f           3506.0                     7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           10980.0/g    8300.0       5380.07?            4797.9                    2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2180.0       1650.0      1310.0/d            1100.6                    104?.2
URBAN                                ..           ..       370.07W             298.4                     651.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..     10410.07d            5941.6                    2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..          ..                  ..                      27.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2         5.6         5.2/e                .
URBAN                                5.2         5.6         4.87.
RURAL                                5.2         5.6         5.37..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6          2.8                              ''
URBAN                               2.6          2.8          ..
RURAL                                2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (1 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MCST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1 b  RECENT  lb          LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCCIE
1960-       1970-  ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT R-ATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     61.0         73.0         76.0/f              96.1                      101.2
MALE                     80.0         90.0         90.07?             107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                   40.0         56.0         61.07o              82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     20.0        26.0         28.0/f               30.2                       44.9
MALE                     30.0         36.0         37.07d              37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                   10.0         15.0         18.07T              22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             2.8          1.0          0.7/e               2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              46.0         41.0        43.0/f               34.4                       32.7
SECONDARY                            16.0        21.0           ..                 18,4                       23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                27.8         33.4        36.0                 53.5                        72.9
coNiSUPrioN
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             0.6          1.1          1.3/f               1.6                        9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            4.9         21.5        44.4                 96.8                      113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               0.0          0.0         1.7                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               10.6         16.2        19.7                 16.4                       54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         3.2          4.1          3.7/e               3.6                        3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUS)          185951.0    219194.0    271179.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     30.7        32.5         31.8                33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74.0        69.3                 69.0                       50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0        11.0         13.2                15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.8         40.0        39.3                 42.5                       18.6
MALE                                 57.0         52.4        51.9                 54.4                       50.7
FEMALE                               27.3        26.9         25.9                 29.8                       26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.1         1.1                  1.0                        1.1
INCQ{E DISTRIBIJTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5E OF HOUSEHOLDS             26.7         26.3/h      22.2/e               16.5                       22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7        48.97h       49.47e              43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.1          6.77h       7.07oT               6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             13.6         17.27h      16.27e               17.5                       15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INC'ME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       132.0                133.9                      194.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..        114.0               111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..          ..                   ..                      178.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..           ..                  ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        40.3                 43.8                       24.4
RURAL                                  ..           ..        50.7                 51.7                       41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1964-65.
May 1983



ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
desrie  rdra  n  egttode  Idiec  tred,  nn  .h...t...  .   eeee  sje  ditcee    bscaaenccennetas                         -.
sohjttnottrt(ecopt fe  'Sgt I-c-` O11iy etrs  gcpeee "idle I-rs  beech eit. -r ad Middis   at  is ch-ose  hetans  ef sceecse t                                .tIcca
sf  etes.I  he cef--enc  gre    date etc  Ftrgsaeppisiesihe    eihei   ee                              each  Wriceice an  chea  -nly e-e  sajery  fcte  c'etesi 
1e97(thusad  aqkI ...la le  nr  t siiaZ   Pepsoltn                                                                                            dletd d~ by ceahec oo  p    _atiing
fee:-Toa  solce-   e,  optcn   ladae-n nadetr;16,pyiin Iqoalitied  c asdis                                                                      ..h..ateni.r.. tee-d..
ftoe   .. cro .s pe -re   -are  a-d kitchen garden  or to lie fa11co;  0670.                      curIngarisre
1070 an   Sf50 date.                                                                            "ctlcc   e            Its  ted - total, -ca, and ,ceI - P-e-iato-ttl
ceac   ndrea)  icdd by  bi   -epctc   nae  of hspital cd
GOP FP (0d    tIll  - Oh  caP a   aecsta  tceetec e.ce a.te iei  public and priat  gerrledse  ats    ep  t  n
ralcoleced lyss  cne,enato             la od hackota   1119-f  haIa);                               rhhlttc   etr                optl   t   s  hihet   eu ri   tfa
(900,1)77 aOSMInd 1901     17           ~             ..  data.to                                    odtha  t1 lnl   trlde            re tpd (geaca  hsitas   sdea
1b,dt.    .I..r          ..sp.tal. ..a.r...           eaiasan   eicladsent  rnes
rhrLolo  Oho  tnl. eelhld Ip'altdhnpcl   t i nclde  c f-                                                                                      de  tonal.1
data 190,fr9cadt.                                                                                       hopialgdcied- te1eser-ttes
9                        ~~~~~~~diftdai efndloa a  oby sec  sheafe- osacbtofyofdaadOOIb
e   --gou t'ie; l96(, 1970,ccd 1901 date.                                                   de-caeStl-cof Nos-hoid(orosehoaeoll" coaI    ceaadraca
Pco(tinItyer1z007- (Cr.-n  p-uoinpceiosaeheie   90ad  Iiheiesintaele.   0boerdor eric                                                     ayo   ayctheicoddi
tea   ooaic  yeencnc  n   hl   ot (icy  cd tntiityttebltaehcd ic  acaItca   crat.d-''                                                            pldto
osieItoca  le-e, end ic-lt (teeci          tnceailenen0,                                    daelte  eny      -hcly.  lAeelicga ea-d  cnptern   sraete   n
yean.Th  yaC oefr fd-ecilcyCea  l   tcetheelee-.acIopadpctb
aes -i ecin   in.      h fercilatyecco-dof athInoe- lCt--acd pea  Iatl                    ccd-clet lolteipac              ofdellitsl-ncaY,chacandtes
aiccrchr bien  note. it eq-aI-cedatcr, end also the  ageTtO ONlo
Th - -      iccre-hle-ed onlyette-eyetityra--                          Odjuated ne-11sn-   et-s
yoyoiantnntlc.o-    ea -Ise-d on  he bat it  f the ....eeid chaactr-yel -nycnol-ade  .p.opult   L                                     __hslj lyin -ld    hcid leSed h-Il
tatlcat.  th p1opole-t- Ic, the  -re  210, end thertao  de-lint oe                               per   onajetdfrdceeet  eyt  o                       ety aesf          e
eoyiatnnlroi ..l I..eceeohhed,".-                                                           hecorde -shol-tcolsalanffeai- Oh.eftl     ashco;scndt
pcoato   eity                                                                                          dcaioncqiea    esocnyasc  aPpr"addptsr
ye     7i k,-nd-yeo  ycolntc.  per aqtac  kilo--te  (107 heotoc-e  of                       yrcid-c cetera.   nctice,            --eaher temn    ctrc  enfc
"Ialero  iftOhS  1h7(, -O (000data                                                               p.Ioynce -110 of (1 c  17yer  ot age, corea--de-c   ---ss  c
only;  I'll,l970 -d hh98to                                                                   hooicl`-lnct   ecn  of  -tcod-y)-Occttra    nstrtin
.Pcelho  behrcte   prcn_      ChlOrec- (0-1e year), c-kice-ade (If-                                 tnclode  ehncl                       .,h-nel, roce  pegas   hrcoeat       ed
64  ra,   nd-tcehh    .a...ccro    -er-ennaeoofntd-y--eYoc                                  enloadryrane    tcod-y-alicea
cotl ;1960,  710, and IntFdco                                                           noptI--hc   rto- -       rturn  an   ecdane             l std-err  enrolle  it
Ptnolalcnleochset(t--ntcn(-oa-hca   potreoEtalid-                                            yptsenyend ...od-cylrteln dclidedtbyn-orhcfech f                   cIh.    .t1erc--
year "PIp,"ecl    fcc lOh(-hO, 1960-70, en  100fl                                                 cepni (oe
yopttfottcnotoonheacelye.-cenai-t~bnto-     on(  gcoat..t.    of. a                     edIntearoeIncil- cetedca altnsddcc)s
Pocyp,at len  for (950-60, 1960-00, acd1970-Si,                                                   a     ....ente0   of toco  "d pI olt onetd it yeses and ce_r
-noa  foi-   of  (nec Ibttadl --cena  Ifte bctha ye-  cho....no of aId-
yea  ptoatc'960, 1970,  n  1901 date.                                                        CONStotF`Tlh
Crude  euh tote S 2-th-otad)            _ eno  dcatha ye  itooc-d of sid-y-ed. -aaeae  Oar  torn  --t.and OOlcin  --Fse-g car
nc...athon;  i9hO, 1970. a-d 19h1 da-.                                                            cane a.tn ..     e  ha  eih.sc;  c  odcabol-cca .ease  sod
heI  ceicyo"Ldac _ yateditsh  caetceapeenog-ap  Ific                                            11 tedi  tec .n.. (pc, ntoadycoain  ....l1 tyre  of --ci-tr  ter radio
fetlt  nrt  i~Iy fle-cYoac h-ea,e  endin,g in (960, 1970, and                           brood_cacte no_gnera Icbllc yen   ..h.oIordf pplte;                ee   n
1001.                                                                                            1!ieee,     ccoenoconrted ..in react Io           ttn ecIsI       Ioe
Oasileylanntn-eoceytc...e-- -dnolcoaca -Ooolt-ehcof aeepec                                          seea _nff            def aoeneantyea-r          ncch -yhl.gc
of bieth-c-c-o  Oroi-e  odecapotc   natieca.  fasily PI---"c,                                     --oci-ie btoIa.he, Ileele
nosen of chf(-hecctny etc  li-I, franc Icht act h:nr-toct-nt -  -ecae  IaI  cctn    end1,,y   If    encU        oe         f.ntno ton
aoenao  insea   ofeor   hcheee l  end c-c-iroe-nt   (r-Iccet   od danico~ the yea, in-l,dingaoin st octet-cc cine.   she..
-ett- end tee oretolo.).  egregoe pcodotlc_ of eah  --ntylie                                       _bileonine
heackon naIonl eeecyc e   nir- cegc;1961-65, 1970, end 1661
p-no-ytro  -atclntcaonri           .-ecn  oft eeonnna-ocp-d fneon- ToaW-oeocltoaonoal-tFco...tn-lyocieesn,nld.gre
da.  -ocalloi   -,ci-r o-,rite  donnt  podortleIi,icor ta  eepylt    ol all  ga                                                alilc   ncnc
econe,ad rthtg-  Intc. ..     ttaoy1 plIet_cclode, an-eci fed, nad,                          ope..ehbl; 1960, 197n  -d (Ott dana.
qt-nnihee  cd In tend pecoecaing, and Inee  in dgtrhotnn,                                        F-sale  cep--t  -rnl   ao   oc  as-  pnaagef iota i.ib- force
tehcrchnni  areeatlece   by coo hIe  en phystoleIcalt n-ede fenoenol                       h     otc   nenn)-Lbcn lanc  in f.tansne  fcnsr--  hotn                  .ad
acIce   end helt III   iern    enioona  catntr, dy ee5t,ihc   cyeeecp   nttlghon torte;_I OhO   970  n   90    aa
at  toohcld Ice; 19h1  ,10   c.60dr,                                                               c   letli  ,etr  n   a   ty   naeo  1-1e later feecs; 1960,
eecIlaccIf of..ett ..tee     Per deni   F'.ai  contn   cyn    to170 ard d19-ll data.
pon  tir- ofoIc   10--aa otnb.old he    USaa   y          .nt .   .Tes.90.170.cdt..                                nt.     thes  ace hate  en l-~ic   carblc  Ioeenee
atncdedea,c lceett.cthceofnhraeaFctna_lIOS..    f                  . pPoenadlga- rf        -ctnofe-            ..I,tcc -no(F=     pooattondlogtetend,   0
PLohldAc.ittdo_ry   196St-65               b          p-7-- ISOdte.hoceII   heent9                                    nanoOt-ofypl- iacoe o-ha-                            tei
deehoo  trc ensli  nd plicemAcat.. yet den        ...05  1910 -d   1977If--.    hd1-1-
dot.                                                                                         16NCcK DIStlfIStlION
Child (acet I-4l  ont gatr (pen tbho-acdl -   -eoo  deathe yecc1hoeaan.  in                      -e-cenae of Pti-te tn-..c (heth in teat and kc-)-  brene               y richest
at  ooc  - .    ea... ,..   totile.c  In thte age Felon: (cr cot "doclpn                          yaort-, rih-ca  00 yornoen    --ooct  00pecn , n    --oee  05 ye det of
oconneira dte denlcedfro    If .h..I; 9t6.  160 cod 1901 date.                             te--ho1da.
'   F.'27 . ......nr  at htch1fene        Soee0  no-  of year   t1ofe  --etaitn                 ehe            --------cinte   ..o  ..yoyo  naesa          of pcn      es   n
et birth1 1960 , 1970 and '.90  -un.                                                              a      bodt   neyridac   oeotai               rIc
yeco   u   e   h--eod Onceb_ch 91 60,1070 and 160  data                                  abtjolt   __nct  I_t_n  1ecel Ic  htI      nnt _     _e1eocalha  iia
Y:c.: o'f hateoacyrt (2e tr-  of Pco`la_ion,)             - ca b-hn  end  -ore   -                 coic ecll  denat  dint rIt  t-Ictial ce-food  -eoten     Is  c
ancncaeicdeoadhr c-h ertonfeo   prfetedhob-hnle-,epnind,ad                                  tot Ieeio  pc......I      Inalell    n-hedtarae   ecyt
iron o ht.  sa  he  _nid_e -  tet-oep.- i   rre--          beacec f-he                         taiate  rroanonhe              h otooePccyIoetntlec
hoo..    -neonl  --ra  -e--bolec--ne-Id ielythtI he h...telie on                                 and   -1el       rceeofMyplnn           1ta   n        )ee(ate  n   aelr
n_heo  f        hn -oeehod d. non  -aoenccy-cOdicc......ntcnneye-           t       petno
the doy, In ,I Iehn  the lastly' ear   e
ed - iclcd  the t-ll-ctn  and dtcpc..oI, rie  orI    tocneceto                                                                      Oooe.t  od hooa  Dtac  ticlamr
-inneentod   __et-o r bpcn---bo-neynccottcecpt                                                                             rtttcelotarr oot ..c...                nten
p   -ncaad c-In-o   --eal anoc                                                                                                                  ec  1983



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82-                                                        ANNUAL RATE CP GROWT  (%, constant prices) -
US$ Bin .     %                 1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices           165.38    100.0                        3.7               3.6              3.6              2.9
Gross Domestic Investment       41.74      25.2
Gross National Saving           37.66      22.8
Current Account Balance         -4.08     - 2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)           Labor Force i/           V.A. Per Worker
US$SBln.            %             Mil.        %                 US$     % of National Average
Agriculture                     39.8              39.6           180.6      70.7               220            56
Industry                        25.2              25.1            32.2      12.6               783           199
Services                        35.5              35.3            42.6      16.7               833           211
Total/Average                  100.5             100.0           255.4    100.0                394           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government            e/                          Central Government
Rs. Bln.        %  of  GDP                                   Rs. Bli.        %  of  GDP
1981/82     1981/82  1977/78-1981/82                        1981/82    1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Receipts                   285.77        19.4         19.1                              149.2E      10.1        10.4
Current Expenditures               280.34        19.0         18.2                              155.02      10.5        10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              5.43         0.4          0.9                               -5.75      -0.4        -0.2
Capital Expenditures f/            116.91         7.9          7.8                               83.66       5.7         5.5
External Assistance (net) d/        16.45         1.1          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82    February 1982             February 1983
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money              110.2      224.8    277.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    554.5    625.5    615.5                          711.7
Bank Credit to Government(net)    54.6         69.2     77.6      76.4      94.2    124.1    164.4    204.4    292.2                        353.5
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  65.2        156.2    188.5    212.2    255.3    310.1    362.8    430.4    422.2                          487.7
(percentage or Index Numbers)                            April-Feb 1981/82    April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasi Money
as % of GDP                      27.4       30.3     34.6      36.5     41.2      44.1      43.3     42.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                100.0      173.0    176.6    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.3               281.7               t287.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7       -1.1       2.1      5.2       -        17.1     18.2       9.3            10.0               0  2.0
Bank Credit to Government (net)   15.0          6.3      11.1     16.3      16.0     25.6      29.6      19.1            22.7 g/          I   21.0
Bank Credit to Comsercial Sector  20.5         22.7     20.7      12.6      20.3     21.5      17.0      18.7           20.9 _i/              15.5 h/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market orices, using World Bank Atlas  methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation after last
year of listed period.
d/  World Bank estimates of net disbursement; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/  Percentage change from  end-March 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/  Percentage change from  end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
i/  Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1979/80  1980/8?  1981/82  1982/83                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978/79-1981/82)
(US$ Mln.)                                                                                                        US$ Mln.    2
Exports of Goods s./              7,948    8,504    8,511    8,800                   Engineering Goods               901       11
Imports of Goods q/             -11,383  -16,119  -15,253  -14,801                   Tea                             457        6
Trade Balance                    -3.435   -7,615   -6,742   -6,001                   Gems                             759       10
SFS (ot)                           1,042    1,365    1,120    1,088                  Clothing                         556       7
Leather & Leather Products    470          6
Resoerce Balance                 -2,393   -6,250   -5,622   -4,913                   Jute Manufactures                279       4
Iron Ore                        352        4
Interest Income (net) k/            287       600       212      -128                Cotton Textiles                 319        4
Net trmnsfers  1/                  1,852    2,771    1,577    1,668                  Sugar                            104        1
Others                        3,789       47
Balance on Current Account          -254   -2,879   -3,833   -3,373
Official Aid                                                                         Total                         7,986      100
Gross Disbursements                1,218    1,629    1,821    1,933                  EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1982
Aortiaaatic                        1,894    2,336    2,475    2,569
uS$ billion
Transactions with IMF                -      1,035       690    1,980                 Outstanding and Disbursed                 18.3
All Other Items  o/                -740      -130   -1,075       -358                Undisbursed                                8.5
Outstanding, including                    26.8
Increase in Reserves (-)           -224       345    2,397       -182                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,204    6,859    4,462    4,644
Net Reserves (end year) m/        7,204    6,532    3,498    1,703                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 i/  n/  8.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                          IBRD/IDA LENDING, as of February 28, 1983
Imports (Petroleum) j/            4,046    6,657    5,570    4,686                                                           US$ million
IIBRD         IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed           1,357         6,688
Undisbursed                         1,856         4,270
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                       5,253        10,958
RATE OF EXCEANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971              US$1.00 = Rs 7.50                        Spot Rate end-March 1983:  US$1.00 = Rs 10.03
Rs 1.00 = US$0.13333                                                 Rs 1.00 = US$0.0997
Kid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:         US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 = US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                  :      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981          :      US$1.00 = Rs 9.099
Rs 1.00 = US$0.110
Spot Rate end-December 1982          :      US$1.00 = Rs 9.634
Rs 1.00 = US$0.104
jIEtimated.
WI  Wgres given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to
IMP, and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
WJ Figures given include workers' redittaaces but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disharsemeats.
m/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
al hsortiamtion mxd imerest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.and current transfers.
I/ Includes commercial borrowing.
it  Excludwk  goLd.
l/ let of crude petroleam exports.



I



iANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans!                                               1,688.0          -              -
83 Credits fully disbursed                                  -       4,759.0             -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -           30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -          83.0            6.83
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -          27.7            6.30
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -           16.4         -0.11
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -         105.0            3.12
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -         150.0            3.95
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0            3.25
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0         -            44.92
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0          -            15.89
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0          -             4.77
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -          30.0          13.37
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -          20.0            3.30
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -         150.0            7.45
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0          10.29
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0         -              4.08
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development               -           10.0           0.49
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0            6.99
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           3.96
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                -           70.0            4.05
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5         -              2.49
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Develcpment II         -           87.0            6.51
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -            8.0           5.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0          -             2.54
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0          -             8.38
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0          47.64
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -          14.0           11.01
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -           85.0           19.30
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5            9.98
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                      -           16.0           8.88
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            22.27
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0          76.70
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                 -         196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         -          38.0            8.48
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          18.96
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0          7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank          IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                          -           30.0           5.51
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               -          200.0           41.57
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -          129.0           61.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply               -            48.0          15.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II         -          175.0           21.96
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -            23.0           8.05
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II              -          210.0           82.85
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -            37.0          15.27
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -           20.0           17.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -           46.0           36.41
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -            32.0          23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -          175.0          121.65
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -           22.0           18.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -          300.0          213.36
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -            10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -            56.0          23.21
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -            54.0          41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -              80.0           61.54
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0          -             10.61
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0          -             25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -          225.0         170.60
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0          -            23.46
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0             -              7.41
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -           35.0           23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                       -          83.0           72.77
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -           42.0           29.04
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -          140.0         128.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -          314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -           54.0           53.45
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -          400.0         281.64
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -           23.0          20.24
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -           28.0           23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -           37.0          35.73
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -          125.0         106.34
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II         -          400.0         367.32
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -          220.0         199.76
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0           -            61.58
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -           29.0           25.41
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -           25.0           21.68
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0          -            104.43
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0           -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190.0          -            121.32
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -                6.0           5.50
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0           -           171.60
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III            304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    20.3           -            20.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -           60.0          45.33
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                   -           72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          31.06
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                 -            -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0          26.94
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -          127.0         121.37
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration         165.5          -           158.92
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         197.01
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development        222.3          -           219.01
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                  -          150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II               -         101.0          101.00
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power            -          170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power          156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III*        -          147.0         147.00
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization          -           32.0          32.00
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission*          250.7          -          250.70
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management        46.2          -            46.08
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban*                 24.1          -            24.10
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II*                  -         105.0         105.00
Total                                     5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid               1,251.2        136.1
Total now outstanding                     3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           2,100.45    4,124.24
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                      Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -        0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8         -      18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.7         -       15.7
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.3         -        8.3
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                           53.0        3.4      56.4
Repaid                        30.1         -       30.1
Cancelled                     16.1        1.4      17.5
Now Held                     112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                   82.9         -       82.9



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the proiect
Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
June 1980; February 10, 1981.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
February 6, 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
February 14, 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 29, 1984.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) By September 30, 1984, TWAD will complete the staffing of
the project team in accordance with an organizational
structure satisfactory to the Association (para. 52).
(b) Separate water supply and sanitation accounting
systems will be established within the municipalities
of Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem by April 1, 1985
(para. 52).
(c) A team of local experts will collaborate with
UN/DTCD in undertaking a Statewide Water Resources
Management Study based on agreed terms of reference
(para. 53).
(d) GTN will cause Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem to
make suitable adjustments to water supply tariffs
and taxes to produce sufficient revenues to cover
operation, maintenance and debt service beginning
from fiscal year ending March 31, 1990 onwards
(para. 63).
(e) GTN will impose a tariff increase effective
April 1, 1985 (para. 63).
(f) GTN will provide funds out of its own revenues to
cover any shortfalls in the debt service obligations
of the participating towns (para. 64).



77-                                   73                                    797                                   a,"
I N  D  I A                                                                                       N     t,- O
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT TOWNS                                                     ANDHRA  PRADESH
TWAD Circle Boundary
froject Towns                                    To Ch,aeuu,
*    Towns selected for water supply ougmentotion
*    Towns selected for providing new water supply scheres                             ufun ~                                            AS
A,   Towns selected for prov,ding low cost son.totion focilities          A
o    Other Selected Towns                                                                 l 
-      Notionol Highwoys
Selected Roilroods    To 3        eufu/
Rivers                                                                                    A-
District Boundories
State ond Union Territory
Boundaries                                                                       NORTH/RCOT
ot  DHAR NlAP    a                  )                                           J
K A   A' IV A   r A   K A                      2/)                                                       >f 
t2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
-12'                                                                   4      )                                          V-      \t       tn
8_ eGada/vr PERIYAR *o  K/O
NILGIRIS 5 A L|/"E                                                                           M                                 8  5      7 e ngal
NLGI RIS              K6o.9bhrp/o,',,
Sa~j~ Aa,,~aa,daes" All,
Ch n-~~~~-                                                                                                                              litOtNu,
o?~~~~~~ .-~/ua-                                          Tuiui    s), //  s.....                                 .  /   o/  (y  jBe5'
T,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
t   34  e . t t)   I    /  - u  >..THANJV
are,n' rearuv orun'  /  /7 /         0      /7                    67  (7                                                sni PAUKATT
M            A    D    U\                                ,         ohn>
aOK   E  R  A  I  Aowt   1u                                                                                                                                   N
\  ) ~~~\ utt            ff    v      >    *t~~~~~   >              =       -ts ~SRI .LANKA
h.nd,hkdcea
_9.                                                 RUN            E LSmoovdpr                                        9 w  PAKISTANJ'i                CH IN A
*   <           /       -       *1                /11 M7 n n r7 r                 >O          I  N      D  I  A    A
rm rm mxnmse or rm   \ \87   | /        +         o        25      50       ~~~~~~           ~~75  100    
m    aleuaor              <> NY KU                                                     ILOMETERS                                             g  al a/
md -PbonF mr                                                                                                           a Sa I  
FmreipThVlFwomCm omror Cope Comorin                                                                        S-_\NAy7
e   f m E w-d-    Us/                            d      a7    O                c   e         r7   n                       e         \<iSRI LANKA             iT_
suobb             ~~~77-                                  7E8                                   79*/do    co                                          ;|



