OFFICIAL       CREDIT NUMBER 1454 IN
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
and
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD
Dated                    / -      ,1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1454 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 /           , 1984, between
IATERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINI-
STRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND established with funds contributed by
certain members of the International Development Association
(hereinafter called the Administrator), and TAMIL NADU WATER
SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD (hereinafter called TWAD).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-five million three hundred thou-
sand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 35,300,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that TWAD agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
(B) by the Special Fund Credit Agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Administrator, the Administra-
tor has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million three hun-
dred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 35,300,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Special Fund Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that TWAD agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Administrator as are hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS TWAD, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement, in the Special Fund Credit and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth and the term "Association" means also the


﻿-2-
International Development Association acting as Administrator of
the Special Fund referred to in the Preamble to the Special Fund
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TWAD declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and Schedule 2 to the Special Fund Credit Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project described in
said Schedules with due diligence and efficiency and in conform-
ity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to facilitate the carrying out of
the Project, TWAD shall by December 31, 1984: (a) establish and
continue to maintain a Project team with an organizational
structure satisfactory to the Association; and (b) appoint an
engineering director, a finance director, a chief accountant and
a chief auditor, all with appropriate qualifications and expe-
rience, to serve on a full-time basis.
Section 2.03. In order to assist TWAD in the carrying out of
the Project, TWAD shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.04. TWAD shall, by June 30, 1985, complete a study
of the training needs of the water supply and sewerage sector in
accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, and procurement of the goods and civil
works required for the Project and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Special Fund Credit shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to the Special Fund Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. (a) TWAD undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the proceeds of
the Special Fund Credit, respectively, made available to it by
Tamil Nadu against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by TWAD to replace or repair such goods.
(b) TWAD shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of the Special Fund
Credit, respectively, made available to it by Tamil Nadu to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) TWAD shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) TWAD shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites includ-
ed in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of the Special Fund Cre-
dit and any records and documents relevant to the Project; and
(iii) furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds. In particular,
TWAD shall annually review and update the implementation of the
Action Plan in consultation with the Association.
(c) Upon the award by TWAD of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the Association may
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.


﻿-4-
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and TWAD., TWAD shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by TWAD and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) TWAD shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of TWAD and any records and documents
relevant to the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) TWAD shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) TWAD shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the pro-
gress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by TWAD of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) In order to ensure the achievement of the
objectives of the Project and the proper operation and mainten-
ance of the facilities provided thereunder, TWAD shall enter into
an agreement with each of the Local Authorities, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association providing, inter alia,
for: (i) the transfer to such Authority of the facilities to be
provided under the Project within the area of its jurisdiction
and the arrangements for payments by such Authority of the cost
of the facilities so provided; (ii) the arrangements for the pro-
vision of appropriate services to be provided by TWAD to such
Authority to assist it in the proper operation and maintenance of
the facilities so provided and in the improvement of its manage-
ment, operations and finances; and (iii) the arrangements for
payments by such Authority of the cost of the services to be so
provided by TWAD; and


﻿-5-
(b) TWAD shall exercise its rights under each of the agree-
ments entered into pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section in
such a manner as to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association may otherwise agree, TWAD shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the said agreements or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.10. In the implementation of Part E of the
Project, TWAD shall construct low cost sanitation units in
accordance with specifications agreed with the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TWAD
Section 3.01. TWAD shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. TWAD shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. TWAD shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TWAD shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) TWAD shall: (i) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
relhted statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by


﻿-6-
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) cer-
tified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning its accounts and financial state-
ments and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Sectio 4.02. (a) TWAD shall provide the Association by
December 31, 1984, with: (i) a debt maturity schedule for
1985/86-1995/96; (ii) an annual program for debt retirement
beginning from fiscal year 1985/86; and (iii) an annual program
to reduce outstanding receivables from the fiscal year 1985/86 so
that, by the fiscal year 1988/89 and thereafter, such receivables
are not more than one and one-half times the value of work-in
progress.
(b) Beginning from the fiscal year 1985/86, TWAD shall
implement the annual program of debt retirement and reduction of
outstanding receivables provided under the preceding paragraph of
this Section.
(c) For the purpose of this Section the following terms
have the following meanings:
(i)  "outstanding receivables" means monies owed to
TWAD by any other party for works either completed
or being constructed by TWAD on behalf of such
party; and
(ii) "debt retirement" means such amounts which TWAD
shall pay upon the maturity of its debts.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Special Fund Agreement become effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of TWAD thereunder shall Merminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Special Fund Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with their terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement and the Special
Fund Agreement terminates in accordance with their terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify TWAD of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-8-
For TWAD:
Managing Director
Tamil Nadu Water Supply and
Drainage Board
31, Kamaraj Salai, Chepauk
Madras 600 005
India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of TWAD may be taken or executed by the Mana-
ging Director or such other person or persons as the Managing
Director shall designate in writing, and TWAD shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                Ali,
Regiona Vice President
South Asia
TAMIL NADU WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD
By
orized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of VQ vte<
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


