                                    Documentof
                                  TheWorld Bank




                                                     Report No.: 31565




             PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT




                                  BANGLADESH




           COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATIONPROJECT
                                (CREDIT 2783-BD)




                                 February 11,2005




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group

Operations Evaluation Department

 CURRENCY      EQUIVALENTS
 Currency Unit =Bangladesh Taka (TK)

 1995                               -       Tk 40.25 (appraisal)
 2002              US$1.oo
                   US$1.oo          -
                                    -       Tk 57.90 (completion)

 ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
 ADB               Asian DevelopmentBank
 BWDB              BangladeshWater Development Board
 CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
 CERP              Coastal Embankment (Rehabilitation) Project
 DC                Deputy Commissioner
 DoF               Department o f Fisheries
 EC                EuropeanCommunity
 EP                entitled person
 ERR               economic rate o freturn
 FAP               FloodAction Plan
 FD                Forest Department       ,
 FFW               Food for Work Programme
 FPIU              Forestry Project Implementation Unit
 GOB               Government of Bangladesh
 HYV               high-yielding variety
 ICB               international competitive bidding
 ICR               Implementation Completion Report
 IDA               International Development Association
 MoWR              MinistryofWater Resources
 NCB               national competitive bidding
 NGO               nongovernmental organization
 O&M               operation and maintenance
 PAP               project affected person
 PIU               Project Implementation Unit
 RBPP              River Bank Protection Project
 PWP               Priority Works Program
 RAP               Resettlement Action Plan
 SRP               Systems RehabilitationProject (Credit 2099-BD)
 TOR              terms o freference
 WFP              World FoodProgramme



 FISCAL    YEAR
 Government:               July 1 June 30
                                  -


-Director-General, Operations Evaluation                   : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
 Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment                 : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
 Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation          : Mr.Alain Barbu
 Task Manager                                              : Mr.George T. KeithPitman

                                                            i


   OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independenceinevaluation.


 About this Report
      The OperationsEvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bankfor two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank's work is
 producingthe expectedresults, andsecond, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience. As partof this work, OED annually assessesabout 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento thosethat are
 innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudiesor countryevaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;andthosethat are likelyto generate
 importantlessons. The projects,topics, andanalytical approachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a reviewof the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department) and fieldworkconductedby OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examineprojectfiles and otherdocuments, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most casesvisit
 the borrowing country for onsitediscussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries. The PPARthereby seeks to
 validate and augment the informationprovided inthe ICR, as well as examine issuesof special interestto broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subjectto a peer review processand OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' commentsare attached to the documentthat is sent to the Bank's
 Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment reporthas beensent to the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

About the OED RatingSystem
      Thetime-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suitedto the broad rangeof the World Bank'swork.
The methods offer both rigorand a necessary levelof flexibilityto adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoralapproach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arriveat their project ratings. Followingis
the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion(more informationis availableon the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistentwith the country's
currentdevelopment priorities and with current Bank country and sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporate
goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistanceStrategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to whichthe project's objectives were achieved, or expectedto be achieved,taking into
account their relativeimportance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to whichthe project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunity cost of capital and benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generallyappliedto adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
     lnstitutionalDeveloimentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a countryor region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainableuse of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a)
betterdefinition,stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsandlor (b)
betteralignment of the missionand capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derivesfrom these
institutionalarrangements. lnstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintendedeffects of a
project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extent to whichthe project's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently.Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance:The extent to which servicesprovided by the Bank ensuredqualityat entry and
supported implementationthroughappropriatesupervision(including ensuring adequatetransitionarrangements
for regular operationof the project). Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to whichthe borrowerassumed ownershipand responsibilityto ensure
qualityof preparationand implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements,towards the
achievement of development objectivesand sustainability.Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                       ...
                                                                       111



 Contents

 PrincipalRatings andKey StaffResponsible                                    ..................................................................  v

 Preface  ..............................................................................................................................         ..
                                                                                                                                                vi1

 Summary     ...........................................................................................................................        ix

 1 Background
  .                     ..................................................................................................................       1

 2.  The Project       ...................................................................................................................       3

                    Objectives          ....................................................................................................     3
                    ImplementingArrangements                            .......................................................................  5
                    Implementation               ............................................................................................ 5
3 Evaluation
  .                  .....................................................................................................................       7
         Expected Benefits ....................................................................................................                 -7
         Counte$actual .........................................................................................................                 7
         Outcome...................................................................................................................              8
         Relevance .................................................................................................................             9
                   Efficacy        ........................................................................................................      9
                   Efficiency         ...................................................................................................       15
                   InstitutionalDevelopment Impact                                                                                              15
                   Sustainability..............................................................................................
                                     . .                                       ..............................................................
                                                                                                                                                16
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                      17
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                         17
4.   FindingsandLessons                 .................................................................................................       17

                   Findings
                      . .          ......................................................................................................       17
                   Lessons.......................................................................................................               19
Annex A: BasicDataSheet                    ..............................................................................................       21

Annex B: ProjectPerformanceIndicators                                   ....................................................................    25




This reportwas preparedby George T.KeithPitman. who assessedthe project with KristinS.Little in
April 2004 Thereportwas editedbyWilliamHurlbut. and Soon-WonPakprovidedadmmstrative
support.  .


                                                V



PrincipalRatingsand Key StaffResponsible

BANGLADESHCOASTALEMBANKMENTREHABILITATIONPROJECT
(CREDIT 2783-BDG)

                               ICR*                   ICR Review*              PPAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory            Moderately               Moderately
                                                      Satisfactory             Satisfactory
Sustainability                Likely                  Unlikely                 Unlikely
InstitutionalDevelopment      Modest                  Modest                   Modest
Impact
Bank performance              Satisfactory            Satisfactory             Satisfactory
BorrowerPerformance           Satisfactory            Satisfactory             Satisfactory
 The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR)is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperationaldivision of
the Bank. The ICR Reviewis an intermediateOED productthat seeks to independently verify the findings of
the ICR.


Project                     Task Manager              Division Chief/            Country
                                                      Sector Manager             Director
Appraisal (1995)            Henry P. Gassner          RidwanAli                  Paul lsenman
Completion (2002)           S.A.M. Rafiquuaman        ConstanceA. Bernard Frederick
                                                                                Thomas TemDle


                                             vii


Preface

        This i s the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) preparedbythe
Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED) for the BangladeshCoastalEmbanlunent
RehabilitationProject that was approved inNovember 1995 for a credit o fUS$53.0
million. A supplementary IDA credit o fUS$16.5 millionwas approved inMay 1999
primarilyto finance emergencyworks after the 1997cyclone, costovems, andafew
additional activities. The EuropeanCommission cofinanced US$19.7 million, o fwhich
US$17.6 millionwas disbursed. Onclosing, two yearsbehind scheduleinDecember 2002,
US$1.56 milliono fthe IDA credit was cancelled dueto misprocurement as was an
undisbursedamount o fUS$1.03 million. Total project costs at completion were US97.6
million compared with the appraisalestimate ofUS$87.8 million.

        This report is based on the ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) preparedby
the SouthAsia Region(Report No. 26149 dated June 2003), the Memorandumand
Recommendation o fthe President, StaffAppraisal Reports, loandocuments, project files,
anddiscussions withBank staff. An OEDmissionvisitedBangladeshinApril 2004 and
met stakeholders to discuss the effectiveness ofthe Bank's assistancewith development
andfinancing partners,project implementingagencies, privatesector agencies, and
beneficiaries. The cooperation and assistance o f central government, Bangladesh Water
DevelopmentBoard, andregionalofficials and staff, nongovernmental stakeholders, and
other interested parties are gratefully acknowledged.

       Thisproject was selected for performance assessmentto support anOED
evaluation o fthe Bank's natural disaster management experience scheduled for
September 2005: "Natural Disaster Emergency Reconstruction-An Overview of Bank
Assistance." Bangladesh is one ofthe evaluation's case study countries because it is
chronicallyprone to natural disasters; has had significant external assistanceto cope with
andmitigatedisasters, andoffers awealth o f experience andlessons.

       Following standard OED procedures, this draft PPARwas sent to the borrower
for comments, butnone were received.


                                                i x


 Summary

         The Bangladesh Coastal Embankment RehabilitationProject (CERP) was
 initiated inresponseto the devastating cyclone o f 1987, and approved in 1995. The
 project closed in2003. The overall project objective was to improve security o f life,
 property, crops, and livestock along the cyclone-prone coastal areas. Project objectives
 were to (a) provide cyclone protection, including improving the security o fpersons living
 intheprotectedareas, reducingdamageto houses andother buildingsandinfrastructure,
 andminimizingthe loss ofcrops andlivestock; (b) improve agricultural production,
 throughpreventingsaline inundationduringnormalweather andimprovedcropping
 pattems due to reduced cyclone risks; and (c) introduce improvedtechnology inthe
 design and construction o fprotectionworks, and improved methods o f embankment
 maintenance.

         The project partially achieved its objectives with several shortcomings andthe
 outcome i s rated as moderately satisfactory. The most important issue affecting the
 outcome ratingwas the partialprogress toward mitigating inadequate embankment
maintenance and lack o fprogress on reforming systemic institutionalproblems. Cyclone
protectionwas provided-but not to the extent planned. Only 14 o f the 21polders
targeted for rehabilitationwere protected completely bynew or renovated embankments
that filled critical gaps inthe sea defenses, leaving 7 polders at risk o frapidinundation
from cyclones. Even so, farmers, aided by manynon-project interventions, were able to
capitalize on improved agriculturalconditions providedbyrehabilitated embankments
andsubstantially upgraded intemal drainage. Based onincremental agriculturaloutput,
the project yielded an economic rate of return o f about 13percent (without quantifylng
environmental andhumanbenefits) compared with the appraisal estimate o f 19 percent.

         The project successhlly introducednew technical design standards for coastal
embankments andpiloted social forestry on the embankment slopes - albeit on a smaller
scale thanenvisaged at appraisal. Landless households were givenhousingplots and
rights to forestry produce inreturn for maintenance, but the results have beenmixed to
date. A largeforeshore afforestation program to control coastal erosion and damage from
tidal surges was only partially implementeddue to poor coordination among the
government's implementing agencies andirregular fimdingo ftechnical assistance and
NGOsocial mobilizersby development partners. Improvedoperation andmaintenanceo f
the coastal embankment bythe Bangladesh Water DevelopmentBoardprovedto be
elusive, a task made more difficult by continued inadequate budgets andineffective
institutionalstrengthening. Inconsequence o fthe above, institutional development
impact is rated as modest.

         Sustainability i s ratedas unlikely. The project clearly demonstrated that improved
technical design o fthe coastal embankments combinedwith social forestry made the
structure more robust andreduced the rate o f deterioration. However, the whole
embankment i s only as strong as its weakest link -thus the "patch, mend, and upgrade"
approach (while providing localprotection) does not guaranteethe integrity o f the coastal
polders. Already parts o fthe rehabilitated embankments are deteriorating, althoughnot as
fast as the original structure, and inseveral small areas sections have beeneroded away.
The keydevelopment challenge ofhow to ensure adequate fundingto maintainthe

                                               X



polders andbringthem all up to the CERP design standardwas not surmounted.
Currently, the outlook is bleak becausegovernment's many conflicting priorities ensure
that available budgets are spreadtoo thinly to ensure eventhe minimalmaintenance
standards. And improvingall embankments to CERP design standard will remainelusive
without substantial extemal funding. There is also clearly a case to bemade for devolving
the cost ofmaintainingpolders to all beneficiaries inorder to mitigate inadequate budget
allocation fkom the center.

       Despitethese shortcomings, bothborrower andBankperformance are rated as
satisfactory overall. Eventhoughthe project was spreadover a very large andcomplex
array of islandsandwetlands andthere were unexpected setbacks due to the 1997
cyclone, it was completed on schedule andprovided significantbenefits to Bangladesh's
coastal inhabitants who are among the poorest inthe country.

Experiencewiththis project confirms anumbero f OED lessons:

     There i s a need to pay continuous attention to implementationperformance in
     disaster-related operations to ensure that such operations are practical anddo not
     sideline needed sector reforms. Issuesthat particularly requireattention are ensuring
     that the Borrowerhas the institutional capacity to manage andmonitor social
     mobilization andresettlement andi s conversant with the Bank's procurement
     procedures and guidelines (inthis operation, the Borrower's attention to social
     mobilization andresettlement languished once donor hancingceased).

     Technical and social/organizational assistanceessential for the introductionofnew
     innovations or ways o f doingbusinessmustbe fully funded for the durationo f a
     project. Failure to do so may cause serious implementationdelays. This project also
     highlightedthe importance o fharmonization o fpolicies amongdonors for
     subsectors inwhichthey share common concems and investment. Ifdevelopment
     partners are unwillingto commit to the duration ofthe project, then altemative ways
     of financing technical assistance should be explored.

     Coastal defenses should be renovated to higher engineering standards in
     homogenous units. This not only has greater sustainability thanisolated repairs of
     existing infkastructure but it also provides a mode1that can be monitoredto test the
     success o fthe innovation-an important design consideration.



                                                                     GregoryK. Ingram
                                                                    Director-General
                                                                    Operations Evaluation

                                                        1


 1.      Background

 1.      Bangladesh i s the most disaster prone o fthe least developed countries. Between 1970
 and 1998, 171large-scale water-related hazards suchas cyclones, storm-surges, droughts,
 floods, andriver erosion disasterskilledan estimated halfmillionpeople and affected more
 than400 million. Thepoor are hit hardest becausethey live at greater density inthe most
poorly constructed housing insettlements on landsprone to hazards-particularly along the
 700 kilometers o f coast affected by storm surges.

2.       Promotiono f agriculture inthe coastal belt andpopulation growth encouraged wide-
 scale settlement inthe area. Historically, the marshycoastal belt was an agriculturally
unproductive semi-saline wetlandwhose sparsepopulationwas dominated by fishermen.
Population grew from the lgthcentury withthe influx o f labor to serve Zamindars (landlords)
who began to buildearthen dykes that excluded tidal flooding and allowedplantingo f one
winter andtwo summer rice crops. Bythe early 199Os, overspill from the crowdedinland
areashadincreased the population o fthe coastal belt to about 35 million-almost 8 million
o fwhom were livinginthe zone periodically swept by cyclonic tidal surges.' Private
operation andmaintenance o fthe coastal dykes ceasedwith the abolitiono f the Zamindari
system in 1954 andthe infiastructuredeteriorated untilthe initiation o fthe 1961Coastal
EmbankmentProjectsupported byextensive foreignassistance. Between 1960and 1990
agriculturalproductionincreased markedlybecausethe original 46 polders had grown to 126,
andthe lengthofprotective embankments from 2,600 kilometersto 4,800 kilometers.

3.       Coastal embankments were generally designedto minimize the impacts o f cyclone
surges o fone-in-10 years returnperiod andto prevent saline water intrusionat hightide.
Polders also requireddrainage sluices to remove excess rainfall and avoid internalflooding
duringthemonsoon andafter cyclones. Flushingsluices were addedto provideinigation
and, where necessary, to createopportunities for shrimp culture andsalt production.

4.       The Bankbecame involved incoastal areaprotectionthrough the Coastal Area
RehabilitationProject (Cr 339-BD) following the devastating cyclone o fNovember 1970
whose winds andtidal surge o f seven meters killedmore than 200,000 people and inundated
8,100 squarekilometers. The government requested further Bank assistance inJune 1985
after a further 10,000 were killed bythe May cyclone andthis initiatedpreparation o fthe
Cyclone ProtectionProject -presentedto the Boardas the Coastal Embankment Protection
Project in 1995 -the subject o fthis assessment.

5.       While the Bankwas quick to field anemergency damage appraisal mission, it took
another sevenyears for the project tobe finalized. An integrated approach was proposed
involving roads andhighways, school andhealthclinic reconstruction, foreshore and
embankment afforestation, flood protection anddrainage works. The Bank's positionwas


1. The coastalbelt comprises 12 districts:Bergerhat, Barguna, Bhola, Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar, Feni, Khulna,
Lakshmipur, Noakhali, Patuakhali, Pirojpur and Satkhira. Average population density inthe coastalzone is 743
per square kilometer and it grew at 1.36 percent annually (1991-2001) comparedwith the national rate of 1.48
percent. Populationdata are fromLiving in the Coast People and Livelihoods, Ministryo fWater Resources,
                                                     -
March 2004.

                                                      2


that better design andinvolvement of projectbeneficiaries were neededto ensure
 sustainability o fpolders andembankments, andthat this couldbe achieved usingthe Bank's
 Technical Assistance V line o f credit that was established for just such emergencies.
However, the government preferred to use grant funding andthe EuropeanCommission
 agreedto finance consultants. Difficulties o finternalmulti-sector coordinationfurther
 slowed approval within the BangladeshPlanningCommission. Evenafter the government's
 approval o fthe project concept (December 1986), the mainimplementing agency, the
Bangladesh Water DevelopmentBoard (BWDB), objectedto the levelo f TA envisagedby
 the Bank.After this was resolved, the then Ministry o f Irrigation, Water, Drainage andFlood
 Control (now the Ministry o fWater Resources) unilaterally changed the conditions for the
 selection andappointment o fthe ECconsultants, as well as reducing their input, resultingin
deadlock. Spurred bythe cyclone ofNovember 1988 that killed a further 2,000, aninitial
Executive Project Summary was agreedinFebruary 1989.

 6.      By 1989, the Bankhadbecomeincreasinglydisillusionedwiththeperformance o f
BWDBandimposedconditions ofBoardpresentationandeffectiveness to reduceproject
risks, the most difficult o fwhich were that landfor embankments hadto be acquired two
years inadvance ofconstruction and that all project-affectedpeople hadto be equably
compensated     -thus   pushingback appraisal andBoardpresentationby a further two years. A
huge cyclone inApril 1991caused 140,000 deaths andrefocused attentionon coastalpolders
that hadcontinued to deteriorate -as the StaffAppraisal Reportnotes, "had the
embankments beeninbetter condition, the damage would have beenmuchless severe." At
the government's request, the Bankcoordinated donor assistance andidentifiedaPriority
Works Programo furgently neededembankment repair andrehabilitation. As a result, the
scope o fthe proposed project was reduced. First, other donors took care o f school
reconstruction androads andhighways. Second, the Board approvedan emergency priority
works programinearly 1992 for the worst affected areas inseven polders usingexisting
credits, JapaneseandEC funding. Recognizingthat the initialproject objective to save lives
andreducepropertydamagehadbeenmaderedundantbythe longdelays, the project name
was changed to the CoastalEmbankmentRehabilitationProject (CERP).

7.       The CERP preappraisal o fMarch 1993 highlighted four mainissues that hadto be
addressed, spurredbythe findings onthe independent commission set up to investigate
resettlement aspects ofIndia's Bank-financed Narmadadams. The Morse Commission
Report o f 1992notedinreferenceto Indiathat: "It seems clear that engineering and
economic imperatives have driventhe projects to the exclusion ofhumanandenvironmental
concerns." Thus, it was agreedthat inBangladesh, squatters, inadditionto landowners,
would have to beresettled; resectioning andretirement o f embankments wouldneedmore
landthaninitially envisaged andthe owners properlycompensated; andoperation and
maintenance (O&M) would require localparticipation. Communityinvolvementwas also


2. The frstBangladeshCoastal Embankment and ReconstructionPriorityWorks program, supportedby savings
from four credits (1467-BD, 1784-BD, 1870-BD, and 2048-BD) totaling US$19.0 million equivalent, was
approvedinFY92. Total programcosts of US$71.7millionwere cofinancedbya Japanese PHRDGrant
(US$26.6millionequivalent) andbythe EuropeanCommunity(EC) (US$5.2 millionequivalent). After two
one-year extensionsand additional transfersfiom credits 1467-BD, 1870-BD and2048-BD, the credit was
closedinJune 1996, at which time credit disbursementwas US$29.6million equivalent.

                                                      3


required to implement foreshore afforestation (to dissipate wave energy) spread over 4,734
kilometers as this was probablybeyondthe Forest Department's resources. While project
consultants financed bythe EC were undertaking surveys to define the landacquisition and
resettlement needs, project preparationwas further delayed as aresult o f conditionality
associatedwiththe Bank's reform agenda for the water sector ingeneral, andthe BWDBin
particular.

8.         InSeptember 1993,theBankinformedtheMinistryofFinancethat itwouldbe
unable to finance new water sector projects - excepting the CERP andthe River Bank
Protection Project becauseo ftheir "emergency" nature -untilaprogram o f institutional
reform hadbeenimplemented. Specific problems that hadto be addressedbyBWDBwere
inadequate attention to O&M, rapiddeterioration o fcompleted facilities, lack o f involvement
o fbeneficiaries, and anineffectivemanagerial Board. Nothing was done by BWDD.So in
July 1994the Bankgave notice that it would neither finance CERP nor the River Bank
Protection Project (RBPP) designedto stop erosion onthe west bank o fthe RiverJamuna-
Brahmap~tra.~      Inresponse, BWDBput forwardits ownreformprogramfor Bankagreement
and, following its implementation, CERPwas reinstalled inthe lendingprogramand
approved inNovember 1995. Inthe interim, particular attentionwas given to harmonizing
the individual resettlement policies o ffour Bank-fmanced projects: Jamuna Bridge, Roads
andHighwaysProject, RBPP, and CERP.



2.     .  TheProject

Objectives

9.        The overall objective was to improve security o f life, property, crops, andlivestock
along the cyclone-prone coastal are?. The specific objectives o f the project were to: (1)
provide cyclone protection, includingimproving the security ofpersons livinginthe
protected areas, reducing damageto houses andother buildings andinfrastructure and
minimizingthe loss o fcrops andlivestock; (2) improveagriculturalproduction, though
preventing saline inundation duringnormalweather andimproved croppingpatterns due to               *

reduced cyclone risks; and(3) introduce improvedtechnology inthe design andconstruction
o fprotectionworks, and improvedmethods o f embankment maintenance. The thirdobjective
was innovativebecauseit pilotedthe idea that stakeholders could be inducedto undertake
maintenance o f embankments inreturn for user-rights to the forestry produce fiom
afforestation andplantingon the embankments. Project objectives are relatedto components
andcosts inTable 1.




3. Letter to the BangladeshMinistryof Finance, July 12, 1994.

                                                         4


Table 1:ProjectObjectives, Components, andCosts
                                I:
Objectives                        Components                                      Costs(US$, million)
                                                                                 Appraisal    Addition   Actual
                                   m Rehabilitationand improvement of 21
                                      polders in the coastal area. Civilworks
                                      including78 kmof resectionedand 73 kmof
                                      newseaward-facing embankment, 7 km of
                                      coastal,protectionusing revetments, new       44.6                  62.0 a
                                      and replacement cross-drainage structures,
1. Providecyclone protection,         finish earlier uncompletedwork, and
includingimprovingthe                 mitigationof erosion damage on Sandwip
security of personsliving in          Island. Repairsto existingembankments,
the protectedareas, reducing          drainage networks and regulators and
damageto housesand other              provision of newsluices
buildingsand infrastructure           Acquire 675 haof landfor project works          3.3
and minimizingthe loss of
crops and livestock                   InvoluntaryResettlement. Compensate
                                      about 1,800 families that would lose
2. Improveagricultural                property, resettle700 squatterfamiliesand       0.4               1 3 . 7

productionthrough prevention          provide homestead plotsfor 1,300 other
of salinewater intrusion              landless families
during normalweather and
improvecrop production by          m Community Development Fundfor provison

reducingcyclone damage                of water and sanitation, community
                                                                                                        >
                                      educationandtrainingand income                 0.4
                                      generating activities (EC)
                                      Investigation,surveys and studies               0.5
                                      Engineeringand administrationincluding         4.0                   4.2

                                      vehicles and equipment
                                      Leaseof privateforeshorefor afforestation       1.8                   1.7
                                      Afforestationof 1,900 ha of embankments        5.3                   4.2
3. Introduceimproved                  and 4,700 of foreshore facilitatedthrough
technologyfor the design and          community participation
constructionof protection             Technical assistance to support project
works, and improvedmethods            supervision, design improvements,             10.6                  12.1
of embankmentmaintenance              afforestation,social development and
                                      improvedoperation and maintenance
                                      Improvedoperation and maintenance              5.4                   5.5
                                                            Project Baseline Cost   75.9                  87.9
Supplemental Credit (19991         m Emergencyrepairsto embankments                           Addition   Actual
                                      resultingfrom the 1997cyclones inthe
                                      CERP area and an additional46 polders                     5.5        5.5

                                      Upgrading emergency repairsto meet
                                      standardspecificationsfor embankments                     5.2         a

                                      andto covercost overrunsof CERP
                                      Feasibilitystudy for a secondphase CERP                   4.1        4.1
                                      project'
                                   m Support for NGO and resettlement                                       b
                                      consultants                                               1.7

                                               Price and physical contingencies     11.9
                                 TotalProject Cost                                  87.8                   97.6
Notes:a. The amounts inthe supplemental creditfor emergency repairsareincluded intotalcost for civil
works; b. the amount for NGOs andresettlement consultants is included inthe TA total. Actual amounts vary
because o f exchange rate differences and cost variations.

                                                    5


 ImplementingArrangements

 10.     The line agency of Ministryo f Water Resources, the Bangladesh Water Development
 Board (BWDB), managedthe project through a special Project ImplementationUnit
 established inChittagongand suboffices inCox's Bazaar,Noakhali, andBarisal. The BWDB
 Project Director was assistedbythree deputy directors responsible for construction, O&M,
 andresettlement. The ForestDepartment (FD)maintained its ownPWinChittagongandwas
 responsible for foreshore afforestation, technical assistance, and fhding NGOsto establish
 nurseries and assist BWDBinits embankment forestry activities. The working relationship
betweenBWDB andthe FDwas governedby a separate agreement. A project Coordinating
 Committeeo fthe mainline agencies, chaired bythe Project Director, met quarterly and also
 includedrepresentatives of the Ministryo fAgriculture (agricultural extension), an elected
representative o fthe participatingNGOs, and, as anobserver, a representative o fthe project
 consultants. Inaddition, District Project CoordinatingCommittees headedbythe respective
DeputyCommissioners monitoredlocalprogress, particularly onlandacquisitionactivities.
 Similar committees were replicatedat the Thana andUnionlevel andtheir main functionwas
to disseminate information on project activities, andcatalyze community andbeneficiary
participation.

Implementation

 11.     Although the project experienced delays causedby slow counterpart staffing,
difficulties over landacquisition, award o f construction and consultants' contracts, and
cyclonic damage, it closed on schedule. The initial roundo fnational competitivebid(NCB)
contracts and direct contract awards experienced a year's delay becauseof the unfamiliarity
o fBWDBregional and local staffwith the Bank'sprocurement requirements, andthe large
number andwide geographic spread o fthe contracts. Indeed, this unfamiliarityledto nine
NCB contracts and five direct contract awards with landless contracting societies being
declared as misprocurement andineligible for Bank-finan~ing.~

12.      The action o fthe sea andriver changed the foreshore duringthe long appraisal
process and subsequent contract delays, anda major cyclone inMay 1997 that damaged 220
kilometers anddestroyed 54 kilometers o f embankments, ledto increased costs. Inmany
casesproject works hadto beredesigned, embankments realigned, and some o fthe earlier
work neededmore extensive rehabilitationthan anticipated. Fundsdiverted for emergency
repairs andincreased use o f design consultants depletedthe EC grant funds allocated for the
resettlement and socialmobilizationconsultants even as the scope o fthe landacquisition,
resettlement planning, and social mobilization activities increased. The inability o fthe EC to
replenish its grant quickly requiredthe Bank to providebridgingfunds from the emergency
supplement credit agreed in 1999. Evenso, there was an 18-month hiatus inNGO activity
that underminedthe socialmitigationaspects ofthe project's resettlement, compensation,
andafforestationactivities that remained unfinishedat project completion(see paras 14,33).




    ~




4. The 9 NCB contracts were worthUS$908,856, the direct contracts US$110,355.

                                                            6


 There was also pressure on the government's general budget becausethe extensive inland
 floods o f 1998 affected 30 million people andreducedGDP by an estimated 1.1percent.'

 13.      The BWDBarrangementwiththe Forest Departmenton foreshore afforestationwas
 never easy and finally collapsedin 1999. Inpartthis was becausethe FDhadgreater
 difficulty thanBWDBinworking withNGOs, an issue highlightedduring appraisal. BWDB
 took over the management o fthe afforestation NGOs, but not without delays as contracts
were renegotiated andthe backlogo funfinishedFDcertification was sorted out. In
 consequence, andbecauseo fchangedphysical conditions, foreshore afforestation didnot
 reachits targets.

 14.      Involuntaryresettlement planningandimplementationwas inaccordance with the
 Bank's safeguardpolicy (OP4.3 InvoluntaryResettlement) except for the few remaining
 compensation payments. At the time o fthe OED mission, about 4 percent of final
 compensation payments were outstanding due mainly to legal disputes over landownership.

 15.      Resettlement andcompensation for lost landand assets didnot go accordingto
 schedule andtook less landthanplanned(588 hectares compared with 675 hectares) but
 affected far morepeople-inall 6,022 -thananticipated. Even so, it didnot create any major
problems or major delays duringimplementation-animprovement over past BWDB
projects.6

 16.      The Resettlement Action Plan(RAP) was supervised andmonitoredusingtechnical
 assistanceconsultants and facilitated through local BWDB-appointedNGOsworking within
the communities. The NGOs were withdrawn from March 2003 andthe TA was terminated
from June 2003 when donor funding ceased. BWDBhasno follow-up or staffmonitoring
RAPactivities eventhoughthey are not filly complete. As such, the current status is
unsurveyed. New settlers were not registered or formally given homesteadplots beyond
December 2002 but, according to BWDB,there is a free-flow of settlers coming and going.
For example, inpolder 59/3C andpolder 59/3B, 21 and 175 people respectively who lost
their lands to erosion have settled on the embankment as a last resort andthey are not
officially listedas embankment settlers.




5. The 1998riverinefloods were the longest inlivingmemory- lastingfiromJune to October and the lossofproduction
                                                                                       -
andcost ofmitigationincreasedthe fiscal deficit from4.2 percentinFY98to 5.3 percentinFY99. The flood inundated
closeto 100,000 squarekilometers ofland. Morethan30millionBangladeshiswere displaced, with 20 million rendered
homeless. Hundreds ofpeoplewere killed directlybythe floods, andseveralhundredthousandcases ofdiarrheawere
confirmed.
6. Itwas anticipatedthat 1,800 privatehouseholds, 200 ofwhichwouldrequireinvoluntaryresettlement, would lose landor
otherpropertyassets and that 700squatterson the embankments wouldhaveto berelocated.An additional 1,300 landless
familieswere to begiven usufructrights andleases to live onthe landside ofthe embankments.Byproject completion,
4,866 landownershadbeenaffectedand 543 hadto beresettled. One thousand, one hundredfifty six squattershavebeen
relocatedlater thananticipatedto synchronizewith the delayedreafforestationprogram..

                                                        7


 3.        Evaluation

 EXPECTED      BENEFITS

 17.       Theproject was expected to directlybenefit 1.2 millionpeople living inthe project
 area. Theprimarybenefitswould bereduction inthe loss o flives, property, crops, and
 livestock, and improvements inagricultural productivity andincomes phasedinover a period
 o f 7 years and lasting 30 years. This was to be achieved throughpreventionof salinity
 intrusionduringnormal tidalcycles, protectionagainst tidal surges causedby cyclones
 having a returnperiod of less than20 years, andimprovedmaintenance. Specifically, the
 average cropping intensity over the net cultivable area o f49,900 hectares was expected to
 increase from the 1994baseline o f 136percent to 155 percent.' This, alliedwith improved
 management, inputs andhigh-yielding crop varieties, was expected to raise crop production
 by anincremental 87,700 metric tons or 55 percent, thereby increasing net farm incomes by
 47 percent. Itwas estimatedthat cyclones would reduce these productionimprovements -by
 50 percent for a 14-20year event, andby40 percent for a l-in-10 year event. Similarly,
 livestock losses would bereduced to 10percent for cyclones of 1-in-10 years or more.
 Property, roads, and culverts would also sustainmuchless damagewith the project. Benefits
 would also arise from afforestation ofthe foreshore, and embankments that would reduce
 maintenance costs andprovide economic benefits (timber, fuel wood, h i t s , and fodder). No
 attempt was made to quantifj lives savedby the proposedproject interventions.

 COUNTERFACTUAL

 18.      Intheabsenceoftheprojectitwasassumedthatthebreachesintheseaward-facing
 embankments would remainor increase due to lack o frehabilitationhebuildingand
continued poor maintenance. Inconsequence, it was assumedthat within two years all high-
yielding varieties o f summer Kharifrice would switch to salt-tolerant local varieties, yields
would decline by 10percent, and crop production would fall by 17,300 tons. Saline soil
conditions would continue to limitdry seasoncropping. Property, roads, andculverts would
be damagedby every cyclone andrisk to life andlivestock would remainhigh.*

 19.      The counterfactualmade no allowance for other programs andprojects implemented
duringthe life o fthe project that helpedto develop the coastalbelt. The Bank's Forest
Resoyces Management Project (Credit 2397-BD for US$49.6 million approved in 1992)
provided over 60,000 ha o fmangrove andnew conventional forests along the coast o fthe
Bay o fBengal and overlapped the CERP project area. Inaddition, there were 18 other
projects andprograms financed independentlyo f the Bankby either the govemment or other
donors that overlapped implementationo fthe CERP. The most relevant was the ADB's
Coastal Greenbelt Projectthat includedthe parts ofthe CERP area. The remaining 16
projects covered coastal protection, cyclone shelters, agricultural, fisheries, public healthand

7.Cropping intensity is an index o f landuse. Ifonly one crop is grown over an areaper year, the cropping
intensity is 100percent. If
                          two crops are grownover the whole area for example, Amanrice and winter
vegetables -thecropping                                             -
                         intensity would be 200percent.
8. Over 140,000 people were killed and 40 percent of livestockwas lost inthe 1991cyclone.

                                                    8


most had some effect on the realizationo fthe agriculturalandhumandevelopment potential
o fthe coastal belt ( h e x B5).

20.        Monitoringand evaluation to be implemented throughthe consultants financedbythe
ECwas givena fairly highprofile at appraisal. Benchmark studies were undertakenfor 17o f
the 21 polders under the related SystemsRehabilitationProject (Credit 2099-BD ). Even
thoughno monitoring andevaluation o f`'without project" control polders was established,
the scope o fM&Eactivities was very comprehensive andwould have yielded very useful
data about project impacts. The landacquisition andresettlement component was thoroughly
monitoredand evaluated throughout implementationandfully complied with the Bank's
safeguard policy. However, monitoring o f agricultural, socio-economic, andenvironmental
impacts was not undertaken becausefundingfor technical assistancewas inadequate and
irregular after.1999 (para. 12), andwas further dilutedbythe additionalwork causedbythe
 1997 cyclone.

OUTCOME

21.        The outcomeofthe CoastalEmbankmentRehabilitationProjectis rated
moderatelysatisfactorybasedon the relativeimportanceof the objectives.The most
important issue affectingthe outcome ratingwas the partialprogress toward mitigating
inadequate embankment maintenance and lack o f progress on reforming systemic
institutionalproblems, objective 3 (Table 2).

Table 2: Ratingsfor AchievementofProjectObjectives

                  Objectives                 Importance  Relevance  Efficacy   Efficiency  OUTCOME

Physical
1. Providecyclone protection, including
   improving the security o fpersons living
   intheprotectedareas, reducingdamage       Substantial  High      Modest     Substantial Satisfactory
   to houses andother buildingsand
   infrastructure andminimizingthe loss of
   crops andlivestock
2. Improve agricultural productionthrough
   preventiono f saline water intrusion
   duringnormal weather andimprove crop      Substantial  High     Substantial Substantial Satisfactory

  productionbyreducing cyclone damage
Institutiond
3. Introduce improvedtechnology for the                                                    Moderately
   design and construction o fprotection       High       High      Modest      Modest     Satisfactory
   works, and improvedmethods o f
   embankmentmaintenance.
                              Overallrating      ..       High      Modest     Substantial Moderate&
                                                                                           Satisfactoy


22.       The reform elements supporting the thirdobjective, which were the primaryreason
theprojecttook so longto prepare andappraise, resonatemost closelywiththe Bank's

                                                 9


 country strategy and are therefore o f`thehighest importance. The basis for individual ratings
 i s elaborated inthe sections that follow

 RELEVANCE

 23.     Relevancewas highat appraisal and remains high.The project's first objective, to
 reduce vulnerability to natural hazardsthrough investment ininfrastructure, supported the
 government's 1996NationalEnvironmentalAction Plan, its 1999 National Water
 Management Planandthe Bank's 2020 Long-runPerspective Study for Bangladesh (1996).
 The more detailed Bangladesh Climate Change and Sustainable Development Study (2000)
 identified measuresto improve coastal defenses as part o f a national long-term strategy to
 addressthe impact o f sea-level rise due to globalwarming: "the prospect i s sufficiently likely
 and alarmingto warrant precautionary actionat the nationalas well as at the intemational
 level."

24.      The secondobjective, to improve agriculturalproduction, was and is totally
consistent withthe government's andthe Bank's strategy for Bangladesh's agriculture andto
 ameliorate ruralpoverty.

25.      Thethirdobjective, to involve localbeneficiaries, was highlyrelevant. The 1995
Country Assistance Strategy emphasized, inter alia, improvingcollaborationo f government
andNGOs indelivery o fbasic services andincreasinginvolvement o fcommunities and
stakeholders inthe design andmonitoringo fdevelopment programs. The 1998 CAS
reinforced the recommendations o f OED's 1997 Country Assistance Evaluation, specifically
that partnerships with other donors, NGOs, andcivil society shouldbe increased to overcome
vested interests andbuildclient ownership. In1999the CAS progress report reemphasized
the importance o f capacity buildingto give stakeholders (thepoor inparticular) a "voice" in
reducingthe afflictions o fpoverty.

26.      TheBank's latest CountryAssistance Strategy (2001) notes Bangladesh's economy is
also vulnerable to natural disasters o f catastrophic proportions: "In recognition o f this, IDA
mustbepreparedto consider additionalassistancefor post-disaster recoverythrough
operations similar to those providedinthe aftermath o f the 1998 flood. This would be
incremental to the investments for coastal embankments andriverbank protectionthat have
beenproposed to strengthen disaster mitigationcapacity. IDAwould support buildingthe
Government's capacity inmanaging these disasters andimplementing a long-term flood
control actionplan." Inaddition, one o fits four mainthrusts was to implement an integrated
approach to rural development, including supporting growth inagriculture andnon-farm
activities, makingopportunities and assets available to the poor, andimproving rural
infrastructure.

Efficacy

27.      Overall efficacy is rated modest. While one objectivewas filly achieved,
achievement on the other two was partial with significant shortcomings.

                                                         10


 ObjectiveI:CycJoneprotection wasprovided -butnot to the extentplanned.

 28.      Only 14o fthe 21polders targeted for rehabilitation were completely protectedby
 new or renovated embankmentsthat filledcritical gaps inthe defenses, leaving sevenpolders
 at risk ofrapid inundation from cyclones. The major reasonis that continued coastal erosion
 andthe 1997cyclone either maderehabilitation aloneimpracticable (major andexpensive
 realignment was needed) or destroyed works executedunder the project. Minor reasons are
 local depressiono f embankment crest levels(dueto manualconstructionandpoor fill
 compaction), poor maintenanceo f some sections, gullyerosionof embankmentslopes from
 rainfall and"public cuts" (para. 37).9 Inconsequence, although only 86 percent ofnew or
 rehabilitated embankmentswere constructed, these usedmore thandouble the number of
 sluices and gatesplanned.The target o f381kilometers ofinternal drainage works was
 slightlyexceeded; conversely, only 22 kilometers or 17percentofinternal embankments
 were built becauseofcost o v e m s onotherproject components.

 29.      Improved drainageworks anddrainagesluiceshavebeenvery effective increating
 conditions for the introduction o fhigh-yieldingvarieties ofrice andhalting cutting of
 embankmentsbyinhabitants to regulatewater levels for productive purposes. For example,
 inthe deltaofthe RiverMeghna, sevennew sluicesintheRamgatipolder haveremoved
 drainagecongestion from about 7,000 hectares- about a quartero fthe total polderedarea-
 andthis hascompletely curtailed cuttingofthe embankmentsby farmers to let flood water
 out, amajor problem inthe past. Inthe same polder, however, erosion o f 6 kilometers of
 embankment, including 2.2 kilometers ofCERPworks, allows tidal flooding of 1,500
 hectares. Elsewhere, insufficient sluiceshaveledto continuedpublic cuts: inMatabari polder
 inCox's Bazaar,for example, there are 13public cutsinthe sea-facingembankmentsto
 facilitate shrimp culture, salt cultivation, andirrigation.

 30.      The only real test ofthe efficacy ofproject infrastructure against cyclonic storm
 surges occurred in 1997 and 1998. Comparedwith earlier events of similar magnitude
 strikingthe same area ofcoastline, the lossoflife was significantly reduced(Table 3).                  lo
 Severalindependentand government observershave concludedthat the risk to life declined
because o fimprovedwarning systems, bettercyclone shelters, andbetter inlandtransport and
communications facilities -andafter the 1991cyclone over 1,200 cyclone shelters were
built, manyo fthem multipurpose structures.'' As only a small proportion ofproject works



9. "Public cuts" is the termusedto describe holes made inthe embankments to allow water inor out. Generally,
farmers cut the embankment to let out rainwater flooding inthe absence of a sluice; conversely, fishermen make
cuts to allow their boats inandprovide saline water for fish culture, while others manufacture salt. Public cuts
are symptom o funresolved conflicts of interest and lack of relevant engineering solutions.
10. Damage fromcyclonic tidal surge depends on its timing andthe state ofthe tide: damage from a cyclone
over a low spring tide could be anorder o f magnitude less than a similar magnitude event over a highspring
tide. Iffields are clear of crops, agricultural damage will be minimal. Thus, only seasonally unaffected
indicators are shown. The datainTable 3 is drawn fromseveral sources: Banglapedia (2004); Nirapad Barta
(2004). Table 3 also shows thatproperty damage is highlycorrelated withvery highwindspeeds.
11. Cyclone shelters were builtusing fundingfromSaudi Arabia, EU, Japan, Care, the RedCrescent, and other
intemationalagencies andNGOs.

                                                    11


hadbeencompletedby 1998, only avery small portion ofthe hugedrop infatalities canbe
 attributed to the CERPproject.

         Table3: Cyclonesare now less fatal
                                            1970    1985     1991     1994     1997       1998
          Wind speedkm/hr                   223      154     225      200      225        150
          Storm surge, m                  .6to 9    3 to 5   6to 8      4       5          3
          Number killed                  500,000    11,070  138,000   170       126        19 '
          Property Damaged(number)       400,000   94,000   820,000    M     612,000     3,200
         Note: na no reliable estimate available
                 -

Objective2:Agricultural production improved

31.      The agricultural picture i s morepositive andindicatesthat project embankmentswere
successfulinkeeping out saline water intrusion duringspringtides and storms. Although the
project didnot monitor agricultural production, the Ministryo fAgriculture andBangladesh
Bureauo fStatistics independently collate 27" (parish) data seasonallyandthis enabled
trends inproductionto bedetermined bythe FA0ICRteam. The benefitedarea, at 40,200
hectares, was 60 percentofthe appraisaltarget becauseofincomplete polders. Withinproject
polders the cropping intensityincreasedby 18percent andthe weighted average crop yields
increasedbyhalfor 0.97 tonskectare over the pre-project equivalent o f 1.94 tonskectare.
Most ofthe increasewas due to diversification to cashcrops encouragedbybettertransport
links andthe spreadofhigh-yielding,varieties ofrice (Annex B).An expost impact
assessment was commissionedby the BWDB andgenerally confirmedthese findings from a
detailed evaluation ofthree polders compared with the baselinesurvey, andone control site.'2

Objective3: Design and constructionof protection workswas improvedand innovative
methods of embankmentmaintenancewereintroduced                 -but sustainabilityis an issue.

32.      Better designdecreasedthe seaward slope of embankments from 1:3 to 1:7 and
protectedthem with a layer o fcompacted clay, thereby increasingembankmentstability and
reducingerosionrisks fiom wave action. Importantinnovations were to introduce social
forestry onthe embankment, andallow homesteadrights at the foot o fthe landward slope
andharvestingofforestry products inreturn for embankmentmaintenance.Therationale was
that trees ofappropriatespeciesplantedon the embankmenthelpholdthe embankment soil
firmlythroughtheir rootnetwork andthus reduceerosionanddissipatewave energy.In
addition, BWDB was to give additional attention to inculcating a "maintenance culture"
withinits organization.However, noneo fthese activities reachedthe targets set at appraisal.

33.     Socialforestry targets were only partially met. Just over a thirdofthe ambitious
target of 1,900 hectaresofnewlyplantedforestry on embankmentswas achieved, andonly




12.BWDB.2003. ImpactAssessment Studyof CoastalEmbankmentRehabilitationProject (Phase-II)IDA
Credit 2783-DB. DesignandPlanning Consultants inassociationwith Associated Engineers (BD) Ltd.and
Development Planners andConsultants. Final Report, January2003.

                                                       12


21percent o fsea-facing slopes canberegarded as fullyprotected (Table 3).13 As progress
was slow anduneven, some embankments were well-forested, others only marginally ~ 0 . ' ~
Taking50percent forest cover as a cut-off, overallabout 40 percent o fthe project areawas
afforded some protectionas three quarters o fthe lengthoftheir sea-facing embankments was
planted. It is uncertain, however, how mucho fthe afforestation canbe attributed to the
project: the Forest Department's Coastal Greenbelt Project (ADB)andForest Resources
Management Project (IDA) covered an additional 647 hectareson embankment and3,353
hectares onthe foreshore inthe same target areas.

          Table 3: Embankment afforestationwas only partially successful
          PlantationCoverage                  Better than        Between         Lessthan         Total
          Compared with SAR Target               80%           50 and 80%           50 Yo
          NumberofPolders                          5                 5               11             21

          TotalPolder Area, ha                   31,345           41,763           119,492       192,600
          (andpercent oftotal area)              (16%)             (22%)           (62%)         (100%)
          Sea-facing Embankments, km              78                206              97            381
          (andpercent oftotal length)        '   (21%)             (54%)           (25%)         (100%)

34.      Embankment areaswith afforestation and foreshore protectionare generally ina
better state o fmaintenance thanareas not planted. Embankment settlers are lookingafter the
trees andundertakingminor maintenance. Most importantly, they do not allow cattle to enter
anddamage the embankment areas-amajorprobleminthe past. Plantedareas alsoprovide
a sheltered habitat that encouragesbiodiversity, particularly grasses andother speciesthat
bindthe soil.

35.       Inmanyareas, however, sustainingnewly-plantedforests onembankments was
challenging. A detailed Banksupervisionreview and an impact assessmento f four polders
indicated that fewer than 60 percent o f seedlings survived the first year even though
necessary agrochemical inputs were made available bythe FD.l5Primaryreasons were the
unevenquality o frootstock raised inlocalnurseries or established by the participating
NGOs,unavailability o fgoodqualitywater, andlack oftimely incentives for embankment
dwellers. Manyo fthe embankments were constructed usingsemi-saline soils borrowedfrom
the foreshore, andlack o f good qualitywater precludedadequate leaching o f salts. Evenin
non-saline soils, plants died for lack of fresh water.

36.      Manyembankment settlers were uncertain about what they hadagreedwhenthey
signed contracts with the BWDB.First, NGOswere not always there to provide guidance on


13. The ICRnotesthat SAR afforestation targets were reduced during implementationto take accountof
practical fieldrealties -this was despite extensivefield surveys at appraisaI. OED evaluated againstthe S A R
targets.
14. The mainreasonfor the shortfall was slow activation andmobilizationo fNGOs responsible for social
organization under the Forest Departmentandsubsequent inadequateand irregular fmncial support from
government and the donors (para. 12). Finally, underBWDBmanagement, embankment afforestation started in
1998, two years behindschedule.
15. Supervision report, August-September 2002.

                                                   13


social forestry becauseo fthe irregular financial support for them (para.12), andsecond, the
four-year subsistencepayment to settlers whilst the plantations maturedwere very irregular
even when NGOswere present. Inall areas, support for embankment settlers dried up before
the end o fthe four-year subsistenceperiodwhen the EC-sponsored NGOs departed inMarch
2003. As a result, lack o f own resources forced some embankment settlers (most o fwhom
had earlier been landless) to move to where they couldfindwork -a choice catalyzed by
lack o f social acceptancebythe indigenous population. And insome areas, these departing
embankment settlers cut downthe trees to provide income, inothers the trees perishedin
their absence.I6The findings give further support to a conclusion o f OED's 2004 social
development study that social development is key to project SUCC~SS.'~

37.      Generally, OED's assessmentteam found that embankment settlers stayed when they
had supplementary sources o fincome. Inthe southernPatuakhali District at Kuakata, for
example, 76 settlers occupy andmaintain social forestry on 7 kilometers o f embankment.
Although they find the income from the plantations i s insufficient to meet their subsistence
needs, tourism provides adequate supplemental employment (laboring, rickshaw driving,
etc.) to close the gap. Settlers were confident that incomewould improve when the
plantations matured over the next five years. Onthe embankment east o fKuakata, however,
embankment settlers were fishermen andhadlittle interest insocial forestry, a lack o finterest
partlyfostered byunavailabilityo ffresh water andanunresolved dispute about resettlement
allowances with the responsible NGO. In consequence, all o fthe plantation hadperished and
the embankment was showingsigns oferosion.

38.     The 2002 impact assessment(BWDBibid) o f three polders found that social forestry
providedincome for 885 poor families andalso allowed manyto establish vegetable gardens.
Incomes from forestry were higher thanpolders without social forestry (Table 4), but these
specific findings cannot be generalized for the whole project.

        Table4: Improvedannualincomesfromsocialforestry on embankments
                                         Total     Number     Average no. of    Average income
                    Polder            households    of trees  trees soldhsed    from trees (Tk)
                                                   soldused   per household
         WithDroiect sample

         4012 Patharghata                 63         352            5.6               9,938
         5912 Ramgoti                     85         277            3.3               5,266
         70 Matarbari                     28         131            4.7               4,387
         Without Droiect control
         64/1 Banshkhali                  53          41            0.8              2,732.

        Source: BWDB2003 ibid, Chapter 4

39.     There i s now no systematic inventory o fthe current status o f social forestry inthe
CERPproject. All social monitoringandevaluation ceasedwhendonor fundingdried up and


16. Feedback for a discussionmeeting chairedbythe Deputy Commissioner Cox's Bazaar, 25 April, 2004.
17. OED. 2004. AnOEDReview of Social Development inBankActivities. February 17,2004

                                                  14


the NGOsdeparted. BWDBmaintains no records or the capacity to continue social or agro-
forestry M&E.

40.     The foreshore afforestationcomponentwas generallyunsuccessful.Less thana
fifthofthe SARtarget o f4,737 hectaresofplantationwas achieved. Six polders-Anowara,
Baskhali, Chakoria, Chaufaldandi, Kutubia, and Shoronkhola-covering 37,700 hectares or
 19percent o fthe project areahave full foreshore protection. Two other polders, Chanua and
Moheskhali (covering a further 4,300 hectares), havepartialprotection andbringthe total
protected areato 22 percent o fthe CERP area. Eventhen it is uncertain how far the project
contributed to the total foreshore protectionestablished given the FD's ownprograms (para.
33). Whatever the attribution, however, these project are now complete andneither BWDB
nor the FDhave funds to continue foreshore afforestation.

41.     The foreshore afforestation component was unsuccessfulbecausethere are few
incentives for stakeholders. Foreshore landbelongs to the state and is administered bythe
localDeputyCommissioner @C) who hasthe authority to lease it out, generally for fishing-
related activities -shrimp and fish ponds, and shrimp trawling    -andfor   salt production, all
lucrative activitiesthat fillthe district coffers, unlike mangrove afforestation. In contrast to
fanners withinthe polders, fisherman see the coastal embankment as trespassing on their
livelihoods, andthere havebeennumerous cases when fishermancut the embankments to
allow ingress o f salt water into former creeks, rivers, andwetlands. Similar practices are also
widespread inlandwhere wetlatids have beencut offfrom rivers by embankments.

42.     Generally, the DeputyCommissioners stipulatedthat 20 percent o fthe foreshore land
leasedby fisherman and salt produces should be used for afforestation. Not all leaseesagreed
andevenfor those who did, the DC hadfew resources or inclinationto policeinfluential
stakeholders. Inconsequence, considerable areas o fthe foreshore plantinghavebeen
removedby fishermen andreplacedwith commercial fishing activities. The areas that remain
are where the embankments are set back from the coastline or populationand fishing
pressure are relatively low.

43.     Although a planfor improvedoperation andmaintenancewas prepared,the
BWDBmaintenanceculturehasnotchanged.The primaryreasonis that the plandepends
on increased funding from BWDBandcontinuedcommunity participation inmaintenance.
BWDBhasworkedwell at the things itdoesbest -newworks andrehabilitation-but
remains unable to useNGOs as interlocutors to mobilize communitiesbecauseo finsufficient
budget. Most communitiesvisitedby OED complained that no money was forthcoming fiom
BWDBfor routine O&M, or evento settle arrears ofresettlement andsubsistenceclaims.

44.     The Project ImplementationUnitestimated in2002 that annual costs o froutine
physicalmaintenance and support o fvarious community maintenance groups was Taka 56
million (US$1.4 million). Over the period 1996-2004, the actual budget averaged 59 percent
o f needs, this average beingraisedby a government allocation inthe last year o f the project
o fTaka 83 million. Ifthis outlier i s omitted, the coverage for the perioddeclines to 45
percent. A further difficulty was that the Bank's efforts to induceBWDBto separate staff
andbudgets for newwork andO&M failed. As part o fits cost-cutting exercise enforced fiom
the center, BWDBdownsized fieldunits andmergedall activities. Consequently, as before

                                                  15


 theproject, lucrativecapitalworks receive the bulko ffimdingthat remains after staffcosts
 are met. For example, inthe Patuakhali O&M Circle, actual O&M needs were Taka 10
millionbut only 2 millionwas received. Thus, most sluices are inoperable, breaches in
 embankments remainunrepaired, androutinemaintenance i s minimal.

 Efficiency

45.     Efficiencyis ratedsubstantial.The periodsince the projectwas implementedhas
beenremarkable bythe absenceo f large cyclones andthe associateddamage. This has
 loweredthe perception o frisk andfarmers have invested.more. At appraisal, basedon an
analysis o f 11o fthe 21polders (covering 64 percent o fproject costs), it was expected that
theprojectwould yield aneconomic rateo freturn(ERR) o f 19percent, excludingany
benefits fiom lives saved. The expust ICR evaluation projectedthat the ERRhadincreased
to 25 percent because o fthe greater thananticipated agriculturalbenefits (para. 29) and
optimistic assumption about afforestation benefits. Subsequently, BWDBcompleted an
assessmento fthe same 11polders inJanuary2003 and loweredthe average ERRto 13
percent primarilybecauseo fincreased capital costs. Five polders were found to be
uneconomic: Sandwip (7 percent), Kurushkul(7 percent), Teknaf (9 percent), andRamgati
(11percent). BWDBnotes, however; that "if other project benefits likeroads, markets,
employment, environment, healthhazard, etc. would betaken into consideration, the benefit
would bemuchhigher. Fromthese points o fview, it canbe concluded that the execution o f
the polders isjustifiable. The polder projects have been a good case where social,
environmental, financial and economic variables are showing positive trends towards
improvements."** OED can only concur.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

46.     Overallinstitutionaldevelopmentimpactis ratedas modest at best.BWDBwas
very effective inareas o f its comparative advantage-civil engineering -but it was less
successful indevelopingskills insocial mobilizationandworking with the Project Director
appointed by Forest Department. Indeed, the dual implementationfailed due to lack o f
coordinationand eventually the FDwas excluded from the project andnever fielded any
staff. While BWDBwas successful inrecruitingNGOs to initiatethe forestry component,
social mobilization, andresettlement, BWDBonly modestly internalizedthe needto factor
beneficiaries' views into engineering decisions. Thus, as soon as donor pressure and finance
to address social issuesceased, social concerns were dropped fiom its agenda. While
management plans for polder O&M were developedby consultants, management systems for
embankmentandforeshore plantations remainto beimplementedprimarilybecauseo f lack
o fbudget andad hoc maintenance inresponseto emergency needs.

47.    Incontrast to business-as-usualperformance o ftheBWDB, anewinstitutionalmodel
for embankment maintenance - social forestry and embankmentmaintenance groups


18. BWDB.2003. ImpactAssessment Study o f CoastalEmbankmentRehabilitationProject (Phase-11) IDA
Credit2783-DB. Design andPlanningConsultantsinassociationwith Associated Engineers(BD) Ltd. and
DevelopmentPlannersandConsultants. Final Report, January2003.

                                                   16


financed by the proceeds to secure stakeholder ownership was successfully pilotedand
beneficiaryinterest is high. Although it has not proved to beuniversally successful, the
reasons are clear: problematic logistics andinadequate cross-sectoral coordinationslowedthe
launch o fthe programwhile lack o f adequatebudget to complete schemes already started
underminedtheir continued success.

Sustainability

48.     Sustainabilityis unlikely. Budgets from government for O&M are insufficientto
sustainproject works, andthe longer-termviability o fbeneficiary embankment maintenance
i s uncertain. The situationi s now evenmore difficult becausethe food-for-work program
underthe WorldFoodProgramme (WFP), usedto finance earthworks construction and
maintenance, was phased out over the period 2001-03.

49.     Technical sustainability is uncertain. Even ifthere were sufficient budget andhuman
resourcesto maintainproject achievements, project works are generally only part o fthe
coastal embankment cyclone protectionworks andare newly fixed patches within existing
embankments. Thus, for example, inMatabaripolder, the CERP works comprise only 27
percent o fthe sea-facing embankment anda 300-meter stretchhasbeen damaged and awaits
repair.l9 This i s a minor problem, however, comparedwith the 17kilometers or 98 percent o f
the original embankment adjacent to the CERP works that needs major repair. In addition,
public cuts require replacement with.sluices.

50.     There i s also aproblemo f erosion bythe sea or byrivers. Although this could be
avoided ifthe embankments are set back from the shoreline, there i s huge socialpressure not
to exclude any agriculturalland.As a result, many embankments are subject to erosion, and
retiringsections o fthreatened embankmentsis amajor andongoingtask for BWDBthat
takes most of the O&M budget. Thus, for example, inRamgatipolder, a quarter o f the 4.3
kilometersofproject resectioned embankment has been eroded, anda 6 kilometer breach in
the embankment destroyed 2.2 kilometerso fnew andretired embankment. Eventhough
project works maybemorerobustly designed and afforded additionalprotectionby
afforestation, agriculturalbenefits withinthe polders can only be guaranteed ifthe whole
polder is adequately maintained - andthis i s clearly not the case.

51.     Social sustainability is also an issuebecause ofthe conflict between the interests o f
fisherman and farmers that leadsto public cuts of the embankments. Unless or until all
stakeholders interests are included inthe planning ofembankment works including
retirement, sluices, intemaldrainage, and afforestation, anda conflict resolutionmechanism
established, it is likely that unilateral actionto safeguard family incomes will take a higher
priority than a group consensus to safeguard the integrity o fthe polder through collective
action.




19. The CEW project built4.48 kilometers ofresection embankment and 2.29 kilometers ofnew (retired)
embankment.

                                                   17


 BANKPERFORMANCE

 52.     Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. Identificationandappraisal was
 satisfactory, albeit delayed bythe standoffover agreeing a reform program for BWDB.
 Technical design was sound andappropriate andledto improved embankmentdesign and
 higher quality civil works. Beneficiaryparticipation was encouraged for the first time and
 linkingsocial forestry to O&M was anotable achievement. Supervisionwas proactive and
 timely andthe supplemental credit provided essential bridgingfunds for the TA, addressed
 more recent cyclone damage repairs and allowed some integratedplanningfor coastal zone
 management to be initiated.

 BORROWERPERFORMANCE

 53.     Borrower performance was unevenbut overall it is rated satisfactory.
 Government ownership was high, althoughthis was not matchedby sufficient funding o f
 O&M once the project hadbeencompleted. Expectingthe FDto work inclose cooperation
 withBWDBwas probably optimistic giventheir totally different interests and skills. Instead,
 the FDpreferredto maintainits independence andindoing so it secured significant ADB
 support for the Coastal Greenbelt Project and dropped out ofthe CERPproject.

 54.     Giventhese changing circumstances, overall BWDBmanaged the multidimensional
 project well. It effectively used foreign consultants and localNGOs to achieveproject
 objectives over avery largeand geographically diverseproject area. Even so, land
 acquisition encountered someproblems because local government organizations andpolder
 inhabitants were not adequately consulted on designs andpreparation works. Procurement,
 despite BWDB's years o f experience with the Bank, was a major issue andi s indicative o f
the lack o finstitutionalmemory andleamhgwithin BWDB.Similarly, BWDB's attentionto
 social issues -resettlement  inparticular-languishedoncedonor oversight ceased.
 Systematic attention to monitoring andevaluation was poor notwithstandingthe generally
useful 2002 impact assessment.



4.       Findingsand Lessons

Findings

55.      Theprotectionaffordedbythe coastal embankment against normalspring tides and
small cyclones yields a continuous stream o fhumanandagriculturalbenefits that have
justified the rehabilitation effort. It is not possible, however, to attribute all the benefits to the
Bank-financed project as there are numerous other programs supported byother donors,
government, andNGOs that affect the benefit stream -these include, among others,
agricultural extension, improvements to social capital, raisingo f environmental awareness,
growth o f flood and disaster warning, andnurturingo f coping strategies. The number o f
deaths related to severe cyclones showed a marked decline duringthe life o fthe project, but
this was due to the paucityo f extreme events and the buildingo f effective cyclone warning

                                                     18


 andevacuation systemsbygovernment andthe NGOcommunity, not the Bank's assistance
per se.

 56.      The project clearly demonstratedthat improvedtechnical design o f the coastal
 embankments combinedwith social forestry made the structure more robust andreduced its
 rate o fdeterioration. However, the whole embankment is only as strong as its weakest link-
 thusthe "patch, mend, andupgrade" approach (while providinglocalprotection) doesnot
 guarantee the integrity o fthe coastalpolders. Inhindsight, itwould havebeenbetterto apply
 the new designparadigmto a few select polders andupgrade them totally -with a well
 designed M&Ethis would have served as a good demonstration o fthe sustainability o fthe
 design. Without such an approachthere i s markeddifferential deterioration between the
 existing embankment andthose sections strengthenedbythe project. General dissatisfaction
 with the quality o fO&M andthe continued lack of refominBWDBcausedthe Bankto
 cancel a proposed follow-on project, a decision sustainedthough 2004.

 57.     The future?The keydevelopment issueis howto ensureadequatefundingto
 systematically maintainthe polders andbringthemall upto the CERP design standard.
 Currently, the outlook i s bleak because government's manyconflicting priorities result in
 available budgets beingspread too thinly to ensure even the minimalmaintenance standards.
 Improvingto CERP design standard, however, will remainelusive without substantial
 extemal funding. There is also clearly a case to be made for devolving the cost o f
 maintenance o f coastalpoldersto all beneficiaries inorder to mitigate inadequatebudget
 allocation from the center. This will requireconsiderable awareness-raising, consultation,
 andsocialmobilization to identify andimplementresourcemobilizationineither cashor
 kind.

 58.     Followingajoint multi-ministry initiative, the govemment prepared a Policy Note in
 1999 that highlightedthe importance o f sound and integrated coastal costal zone
management: "ICZM offers a means o fbalancingthe competing demands o f different users
o fthe same resources and o fmanagingthe resources to optimize the benefits that is
consistent with the country's goals.. ..it has to prove to be an effective general framework for
dealing with conflicts arising from interactions o fthe various uses o f coastal areas. It aims at
coordinated development andmanagement." The PolicyNote identified the issue o fpoor
departmental co-ordination as one o fthe keychallenges for coastal development and
established a process to overcome this problemsupportedbythe Netherlands andlatterly the
UnitedKingdom.'' One o fthe outputs from this process i s a draft Coastal Zone Policy
(2003). Specifically, it identifies the longer-tenn objective as the reductionofpoverty,
development o f sustainable livelihoods, and the integration o fthe coastal zone into the
nationalplanningprocess.

59.      This integrated approach to coastal development moves beyondthe focus onreducing
vulnerabilities and emphasizes development opportunities that canbe instrumentalin
reducingthe poverty o f coastal comniunities. These wider development goals include those

20. The ProjectDevelopment Office -Integrated Coastal Zone Management was establishedin2001under the
leadof the Ministryof Water Resources. It acts a forum to bringtogetherpolicymakers, technicians, NGOs, and
international community interested incoastaldevelopment.

                                               19


set out inthe InterimPovertyReductionStrategy Paper- as well as assisting Bangladesh to
meetexistinginternationalobligations under such agreementsas the Kyoto Protocol, the
RAMSARConvention, andthe Millennium Development Goals. How the ICZMprocesswill
balance the infrastructure andsocial development needs i s still unclear -but at least it is
moving inthe right direction.

Lessons

60.     Experiencewith this project confirms a number o f OED lessons:

        There i s a need to pay continuous attention to implementation performance in
        disaster-related operations to ensure that such operations are practical anddo not
        sideline needed sector reforms. Issuesthat particularly require attention are ensuring
        that the Borrowerhas the institutionalcapacity to manage andmonitor social
        mobilizationandresettlement andi s conversant with the Bank's procurement
        procedures and guidelines (inthis operation, the Borrower's attention to social
        mobilization andresettlement languished once donor financing ceased).

    0   Technical and sociaVorganizationa1assistance essential for the introductionofnew
        innovationsor ways ofdoingbusiness must be fully funded for the duration o f a
        project. Failureto do so may cause serious implementation delays. This project also
        highlightedthe importance ofharmonizationo fpolicies among donors for subsectors
        inwhichthey sharecommonconcerns andinvestment. Ifdevelopment partnersare

     ,  unwillingto commit to the durationo fthe project, then altemative ways offinancing
        technical assistance should be explored.

    0   Coastal defenses should be renovated to higher engineering standards inhomogenous
        units. This not only has greater sustainability thanisolatedrepairs of existing
        infrastructurebut it also provides amodelthat canbemonitoredto test the success o f
        the innovation- animportant design consideration.


                                               21                              Annex A


Annex A: Basic Data Sheet

BANGLADESHCOASTALEMBANKMENTREI-IGBILITATIONPROJECT
(CREDIT 2 7 8 3 - ~ ~ )


Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                     Appraisal   Revised      Actual or    Actual as % of
                                     estimate   estimate       current       appraisal
                                                              estimate        estimate
Total projectcosts                    '87.8        97.6         97.6           111%
Loanamount                            47.95         --         43.82            96%
Cofinancing                            16.87                    15.77           79%
Cancellation                            __          --          2.59             __


CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                             FY96    FY97 FY98 FY99 W O O     FYOI   FY02 FY03     FY04
Appraisalestimate (US$M) 9.0        28.3   45.0 49.4    51.1 52.1   52.8   53.0    53.0
Actual (US$M)               0.0     8.4    24.8 42.7    52.7 57.6   60.0   60.0    60.0
Actual as % of appraisal    -       29%    55%  86%     103% 110% 113% 113% 113%

Date of final disbursement: 5/12/2003



ProjectDates
                                                 Original                Actual
PCD                                                                     0711311989
Appraisal                                                               1011611995
Boardapproval                                                           1110911995
Signing                                             --                  11/21/1995
Effectiveness                                   0611811996              0611811996
Closing date                                    12/31/2002              12/3112002

                                                      22                                         Annex A



StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                                        ActuaLlatest estirnates

                                      No. of staffweeks                             uss(looo)
Supervision                                   145                                      508
ICR                                           12.6                                      63
Total                                        157.6                                     571
SWs and amount shown againstAppraisallNegotiation includesamount for IdentificationlPreparation.Supervision
amounts are as of June 2003 and ICRamount isthe budgetamountfor FAO/CP.

                                             23                               Annex A


Mission Data

Projectcycle               No. ofpersons and speciality                Performance Rating
                MonWyear   Count     SPECIALTY                         Implem.     Dev.
                                                                       Progress    Objective
Supervision
             06/30/1996-                                                    S           S
             UpdatelPSRfn
             01/I511997       5       SR. OPERATIONSOFFICER(1);             S           S
             -PSR #3                  DISBURSEMENTOFFICER(1);
                                      IRRIGATIONENGINEER (1);
                                      RESETTLEMENTSPECIALIST(1);
                                      AGRICULTURIST(I     )
             05/11/1997       4       DISBURSEMENTOFFICER(I);
             -PSR#4                   PROCUREMENTSPECIALIST(1);
                                      IRRIGATIONENGINEER (1);
                                      RESETTLEMENTSPECIALIST(1)
             02/15/1998        8      IRRIGATIONENGINEER (2);
             -PSR#O5                  PRINCIPALAGRICULTURIST (I);
                                      RESETTLEMENTSPECIALIST(1);
                                      DISBURSEMENTOFFICER(I);
                                      FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                                      PRINCIPALTEAMASSISTANT(1);
                                      TEAMASSISTANT (I)
             10/08/1998                                                     S           S
             Update/PSR#O6
             02/15/1998       IO      AGRICULTURIST(2); IRRIGATION          S           S
            -PSR#O7                   ENGINEER (1); RESElTLEMENT (1);
                                      PROCUREMENT(1); FINANCIAL
                                      MGT. (I); DISBURSEMENT(1);
                                      ECONOMIST(I), Operations Officer
                                      (I), Team Assistant (1)
            02/16/1999        70      AGRICULTURIST (2); IRRIGATION         S           S
            -PSR#O8(MTR)              ENGINEER (I); RESETTLEMENT(1);
                                      PROCUREMENT(1); FINANCIAL
                                      MGT. (1); DISBURSEMENT(1);
                                      ECONOMIST(I), Operations Officer
                                      (I), TeamAssistant(1)
            01/04/2000                                                      S           S
            UpdatelPSR#9
            04/22/2000        6       TASK TEAM LEADERECON.(1);             S           S
            -PSR#I0                   ENGINEER (1); OPERATIONS
                                      OFFICER (1); PROCUREMENTSPEC.
                                      (1); FINANCIALMGMT. SPEC. (1);
                                      DISBURSEMENTSPEC. (1)
            10/29/2000        6       ECONOMIST(1); IRRIGATION              S           S
            -PSR#I1                   ENGINEER(1); NR ECONOMIST(1);
                                      PROCUREMENTSPECIALIST(I);
                                      SOCIOLOGIST(I); FIN. MGT.
                                      SPECIALIST (1)

                                                    24                                  Annex A



 Projectcycle                     No. ofpersonsandspecialty                      PerformanceRating
                   MonWyear       Count       SPECIALN                           Implem.    Dev.
                                                                                 Progress   Objective

                1z10/2001                                                             S          S
                Update/PSR#l2
                06/17/2001            7         AGRICULTURIST(1); IRRIGATION          U          S
                -PSR#I3                         ENGINEER(I);    RESElTLEMENT(1);
                                                PROCUREMENT(1); FINANCIAL
                                                MGT. (1);DISBURSEMENT(1);
                                                ENGINEER (I)
                11/27/2001
                Update/PSR#14
                &I5
                02/17/2002            9 .       ECONOMIST(2); IRRIGATION
                PSR#l6                          ENGINEER(I);    RESETTLEMENT(I);
                                                PROCUREMENT(I); FMS (I);
                                                DISBURSEMENT(1); EUI(1);
                                                EUlENGlNEER (1)
                0911512002            8        Agriculturist(I), ECONOMIST(1);        S          S
                PSR#l7                          IRRIGATIONENGINEER (1);
                                                RESETTLEMENT(1);
                                                PROCUREMENT(1); FMS (I);
                                                DISBURSEMENT(I); EUlENGlNEER
                                                (11
 ICR

InitialSummary (PSR#I) was preparedas of 05/15/1996.

Other ProjectData
BorrowerIExecutingAgency:

FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                              Creditno.                     Amount            Boarddate
                                                                   (US$ million)
None               proposedprojectwas cancelled

                                      25                                  Annex B


Annex B: ProjectPerformanceIndicators

Table B1: ProjectCosts PlannedandActual (Million)
                        -
                           Appraisal Estimate    ActuaULatestEstimate  Percentage of Appraisal
                         IDA     Govt     CoF.  IDA    Govt      CoF.  IDA     Govt     CoF.

CivilWorks (excluding   45.00    5.00     0.00  50.20  7.80            111.6   156.0     0.0
F F w
Earthworks  -FFW                 3.60                  3.60                    100.0
ImprovedO&M             3.90     2.10           3.70   2.00            94.9    95.2
Afforestation                             5.80                   4.20                   72.4
PrivateForeshoreLeasing                   2.10                   1.70                   81.O
Surveys and Studies     0.40     0.10           0.50                   125.0    0.0
LandAcquisition                  3.50                  3.50                    100.0
Resettlement                              0.40                   0.40                   100.0
BWDB Engineeringand     3.20                    2.50                   78.1
Administration
Technical Assistance/                     10.30 1.30             10.00                  97.1
ProjectSupport
Technical Assistance/                     1.10                   0.80                   72.7
Training
Technical Assistance/                           4.10
Preparation of CERP II
Vehicles and Equipment- 0.50     0.80           0.60   0.70            120.0   87.5
procurement and
operatingcost

Total Financing         53.00   15.10     19.70 62.90  17.60     17.10 118.7   116.6    86.8

                                                 26                                           Annex B


Table B2.Actual andProjectedERRSandEffectsofChangesinYields, Cropping
IntensityandCropMix

                           Relative   WeightedYield(by     Cropping
 Polder           CosVa     Cost      CropArea)            Intensity            CropPaitem/b    ElRR(%)
                  IVOOJ
                   l k                                                          SAR    ICR
                              (%)     W/O     ICR    SAR    W/O    ICR    SAR   (%)    (%)      SAR    ICR
 Sharankhola      207487      0.07    0.81    2.10   1.70  1.08    1.42   1.39  27.8   67.8     28.1   21.2
 Pathargata       122549      0.04    1.38    2.14   2.13  1.2     1.21   1.41  22     91.4     18.7   9.6
 Kuakata          140062      0.05    1.32    2.75   2.13  1.22    1.66   1.36  35.5   107.6    7.9    44.3
 Ramgati          321124      0.11    1.48    1.82   1.83   1.53   2.07   1.71  19.2   55.7     6.9    12.4
 Sudharam         366383      0.13    1.83    2.75   2.30  1.43    1.48   1.58  -7.9   10.3     28.1   33
 Companigonj      456967      0.16    1.46    2.73   2.05  1.36    1.60   1.47  14.5   39.7     17.8   32.6
 Kursuhkul        142039      0.05    2.90    3.52   3.54  '1.43   1.68   2.11  40.8   58.7     21.2   8.8
 Teknaf           313485      0.11    2.77    3.34   3.32  1.53    1.45   2.28  27.7   40.2     21.3   11.8
 Matharbari       208720      0.07    3.70    4.39   4.26  1.62    1.93   1.81  5.2    27.3     6.6    17.3
 Sandwip          404301      0.14    1.63    2.52   2.20  1.69    1.92   1.88  80.1   69.3     24.5   12.9
 Hatiya           167207      0.06    1.28    3.48   1.88  1.3     2.05   1.47  15.8   34.2     17.8   179
                  285032
 Total            3            1      1.85    2.80   2.43  1.44    1.69   1.70  49.30  49.30    19.2   28.6
 Relativeto W/O                       1       1.52   1.31  1.00    1.18   1.18  -
Notes:
a/ ProjectCost (Investmentand O&M), 1996-2002.
b/ Percentageof Income ChangefromW/O explained'bycropmix and crop area changes

  TableB3: Physicalachievementsofthe CERPproject
                      Outcome/ Impact Indicators:                       ProjectedinSAR     ActuaVLatest
                                                                                            Estimate
  Rehabilitation andimprovementworks
      Major civil works
      Constructionofnew (retired) embankments(km)                             73               69
      Rehabilitationlre-sectioningofexistingembankments (km)                  78               61
      Constructionofnewregulatorsand drainage sluices                         23               40
      New or repairedprotectionworks                                           7               13
      Minor civil works
      Rehabilitationof drainagenetwork(km)                                    381             115
      Rehabilitatiodre-sectioning ofexistingembankments (km)                  127              22
      Repairedor replacedstructures                                           143         Not available
  Afforestation
      Embankmentslopes (ha)                                                  1,900            665
      Embankmentslopes (km)                                                   570             211
     Foreshoreplantation(ha)                                                 4,900            898
  Improved O&M
       Routine/periodicmaintenance (numberofpolders)                          21               21
      Communities organizedfor O&M                                           1,977            658
     Embankmentsmaintained(km)                                                575             887
      Coverage ofPlans for O&M (number ofpolders)                             21               21

                                    27                             Annex B




Table B4: Status of Afforestation in CERP II-
              EmbankmentAfforestation    ForeshoreAfforestation
            Planned Actual   % Target Planned Actual    % Target
Sharakhola         48      16       33       95      23        24
Patherghatha       41      12       30       55      10        18
Kuakata            47     31        67      129        1        1
Ramghati           49     31        64       77       7         9
Sudharam           93     45        49      114       0         0
Companiganj        68     42        62       96       0         0
Sonagazi           30      0         0      160       0         0
Sitakundu          80      13        16      54      25        46
Patenga            68      3         4     240       67        20
Anowara            82     49        59      174      35        20
Baskhali         213      58        27     285       69        24
Chanua            113     45        39      160      56        35
Chakoria          173     54        31     218       70        32
Kuruskhali         47     15        31      94       40        43
Cox's Bazaar       65     12        18      195      76        39
Teknaf             66     19        29     367       39        11
Moheskhali         58     46        79      180      94        52
Matherbari         54     19        34      101      62        61
Kutobdia          132     23        17     597      134        22
Sandwip          263      120       46    1,200      85        7
Hatiya           115      16        14      46        5        11
Total           1,902     665        0   4,637      898        0

                               28                   Annex B


Table B5:Bangladesh-ProjectsCoveringCoastalAreas
                                                    BDTinMillion




Source: BWDB, November2004.

                                             29                                            Annex B


-Ta; leB6: Stat of SevenPolders           -Opento         Tidal F boding
-
SI.  Polder No.    Locationof opening       Reasonsfor            Impact                 Measuresby
No.                in the embankment        opening                                      BWDB
1    3511,         Km. 3.50to km. 4.25=     Opening is located    Gross area 14,692 ha.  A plan is underway
     Sharankhola   .75 km; Khullia Union,   nearjunction point of Agricultural land      to retirethe
                   Morelgonj,Bagerhat       the Balleswar% the    partiallyaffectedin    embankment
                                            Kacha river. Dueto    6,900 ha. (46.96%)
                                            inadequateset back    and thousands of cattle
                                            distance, the river   affectedby tidal
                                            erosion has engulfed  flooding.

2 5912,                                     the embankment.
                   At Bahaddarhat area      Dueto severe          Gross area 25,583 ha.  ProtectiveWorks
     Ramgoti       Km. 138.50 to km.        erosionof the         Agricultural land      has beenthoughof
                   142.00=3.50 kmand at     Meghnariverthe        partiallyaffectedin    to arrest erosionof
                   Motirhatarea             embankmenthas         5,000 ha. (19.54%)     by riverMeghna.
                   Km 166.815to             been engulfed.        andthousands of cattle  Funds are being
                   Km.167.400 = 0.585                             affectedby tidal       exploredfrom GOB.

-                  Total4.085 Km,                                 flooding.
                   Ramgoti, Laxmipur
3    61.1,         Km. 1.300 to km.         Embankmentis          Gross area 10,170 ha.  Protectionworks
     Sitakuda      1.805 = 0.505 km;        open in a location    Agricultural land      have beentaken up
                   Banshbaria Union,        with narrow           affectedin 1,400 ha.   throughGOB
                   Sitakunda, Chittagong.   foreshoredueto        (13.77%) and drainage  funding.
                                            direct hit of sea     structuredamaged

-                                           wave.                 resulting drainage
                                                                  congestions.
4    68, Teknaf    Km. 16.550 to km.                              Gross area 4.366 ha.   Temporary
                   16.850 = 0.300 km;       Embankmentis
                                            open in a location    (a) Agricultural land  protectiveworks
                   Shahporir Dwip,          with narrow           partiallyaffectedin    have beentaken up.
                   Teknaf                   foreshoredue to       2,550 ha (58.4%) due   A plan is underway
                                            direct hit of sea     to tidal flooding.     to providehard
                                            wave.                                        protectionworks.
                                                                  (b) Drainage
                   At Km. 143.410 and      To improvedrainage     congestions have       Constructionof 2
                   km.15.610,25m and       systemthe local        damagedagricultural    Nos. sluices
-70,               40m respectively open    people have cut the   crops in landsof 850   programmed.
                   Shahporirdwip, Teknaf   embankment.            ha. (19.47%).
5                  12m-embankment           Localshrimp           Gross area 3,000 ha.   BWDB is having
     Matherbari    open at km. 1.40 km.     cultivators have      Agriculturalland       dialoguewith the
                   MatherbariCox's         opposedto complete     affectedin 1,000 ha.   community members
                   Bazaar.                 the embankment; as     (33.33%)               to closethe gap.
                                           a result 12 m gap      This embankment
                                           exists.                sectionwill remain
-72,                                                              extremely vulnerableto
                                                                  stormsurges.
5        Sandwip   Km. 6.00 km. 6.400 =    The embankment         Gross area 17,682 ha.  BWDB has prepared
                   3.40 at Maightbanga,    has been eroded        Agriculturalland       a projectto
                   Sandwip, Chittagong.    due to severe          partiallyaffectedin    rehabilitate72
                                           erosionof the          3000 ha. (16.97%)      polders, which
                                           Meghna river.          standing agricultural  includes this polder.
                                           Subsequently, the      crops, livestock       The Govemment is
                                           localpeoplecut the     population affectedby  reviewingthe
                                           embankment near        tidal flooding.        proposaI.
                                           the Maightbanga
                                           sluicefor drainage,

-                                          affectingthe existing
                                           sluice.
7    73/1A&fB      <m. 17.035 to .f6.500;  The embankment         Gross area 17,333 ha.  BWDB has prepared
     iatiya                                                       Agricultural land
                   tm. 45.90 to 45.60 =
                   tm. 21.960 to 18.960;   ias been eroded                               a projectto
                                           Jue to severe          affected 2,000 ha.     rehabilitate72
                   (m.3.835 Hatiya,        srosionof the          (12%)                  polders, which
                   Joakhali.                Meghna river.                                includesthis polder.
                                                                                         The Governmentis
-                                                                                        reviewingthe
                                                                                         proposal.
jourc Dataas of Ai st 2002, provided by PI1 CERP, BWDB.


