Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15998
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION & RECONSTRUCTION
PROJECT
PRIORITY WORKS PROGRAMME (PWP)
September 16, 1996
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Name of Currency            = Taka (Tk)
Rate of exchange:
Preparation (May 1992) US$1.00 - Tk. 34.6
Interveningyears(1993-1994) US$I.00     = Tk. 39.8
Completion year (1995) US$ 1.00    = Tk. 40.0
BORROWER
People's Republic of Bangladesh
Fiscal Year
July I -June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (kin)  = 0.62 mile
I acre (ac)    = 0.405 hectare (ha)
I metric ton (nit)  = 26.8 mound (miid)
ABBBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP          Annual Development Program
BWDB         Bangladesh Water- Developmenit Board
CERP         Coastal Embanikmiienit Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2783-BD)
EPZ          Export Processing Zone
EC           European Community
ECU          European Currency Unit
EU           European Union
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
ICB          International Competitive Biddinm-
IDA          International Developmenit Association
GOB          Governmenililt of Bangladesh
NCPP         National Cyclone Protection Prog,ram
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PP           Project Proformiia
PWP          Priority Works Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIORITY WORKS PROGRAM
Table of Contents
Preface .................................................... 
Evaluation    Sum m ary  ......................................................
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ....................................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES . ...................................................1
Statement of Project Objectives ....................................................                                                1
Evaluation of Project Objectives ...................................................3
B. ACH[EVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .                                               ...................................................3
C. MAJOR  FACTORS  AFFECTING  THE  PROJECT ...................................................                                                 6
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control ................................................. ...6
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control ....................................................6
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control ....................................................6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.                                                                                                                     8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE.                                                                                                                           8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE.                                                                                                                       9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME.                                                                                                                     9
H. FUTURE  OPERATIONS ...................................................   10
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...................................................                                                                   10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...................................................                                                             12
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ...................................................                                                         12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ................................................... 14
Table 3:  Project Timetable ...................................................  15
Table 4:  LoaniCredit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................................... 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..                                .................................................. 17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................................                                           17
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ...................................................                                                    17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
offircia] duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Table 8A:  Project Costs .......................................... 18
Table 8B:  Project Financing ..........................................                                                        18
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ......................................... 19
Table I0: Status of Legal Covenants ......................................... 20
Table 11: Concurrence with Operational Manual Statements ..........................................                            20
Table 12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ..........................................                                             21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .......................................... 21
APPENDICES
1.       Aide-Memoire
2.       Economic Re-Evaluation
3.    BWDB Evaluation Report
MAP# IBRD 24198R
. .



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIORITY WORKS PROGRAM
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Priority Works Program (PWP)
of the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project (CERP) in Bangladesh, for which savings of SDR 21.35
million (US$30.50 million equivalent) from four IDA Credits'and Japanese grant funds of Yen 2.7 billion
(US$25.2 million equivalent2) were utilized to finance the costs of civil works of five polders3 and the
Patenga Polder including the Naval Academy respectively. The amendments to the first three IDA Credits
were signed in April 1992, and to the fourth IDA Credit (Cr. 1870-BD) in August 1994. The agreement on
the provision of Japanese grant funds (PHRD 2127-5BD) was signed on July 23, 1992.
The financing arrangements for PWP were initially scheduled to be closed by December 31,
1994, but were extended to the end of December 1995. Due to political disturbances the deadline for
submitting withdrawal applications for one of the IDA credits for expenditures incurred prior to December
31, 1995 was extended to June 30, 1996. SDR 20.8 million (US$29.6 million equivalent) from four IDA
Credits were disbursed, leaving an undisbursed balance of SDR 0.55 million (US$0.9 million equivalent)
which was cancelled as part of the cancellatioin of the undisbursed balance of Cr. 1870-BD, effective July
1996. The Closing Date of the Japanese grant was further extended to June 30, 1996 to cover additional
repairs due to the May 1995 cyclone. The full amount of the Japanese grant funds of Yen 2.70 billion
(U$26.6 million equivalent) were disbursed, with the last disbursement on July 29, 1996.
The project was co-financed by European Community (EC) grant funds for the preparation of
designs and engineering documentation and for contract supervision. Initially, ECU2.5 rmillion (US$3.1
million equivalent) was provided, and this amount was subsequently increased to ECU4.3 million (US$5.4
million equivalent) to cover the extended consultant's services.
The ICR was prepared by FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mnission4 which visited
Bangladesh in November 1995, and revised by staff of the Resident Mission and the Agriculture and
Natural Resources Operations Division of Country Department 1, South Asia Region. The ICR is based
on a review of relevant project documents, field visits to five out of six polders, and discussions with the
Borrower's project staff and associated IDA staff. BWDB prepared its evaluation of the project, which is
included as Appendix 3. The Borrower also contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on
the mission's Aide-Memoire5, arranging field visits and discussions with project officers and farmners, and
providing relevant data on project performance.
SDR 9.215 million from Cr. 1467-BD, SDR 4.36 million from Cr. 1784-BD, SDR 3.59 million from Cr. 2048-BD, and SDR
4.18 from Cr. 1870-BD.
2 At the exchange rates applied at the time of withdrawals, plus remaining balance at June 96 exchange rates.
Bashkhali, Anowara, Chakoria, Sitakundu and Sandwip Polders.
4Messrs. G. Schokman (Flood Control and Drainage Engineer/Mission Leader) and T. Lohavisavapanich (Economist).
Attached to the ICR as Appendix 1.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIORITY WORKS PROGRAM
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.         Following the May 1985 cyclone, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) formulated in
1986 a National Cyclone Protection Program (NCPP) with the objectives of minimizing disastrous
effects of cyclones and storm surges. NCPP included plans for improving the coastal embankment
system and introducing associated preventive measures'. In pursuance of the above program, a
consulting firm financed by the European Community (EC), assisted GOB in the preparation of the
Cyclone Protection Project (presently called the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project or CERP
--Cr. 2783-BD) which was planned for inclusion in the Bank's FY93 lending program. The preparation
work for CERP was in progress when a devastating cyclone struck Bangladesh in April 1991. As a
result, the entire coastal embankment system in the north-eastem and eastern parts of the Bay of
Bengal came under intense surge pressure and suffered heavy damage. At that time the embankment
network was in a poor state of maintenance and embankments were breached in many locations. The
cyclone caused 140,000 deaths and severe property damage. Thus, in addition to the improvements of
the coastal embankment system originally planned, it became necessary to rehabilitate the damaged
embankments as quickly as possible to protect areas against future cyclonic surges. GOB therefore
requested EC assistance for the existing consultant to prepare designs and engineering documents for
the reconstruction of the damaged coastal embankments under a Priority Works Program (PWP).
Actual implementation of PWP, which was an emergency operation, was divided into three parts
according to sources of funds: (i) Part A under GOB's own funds for immediate repairs to prevent
agricultural losses during the 1991 monsoons; (ii) Part B under the Saudi Government's grant funds for
the reconstruction of four polders; and (iii) Part C under savings from four on-going IDA Credits,2 and
Japanese grant funds (PHRD 2127-SBD) for the reconstruction of six polders, viz., Patenga,
Bashkhali, Anowara, Sandwip, Sitakundu and Chakoria, with consultants for implementation
assistance, financed under an EC grant. This ICR relates to the works under Part C.
i Cyclone forecasting and early warning systems, shelters, protective foreshore afforestation belts, roads and
telecommunications, improved housing and institutional buildings, and education of local officials and the community.
2 Cr. 1467-BD, Cr. 1784-BD, Cr.2048-BD and Cr. 1 870-BD.



Objectives
2.         The objectives of PWP were to: (i) protect the agricultural areas within the polders
against inundation by saline water; and (ii) provide protection against loss of human lives and damages
caused by cyclonic storm surges. Specifically for the Patenga Polder, an additional objective was to
provide protection to the Export Processing Zone (EPZ), the major industrial areas and the Chittagong
airport against storm surges and wave overtopping during severe cyclonic storm conditions. The levels
of protection and the hydraulic design criteria were fixed to meet these objectives.
3.         The physical works included: (i) about 79 km of resectioning of existing sea facing
embankments; (ii) about 44 km of retirements (new embankments); (iii) 1.4 km of a concrete sea/river
wall to protect the Naval Academy; (iv) 17 new drainage regulators, and repairs to 24 drainage
regulators; and (v) about 6.2 km of protection works (revetments).
4.         Evaluation of objectives. The objectives of PWP were clearly defined, realistic, and
important to reduce the risk of loss of lives and restore and safeguard economic activities in agriculture
(food crops, livestock, and shrimp farming), salt production, and industry as well as the extensive
public and private infrastructure within the polders. To ensure that these objectives are achieved, the
levels of protection to be provided were well defined through the selection of sound hydraulic design
criteria, and the embankment design and construction standards were accordingly improved to mitigate
the risks generally faced during cyclonic storms of the intensity of the April 1991 cyclone. In addition,
foreshore afforestation included as a protective measure to be undertaken under CERP (Cr. 2783-BD),
was to be an added protection reducing future damage.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.         The reconstruction works were awarded following International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures. Major responsibility for contract management, including supervision and quality
control, was given to the consultant responsible for the preparatory work (pre-construction activities).
This proved a success as contracts were awarded to contractors able to construct good quality
embankments, and effective financial and administrative control, supervision and quality control were
provided by the consultants. However the time allowed for completion of rehabilitation works was
unrealistic. The engineering estimates were prepared under severe time pressure due to the need to
restore the damaged embankments as quickly as possible to avoid subsequent risk to lives and
property. The amount of unstable soil which had to be removed was estimated without soil tests,
which was appropriate in the situation provided adequate allowance is provided for contingencies. . In
addition, emergency dwarf embankments constructed by the Government for immediate protection
against tidal inundation in some cases took earth from areas planned to be the base of the widened
embankments to be constructed under PWP. More seriously, the heights of many of the required
embankments were significantly underestimated, which has a large effect due to their triangular shape.
The consultants have stated that they received faulty mean sea level data from the Government, but it
would appear that efforts to check the data were insufficient. The underestimation of earthworks
requirements led to cost overruns of about 50%. These factors, as well as a few land acquisition
problems encountered during implementation, were responsible for completion delays varying from



iv
one to two years. In addition, although the major devolution of responsibilities to the consultant
proved to be effective, use was not made of the opportunity for the development of capacities of field
staff of the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) in contract management and supervision.
6.         As of December 31, 1995, the civil works planned under PWP for five polders3 were
substantially completed with the remaining works (largely additional works arising from damages
caused by the May 1995 minor cyclone) due to be completed within the next 2-3 months. (Due to
political disruptions, the cyclone damage repairs in the Patenga polder were only completed by June
1996.) Thus, PWP's physical objectives have been almost fully achieved in these five polders, albeit
with delays of one to two years. The quality of the civil works is generally good, and significantly
better than most similar works previously constructed in Bangladesh. The development objectives, viz.
protection of agricultural areas and reduction in the risk of loss of life, have also been almost fully
achieved in these polders.  For the Sandwip Polder, as originally planned, reconstruction and
rehabilitation of only two-thirds of the polder was financed under PWP The civil works for the
remainder of the polder, where the need for rehabilitation was less urgent, have been included under
CERP (Credit 2783-BD). At Anowara, the sixth polder, progress was delayed due to a dispute on the
alignment of the embankment. Physical progress is estimated at about 56%, with the balance 44%
expected to be completed by December 1996 through GOB funding. Generally, acquisition of land for
construction was expeditiously carried out, with a few cases of delays.
7.         Environment aspects.  There are no adverse environmental effects caused by the
physical works of the program. Problems may arise due to lack of salt and shrimp inlets in the eastern
polders. However, funds have been provided under CERP for this purpose, and farmers' requests will
be considered and decisions made without endangering the security of the sea facing embankments4.
There are no flood plains in these polders, no major rivers affected, and free movement of fish to
spawning grounds would not be impeded. As such flood plain fishermen are not adversely affected.
8.         Economic impact. At project preparation, the economic rates of return (ERRs) were
calculated for the individual polders and the whole PWP consisting of ten polders, i.e., inclusive of four
polders reconstructed with the use of Saudi grant funds (para. 1). The ERRs included quantifiable
benefits only and did not attempt to attribute value to human lives saved. These ERRs were revised
during project implementation to reflect the increased construction costs and benefits from
afforestation. At that time, an ERR for the combined six polders financed by IDA Credits and
Japanese grant funds was also estimated. At project completion, ERRs have been re-estimated for the
individual polders and the combined six polders financed under IDA Credits and the Japanese grant
funds. No attempt was made to re-estimate the ERR for the whole PWP due to non-availability of
costs and benefits data in respect of four polders financed by the Saudi grant funds and because this
ICR relates to that part of PWP which was financed by the IDA Credits and Japanese and EC grant
funds (para. 1). Also for the Anowara Polder, for which a major portion of civil works would be
completed under GOB funding (para. 6), the re-estimated ERR is based on the present cost estimates
to complete the works and the likely benefits that are anticipated to accrue. On this basis, the
quantifiable ERRs (excluding the benefits of saving human lives) re-estimated at project completion
3Sitakundu, Patenga, Bashkhali, Chakoria, and Sandwip.
4Such as by providing inlets only in the interior embankments.



v
range from 5.8% for the Anowara to 19% for the Patenga Polder, compared to the revised ERRs of
6.4% to 25.3% estimated during PWP implementation. (While economic analysis was not given in the
memo to the Board justifying this emergency rehabilitation operation, it was explicitly stated in the
Board documents for the follow-up CERP project that the inclusion of polders with 6% ERRs is
considered acceptable taking account of the important but not quantifiable additional benefits of saving
human lives.) The lower ERRs are due mainly to cost overrun, the longer construction period resulting
in delayed accrual of benefits and reduced benefited areas. The re-estimated ERR for the combined six
polders is 13.4% compared to the revised ERR of 15.9% estimated during project implementation.
9.         Project sustainability. Provision for the sustainability of PWP to meet its objectives is
included under the programs for operation and maintenance and afforestation funded under CERP
(IDA Cr. 2783-BD and an EC grant). The program envisages the participation of the BWDB, Forest
Department, the community and the implementation support consultant. Afforestation of embankment
slopes and foreshore will reduce maintenance costs. Maintenance activities under a planned prograrn
utilizing the community (landless families, persons displaced due to the project, squatters) are being
partially funded (at a declining percentage) under CERP. Annual budgetary allocations for each polder
have been estimated for IDA funding and GOB contribution, including GOB funding after completion
of CERP, and agreement has been reached during negotiations of CERP on the financing
arrangements.
10.       Actual cost, financing, and implementation timetable. Initially, it was estimated that
most construction would be completed by June 1993, but that any work not completed would have to
wait until the next construction season and would be completed by April 1994. A project closing date
of December 31, 1994 was established for the Japanese grant and the latest closing of the IDA credits.
Due to delays and cost overruns additional financing was provided from an ongoing IDA credit with a
December 31, 1995 Closing Date and the Closing Date of the Japanese grant was initially extended to
December 31, 1995. With the exception of Anowara (see para 6), most originally planned civil works
were completed by December 31, 1995 excluding some additional repairs of damage from the May
1995 cyclone. The Closing Date for the Japanese grant was extended to June 30, 1996 to cover these
repairs for the Patenga Polder. The final costs of the six polders are now estimated at Tk. 2,858
million (US$71.7 million), representing a 88% cost overrun over original cost estimates in Taka terms.
Expressed in US dollars, cost overrun would be lower at 63% due to the depreciation of the Taka
against the US dollar. This includes an overrun of about 50% due to the consultants' underestimation
of earthworks requirements, $2.8 million equivalent for value added taxes not included in the original
estimates, and about $2.3 million equivalent for repair of works damaged by the 1995 cyclone. The
IDA credits and the Japanese grant funds together were able to finance about 79% of the final project
costs compared to 89% envisaged at project preparation, increasing the burden on GOB's budgets
from 7% to 14%. EC grant funding also increased from 4% to 7% of the final project costs due to the
need for extended consultant services.
11.       Key factors relating to achievement of project objectives. The most important causes
which hampered project implementation were as follows:
Factors not generally subject to Government control. In the first two years
of the construction season, unusually dry conditions during the first two months



vi
and inclement wet weather during the later part retarded progress. Law and
order problems also forced the consultant and contractors to abandon work for
short spells.  The consultants' estimate of earthworks requirements was
substantially underestimated.
Factors generally subject to Government control. Most of the Government's
responsibilities were performed in a timely manner. However, serious setbacks
were the delay in contract awards, delay in land acquisition and the approval of a
revised Project Proforma and the consequent approval of variation orders. The
consultant claims that some faulty survey data provided by the Government
contributed to the underestimate of earthworks requirements.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.  BWDB had
overall responsibility for PWP implementation. However, as noted earlier (para.
5), the project consultant was given the major responsibility for pre-construction
activities, and contract management. The causes of the serious underestimation
of earthworks quantities are described in para 5. In other respects, both BWIDB
and the consultant performed their duties in a generally satisfactory manner, but
a few factors under their control hampered implementation.  These were:
(i) delay in identifying the issue of excess quantities in earthwork, which was the
main reason for cost overrun; (ii) some lapses in site supervision; (iii) defective
construction method used in earth filling (at least for the Anowara polder) which
adversely affected the attainment of the required construction quality; and (iv)
substandard designs for repairs to existing drainage structures, and the inaction
on requests of farmers for provision of inlets to salt and shrimp farms.
12.        Performance of the IDA and Borrower. IDA was quick to respond to GOB's request
for assistance after the April 1991 cyclone. Its assistance was instrumental in the preparation and
approval of funding for Part C of the program (para. 1). IDA's performance continued to be
satisfactory during implementation. Staff from the resident mission and headquarters paid regular visits
during construction and was closely associated in monitoring the progress, advising on contractual
matters, and assisting in expediting payments to contractors. IDA should be particularly complimented
on its role in resolving the issue of the excess of earthwork quantities required and the consequent cost
overrun, and increasing the funding to meet the cost overrun. In retrospect, a lapse on the part of IDA
was its acceptance of the unrealistic time schedule allowed for completion of contracts. IDA should
also have produced regular supervision reports for the PWP, which practice was not initiated until
1994.
13.        The Borrower's performance has been generally satisfactory during the construction
phase but a few lapses during the pre-construction phase delayed the award of contracts. A part of the
blame for fixing unrealistic completion dates for contracts should be borne by the Borrower. It is also
evident that the Borrower's supervision of the consultant was less than satisfactory as the cost overrun
could then have been identified at an earlier date and defective designs and site supervision lapses
identified and corrected. Early and positive management decisions on Project Profonna, and variation



vii
orders would have assisted in reducing delays in completion. The Borrower complied with the special
conditions included in the amendments to the Development Credit Agreement of the four Credits.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.        Project outcome assessment. Despite the above lapses in the performance of the Bank
and Borrower, it should be noted that the Bank was prompt in responding to the request for
emergency assistance from the Borrower, the quality of the physical works is good and the objectives
of this assistance in terms of protection of human life and property and increased agricultural
production are expected to have been substantially achieved. The outcome of the program is,
therefore, rated as satisfactory.
15.        Plans for future project operations. Future operation would depend on the success of
the O&M plan, and the implementation of afforestation development to be carried out under CERP, as
described in para 9. Its success is dependent in part on the ability of BWDB and the Forest
Department to work with NGOs and the community in carrying out participatory O&M and
community based forestry activities. The arrangements spelled out in the SAR of CERP, following
discussions between the Bank, BWDB, the Forest Department, and NGOs, appear to represent an
appropriate solution.
16.        Lessons for future projects in the sub-sector. The main lessons leamed are:
-      Design of engineering works under deadlines appropriate for emergency works
increases the risk of under/over estimation of quantities and cost overruns.
Public opposition to the alignment of retired embankimnents was a significant
factor in implementation delays. Even for emergency operations, consultation
with land owners and the affected communities at a very early stage of planning,
would be useful to help resolve such situations;
Even under emergency procedures, land acquisition bottlenecks can cause
significant implementation delays.  Arrangements to ensure land acquisition
compensation based on prevailing market values and involvement of
communities and locally elected officials are essential in expediting the
processing,
During the planning phase, beneficiaries need to be involved in deciding the
provision of hydraulic structures, particularly inlets to shrimp and salt fields, and
flushing sluices for agricultural crops, and their judgments on the requirements
should be adequately considered;
Designs for improvement and/or repairs to existing structures should be done to
minimize maintenance;



viii
Contract management of major civil works by consultants is efficient and
improved quality in civil works construction can be assured. However, to ensure
improved supervision and quality control, and the early identification of contract
issues such as cost overruns, BWDB in its role as the "Employer" of the
contract, should effectively supervise the consultant. In addition, where possible
BWDB field staff should be seconded to work with the consultants to gain
experience;
There is a need for GOB to review its procurement procedures to find ways to
expedite decisions, particularly for emergency operations. In planning such
operations, adequate allowance should be made for the time required for
completion of both the preconstruction activities leading to the tender awards
and for the actual construction of works; and
The implementation of the foreshore afforestation development under CERP
(para. 24) should be given priority. This was evident by the ICR mission's field
observations that most of the damages sustained during the May 1995 cyclone
and normal monsoon spring tides could have been averted by the foreshore
afforestation.
When financing a project of significant size funded from several credits, an early
decision should be made to prepare separate supervision reports for such
projects.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIORITY WORKS PROGRAM
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of Project Objectives
1.        In response to a request from the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) for emergency
assistance to support a priority rehabilitation program for extensive damages caused by the devastating
cyclone of April 1991, IDA agreed to reallocate funds from four ongoing IDA Credits" to finance a
Priority Works Program (PWP) which included the reconstruction, repairs and improvements of the
coastal embankment system damaged by the cyclone. Actual implementation of the program was
divided into three parts according to sources of funding: (i) Part A under GOB's own funds for
immediate repairs to prevent agricultural losses during the 1991 monsoons; (ii) Part B under the Saudi
Government's grant funds for reconstruction works in four polders; and (iii) Part C under savings from
on-going IDA Credits for the reconstruction of embankments in five polders (Sitakundu-P61/1,
Anowara-P63/lA, Bashkhali-P64/lA, Chakoria-P64/2B, and Sandwip-P72), and under the Japanese
grant funds for the Patenga Polder (P62) and the sea wall of the Naval academy, with European
Community (EC) grant financing of the cost of consultants services. This ICR covers the works
included under Part C.
2.         The objectives of the PWP were to: (i) protect the polders against inundation of
agricultural areas by saline water; (ii) provide protection against loss of life and damages caused by
cyclonic surges; and (iii) provide protection to the Export Processing Zone (EPZ), the adjoining EPZ
development areas, other major industrial areas and the Chittagong airport all located within the
Patenga Polder.
3.         To ensure that the above objectives are achieved, the levels of protection to be provided
were well defined through the selection of appropriate hydraulic conditions and the embankment
profile was accordingly designed. The design criteria applied for all the polders, except the Patenga
Polder, were: (i) for monsoon conditions, the return period (defined as one event in a number of years)
of 5 years and about 13% of waves overtopping2; (ii) for cyclonic storm conditions, the return period
of 20 years, where flooding and wave overtopping of sea facing embankments should not result in an
I.    Originally BWDB Small Schemes Project (Cr. 1467-BD), Fourth Flood Control and Drainage Project (Cr. 1784-
BD) and the Third Flood Rehabilitation Project (Cr.2048-BD). Use of funds from the Second Small Scale Flood
Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-BD) was approved in early 1994.
2     Embankment slopes being I on 7 on the sea side and I on 3 on the country side, minimal damage would be
faced if overtopped.



2
average depth in the polder exceeding one meter. For the Patenga Polder, where economic activity has
been very high, criteria applied were cyclonic stormns with a return period of 40 years and overtopping
by about 13% of waves could take place.
4.         The works under the six po1ders designed for the above hydraulic conditions were divided
into eight contract packages and included reconstruction of some 79 km of embankments, construction
of about 44 km of new (retired) embankments, 17 new drainage structures, and a new sea wall in the
Naval Academy, repairs to 17 drainage structures, and construction of allied protection works
(revetments). The works were scheduled for completion at the end of FY93.
5.         A consultant engaged with EC grant financing prepared designs and engineering
documentation for the reconstruction and improvement works. The same consultant was given major
responsibility for contract management and supervision of progress and quality control, although the
overall responsibility for program implementation rested with the Bangladesh Water Development
Board (BWDB). The engineering estimates were prepared under severe time pressure due to the need
to restore the damaged embankments as quickly as possible to avoid subsequent risk to lives and
property. The amount of unstable soil which had to be removed was estimated without soil tests,
which was appropriate in the situation provided adequate allowance is provided for contingencies. In
addition, emergency dwarf embankments constructed by the Government for immediate protection
against tidal inundation in some cases took earth from areas planned to be the base of the widened
embankments to be constructed under PWP. More seriously, the heights of many of the required
embankments were significantly underestimated, which has a large effect due to their triangular shape.
The consultants have stated that they received faulty mean sea level data from the Government, but it
would appear that efforts to check the data were insufficient. The underestimation of earthworks
requirements led to cost overruns of about 50%. Initially in April 1992, a total amount of SDR 15.52
mnillion (US$19.0 million equivalent) was reallocated from three IDA Credits (Cr. 1467-BD, Cr. 1784-
BD and Cr. 2048-BD) to finance the program. In early 1994, this reallocation was increased by SDR
1.65 million and an additional reallocation of SDR 4.18 million from a fourth IDA Credit (Cr. 1870-
BD) was approved to cover the cost escalation arising from the higher quantities of earthwork required
than originally estimated. Thus, the total funds reallocated from the four IDA Credits amounted to
SDR 21.35 million (US$30.50 million equivalent). It was originally expected that most construction
would be completed by June 1993, but that any work not completed would have to wait until the next
construction season and would be completed by April 1994 (in time to be financed by Credit 1784 with
a December 31, 1994 Closing Date). Additional financing provided from Credit 1870 permitted
financing of expenditures incurred prior to December 31, 1995. The value of Japanese grant finding
(PHRD 2127-SBD) increased from US$20.00 million equivalent to US$26.6 million equivalent due to
the increased value of the Yen, which permitted the original grant amount to finance the increased
costs of works under the Patenga Polder and the sea wall of the Naval Academy. The original
December 31, 1994 Closing Date for the grant was extended initially to December 31, 1995 to cover
construction delays, and subsequently to June 30, 1996 to cover additional works to repair damages
from the May 1995 cyclone. The EC grant funds were increased from ECU2.5 million (US$3.1
million equivalent) to ECU4.3 million (US$5.4 million equivalent) to cover the extended consultant's
services.



3
6.         Special conditions or agreements that were expected to promote achievements of the
program's objectives and included as amendments to the Development Credit Agreements of the four
IDA Credits were: (i) that Part C would be carried by BWDB in accordance with administrative
arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Association; (ii) that the Borrower shall ensure that
works to be undertaken under Part C shall be selected in accordance with criteria and procedures
agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and (iii) that the Borrower shall, prior to entering
into any contract for civil works under Part C, cause BWDB to engage consultants to assist BWDB in
construction, and ensure that its Land Ministry has given its approval for the Deputy Commissioner of
the District where such civil works are to be carried out to acquire land needed for the purposes of civil
works.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
7.         The objectives of PWP were clearly defined, realistic and important to reduce the risk of
loss of lives and restore and safeguard economic activities in agriculture (food crops, livestock, and
shrimp farming) salt production, and industrial activities, and the extensive public and private
infrastructure within the polders. To facilitate the attainment of these objectives, improved design
standards, particularly the hydraulic design criteria, were adopted and provision was made for
improved construction quality in order to lower the risks generally faced during high intensity cyclones.
However, the limited preparation time to finalize the engineering documents for award of contracts,
and the time allowed for completion of rehabilitation works were unrealistic. These factors, together
wvith the inability to correctly estimate the quantities of earthwork required which later had to be
increased, as well as a few land acquisition problems (para. 10), were to a great extent responsible for
cost overrun and completion delays varying from one to two years.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.         Physical objectives.  The program's physical objectives have been substantially
completed. Over 90% of the civil works planned under PWP in two polders (Sitakundu and Sandwip)
were completed by June 1994, i.e., one year behind schedule, and in three other polders (Patenga,
Bashkhali and Chakoria) by June 1995, i.e., two years behind schedule. The remaining works in these
five polders (mainly resulting from damages caused by the May 1995 minor cyclone) were completed
by June 30, 1996. The quality of the civil works is generally good, and substantially better than most
similar works previously constructed in Bangladesh. At Anowara, the sixth polder, progress was
delayed by a dispute over the alignment of the embankment. Physical progress at the December 31,
1995 Closing Date for Cr. 1870-BD is estimated at about 56%, with the balance to be completed by
December 1996 through GOB funding. (As of June 30, 1996 the Anowara works were about 80%
complete.)
9.         Development objectives. The development objectives, viz., protection of
agricultural areas and reduction of loss of life, for the areas of the Sitakundu, Patenga, Bashkhali
Sandwip and Chakoria polders have been achieved. As regards the Sandwip Polder, as originally
planned, reconstruction and rehabilitation of only two-thirds of the polder was financed under PWP.



4
The civil works for the remainder of the polder, where the need for rehabilitation was less urgent, have
been included under CERP. In the case of the Anowara Polder, the development objective would be
achieved only after completion of major works to be canried out through GOB funding, scheduled for
the end of 1996.
10.        Land acquisition.  The processing of land acquisition proposals by BWDB was
expected to be simplified and expedited under the emergency regulations procedures. Although
processing of most applications was completed in a timely manner, in a few polders, bottlenecks
continued to hold up construction works. In Sandwip, construction of 1.35 km of embankment was
held up due to owners refusing to hand over land. The dispute was settled in late 1995 and work
commenced in December 1995, and was completed by February 1996. In Sitakundu, public opposition
to the proposed retirement alignment held up construction for about two years. Finally, in 1994, work
commenced after agreement was reached to reconstruct the damaged embankment with costly
revetments (much against the recommendation of the consultant). In Bashkhali, owner's opposition to
sale of land for 2 km retirement, delayed the completion by about an year. At Anowara, about 10 km
of embankment works had to be abandoned due to public opposition to the proposed alignment. In
early 1995, the dispute was settled after agreement was reached on a new alignment. It should be
noted that the issues involved in these cases were not primarily the price paid for the limited amount of
land lost. In cases of progressive erosion, consideration of costs requires that the embankments be
situated sufficiently set back to have a reasonable life expectancy. However, farmers interests favor
maintaining the embankment as far forward as possible, with progressive rebuilding as the embankment
is eroded away. In an emergency operation, there was less time than desirable for consultation and
reaching consensus on such issues.
11.        Contract management.   All contracts were awarded  following  Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures of the Bank. Consultant responsible for planning, design, and
engineering documentation was designated as the "Engineer's Representative" and made responsible
for most contract management inclusive of supervision and quality control. These measures were a
deviation from GOB's normal practice of contract awards following local competitive bidding
procedures and contract management and supervision by BWDB. The deviation was necessary to
ensure: (a) that works were carried out by contractors able to construct good quality embankments;
(b) effective financial and administrative control in contract management; and (c) better supervision and
quality control. The Chief Engineer of BWDB, designated as the "Employer" of the contract, retained
limited management responsibility particularly on approval of variation orders and management
decisions on costs. Delays in such decisions adversely affected progress in completion of contracts.
The devolution of major responsibility for contract management and supervision to the consultant
proved beneficial. However, while BWDB was advised to second some of their staff to work as part
of the consultants team, they did not make use of this opportunity to train their field staff and enhance
their skills in contract management, supervision and quality control.
12.        Vital aspects to achieve the objectives of the program were: (i) planning and hydraulic
design to determine cyclonic surge levels for various return periods, and the levels of protection;
(ii) appropriate design of embankments, drainage structures, and provision of protection works
(revetments) at those limited locations vulnerable to bank and wave erosion where it is cost-effective to
do so; and (iii) contract management to ensure that contract specifications are adhered to and



5
completion to agreed standards met. Planning and hydraulic designs were of a high standard. Design
of embankments, new drainage regulators and protection works was highly satisfactory and cost
effective. However, a few deficiencies have been identified, based on a desk review of the files and
field visits by the ICR mission. These are: (i) the need for increased earthwork quantities was identified
late only during the second year of implementation; (ii) the designs of repairs to existing drainage
regulators was substandard with no consideration being given to operation and maintenance aspects;
(iii) consultant field supervisory staff were not always present at site when work was in progress to
ensure proper quality of work; and (iv) in planning, the requirements for shrimp and salt inlets were not
adequately addressed, thereby creating a situation of frustration among affected farmers.
13.       Institutional development. The opportunities which could have been available under
PWP to further the strengthening of BWDB staff in contract management and quality control through
working in cooperation with an international firm were not made available to the field staff of BWDB
below the level of the Executive Engineer. Although, major responsibilities for supervision of works
were given to the consultants, greater use could have been made of the field staff to strengthen
supervision of construction.
14.        Environmental aspects.  Studies carried out on environmental aspects during the
preparation phase of CERP, and further work by EC consultants involved during pre-appraisal of
CERP, confirmed earlier information available at the time of this emergency operation that potential
adverse environmental impacts were limited. Being mainly a rehabilitation program the devastated
environment was restored to its former condition, and in fact has further improved to minimize or
eliminate risks due to possible future devastation. The polder areas are devoid of flood plains and the
protected areas of the polders have no inland lakes (beels) and in addition, as no major or medium size
rivers are affected, the free movement of fish to spawning grounds would not be impeded.
Supplementary works for the PWP polders financed under CERP, increasing forested areas and
eliminating drainage congestion, would be environmentally beneficial. Shrimp and salt inlets which
may have inadvertently been omitted in a few PWP polders would be provided for under CERP based
on farmers' specific requests.
15.       Economic impact. At project preparation, the economic rates of return (ERRs) were
calculated for the individual polders and the whole PWP consisting of ten polders, i.e., inclusive of four
polders reconstructed with the use of Saudi grant funds (para. 1). The ERRs included quantifiable
benefits only and did not attempt to attribute value to human lives saved. These ERRs were revised
during project implementation to reflect the increased construction costs and benefits from
afforestation. At that time, an ERR for the combined six polders financed by IDA Credits and
Japanese and EC grant funds was also estimated. At project completion, ERRs have been re-estimated
for the individual polders and the combined six polders financed under IDA Credits and the Japanese
grant funds (Table 9 of Part II, and Appendix 2). No attempt was made to re-estimate the ERR for the
whole PWP due to non-availability of costs and benefits data in respect of four polders financed by the
Saudi grant funds and because this ICR relates to Part C of PWP which was financed by the IDA
Credits and Japanese and EC grant funds (para. 1). Also for the Anowara Polder, for which a major
portion of civil works would be completed through GOB funding, the re-estimated ERR is based on
the present cost estimates to complete the works and the likely benefits that are anticipated to accrue.
On this basis, the quantifiable ERRs (excluding the benefits of saving human lives) re-estimated at



6
project completion range from 5.8% for the Anowara Polder to 190/o for the Patenga Polder, compared
to the revised ERRs of 6.4% to 25.3% estimated during PWP implementation. (While economic
analysis was not given in the memo to the Board justifying this emergency rehabilitation operation, it
was explicitly stated in the Board documents for the follow-up CERP project that inclusion of polders
with 6% ERRs is considered acceptable, taking account of the important but not quantifiable benefit of
saving human lives.) The lower ERRs are due mainly to cost overrun, the longer construction period
resulting in delayed accrual of benefits and reduced benefited areas. The re-estimated ERR for the
combined six polders is 13.4% compared to the revised ERR of 15.9% estimated during project
implementation. (The consultants original May 1992 estimates was 14.2%, including the 4 polders
financed by Saudi Government grants.)
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
16.       In FY93, inclement wet weather during the months of April to June, and usually dry
weather above the normal weather conditions during December and January, retarded progress and to
some extent influenced the deadlines set for completion of the civil works program. Law and order
problems also forced the consultant and contractors to abandon work for short spells.
17.       Engineering documents were based on preliminary surveys carried during the monsoon of
1991, and contract awards were made based on these designs. Subsequently towards the end of
FY92, after an year's delay, a cost overrun of 50% due to increase of earthwork quantities was
identified (para. 5). The relevant estimates needed revision and variation orders had to be issued. The
performance of some contractors was delayed due to slow mobilization of manpower and construction
equipment.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
18.        Most of the GOB responsibilities were performed in a timely manner. However, while
the Project Proforma (PP) was approved in a timely manner, the approval of the revised PP
incorporating the excess quantities of works was inordinately delayed, due to prevailing prolonged
bureaucratic procedures, thereby delaying approval of variation orders by about two years. Another
serious setback was the delay in contract awards. ICB tendering was initiated in late 1991/early 1992,
about 6 months after the 1991 cyclone, and contract awards made in June/July 1992, six months after
the call of tenders, with agreements signed on August 1, 1992. As an emergency program, it was
initially expected that works would commence in January 1992, and completed by June 1993.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
19.       Aside from the underestimation of earthworks quantities (para 5), both BWDB, as the
implementing agency, and the project consultant, who was given full responsibility for planning and
design and management of all the civil works contracts, performed their duties in a generally
satisfactory manner. Administrative and financial matters were addressed and executed in a timely



7
manner. Technical aspects, particularly the analysis for deciding the levels of protection, and
production of cost effective embankment designs were of a high standard. Processing of land
acquisition proposals by BWDB was carried out expeditiously, and in a few cases in which it took time
to settle disputes, extended litigation was avoided. However, a few deficiencies have been identified
and these are listed below.
20.        BWDB's Chief Engineer, as the "Employer" of the contract, enjoyed wide powers in the
technical, administrative and financial aspects of contract management, and the supervision of the
project consultant. However, approval of cost overruns and variation orders were not delegated to
him and required prior clearance of BWDB's management (the Chairman and the Board). This
arrangements proved inefficient and led to disputes with the contractors of works and adversely
affected the deadlines set for completion.
21.        As already noted (para. 12), desk review of project files indicated that there were some
lapses in site supervision, the control on pre-work surveys was less than satisfactory, and finalization of
estimates of earthwork quantities were not completed before approval to go ahead with works was
given to contractors. As a result the identification of a cost overrun of about 50% was delayed by an
year alter commencement of work. During the field visit to the Anowara polder by the ICR mission, it
was observed that some earthworks were not done to the required specifications, and the construction
method used for earth fill was improper. The designs of repairs to some existing drainage structures
were substandard. If not corrected at this stage, major problems would be encountered during
operational phase. Further, farmers' requests for shrimp and salt inlets were not adequately considered.
As a result, farmers have already started constructing substandard inlets in the sea facing
embankments. These are weak spots which could endanger the security of the embankments.
Effective supervision of the consultant by BWDB could have eliminated these deficiencies. BWDB has
agreed to address the defective repairs and the provision of inlets and carry out appropriate remedial
measures.
22.        Actual Project Costs. Table 8A of Part II gives a comparative statement of the
estimated and final costs. At the time of tender, it was estimated that construction would be completed
by June 1993. At the time of IDA approval of the amendments to finance the works (February 1992),
it was recognized that some works could extend to April 1994, and the IDA and Japanese financing
provided for a Closing Date of December 31, 1994. The addition of financing from Credit 1870-BD
permitted coverage of expenditures through December 31, 1995. The Closing Date of the Japanese
Grant was extended initially to December 31, 1995 to cover civil works delays, and subsequently to
June 30, 1996 to finance additional works to repair damages due to the May 1995 cyclone. On
December 31, 1995, the civil works in five polders (Sandwip, Bashkhali, Chakoria, Sitakundu and
Patenga) were substantially completed except for additional works to repair damages form the May
1995, but only 56% at the Anowara Polder were completed. (As of June 30, 1996, the Anowara
works were 80% completed, with completion expected by December 31, 1996.) When allowance is
made for costs to complete the remaining works, the final costs of the six polders are now estimated at
Tk. 2,858 million (US$71.7 million), representing a 88% cost overrun over original cost estimates in
Taka terms. Expressed in US dollars, cost overrun would be lower at 63% due to the depreciation of
the Taka against the US dollar. In addition to the 50% overrun due to underestimation of earthwork



8
quantities (para 21), this also includes $2.8 million equivalent for value added taxes not included in the
original estimates and $2.3 million equivalent for repair of works damaged by the 1995 cyclone.
23.        Project Financing. Despite implementation delays, disbursements of the IDA Credits
and the Japanese grant funds have been satisfactory as shown in Table 4 of Part II. The IDA credits
and the Japanese grant funds together were able to finance about 79% of the final project costs
compared to 89% envisaged at project preparation, increasing the burden on GOB's budgets from 7%
to 14%. EC grant funding also increased from 4% to 7% of the final project costs due to the need for
extended consultant services.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILI7Y
24.        Sustainability of the polders is dependent on: (a) completion of all sea facing and internal
embankments, protection works and the drainage regulators, and inlet structures for agriculture, shrimp
and salt farms; (b) afforestation of embankment slopes and the foreshore; (c) effective maintenance of
embankments, protection works, and hydraulic structures; and (d) damage repairs that could be caused
by cyclonic storms and wave erosion caused by annual monsoon spring tides. With the exception of
Anowara polder (to be completed by December 31, 1996 using GOB financing) remaining
uncompleted civil works are being financed under CERP. Embankment and foreshore afforestation are
also to be carried out under CERP. Maintenance activities under a planned program utilizing the
community (landless families, persons displaced due to the project, squatters) are being partially funded
(at a declining percentage) under CERP. This includes funds required for routine and periodic
maintenance, including damage repairs due to normal monsoon spring tides and due to cyclonic storms
with a return period of 5 years. Damage repairs due to cyclonic storms with a return period of 20
years would be expected to require special funding. If such storms occur after full maturity of the
afforested area, damage would be drastically reduced and could be expected to be handled with
Government resources. With these measures, if carried out effectively, sustainability of the program
and the continued fulfillment of its objectives should be ensured.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.        The Bank was quick to respond to GOB's request for assistance after the devastation
caused by the April 1991 cyclone. Its assistance was instrumental in the preparation and approval of
the package of funding to meet the cost of repairs for the six polders of the program. Given that it was
an emergency program, much of the usual documentation required for Bank assisted projects was
done away with. During the pre-construction phase of the program, regular monitoring by Bank staff,
particularly during tender award phase minimized the delay in award of contracts.
26.        The Bank's performance continued to be satisfactory during implementation. During the
initial years of implementation no formal supervision was carried out. However regular visits by the
resident mission staff and visits by headquarters staff and consultants effectively ensured the fulfillment
of the supervisory responsibilities of the Bank. Two formal supervisions were carried out, the first in
June 1994, and the final one in July 1995. Disbursements were closely monitored and, to avoid delays
in payment to contractors, the Bank arranged for direct payments to the contractors on bills certified by



9
the consultant and BWDB. This arrangement was agreed upon as BWDB did not have sufficient funds
to settle claims due to delay in approval of revised PP and insufficient Annual Development Program
(ADP) provision.
27.        The Bank should be particularly complimented for its role in resolving the issue of the
excess of earthwork quantities required and increasing the funding to meet the resultant cost overrun.
In retrospect, a lapse on the part of the Bank was its acceptance of an optimistic time schedule fixed for
completion of contracts, and not insisting on adjusting the schedule following delays in award of
contracts.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.        Generally, the Borrower's performance has been satisfactory. Although it responded
speedily in formulating the emergency program, its performance during the pre-construction phase was
less than satisfactory. Contract awards which were critical to meet the agreed deadlines for completion
of works were made after a delay of about 6 to 8 months. During implementation, approval of the
revised PP delayed the settlement of variation claims. The Borrower's performance on acquisition of
land for construction purposes was satisfactory, although in a few cases delays were faced for
unavoidable reasons.
29.        During the construction phase, the Borrower assisted by the project consultant performed
the day-to-day management of works to a satisfactory standard. However, quicker evaluation of
variation orders would have been beneficial, and closer supervision of the consultant would have
minimized delays in identifying the excess earthwork quantities and estimate of the cost overrun. In
addition the defective designs for repairs of existing drainage regulators could have been corrected and
adequate provision made for shrimp and salt inlets.
30.        The Borrower has complied with conditions included in the amendments to the
Development Credit Agreements of the four IDA Credits (see para. 6).
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.        Five of the six polders included under Part C of PWP have achieved both the physical and
development objectives. The quality of physical works is good, and assuming adequate O&M (see
para 33) the anticipated benefits in protection of human life and property and increased agricultural
production are expected to be achieved. As originally planned, civil works for Sandwip Polder were
confined to those portions where rehabilitation was most urgent, with the remainder being financed
under CERP. The dispute over the location of the embankment for the sixth polder (Anowara) has
now been resolved and the remaining works will be financed through GOB funding. Thus, the
achievement of objectives of the program has been substantial and with minimal problems. Further,
necessary steps have been taken under CERP to ensure sustainability of the polders and continued
fUlfillment of PWP objectives.  The overall assessment of the outcome is, therefore, rated as
satisfactory.



10
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
32.        The method of execution of operation and maintenance is described in detail in the SAR
of CERP. It also includes the activities and responsibilities of BWDB, the Forest Department, the
community, non governmental organizations, and the implementation support consultant. Annual
budgetary allocations for each polder have been estimated for IDA funding and GOB contribution, and
agreement has been reached during negotiations of CERP on the financing arrangements. The O&M
manual and the operational plan for the 21 polders, of which ten3 are under PWP, are to be updated to
include details of community participation in preventive maintenance and the concept of afforestation
as a protective measure. BWDB is currently working on the plans for the Part C polders. The
innovative approach to the maintenance of polders on the scale included in CERP should ensure the
successful implementation of an improved O&M program.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.        The project being confined to civil works, most of the lessons of experience are related to
detailed designs, engineering documentation up to award of contracts, and contract management. The
main lessons learned are as follows;
-      Design of engineering works under deadlines appropriate for emergency works
increases the risk of under/over estimation of quantities and cost overruns.
Public opposition to the alignment of retired embankments was a significant
factor in implementation delays. Even for emergency operations, consultation
with land owners and the affected communities at a very early stage of planning,
would be useful to help resolve such situations,
Even under emergency procedures, land acquisition bottlenecks can cause
significant implementation delays. Arrangements to ensure land acquisition
compensation  based  on prevailing  market values and  involvement of
communities and locally elected officials are essential in expediting the
processing;
During the planning phase, beneficiaries need to be involved in deciding the
provision of hydraulic structures, particularly inlets to shrimp and salt fields, and
flushing sluices for agricultural crops, and their judgments on the requirements
should be adequately considered;
Designs for improvement and/or repairs to existing structures should be done to
minimize maintenance;
3     Six polders of Part C and four poiders under Part B.



11
Contract management of major civil works by consultants is efficient and
improved quality in civil works construction can be assured. However, to ensure
improved supervision and quality control, and the early identification of contract
issues such as cost overruns, BWDB in its role as the "Employer" of the
contract, should effectively supervise the consultant. In addition, where possible
BWDB field staff should be seconded to work with the consultants to gain
experience;
There is a need for GOB to review its procurement procedures to find ways to
expedite decisions, particularly for emergency operations. In planning such
operations, adequate allowance should be made for the time required for
completion of both the preconstruction activities leading to the tender awards
and for the actual construction of works; and
The implementation of the foreshore afforestation development under CERP
(para. 24) should be given priority. This was evident by the ICR mission's field
observations that most of the damages sustained during the May 1995 cyclone
and nornal monsoon spring tides could have been averted by the foreshore
afforestation.
When financing a project of significant size funded from several credits, an early
decision should be made to prepare separate supervision reports for such
projects.






12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIORITY WORKS PROGRAM
PART U: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                     [             LI[   [iL             Li
Sector policies                    ED                        ED 3
Financial objectives               [Z           Fl            Cl           [D
Institutional development          El           Ea           FZ            [T]
Physical objectives                [x]          El           El            ED]
Poverty reduction                  El                        ED al
Gender issues                         l         El            E            E
Other social objectives            El           []            El           Ela
Environmental objectives          [|]           El            El           El
Public sector management            El           El           E l
Private sector development          El           El                         E
Other (specify)                    El            El          El            [K]
B. Project sustainability            Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain



13
Highly
C. Bank performnance                satisfactory   Satifaeo    Defigient
Identification                    [            FII   rft
Preparation assistance           ED            [            ED
Appraisal'                          ]            ]           n
Supervision                      [                           C 0
Highly
D. Borrower performance               satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                       II           [F 3  
Implementation                   Fi                          C] F
Covenant compliance'               0]                        C 0
Operation (if applicable)'       [0             [3 
Hi&hly                                       Higsy
E. Assessment of outcome           satisfactoy   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactoa
Not applicable.
Operations have commenced on a limited scale, and a realistic programme is expected to be implemented
shortly under the CERP.



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                         Purpose               Year of       Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Chandpur Irrigation Project (Cr. 340-BD)  provision of flood control, drainage    1972  completed
and irrigation facilities, including
primary pumping
2. Drainage & Flood Control Project I (Cr. 864-   provision of flood control and  1978   completed
BD)                                        drainage (FCD) to 3 mediun size
schemes
3. Drainage & Flood Control Project II (Cr.  provision of FCD to 3 medium size    1981   completed
1184-BD)                                   schemes
4. Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project  construction of appurtenant structures  1979  completed
(Cr. 955-BD)                               nationwide
5. BWDB Small Schemes Project (Cr. 1467-BD)  provision of FCDI to small schemes    1985  completed
nationwide
6. Flood Rehabilitation Project I (Cr. 1587-BD)   rehabilitation of schemes damaged by  1985  completed
the 1984 floods
7. Third Flood Control, Drainage & Irrigation  provision of FCDI to 3 medium size    1985  completed
(FCDI) Project (Cr. 159 1-BD)              schemes
8. Fourth Flood Control & Drainage Project  provision of FCD to one medium size  1987    completed
(Cr. 1784-BD)                              scheme
8. Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage   construction of SSFCDI works and  1988   completed
& Irrigation Project (SSSFCDI) (Cr. 1870-BD)    rehabilitation of infrastructure
damaged during the 1987 floods
9. Flood Rehabilitation Project II (Cr. 1876-BD)  rehabilitation of schemes damaged by  1988  completed
the 1988 floods
10. Flood Rehabilitation Project III (Cr. 2048-    rehabilitation of schemes damnaged by  1989  completed
BD)                                        the 1989 floods
Following operations
1. BWDB System Rehabilitation Project (Cr.  rehabilitation of BWDB operational    1990   on-going
2099-BD)                                   schemes and improved O&M
2. Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project    rehabilitation of costal embankment    1995  on-going
(Cr. 2783-BD)                              polders, including afforestation and
improved O&M
3. River Bank Protection Project (Cr. 2791-BD)   Prevention of erosion of riparian land   1995  on-going
at two locations and assisting
Government to improve water sector
planning.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                  Date plannedDaecuU
latest estimate
Identification                                     5/91                   5/91
Preparation                                        5/91                   5/91-12/91
Appraisal                                          NA                     NA
Negotiations                                       NA                     NA
Board presentation                                 NA                     NA
Signing                                            25/4/92                25/4/92
Effectiveness                                      25/4/92                25/4/92
Project completion                                 30/6/93                31/12/95 a!
Credit closing                                     31/12/93               31/12/95 a!
a/ Completion and closing dates of SSSFCDI (Cr. 1870-BD). Works on one polder to be completed by December 31,
1996 using GOB financing.
NA = not applicable



16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(IJS$ Million)
FY93            FY94            FY95              FY96              FY97
IDA Credit:
Estimate d                                        9.50           19.00
R-evised b/                                      12.00           24.00           30.50              30.50
Actual c/:
Cr. 1467                                         12.19           12.92           12.92              12.92
Cr. 1784                                                          4.72            6.14               6.14
Cr. 2048                                                          3.64            5.20               5.20
Cr. 18704'                                                                        0.76               5.38
Total Actual                                     12.19           21.28           25.02              29.64
Actual as %  of revised estimate                   102              89               82                 97
Date of final disbursement                                                                         5/6/96
Japanese PHRD Grant:
Estimatesd                                       10.00           20.00
Revised                                          10.00           12.60           26.50               26.6              26.6
Actual                                           11.55           17.86           24.38               26.4              26.6
Actual as %  of revised estimate                   116             141               92                99               100
Date of final disbursement                                                                                         7/29/96
a/    A total of SDR 15.52 million were reallocated from savings from three IDA credits, including SDR 8.155 million from Cr.
1467-BD, SDR 4.360 million from Cr. 1784-BD and SDR 3.0 million from Cr. 2048-BD.
b/   Total credit reallocations were increased to SDR 16.58 million (increment of SDR 1.06 million from Cr. 1467-BD), to SDR
17.17 million (increment of SDR 0.59 from Cr. 2048-BD), and eventually to SDR 21.35 million (additional reallocation of
SDR 4.18 million from Cr. 1870-BD).
_/   The total disbursements from the four IDA credits were SDR20.8 million (US$29.64 million equivalent), including SDR9.22
million (US$12.92 million equivalent) from Cr. 1467-BD, SDR 4.36 million (US$6.14 million equivalent) from Cr. 1784-
BD), SDR 3.59 million (US$5.2 million equivalent) from Cr. 2048-BD) and SDR 3.63 million (USS5.38 million equivalent)
from Cr. 1870-BD.
d/  Original PHRD grant funds of Japanese Yen 2.7 billion (USS20.0 million equivalent).
e/   Revised due to depreciation in US dollar against Japanese Yen.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Projt Imnplenwntation
Key implementation indicators at preparation      Estimated            Actual
1. Land Acquisition (ha)                                          80               317.4
2. Embankments
Retired (km)                                                   44.2               46.7
Re-sectioned (km)                                              78.9              73.10
Stripping top soil (mi3)                                    435,000            399,810
Removing soft soil (M3)                                      13,000            516,374
Existing embankment material (m3)                           357,000            375,707
I  .~~(M
Core fill class 1 (m3)                                   4,780,000           7,084,485
Cover layer class 1 (m3)                                  3,773,000          4,733,265
3. Revetments (No.)
Under layer Class I stones                                  42,200              58,600
Armour layer pre-cast concrete blocks                        89,000            110,600
4. Total Drainage structures (No.)                                 17                 43
New                                                                                18
Repairs                                                                            25
5. Naval Academy river/sea wall (m3)
Hard cover layer                                              6,600              4,756
Compacted filter                                               815                355
Concrete                                                     15,930             16,803
6. Consultancy services (man-months)
International                                                   74                 120
Local                                                          293                 714
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
(Not applicable)



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Estimate !                 Revised                   Actual/Final Estimate'
Polder             TKi    |     -US$       Tk    |   USS                 Tk J      Us$ l
(million)
Patenga                     610.3        17.6      1,140.0      28.4            1,345.2     33.7
Bhaskhali                   266.4         7.7       383.0         9.5             394.2      9.9
Sandwip                     262.3         7.6       448.0        11.1            467.6      11.7
Anowara                     172.0         5.0       276.0        6.9              327.4      8.2
Chakoria                    131.8         3.8       246.0        6.1              201.3      5.1
Sitakunda                    75.7         2.2       103.0        2.6              122.9      3.1
TOTAL                   1,518.5         43.9     2,596.0       64.6            2,858.6     71.7
a    Cyclone Protectioni Project 11, Project Preparation Report, KAMPSAX/BCEOM/DFH Consultants, May 1992.
b    KAMPSAX/BCEOM/DHI Consultants' Revision of Financial & Economic Analysis Report, June 1994.
c    Including USS2.8 million for value added taxes not included in the original estimates and about US$2.3 million for repair of
works damaged by the 1995 cyclone. Costs include USS2.5 million required for the remaining works in Polder 63/1A
(Anowara) programmed to be completed by December 1996 through GOB financing.
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Estimate a                Revised b/          Actual/Final Estimate
Source
IDA                                   19.0                       30.5                      29.6
Japanese PHRD Grant                   20.0                      26.5                       26.6
EC                                     1.8                       3.1 c/                    5.2d/
GOB's contribution                     3.1                       4.5                       10.3e/
TOTAL                                43.9                      64.6                      71.7
Estimated at preparation of the Cyclone Protection Project 11, May 1992.
Revised according to the increased costs of civil works and depreciation of Taka against US dollar vis-a-vis US dollar
against Japanese Yen.
c/   Equivalent to ECU2.5 million when the agreement was signed in September 1992.
d/   Equivalent to ECU4.3 million.
Sy   GOB's contributions increased from 7% to 14% due to the increased costs of civil works and land acquisition, the costs
required for GOB financing of the remaining works in Anowara Polder and additional costs of about US$2.8 million for
value added taxes for payment to civil works contractors. (The VAT costs do not affect GOB net contribution to the
project.).



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Excluding benefit of saving human lives)
ERR (0/6)                                Estimate a,      Revised 5 d/      ICR
Estimate d/
Patenga Polder                                     43             25.3  19.0
Bashkhali Polder                                  13.6              9.2  8.5
Sandwip Polder                                    22.2            15.1  13.1
Anowara Polder                                     4.6             6.4  5.8
Chakoria Polder                                   12.4             8.3  8.2
Sitakundu Polder                                   6.0             6.8  6.1
Combined 6 polders e/                                -             15.9  13.4
Whole PWP f'                                      14.2             14.8  -
Assumptions:
Project Life (years)                                30              30  30
SCF                                               0.78            0.87  0.87
CF for Civil Works and O&M                        0.75            0.75  0.75
Directed protected area for 6 polders (ha)      31,150          24,770  23,540
Net Cultivable Area for 6 polders (ha)          25,420          20,120  19,195
Afforestation area for 6 polders (ha)                -           2,403  2,325
a Cyclone Protection Project II, Preparation Report, KAMPSAX/BCEOM/DHI, May 1992.
b/ The analysis excluded benefits from afforestation.
Cyclone Protection Project 11, Revised Economic Analysis, KAMPSAX/BCEOM/DHI, June 1994.
d/ The analysis included benefits from afforestation.
5'  Six polders financed by IDA Credits and Japanese grant funds.
IIncluding 6 polders financed by IDA Credits and Japanese grant funds, and 4 polders financed by the Saudi
grant funds.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
|                                         ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Original  Revised
Covenant      Present      fujlfillment    fulfillment         Description of
Agreement     Section         type        Status          date            date               covenant                   Conmklents
Amending      Section 3. 1 0     5            C-                                     Project to be carried out by
Agtreement to    (a)*                                                                BWDB in accordance with
pCA                                                                                  adniinistrative arrangements and
procedures satisfactory to IDA
.01(c)       Section 3.10      10            C                                      Selection of works in accord
(b)*                                                                with agreed criteria and
procedures.
.01 (b)      Section 3. 10      5            C                                      Engage consultants prior to
Schedule 4      (c)(i)*                                                              entering civil works contracts
Section 3.10 (c)    10           C                                       Land Ministry approval for land
(ii)*                                                               acquisition prior to entering civil
works contracts.
* Section references refer to amendment to Credit 1467-BD. Similar provisions were included in amendments
to Credits 1784-BD and 2048-BD, but locations were different in each agreement.
Covenant type:
8. indigeneous people
1. account/audit                                              9. monitoring review and reporting
2. financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries    10. project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. flow and utilizatioii of project funds                      11. sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. counterpart funding                                         allocation
5. management aspects of the project or executing agency       12. sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory institution action
6. environmental covenants                                     13. other
7. involuntary resettlement
Status:
C = covenant complied with                                     CD = complied with after delay
NC = not complied with                                         soon = compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP = complied with partially                                   NYD = not yet due
Table 11: Concurrence with Operational Manual Statements
No lack of compliance with applicable operational manual statements was noted.



21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Data not available)
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfomiance Rating
Stage of       Monthi/ear        Number of      Days in Field-'    Specialised    Implementation     Development         Type of
Project Cycle                       Persons                          StaffSkills         Status          Objectives       Problems i'
Representedl'
Through                    N/A
appraisal
Appraisal                 N/A
through Board
approval
Board                      N/A
approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision               1992                2               12                 1              N!A              N/A               M
1993                4               24             21,D               N/A              N/A             F,M
1994                3               30             31,D                 2                1            F,M
1995                3               15               21                  2                2            F,M
ICR                                           2               22               I.E                               N/A             F,M
-     ICR Mission's estimate.
bi    I  Irrigation; E = Economic; D   Disbursement.
F = Financial; M = Management.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIORITY WORKS PROGRAMME
APPENDIX I
Mission's Aide-Memoire
1. Introduction
1.         An  FAO/World  Bank  Co-operative  Programme  team   comprising  Messrs.
G. Schokman (Flood Control and Drainage Engineer, Mission Leader) and T. Lohavisavapanich
(Economist) visited Bangladesh from 19 November to 3 December 1995 for preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Initial meetings were held in Dhaka with Messrs.
S.A.M. Rafiquzzaman, Task Manager, RMB, Altaf Ali, Member (O&M) of BWDB, Ataul Huq,
Chief Engineer, CERP, Azhar Ali, Project Manager of PMU, and Abdul Rahman, Director of
Planning Schemes I. The mission also met Mr. Abdur Rouf Chowdhury, the Acting Chairman of
BWDB. Subsequently, the mission made field visits to five out of six polders located in Chittagong
and Cox's Bazaar Districts, and held discussions with the concemed project staff and farmers as
well as Mr. Z. Davidian, Acting Team Leader. The mission's findings are discussed in a wrap-up
meeting at the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) on 29 November 1995, chaired by
Mr. Muhammad Nazrul Islam, Secretary, MOWR.
2.         The mission wishes to thank all concemed staff for the assistance and hospitality
extended to the mission during its stay in Bangladesh.
2. Background
3.         In 1986, GOB had fonnulated a National Cyclone Protection Programme with the
objectives of minimizing the disastrous effects of cyclones and storm surges. The Programme
included plans for improving the coastal embankment system. In pursuance of the above
programme, a consulting firm, financed by the European Union (EU) under Project No.
ALA/91/18), assisted GOB in the preparation of the Cyclone Protection Project, presently called
the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project (CERP), for inclusion in the Bank's FY93 lending
programme of assistance to Bangladesh.
4.         The preparation works were in progress when a devastating cyclone struck
Bangladesh in April 1991. As a result, the entire coastal embankment system in the north-eastem
and eastem part of the Bay of Bengal came under intense surge pressure and suffered heavy
damage. Thus, in addition to the improvements of the coastal embankment system originally



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Programme
Appendix I :Mission's Aide-Memoire
planned, it became necessary to rehabilitate the damaged embankments as quickly as possible to
protect areas against future cyclonic surges. GOB therefore requested EU assistance for the
existing consultant to prepare plans, designs and tender documents for the Priority Works
Programme (PWP) for the reconstruction of the damaged coastal embankments. The
implementation of PWP was divided into three parts according to sources of fundings: (i) Part A
under GOB's own funds for repairs of 30 km embankments in Chittagong, Noakhali, Cox's Bazar,
Khulna and Satkhira districts; (ii) Part B under the Saudi Government's grant fund for
reconstruction of 67 km of embankments in four polders (64/lC, 66/3, 69 and 71); and (iii) Part C
under IDA Credits for reconstruction of embanktnents and construction of new hydraulic structures
in five polders (61/1, 63/lA, 64/lA, 64/2B, and 72) and under the Japanese grant funding for
Polder 62 and the sea wall at the Naval Academy.
3. Project Objectives
5.         The objectives of the PWP were to: (i) protect the polders against inundation of
agricultural areas by saline water; (ii) provide protection against loss of life and damages caused by
cyclonic surges by minimizing flooding and water flow velocities in the polders; and (iii) protect the
Export Processing Zone (EPZ), the adjoining EPZ development areas and other major industrial
areas and the airport within Polder 62 in Patenga.
6.         The works under six polders were divided into eight contract packages and included
reconstruction of some 79 km embankments, construction of about 44 km of new (retired)
embankments, 17 new hydraulic structures, and the sea wall in the Naval Academy, repairs of 21
hydraulic structures and construction of allied protective works. The works were to be completed
in FY93.
7.The total costs, including land acquisition and the engineering consultants, were estimated at
about Tkl,520 million (US$44.0 million). Initially, a total of SDR15.52 million (US$19.0 million
equivalent) was reallocated from three ongoing IDA Credits' to finance 90% of the total costs of
civil works of five polders. The amount of IDA credit reallocation was subsequently increased to
SDR16.58 million (increment of SDRI.06 million from  Cr. 1467-BD), SDR17.17 million
(increment of SDR0.59 million from Cr. 2048-BD) and eventually to SDR21.35 million (additional
reallocation of SDR4.18 million from Cr. 1870-BD). Thus, total reallocation from the IDA Credits
amounted to SDR21.35 million (US$30.50 million equivalent). The Japanese Government
provided grant finds (PHRD 2127-SBD) of about Yen 2.7 billion (US$20.0 million equivalent) to
finance 95% of the costs of civil works of Polder 62 and the sea wall of the Naval Academy, and
this was subsequently increased to US$26.50 million equivalent due to depreciation of the US
dollar against the Japanese Yen. Similarly, EU grant funds were increased from ECU2.5 million to
ECU4.3 million (US$4.5 million equivalent) to cover the extended consultant's services. The
remaining proportion of the costs, 5%-10% of the costs of civil works and 100% of land
acquisition, was to be met by GOB.
SDR 8.155 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) from Cr. 1467-BD, SDR 4.360 million (US$5.4
million equivalent) from Cr. 1784-BD and SDR3.0 million (US$3.6 million equivalent) from Cr.
2048-BD.
2



BANGLADESH: Coastal En,iba,iknient Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Programile
Appendix I Mlissioni's Aide-NMemiioire
4. Evaluation of Project Objectives
8.         The project objectives to be achieved under PWP were clear, realistic and important
to protect agricultural areas from saline water intrusion, as well as people and their properties from
cyclonic storms. In addition, the improved design standards lowered the risks generally faced
during cyclonic storms, particularly in the protection of the industrial areas and airport of
Chittagong. However, the limited preparation time to finalize the engineering documentation for
award of contracts, and the time allowed for completion of rehabilitation works were unrealistic.
These factors were to a great extent responsible for cost overrun and completion delays varying
from one to two years. All contracts were awarded following international competitive procedures
(ICB).  The project consultants responsible for planning and designs were given the added
responsibilities for contract management (including site supervision, and field tests). Although the
Executive Engineer was nominated the " Engineer" of the contract, the Project Consultant
(designated as the "Engineer's Representative") by an agreement between the Chief Engineer (the
"Employer") and the Consultant was given full responsibility for all aspects of contract
management. BWDB's responsibilities mainly through the Chief Engineer were limited to the
supervision of the consultant. Unfortunately the services of BWDB field staff below the level of the
Executive Engineer were not utilized in assisting the Chief Engineer and the Executive Engineer in
their supervisory role of the Consultant. In addition the project did not provide facilities to the
BWDB field staff to improve their standards in construction supervision.
5. Achievements of Project Objectives
9.         Physical Objectives. Substantial completion (about 91%) of civil works in two2 of
the six polders was achieved by June 94, one year behind schedule. Three polders3  were
substantially completed by June 95, two years behind schedule. The remaining works of the five
polders mainly resulted from the May 1995 minor cyclone and wave erosion during monsoons, and
repair works are programmed for completion by December 3 1, 1995. At Anowara, the sixth
polder, physical progress is estimated at about 30%. The mission's estimates a 85% achievement by
December 31, 1995.
10.        Planning, Design, and Contract Management.  Vital aspects to achieve the
objectives of PWP were: (a) planning to determine cyclone surge levels for various return periods,
(b) design of embankments and hydraulic structures to minimize damage due to cyclonic storms;
and (c) contract managemnent to ensure that contract specifications are adhered to and completion
to agreed deadlines. Project consultants were responsible for these activities. Performiance on items
(a) was of a high standard, and on item (b), the standard on embankment and protection works, and
new hydraulic structures was to an acceptable standard, whilst the designs for improvements and/or
repairs to existing hydraulic structures were deficient. In addition, no provision was made at the
planning phase to provide for inlets to the salt fields.  Regarding the contract management,
2 Sitakundu (polder 61/1) and Sandwip (polder 72).
3 Patenga (polder 62), Bashkhali (polder 64/1 A) and Chakoria (polder 64/2B).



BANGLADESH: Coastal En ililkmcriet Rchabilitation Project-Priorit \Vorks Programmnce
Appendi\ I: Ni sion's Aide-lemoire
according to project files and the Bank's supervision missions, perfonnance was satisfactory. The
mission during field visits observed that with a few exceptions detailed in para 13, management of
contracts has been satisfactory, and the required quality standards for earthworks, hydraulic
structures and protection works have been attained.
6. Main Factors affecting the Project
11.         Factors not generally subject to GOB control. Inclement wet weather during the
months of April to June, and to a lesser extent dry weather above the nonnal weather condition
during December and January retarded progress and to some extent influenced the deadlines set for
completion. Construction season of 1993 experienced above average rainfall with precipitation in
the 1994 season reaching the maximum recorded. The 1995 season had minimum precipitation and
provided ideal conditions for construction.
12.        Factors generally subject to GOB  control.  Factors affecting implementation
include: (a) availability and release of funds, (b) approval of Project Proformia; (c) award of tenders,
(d) land acquisition; and (e) approval of variation orders. Items (a). (b). and (d) were treated
expeditiously. International tendering was initiated in late 1991/early 1992, about 6 months after the
April/May cyclonic storm. However, contract awards were made only in June/July 1992, six
months afler the call of tenders, with agreements signed on August 1, 1992. The programme of
construction was based on the presumption that work would commence in the dry season of 1992
and completed by the end of June 1993. From the outset, the project suffered due to the prolonged
delay in contract awards. In spite of the initial set backs, it is surprising that the completion date of
June 30, 1993 was maintained. Although the initiation and submission of Variation Orders were
carried out in a timely manner, prolonged delays took place in the processing by BWDB and final
approval by its management. The Variation Orders were approved by the "Employer" (Chief
Engineer) and issued to the contractors. Most of the works were carried out but only partial
payments were made until fonnal approval was given by BWDB management with a delay of about
two years. This is in contravention of the contract agreement which stipulates that the "Employer"
who is the Chief Engineer is responisible for the final approval of Variation Orders and payment.
13.         Factors generally  subject to  implementing  agency  control. BWDB  with
considerable assistance from  the project consultants was responsible for implementation. The
Executive Engineer of the division was the "Engineer" of the contract and the consultant was the
"Engineer's Representative". The consultant was mainly responsible for contract management.
Generally contract management by the consultant was carried out satisfactorily. Administrative and
financial aspects were addressed and executed in a timely manner. Desk review of project files
indicated that there were lapses in site supervisioni, pre-work surveys, finalization of plans and
estimate of earthwork quantities were not completed before approval to go ahead with work was
given to contractors. This resulted in cost overrun being identified about one year after
commencemnent of construction. Site supervisors were not always present during construction. This
factor could have influenced the quality of earthworks. During the field visits to Anowara polder by
the ICR mission, it was observed that earthworks were not done to the required specifications. As
noted in para 10, the designs of existing hydraulic structures were defective and adequate inlet
structures for the salt fields were not provided. BWDB was responsible for the acquisition of land
for construction purposes. The processing was carried out and funds were placed witil the Deputy
4



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embanikmilenit Rehabilitation Projesct-PrionIt Works l'rogramiamm
Appendix I Nlission's Aide-Memoire
Commissioners in a timely manner. However, at Bashkhali and Sandwip, objections by land owners
interrupted implementation. At Sitakundu and Anowara, public opposition to the alignment of
retired embankments caused considerable delays. At Sitakundu, designs had to be changed to
conform to public demands, and at Sandwip the land dispute affecting a section of embankment
was resolved a few months back and work is now in progress.
14.        A major deficiency in the contractors performance was the slow mobilization of
manpower and construction equipment. Once mobilization was completed, manpower and
construction equipment were adequate. Financial resources were generally adequate, however
during the closing stages of the project, delays in the settlement of Variation Orders by the
implementing agency affected the progress of the contractor.
15.        Project Costs and Financing. Due mainly to substantial increases in earthworks
(under-estimation at project preparation) and the increased land prices, the actual total costs of
PWP by December 1995, including the costs of land acquisition and the consultants, are estimated
at about Tk 2,645 million (US$66 million)4 , representing cost overrun of about 50% in nominal
terms and 35% in real terms.
16.        As of 30 September 1995, total disbursements of IDA  Credits amounted to
SDR17.97 million (US$25.2 million equivalent), and the undisbursed balance (from Cr. 1870-BD)
is SDR3.38 million (US$4.73 million equivalent). Total disbursements under Japanese PH-RD grant
amounted to Yen 2.56 billion, and the undisbursed balance is Yen 140 million (US$1.4 million
equivalent). Total undisbursed balance of the IDA Credit and the Japanese grant is US$6.13 million
equivalent.
17.        Based on the costs of works completed under the variation orders (US$2.5 million)
and the remaining works resulted from the 1995 Cyclone damages and the partial completion of
Anowara polder (US$3.5 million) to be completed by 31 December 1 995, additional disbursements
are estimated at US$5.5 million. The Japanese grant would be fully disbursed, while only US$4.1
-million or 87% of the undisbursed balance of IDA Cr. 1870-BD (US$4.73 million) would be
utilized, leaving US$0.63 million savings.
7. Project Stistainability
18.        Sustainability  of the polders is dependent on  several factors.   These are.
(a) completion of all sea facing and internal embankments, protection works and the drainage
regulators and in addition inlet structures for agriculture, shrimp and salt farms, (b) afforestation of
embankment slopes and the foreshore; (c) effective preventive and periodic maintenance of
einbankments, protection works, and hydraulic structures; (d) damage repairs due to cyclonic
storms with a return period of one event in 5 years and one event in 20 years; and (e) damage
repairs due to wave erosion caused by annual monsoon spring tides. Civil works of three
(Sitakundu (P 61/1), Patenga (P 62), Bashkhali (P 64/]A) of the six polders have been completed
sufficiently to attain project objectives. All civil works under PWP funding for Sandwip would be
IInclulding about US$2.5 miillioii of works unider Variation Orders completed by mid-Novemiber 1995 and
US$3.5 million of the remaining works to be coiiipleted bv December 1995.
5



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embaiikinenit Reliabilitation Project-Priontv Works l'riograiniitic
Appendix I:Nlission's Aide-Niernoire
completed by December 31, 1995, and the remaining works limited to complete sections to ensure
fill security would be completed under CERP (Cr. 2638-BD). Civil works of Chakoria polder has
been substantially completed. Further improvements proposed under PWP are programmed to be
carried out under CERP. At Anowara, the sixth polder, about 85% of civil works is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1995, with the balance to be carried out under CERP. Embankment
and foreshore afforestation are to be carried out under CERP, with pilot foreshore afforestation
planned in early 1996 as an emergency operation at vulnerable locations in the six polders.
Maintenance activities under a planned programme utilizing the community (landless families,
persons displaced due to the project, squatters) are being funded under CERP, commencing June
1995. Funds have also been provided under CERP for damage repairs due to nornal monsoon
spring tides under the periodic maintenance. Damage repairs due to cyclonic stonns with a return
period of 5 years have also been included as a separate item of maintenance. Damage r epairs due
to cyclonic storms with a return period of one event in 20 years have to be carried tlidel
special funding, and is not incitided tuider CERP. With these measures, if carried out
effectively, sustaiiiability of the project to meet the project objectives is ensurled.
8. Futtire Opeerationial and Action Plans
19.        In order to commence an effective operational plan, the incomiiplete works identified
during the November ICR mission and in the taking over certificates should be completed. Plans to
complete the remaining works in four polders and the sea wall by 31 December-, 1995 were
completed by BWDB and the consultants and works have now started, while the O&M plans in six
polders are now being prepared and should be completed by December 3 1, 1 995. The subject is
discussed under three categories incomplete works, afforestation, and operation and inaintenance.
20.        Incomplete Works and Action Plan. The works include:
(i)        Sitakundti (Polder 61/1). Three existing sluices located at chainages 0,
1.0, and 2.05, were repaired under the project. The sea side headwall,
and the abutments are not constructed to the design profile of tile
embankment. Repairs were done under contract # 7. The plan lin the bid
document indicates that the walls should matchi the designed sea side
slope (I on 7). Thlis defect has induced severe erosioni and Lliless
immediate action is taken to repair the erosion and also raise the walls,
erosion will accelerate and the location would be vulnier-able to
outflanking and eventual breaching. The defect should be remedied
during the construction season of 1996, and funds from the System
Rehabilitation Project (SRP) could be utilized; and (ii) block
protection work at the section damaged by the May 95 cyclone
(chainage 2.5) is being carried out under contract # 7 on a variation
order. The work would be completed by December 31, 1995;
(ii)        Patenga (Polder 62). Embankimient toe at Patenga North and South and
the backfilling at the sea wall in the Naval Academy were eroded. Repair
work has now commenced at the three sites on variation orders. Work at
Patenga North and South would be completed by December 3 1, 1995.
6



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Prograrmne
Appendix 1:Mission's Aide-Memoire
Given the difficulties of mobilization, obtaining specified backfilling
spoil, and the added work in placing concrete slabs, in the mission's
view, it would be optimistic to expect completion of the work by
December 31, 1995. As the backfill is critical to the security of the sea
wall, it is essential that funds are provided for completion which could be
achieved by the end of January 1996;
(iii)      Anowara (Polder 63/1A). Work cannot be completed by December 31,
1995. The remaining works would be carried out under CERP;
(iv)       Bashkhali (Polder 64/lA). Civil works have been completed.
Embankment toe has been eroded due to monsoon spring tides. Repairs
could be carried out under CERP maintenance funds;
(v)        Chakoria (Polder 64/2B). The closure at chainage 107.0 to 107.5 has
not been completed to design profile. The contractor should complete
the defective work by December 31, 1995. Further improvements
proposed for this polder are planned to be carried out under CERP. The
improvements are needed for protection against damages caused by
cyclonic storms; and
(vi)       Sandwip (Polder 72). Work on section (chainage 43.15 - 44.50),
delayed and eventually omitted due to acquisition of land, has now
commenced since the disputes had been settled. The works will be
completed by December 31, 1995. The remaining re-section, and
retirement works, inclusive of the new retirement at the southern end
(needed due to the recent erosion of the sea bank) have been included
under CERP. The mission did not visit the polder, but it is understood
that repairs to all the existing sluices carried out under the PWP contract
package were slmilar to that carried out at Sitakundu (see para 20 (a)
above). The improvements could be carried out under the nminor civil
works item of CERP.
21.        Afforestation. Foreshore afforestation has a major impact on arresting erosion of
embankments particularly during annual monsoon spring tides, and cyclonic storms with a return
period of 5 years. The PWP polders, particularly Sitakundu, Patenga, Anowara, and Sandwip are
vulnerable to wave erosion in gaps where no mangrove forests exists. These locations are now
exposed to wave erosion. CERP, besides providing extensive foreshore afforestation, has included
the implementation of pilot schemes to be carried out in early 1996. The schemes could located at
the vulnerable sections of these polders.
22.        Embankment slopes afforestation has been provided under CERP. The work at
Patenga, Bashkhali, and Sandwip is scheduled to commence in FY96, at Sitakundu and Chakonra in
FY97, and at Anowara in FY98. A major issue, particularly at Sitakundu and to a lesser extent at
Bashkhali is the cultivation of vegetables on the embankment slopes and crest. This has to be
7



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Progranme
Appendix I Mission's Aide-Memoire
addressed immediately as the proposed operational plan for CERP would be jeopardised,
and the sustainability of project works would be questionable.
23.        Operation and Maintenance (O&M). The method of execution of O&M activities
is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report of CERP. It also includes the activities
(preventive and periodic), responsibilities of BWDB, the Forest Department, the Community,
Locally Elected Officials, Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs), and the Implementation
Support Consultant. Repairs to damages caused by cyclonic storms with a return period of 5 years
have been provided for. Annual budgetary allocations for each polder has been estimated for IDA
funding and GOB contributions, and agreement has been reached during negotiations of CERP on
the financing arrangements. The O&M manual and the operational plan for the 21 polders,
including PWP polders, are to be updated to include details of community participation in
embankment routine (preventive) maintenance and the concept of afforestation as a protective
measure. BWDB needs to complete the operational plan for the six polders under PWP by
December 31, 1995, and also commence operations with funds allocated for FY96
24.        The FY96 budgetary allocations allowed for preventive and periodic maintenance, and
cyclone damage repairs could be utilized for repairs of eroded sea side slopes caused by wave
action, runnels caused by rains, and the mninor slips.
9. Lessons Learned
25.        As the project being limited to civil works, the lessons learned were mainly related to
detailed designs, engineering documentation up to award of contracts, and contract management.
These lessons are:
(a)    even under emergency procedures for land acquisition, public opposition
particularly affected land owners, could delay handing over of land. The
involvement of communities and locally elected officials is essential in
expediting the processing and taking over of land;
(b)    public opposition to the alignment of retired embankments was a main factor
in implementation delays. Consultation with land owners and the affected
communities at a very early stage of planning, could resolve impasse;
(c)    during the planning phase, beneficiaries need to be involved in deciding the
provision of hydraulic structures, particularly inlets to shrimp and salt fields,
and flushing sluices for agricultural crops, and their judgements on the
requirements should be addressed critically;
(d)    designs for improvements and/or repairs to existing structures should be
done to minirmze maintenance"
(e)    contract management by consultants of works awarded on tenders following
ICB procedures is efficient and improved quality in civil works construction
can be assured.  However, to ensure improved supervision and quality



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Programnme
Appendix I :.Mission's Aide-Memoire
control, and the early identification of contract issues such as cost overruns,
BWDB in its role as the "Employer" of the contract, should effectively
supervise the Consultant. In addition, it is essential that the role of BWDB
field staff in assisting the "Employer" in future works is clearly specified, and
these staff be provided with facilities to improve their construction standards;
(f)     even under an emergency operation, consideration should be given to the
considerable time required for completion of preconstruction activities
leading to the tender awards, and the construction period. Under PWP, an
unrealistic implementation period of two years was allowed for
preconstruction and construction activities. Pre-construction activities
continued for a year and construction for three years, and
(g)     the importance of foreshore afforestation was identified at project
preparation and funds were provided from savings from Cr. 1467-BD
However, BWDB and its monitoring organization did not give sufficient
importance to the needs for these activities and funds were not utilized. In
addition, the foreshore afforestation is being carried out by the Forestry
Department (FD) under the Green Belt Project funded by ADB. It is evident
that there is no coordination between FD and BWDB and thus critical
locations were not given priority. Most of the damages sustained during the
May 1995 cyclone and the normal monsoon spring tides could have been
averted if the foreshore of the vulnerable locations of the embankments had
been afforested.
10. Follow-up
26.         The mission will return to Rome and prepare the ICR for transmittal to the World
Bank by end January 1996. BWDB is requested to prepare its own evaluation as per Bank's
Guidelines and send it to the World Bank Resident Mission in Dhaka by the same date
9



BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIORITY WORKS PROGRAMME
APPENDIX 2
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
1 .        The main benefits as identified at project preparation were: (i) prevention of losses during
cyclonic surges to human lives, agricultural production including crops, livestock, shrimp and salt;
(ii) protection of property and infrastructures (houses, roads, culverts, etc.) in the six polders;
(iii) protection of property, raw materials and value added of products in the Export Processing Zone
(EPZ) and major industrial areas in the Patenga Polder; and (iv) prevention of salinity intrusions and
storm surges during normal monsoons resulting in increased agricultural production. The ERRs
described below include quantifiable benefits only, and do not try to attribute value to human lives
saved. This operation was presented to the Board as a proposal to amend ongoing projects to deal
with emergency post-cyclone rehabilitation, and reference was not made to economic returns. In the
follow-up CERP project it was specifically stated in the SAR and the MOP that, given the important
but non-quantifiable value of saving human lives, IDA could accept ERRs for quantifiable benefits
below what would be nonnally required. The proposal for Japanese financing of PWP did include
estimated quantifiable economic returns for the project as a whole, and noted that, given the large non-
quantifiable benefits, the program was economically viable.
2.         The economic rates of return (ERRs), excluding the value of saving human lives, were
calculated at project preparation by the consultants in May 1992' for the individual polders and the
whole Priority Works Programmne (PWP) consisting of 10 polders i.e., inclusive of four polders
reconstructed with the use of Saudi grant funds 2 The estimated ERRs for the six polders funded by
IDA and the Japanese grant funds ranged from 4.6% for the Anowara Polder to 43% for the Patenga
Polder and 14.2% for the whole PWP as shown below:
I   Cyclone Protection Project II, Preparation Report, Kampsax Intemational A/S, BCEOM Danish Hydraulic Institute
in associated with Development Design Consultants ltd.
(KASAX/BCEOM/D1)II), May 1992.
2   Included 6 polders funded by IDA Credits and Japanese PHRD GTrant funds, and 4 polders (Cox's Bazar, Chanua,
Moheskhali and Kutubdia) bv the Saudi grant funds.



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Pnority Works Programme
Appendix 2: Economic Re-Evaluation
Polder        Financial Investment  Length of        Direct          Net Cultivable  ERRS
Costs (11T M)       Embankment         Protected Area  Area (ha)      (%/6)
___________ _   ___________________  (km)             (ha)
Patenga       610.3                21.5               1,420          1,020           43.0
Bashkhali     266.4                26.2              4,700           4,300           13.6
Sandwip       262.3                38.5               18,700         15,000         22.2
Anowara       172.0                14.5               1,500          1,250          4.6
Chakoria      131.8                16.4              4,100           3,250           12.4
Sitakunda     75.7                 6.1               730             600            6.0
Whole PWP    2,038.4               189.5             43,900          33,320          14.2
3.           The main assumptions used in the economic analysis were:
(i)   project life of 30 years, including a construction period of one year;
(ii) all costs and benefits were expressed in 1992 constant prices. The economic prices
of traded goods were based on the 1992 world prices forecasted by the World
Bank. For non-traded goods and services, financial prices were adjusted to
economic prices by a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.78;
(iii) the financial investment costs of civil works and structures, and the operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs were adjusted to border prices by a conversion factor
(CF) of 0.75. The O&M costs were estimated for protective works, routine and
periodic maintenance;
(iv)  the costs of land acquired for construction were valued at the net production
benefit in without project situation (WOP);
(v)  major quantifiable benefits included in the analysis were: (a) protection of losses to
crop, fishery, livestock and salt production; (b) protection of property and
infrastructures; (c) protection of property and raw materials and value added of
products in EPZ and major industrial areas in the Patenga Polder; and (d) increases
in agricultural production resulting from protection against intrusion of saline water
and flood caused by cyclonic surges with a return periods of 20 years,
(vi)  in the absence of protection from intrusion of saline water, yields of crops were
assumed to decrease from present levels by 2% annually over 5 years in WOP in
polders without irrigation facilities and by 4% annually over 5 years in WOP in
2



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Progrmme
Appendix 2: Economic Re-Evaluation
polders with irrigation facilities. In with project situation (WP), yields of crops
were assumed to increase by 5%-10%, while the cropping intensities were
assumed to increase from 134% to 152%;
(vii) benefit from human lives saved was not quantified, though this is a major benefits
of the PWP; and
(viii) benefits from afforestation were quantified but not included in the analysis;
4.         ERRs of the individual polders and the whole PWP were re-calculated during project
implementation in June 1994 by the consultant3 to reflect the increases in the construction costs, and
the afforestation benefits. At that time, ERR for the combined six polders financed under IDA Credits
and Japanese grant funds was also estimated. The revised ERRs for the six polders ranged from 6.4%
for the Anowara Polder to 25.3% for the Patenga Polder, 15.9% for the combined six polders and
14.8% for the whole PWP as shown below:
Polder      Financial       Length of      Direct     Net Cult.  Afforestation  ERRs
Investment     Embankment  Protected  Area          Area (ha)     (%)
Costs (Tk M)   (km)           Area (ha)  (ha)
Patenga      1,140.0        20.9           1,420      1,020     303.2         25.3
Bashkhali   383.0           25.6           4,700      4,300     612.4         9.2
Sandwip    448.0            38.7           14,660     9,700     715.8         15.4
Anowara    276.0            14.7           1,500      1,250     344.2         6.4
Chakoria    246.0           14.3           4,100      3,250     302.1         8.3
Sitakundu    103.0          6.6            730        600        125.2        6.8
six polders   2,596.0       120.8          24,770     20,120    2,402.9       15.9
Whole       3,319.0         187.1          37,520     28,020    3,487.2       14.8
PWP
5.         The analysis followed the assumptions used at project preparation in May 1992. The main
revisions were:
3.  Cyclone Protection Project II, Revised Financial and Economic Analysis, KAMPSAX/BCEOM/DHI, June 1994
3



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Projed-Priority Works Programme
Appendix 2: Economic Re-Evaluation
(i)  all costs and benefits were expressed in 1994 constant prices. The economic prices
of traded goods were based on the 1995 world prices forecasted by the World
Bank. For non-traded goods and services, financial prices were adjusted to
economic prices by using SCF of 0.87;
(ii)  the financial investment costs were adjusted upward by about 70%  to reflect
changes in quantity of earthworks which were greatly under-estimated at project
preparation. The investment costs of afforestation on embankment and the
foreshore were included in order to reduce cyclone damage and the maintenance
costs,
(iii) inclusion of benefits from protection of losses to crop, fishery, livestock and salt
production and property and infrastructures in the six polders, and property and
raw materials and value added of products in EPZ and major industrial areas in the
Patenga Polder (see Table 2 for the official registered losses caused by the 1991
cyclone, and Table 3 for losses avoided in economic terms);and
(iv)  inclusion of additional benefits from afforestation.
6.         At project completion, ERRs were re-estimated for the individual polders and the
combined six polders financed under IDA Credits and Japanese grant funds. No attempt was made to
re-estimate the ERR for the whole PWP due to non-availability of costs and benefits data in respect of
four polders financed by the Saudi grant funds and because this ICR relates to that part of PWP which
was funded by IDA Credits and Japanese and EC grant funds. Also for the Anowara Polder for which
a major portion of civil works would be completed by December 1996 using GOB funding, the re-
estimated ERR is based on the present cost estimates to complete the remaining 10.1 km embankment
and the likely benefits that are anticipated to accrue. On this basis, the re-estimated ERRs for the
individual polders range from 6% for the Anowara and Sitakundu Polders to 19.4% for the Patenga
Polder (Tables 8-14) compared to the revised ERRs of 6.4% to 25.3%  estimated during project
implementation. The lower ERRs are due mainly to cost overrun, the longer construction period
resulting in delayed accrual of benefits, and the reduced protected areas and agricultural and
afforestation areas (Table 7). The re-estimated ERR for the combined six polders is 13.5% (Table 14)
compared to the revised ERR of 15.9% estimated during implementation. The results of the re-
estimated ERRs are shown below:
4



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Programme
Appendix 2: Economic Re-Evaluation
Polder       Financial     Length of     Direct     Net Cult.  Afforestation  ERRs
Investment   Embankment  Protected   Area (ha)  Area (ha)       (%)
(Tk          (km)          Area (ha)
Patenga       1,227.4      21.1          1,420       1,020      303.2         19.0
Bashkhali    379.7         25.6          4,700      4,300       612.4         8.5
Anowara      334.4 a/      14.7          1,500       1,250      344.2        5.8
Sandwip      460.6         36.5          11,500     9,100       675.0        13.1
Chakoria     194.7         12.5          3,690      2,925       265.0        8.2
Sitakundu    126.7         6.6           730        600         125.2        6.1
six polders    2,689.5     117.0         23,540      19,195     2,325.0       13.4
a! Including additional costs of Tk 20 million for land acquisition and Tk 114 million for construction
to complete the remaining 10.1 km embankment.
7.         The economic re-evaluation followed the assumptions used in the consultant's revised
economic analysis. The main differences are:
(i)  project life of 30 years, including a construction period of 3-4 years;
(ii)  the investment costs of the six polders were based on the actual expenditures, plus
additional costs of Tk 90.65 million for repair works damaged by the 1995 minor
cyclone at the Patenga and Sitakundu Polders and the sea wall of the Naval
Academy, and additional construction costs of Tk 114 million to complete the
remaining 10.1 km embankment at the Anowara Polder (see Tables 4-5), restated
in 1994 constant prices and adjusted to border prices by CF of 0.75; and
(iii) reduced protected areas, agricultural and afforestation areas in the Sandwip and
Chakoria Polders.
pwpapp2
5



BANGLADESH                                         Table 1
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project (Priority Works Programme)
Implementation Completion Report
Base Data for Polders, Agriculture and Afforestation Areas a/
Name of             Polder No. Length of            Gross     Direct    Agric.  ..... Cropped Area (ha) .......... Afforestatlion Area.
Polder                        Embnk.               Protected  Protected  Beneflted    Present  With      Total     Total
(km)              Area (ha)  Area (ha)  Area (ha)            Project Length (km) Area (ha)
Patenga             62              20.9                2550       1420      1020      1846      1926       20.9     303.2
Bashkhali           64/1A           25.6               12700      4700       4300      7876      8213       25.6     612.4
Sandwip             72              38.7               14660     12320      9700      17460     18430       38.7     715.8
Anowara             63/1A           14.7                5450       1500      1250      2288      2388       14.7     344.2
Chakoria            64/2B           14.3                7000      4100       3250      5953      6208       14.3     302.1
Silakunda           61/1             6.6                 730       730        600      1099      1146        6.6     125.2
Sublotal (6 poiders)               120.8               43090     24770     20120      36522     38311      120.8    2402.9
Cox's Bazar         66/3             4.6                3000       3000       900      1648      1719        4.6     108.0
Chanua              64/IC           10.0                3000       1500      1200      2198      2292       10.0     138.9
Moheskhali          69              12.9                2800      2800       1400      2564      2674       12.9     314.8
Kulubdia            71              38.8                5450      5450       4400      8059      8404       38.8     522.7
Total                              187.1               57340     37520     28020      50991     53400      187.1    3487.3
a/ Based on estimates given in the Revised Financial and Economic Analysis, Kampsax International A/S. June 1994.



BANGLADESH                                                          Table 2
Coastal Emnbankment Reliabililation Project
Priority Works Proranime
Implernentation Completion Report
Official Registered Losses from 1991 Cyclone- 1991 Fhiancial Values (Tk Milion) It
Name of  Poder No.  Gross    Direct    Agric.  .................................................. Lossses......................... . .............................   Total   Indusrial
Podder             Protected  Protected  Benelited   Livestock .....     Shrimp ........   Sall  Houses   Roads &    Losses  Losses 2/
Area (ha)  Area (ha) Area (ha)   Value   Area (ha)   Value    Value     Value    Culverts   Direct
Value   Protected
Area
MTk      MTk       MTk       MTk       MTk       MTk       MTk       MTk
Patenga   62             2550     1420      1020       NA        NA        NA       NA       'NA        NA        NA       3970
Bashkhali 64/lA         12700     4700      4300       15.3       50       2.0      NA       150.0       9.4    176.7
Sandwip  72             14660    12320      9700       51.1                                  218.6      23.0    292.7
Anowara  63/1A           5450      1500     1250        5.4                                   45.0       3.0   . 53.4
Chakaria  64/2B          7000     4100      3250       19.2                                   49.5       8.2      76.9
-i Silakunda 61/1           730       730       600       2.2        50       2.0                71.3       1.5      77.0
Cox's BaearG6/3          3000      3000      900        4.3     1500       60.8     32.0      20.3       6.0    123.4
Chanua   64/1 C          3000      1500     1200        5.4                                     21         3      29.4
Moheskhali 69       '    2800      2800     1400        5.9      750       30.4     15.6      52.5       5.6    110.0
Kulubdia  71             5450      5450      4400      24.8       90        3.6     2B.1    150.0       10.9    217.4
Total                   57340    37520    28020       133.6     2440       98.8      75.7    778.2      70.6    1156.9      3970
1/ Based on oflicial regstered losses for 1 in 40 years.
2/ Industrial Losses due to the April 1991 cyclone in tIle Export Processing Zone were estimated at Tk 3,820 million, including damages to industrial buildings, damages
to production equipment, raw material and products, and losses in value added of products due to down-time alter flooding, and Tk 150 million damages to Chittagong
airport inlrastructures and equipment.
Source: Cyclone Protection Project II, Revised Financial and Economic Analysis, KAMPSAX?BCEOM/DHI, June 1994.



BANCADESH                                                                                                       Table 3
Coasail Embarkmerlt Rehabtlzabon Project
Prcxity Waks Procjamrnme
Iiiiplemiientatlon completim Report
Indirect and Agicul.iraf Losses AvoIded- 1094 Ecaiomlc Values (Tk MiltIm) 11
Name  of  Podder No.    Gross   Direct             .................................................. Lossses Avoided ...................................................................  Total  Cumulatve
Podder              Protected  Protected            Livestoc   ropiLos .............. Shrimp   ..........H..............................  Houses Rcads&   Losses    Mnualsed
Area (ha)  Nrea (ia)            Value 2/   Value 3/  Area (ha)  Vaiue 4/   Prea p(a)  Value 5/   Value 6/ Cuivers   Cirect    Losses Avdided
Value 7/  Protected    Benefits
Area            8/
MTk       MTk       MTk       MTk                  MTk       MTk       MTk       MTk
Paten g9/ 62             2550       1420                           2.13      NA         NA        NA        NA        NA         2.1       4.2      215.8
Bashkhaii 64/iA          12700      4700                 15.3      9.11      23.5      15.3        4.7       1.7     112.1       7.0     160.5        4.1
Sandwip  72              14660     12320                 51.1     17.02                                              163.4      18.4     249.9        6.4
Mno"aa  63/1A            5450       1500                  5.4       2.6      15.0       9.8                           33.6       2.2      53.6        1.3
O<aka ia  64/2B          7000       4100                 19.2      6.88                            82       29.9      37.0    *  6.1      99.1       2.4
Stakunda 61/1             730        730                  2.2      1.43                                               53.3       1A       58.0        1.5
Cox'sBazar66f3           3000       3000                  4.3       1.9     165.0     107.7        60       21.9      15.1       4.5     155.4        4.0
Chanua   64/iC           3000       1500                  5.4       2.5       7.5       4.9        45        2.8      15.7       2.2      33.5        0.9
Moheskhall 69            2800       2800                  5.9       3.0        84      54.8      1120       70.0      39.2       4.2     177.1        4.6
Kutunbdia 71             5450       5450                 24.8      10.5       327     213.4       327      119.3     112.1       8.1     488.2       12.6
aX Total                    57340     37520                133.6       57.1      622      405.9    1638.7     245.6      581.5      55.9   1479.61     253.6
1/ This rhta has been based an dliciai regslered tosses lao 1 In 40 years.
2/1991 tinancial value restatedTn 1994 constant pices and adjusted Into economiccalue by using SCF of 0.87.
3/ Estmated at 25% of ihe without project net prodciln benefits per year. equIvalent to 50% of gross produiction benefits lost Icr hail year and hag cd the loss aeventade by embarkment.
4/ Assuming avera-ge yield per year at 3 ton/ha at ecrnomic farm gate price f Tk 217.5/kg, and propcrtn of the drecUly protected area taken for shlrmp productmn: 05% fla Bankhall and 1% fa Anowara.
5/Assumingaverage yield per year of 120 tn/ha ateccnomlc farm gate price of Tk3.040/ton, and propartn   the directly protactedarea takenfcr saltprodction:0.1%  cr Banskhalland2%acrChkcrila.
6/ 1991 value restated In 199.1 constant pIce and adjusted by CF of 0.65, and assumed that embarkment prevents S% d damage
7/ 1991 value of roads and riuverts estimated at Tk 2,000 per directly protected ta and 5% and 30% d replacement costs taken as value of cdtma6e restated in 1994 constant price and adjusted by CF of o.65
8/ Calcubted according to Flood Protection Coordinatlon Organlzalion (FPCO) gildefnes fcr expectaimn and Irecqiency f fnood damage Icr embankment designed for prevention d a 1 In 20 years event.
9/ Annualised cumulatve value df losses avticbnce benefits frr Patenga taken drecly ont i dlidal reUsteaed losses.



BANGLADESH                                                 Table 4
Coastbl Embankment Rehabitblon Project
Pricrity Works Progamme
lmplemenbttion Completion Report
Project Expenditures (Tk Milon)
Name of            Poder No               FY92/93   FY93/94   FY94/95 FY95/96   FY96197       Tdai
Polacer                                                                  al        a/
1. Patengp         62
1.1 CMi Woks
Patenge North                               239.9    134.7       68.6      710                5162
Patengs Soudh                               165.8    121.6      113.7      69.3               470.2
Naval Academy                                526       71 1       4.6      It87               147.0
SubtbI                                      456.1    329.4      186.9     159.0              1133.4
1.2 LandAcquiskWon                           435       314       13.0       0.3                60.2
1.3 Eng AAdmin (ELa b/                       29.9      27.0      325       lao                 99.4
1.4 Taxes                                     0o        0.0       0.0       0.0      522       522
Taal                                        531.5     359.8    232.4      169.3      522    1345.2
Z Bashkhali        641lA
2.1 Cvi Woks                                206.9      81.2      310        51                326.2
122LandAcquslskon                            231        0.0       0.0       11                 252
2.3 Eng. &Admn (EU)                          119        6.6       5.4       0.9                26.8
2.4 Taxes                                     Q0        0.0       0.0       0.0      110       110
Tdal                                        243.9      87.8      38,4       9.1      110      394.2
D  1 Smndwip           72
3.1 Chi Works                               175.4    179.4       17.5      17.8               390.1
a2 LandAcqusiton                             19.0       1.0       10        Q0.                210
33 Eng. Admn (EU)                            11.8      151        39        &2                 3a9
14 TaXIs                                      0.0       0.0       0.0       Q0       18.0      t5O
Total                                       206.2    195.5       26.3      21.0      150      467.0
& Alowttra          DiA
4.1 CMIwolrk                                 723       25.3      419       24.1     114.0    282.6
4.2LandAcqustlon                              8.6       0.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       9.1
4.3 Eng. &Admh (EU)                           50        Z2        7.8       7.7       0.0      227
4.4 Taxos                                     0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0     110       110
Ta'l                                         StL       288       5a7       31.8     127.0    327.4
5 Chkolra          64/2B
E1 CtVI works                               1172       310       2.6        19                174.7
12 Land Acquisbon                             3.9       0.3        .0       0.0                 4.2
53Eng. &Admhi EU)                             7.4       la 36      6        0.6                14.4
1.4 Taxes                                     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       to        to
Total                                       128.5      36.1      24.2       4.5       t0      201.3
& Stakunde         61/1
tI CdWlworks                                 36.9      218        9.8      211                 916
62LandAcqusition                              3.8       0.5       0.0       7.7                1Z0
63 Eng. &Admh (E)                             25       22        1.7       4.5                10.9
6.4 Taxes                                     00        0.0       0.0       0.0       4.4       4.4
Toal                                         412       25.5      11.5      353        4.4     122.9
Grand Tdl                                   1239.4    736.5    38e1.5     271.0     224.6    2858.0
a/ IncIding cost o repak works damaged by the 1995 cyckne and costs tocompleterematning wcrksat Patengs. Stlkundu and Anoswara Poldes.
These figvres elude the budgetary alomatin d US$4.3 milon which BWDB charged to tis proect as7% o cMlI work wet to cots  share o BWDB's overhead
and engineering office since the enginerIng works were substeniay carred out by EU  TechnIcal Team.
b/ propcrtxnated tom the tobl enginswing and a iministraton costs
Source: Cycone Protection Proect I. Progess Repot KAMPSAX/BCEO M/DHL October 1995.
Land acositeion costs are oroAded bv OWDB. Chitboona Dviskon



MAM-AU                                                    Table 5Oa
Coastal Emtbrkment fttbilration Project
Pricrity Warls Programme
Implementalan CampleIn flRpert
CvM Waics Expendclres (1k Mllrn)
LIrrEnt Prices)
Name d             Pdder No.             FY92193  FYS3J94   FY94,g5 FY5/6 8   FY98/97        Toli
Pdder
1. Pateni          82
1.1 ChF Wcrks
PaUnVa Norh                                 239.9    134.7      68.6      7&0                516.2
Pap Scuth                                   165.6    121.6      113.7     69.3               470.2
Nval Acdeny                                  52.6     7361       4.6      16.7               147.0
Subbtioal                                   458.1    329.4     186.9    159.0               1133.4
12 Eng. & AdrIrn (EL) b/                    29.9      27.0      32.5      10.0                99.4
13 Taxes                                     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      52.2      52.2
TaIl                                       488.0    356.4    219.4    169.0        52.2   1285.0
2. BaslfIll        64/lA
2.1 ClWf Wcrs                               208.9      81.2     33.0       5.1               326.2
22 Eng & Adrrnn (ELu                         139       6.6       5.4       0.9                26.8
23 Taxes                                      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      15.0      150
- TaMI                                        22D.8      87.8      38.4       6.0      15.0    368.0
0
3. Sandlwlo        72
3.1 CIwWorks                                175.4    179.4      17.5      17.8               390.1
32Eng.&Adn(ELO                               11.8     15.1       3.8       3.2                33.9
33 Taxes                                      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      16O       18.0
Tclal                                       157.2    194.5      21.3      21.0      16O      442.0
4.Anawea           63/1A
4.1 CbF waks                                 72.3     26.3      45.9      24.1     114.0    282.6
42Eng.&AdnIrn(ELJ)                            5.0      2.2       7.8       7.7       0.0      2Z7
43 Taxes                                      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      1&o       iao
Total                                        77.3     28.5      53.7      31.8    127.0    318.3
5. Clhkcr          64fRB
5.1 CMi woks                                117.2     330       20.6       3.9               174.7
52Eng.&Adrrin(ELB                             7.4       2.8       3.6      0.6                14.4
53 Taxes                                      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       8.0       A.0
Talai                                       124.6     35.8      24.2       4.5       8.0    197.1
6.Slakunda         61/1
6.1 CIw works                                36.9      258        9.8     231                 95.6
63Eng &Ad&in(nEL                              2.5       2.2       1.7      4.5                10.9
8A Taxes                                      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       4.4       4.4
Tola                                         39.4     28.0       11.5     27.6       4.4    110.9
Grad Taal                                  1137.3    731.0     368.5    259.9    224.6   2721.3
a/ lncrdn  cogsts fo realr waiks damaged by tie 1995 cydies and costs Iy coxplefiUof d remakg wuoks at Pamnga, Sltunki and Anowe pdcers.
b Pr lraaontedkm tie to    an      ang  d acmadnitrsiratitn costs.
SOUCE: Cydcre Protectir Prolect II, Progoess aport KAMBIS(CEOK4D3-, OCtober 195.
I and arruim rAts wefi rrnjMtlwW thw RAFM. rNtnmn rIvb-nn



BANGLADESH                                                  Table 5(b)
Coastal Embankment Ra abilkaton Project
Prioriey Works Programme
Implementaton Completon Report
Economic Costs of Ch Works (Tk Milion)
(1994 ConstantPrice)
Name of                       Pdider No.             FY92193   FY93/94   FY94/95 FY9S/96   FY98/97        Total
Pdder
1. Patenga                    62
CMv Works a/b/                                         380.7     259.4      140.2     115.7               875.9
Eng. & Admhi (EU) ald/                                  31.4      284       325         9.7               101.9
Total                                                  392.1     287.8     172.7      125.4               977.9
2. Bashkhali                  641 A
Civi Works                                             162.9      63.9       24.8       3.7               255.3
Eng. & Admin (EU)                                       14.6       6.9        5.4       0.9                27.8
Total                                                   177.5      70.9      30.2       4.6               283.1
3. San dwip                   72
Clvi Works                                             138.1     141.3       13.1      12.9               305.5
Eng. & Admin (EU)                                       12.4      15.9        3.8       3.1                35.1
Totd                                                   150.5      157.1      16.9      16.1               340.6
4. Anowara                    6Y1A
Clvi works                                              56.9      20.7       34.4      17.5      829      212.5
Eng. & Admin (EU)                                        5.3       2.3        7.8       7.5       0.0      228
Total                                                   622        23.0      422       25.0      829      235.4
5. Chakorla                   64/2B
Civil works                                             92.3      26.0       15.5       2.8               138.6
Eng. & Admhi (EU)                                        7.8       2.9        3.6       0.6                14.9
Total                                                  100.1       26.9      19.1       3.4       0.0     151.5
6. Sltekunda                  61/1
CMlv works                                              29.1      20.3        7.4      168                 73.5
Eng. & Admin (EU)                                        2.6        2.3       1.7       4.4                11.0
Total                                                   31.7       22.6       9.1      21.2       0.0      84.5
Grand Totd                                             914.1     590.3      290.1    -195.6      829    2073.0
a/ Financial costs were re-stated In 1994 constant prices by wholesale price ndexx
bl A4usted Into border prices by CF of 0.75.
c/ Adjusted Into border prices by SCF of 0.87.
b/ Adjusted Into border prices by CF of 1.0.



BANGLADESH                                                  Table 6
Coastal Embanikment Rehabilitation Project
Priority Works Programme
Implementation Completion Report
Land Acquisition (ha)
Name of             Polder No.   FY92/93   FY93/94   FY94/95 FY95/96                  Total
Polder
Patenga             62              47.5        0       10.8         0                 58.3
Bashkhali           64/1A           50.5      19.0       0.3         0                 69.8
Sandwip             72              60.6      27.2         3         0                 90.8
Anowara             63/1A           21.2       1.6         0         0                 22.8
Chakoria            64/2B           21.6       1.1         0         0                 22.7
Sitakunda           61/1            10.1       5.7         0         0                 15.8
Total                              211.5      54.6      14.1         0                280.2



BANGLADESH                                         Table 7
Coastal Embankment Rehablitation Project (Priority Works Programme)
Implementation Completion Repon
Base Data for Poiders, Agriculture and Afforestation Areas 1/
Name of             Polder No. Length of            Gross      Direct    Agric.  .....Cropped Area (ha) .... ..... Afforestation Area.
Polder                        Embnk.               Protected  Protected  Benefited    Present    With     Total      Total
(km)               Area (ha)  Area (ha)  Area (ha)             Project Length (km) Area (ha)
Patenga             62               21.1                2550      1420       1020      1846      1926       21.1     303.2
Bashkhali           64/1A            25.6               12700      4700      4300       7876      8213       25.6     612.4
Sandwip             72               36.5               13715     11500      9100      16335     17250   *  36.5      675.0
Anowara 21          63/1A            14.5                5450      1500       1250      2288      2388       14.7     344.2
Chakoria            64/28            12.5                6300      3690      2925       5360      5590       12.5     265.0
Sitakunda           61/1              6.6                 730       730       600       1099      1146        6.6     125.2
Subtotal (6 polders)                116.8               41445     23540     19195      34804     36513      117.0    2325.0
1/ ActuaUICR Mission's estimate.
2/6.9 km completed as of June 30, 1996, and the remaining 7.6 km to be completed by FY97 under CERP.



BANGLADESH                                     Table 8
Coastal Embanklment Rehblitation Project
Priority Works Programme
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis (Tk Million)
Patenga Polder
Investment  Land   Investment    O&M  Total Costs Inc. Agric.Afforestatior Indirect &    Total   Balance
Embnk/   Acquisition Afforestatlor  Costs      Net BenefitsNet Benefits Non -Agric.  Benefits
structures                                                        Losses Avoid
Yr1 (FY93)             392.1       0.4      0.0      0.0    392.5       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   -392.5
Yr2                    287.8       0.4      0.0      0.0    288.2       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   -288.2
Yr3                    172.7      0.5       0.0      0.0    173.2       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   -173.2
Yr 4                   125.4       0.5      7.8      6.9    140.6       0.6       0.1    215.8    216.5      75.9
Yr 5                               0.5      4.1      6.9      11.5      1.3       0.2    218.0    219.5    208.0
Yr6                                0.5      2.8      6.9      10.2      1.9       0.5    220.1    222.5    212.3
Yr 7                               0.5      1.6      6.8       8.9      2.1       0.3    222.3    224.7    215.8
Yr8                                0.5      1.4      6.8       8.7      2.3       0.4    224.6    227.3    218.6
Yr 9                               0.5               6.8       7.3      2.3      13.0    226.8    242.1    234.8
Yr 10                              0.5               5.9       6.4      2.3       0.3    229.1    231.7    225.3
Yr 11                             0.5                5.2       5.7      2.3       0.4    231.4    234.1    228.4
Yr 12                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3      38.3    233.7    274.3    269.2
Yr 13                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       0.7    236.0    239.0    233.9
Yr 14                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       0.6    238.4    241.3    236.2
Yr 15                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3      15.2    240.8    258.3    253.2
Yr 16                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       0.8    243.2    246.3    241.2
Yr 17                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       0.8    245.6    248.7    243.6
Yr 18                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3      19.5    248.1    269.9    264.8
Yr 19                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       1.2    250.5    254.0    248.9
Yr2O                               0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       1.1    253.0    256.4    251.3
Yr21                               0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3    157.2    255.6    415.1    410.0
Yr 22                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       1.1    258.1    261.5    256.4
Yr23                               0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       1.4    260.7    264.4    259.3
Yr 24                              0.5                4.6      5.1      2.3      23.1    263.3    288.7    283.6
Yr 25                              0.5                4.6      5.1      2.3       1.5    265.9    269.7    264.6
Yr 26                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       1.4    268.6    272.3    267.2
Yr 27                              0.5                4.6      5.1      2.3    221.8    271.3    495.4    490.3
Yr 28                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       1.4    274.0    277.7    272.6
Yr 29                              0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3       1.6    276.8    280.7    275.6
Yr3O                               0.5               4.6       5.1      2.3      94.9    279.5    376.7    371.6
NPV=     544.2 Tk. Million            ERR=    19.0%
al Table 5
Source: Revised Financial and Economic Analysis, Kanpsax International A/S, June 1994.



BANGLADESH                                     Table 9
Coastal Embankrrmnt Rehabilitaon Project
Priority Works Programme
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis (Tk Million)
Bashkhali Polder
Investment  Land   Investment    O&M  Total Costs Inc. Agric.Afforestaftor Indrect&    Total   Balance
Embnk/   Acquisition Afforestatior   Costs     Net BenefitsNet Benefits Non -Agric.  Benefits
structures                                                         Losses Avoid
Yr  (FY93)              177.5      0.4      0.0       0.0    177.9       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   -177.9
Yr2                     70.9       0.6       0.0      0.0      71.5      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    -71.5
Yr 3                    30.2       0.6       0.0      0.0      30.8      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    -30.8
Yr4                      4.6       0.6      15.6      5.9      26.7      2.7       0.2      4.1       7.0    -19.7
Yr 5                               0.6       8.2      5.9      14.7      5.3       0.3      4.2       9.8     -4.9
Yr6                                0.6      5.6       5.9      12.1      7.9       0.8      4.2      12.9       0.8
Yr7                                0.6       3.2      5.9       9.7      8.8       0.4      4.3      13.5       3.8
Yr 8                               0.6      2.8       5.9       9.3      9.6       0.7      4.3      14.6      5.3
Yr9                                0.6                5.9       6.5      9.6      29.2      4.4      43.2     36.7
Ui YrlO                              0.6                5.2       5.8       9.6      0.3       4.4     14.3       8.5
Yr11                               0.6                4.5       5.1      9.6       0.4      4.4      14.4       9.3
Yr 12                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6      86.9      4.5    101.0      96.6
Yr 13                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       0.8      4.5      14.9      10.5
Yr 14                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       0.7      4.6      14.9      10.5
Yr 15                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6      33.9      4.6      48.1      43.7
Yr 16                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       1.0      4.7      15.3      10.9
Yr 17                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       1.1      4.7      15.4      11.0
Yr 18                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6      43.4      4.8      57.8      53.4
Yr 19                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       1.6      4.8      16.0      11.6
Yr 20                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       1.5      4.9      16.0      11.6
Yr 21                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6    347.5       4.9    362.0    357.6
Yr 22                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       1.5      5.0      16.1      11.7
Yr 23                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       1.9      5.0      16.5      12.1
Yr 24                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6      51.3      5.1      66.0      61.6
Yr 25                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       2.2      5.1      16.9      12.5
Yr 26                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       2.0      5.2      16.8      12.4
Yr 27                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6    488.5       5.2    503.3    498.9
Yr 28                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       2.0      5.3      16.9      12.5
Yr 29                              0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6       2.3      5.3      17.2      12.8
Yr3O                               0.6                3.8       4.4      9.6    217.8       5.3    232.7    228.3
W'PV=    -107.5 Tk. Million           ERR=      8.5%
Source: Revised Financial and Economic Analysis, Kampsax Intemational A/S, June 1994.



BANGLADESH                                     Table 10
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project
Priority Works Programme
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis (Tk Million)
Sandwip Pokder
Investment  Land   Investmernt    O&M  Total Costs Inc. Agric.Afforestatior Indrect &    Total   Balance
Embnk/   Acquisition Afforestatior  Costs       Net BenefitsNet Benefits Non-Agric.  Benefits
structires                                                         Losses Avoid
Yr1 FY93)               150.5      0.5      0.0       0.0    151.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   -151.0
Yr2                     157.1      0.7      0.0       0.0    157.8       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   -157.8
Yr3                     16.9       0.7      0.0       0.0      17.6      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    -17.6
Yr4                     16.1       0.7      17.7      8.0      42.5     10.5       0.3      6.0      16.8    -25.6
Yr5                                0.7       9.2      8.0      17.9     21.1       0.4      6.1      27.5       9.6
Yr6                                0.7      6.4       8.0      15.1     31.6       1.1      6.2      38.9     23.8
Yr7                                0.7      3.7       8.0      12.4     40.6       0.6      6.2      47.4      35.0
Yr8                                0.7       3.2      8.0      11.9     49.7       1.0      6.3      57.1      45.2
H  Yr9                                0.7                8.0       8.7      49.7     31.8       6.4     87.9      79.2
cr YrlO                               0.7                7.1       7.8      49.7      0.7       6.4     56.8      49.0
Yrl1                               0.7                6.0       6.7     49.7       0.8      6.5      57.1     50.3
Yrl 2                              0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7      93.9      6.6    150.2    144.5
Yrl 3                              0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       1.4      6.6      57.7      52.0
Yr14                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       1.2      6.7      57.6      51.9
Yr1 5                              0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7      37.2      6.8      93.7      88.0
Yrl 6                              0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       1.6      6.9      58.2      52.5
Yr17                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       1.8      6.9      58.4      52.7
Yrl 8                              0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7      47.7      7.0    104.3       98.7
Yr19                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       2.6      7.1      59.4      53.7
Yr2O                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       2.4      7.1      59.2      53.5
Yr2l                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7    383.2       7.1    440.1    434.4
Yr22                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       2.4      7.2      59.4      53.7
Yr23                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       3.0      7.3      60.1      54.4
Yr24                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7      56.4      7.4    113.6    107.9
Yr25                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       3.4       7.4     60.5      54.9
Yr26                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       3.2      7.5      60.4      54.8
Yr27                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7    540.2       7.6    597.6    591.9
Yr28                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       3.1      7.7      60.5      54.9
Yr29                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7       3.6      7.8      61.1      55.4
Yr3O                               0.7                5.0       5.7     49.7    233.8       7.8    291.3    285.6
NPV=       41.1 Tk. Million            ERR=    13.1%
Source: Revised Financial and Economic Analysis, Kampsax Intemational A/S, June 1994.



BANGLADESH                                      Table 11
Coastal Embankment Rehabliltation Project
Priority Works Programme
Implementation Completbn Report
Economic Analysis (Tk Million)
Anowara Polder
Investment   Land  Investment    O&M  Total Costs  Inc. Agric.Afforestatior Indirect &    Total    Balance
Embnk/   Acquisition Afforestatior   Costs      Net BenefitsNet Benefits Non -Agric.  Benefits
structires    al                                                    Losses Avoid
Yr 1 (FY93)              62.2       0.2       0.0      0.0      62.4       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    -62.4
Yr 2                     23.0       0.2       0.0      0.0      23.2       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    -23.2
Yr 3                     42.2       0.2       0.0      0.0      42.4       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    -42.4
Yr4                      25.0       0.2      8.8       4.1      38.1       0.8       0.0       1.3      2.1    -36.0
Yrs                      82.9       0.5      4.7       4.1      92.2       1.6       0.2       1.3      3.1    -89.1
Yr6                                 0.5      3.2       4.1       7.8       2.3       0.4       1.4      4.1      -3.7
Yr7                                 0.5       1.8      4.1       6.4       2.6       0.2       1.4      4.2      -2.2
Yr8                                 0.5       1.6      4.1       6.2       2.8       0.4       1.4      4.6      -1.6
, Yr9                                 0.5                4.1       4.6       2.8      16.8       1.4      21.0     16.4
9 YrlO                                0.5                 3.6      4.1       2.8       0.2       1.4       4.4      0.3
Yrl1                                0.5                3.2       3.7       2.8       0.2       1.4      4.4       0.7
Yrl 2                               0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8      49.9       1.4     54.1      50.8
Yr13                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       0.5       1.4      4.7       1.4
Yrl 4                               0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       0.4       1.5      4.7       1.4
Yrl 5                               0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8      19.5       1.5     23.8      20.5
Yrl 6                               0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       0.6       1.5      4.9       1.6
Yrl 7                               0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       0.6       1.5      4.9       1.6
Yrl 8                               0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8      24.9       1.5     29.2      25.9
Yr19                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       0.9       1.5      5.2       1.9
Yr20                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       0.9       1.6      5.3       2.0
Yr21                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8    199.6        1.6    204.0    200.7
Yr22                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       0.9       1.6      5.3       2.0
Yr23                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       1.1       1.6       5.5      2.2
Yr24                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8      29.5       1.6     33.9      30.6
Yr25                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       1.3       1.6      5.7       2.4
Yr26                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       1.2       1.6       5.6      2.3
Yr27                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8    280.6        1.7    285.1     281.8
Yr28                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       1.2       1.7      5.7       2.4
Yr29                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8       1.3       1.7       5.8      2.5
Yr3O                                0.5                2.8       3.3       2.8    125.1        1.7    129.6    126.3
NPV=    -114.6 Tk. Million              ERR=      5.8%
a/ Including 37.1 ha to be acquired for the remaining 10.1 km embankment
Source: Revised Financial and Economic Analysis, Kampsax Intemational A/S, June 1994.



BANGLADESH                                     Table 12
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitlon Project
Prority Works Programrme
Implementaton Completion Report
Economic Analysis (Tk Million)
Chakoria Polder
Investment  Land   Investment    O&M  Total Costs Inc. Agric.Afforestatfor Indirect &    Total   Balance
Embnk/   Acquisition Afforestatior   Costs     Net BenefitsNet Benefits Non -Agric.  Benefits
structures                                                        Losses Avoid
Yrl FY93)               100.1      0.2      0.0       0.0    100.3       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   -100.3
Yr 2                    28.9       0.2      0.0       0.0     29.1       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    -29.1
Yr3                      19.1      0.2      0.0       0.0      19.3      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    -19.3
Yr4                      3.4       0.2      6.9       3.0      13.5      1.8       0.1      2.2       4.1     -9.4
Yrs                                0.2      3.7       3.0       6.9      3.6       0.2      2.2       5.9     -0.9
Yr6                                0.2      2.5       3.0       5.7      5.4       0.4      2.2       7.9      2.2
Yr7                                0.2      1.4       3.0       4.6      6.0       0.2      2.2       8.4      3.8
YrB                                0.2      1.3       3.0       4.4      6.6       0.4      2.3       9.2      4.8
,Yr9                                0.2                3.0       3.2      6.6      12.6       2.3     21.4      18.3
OXYr10                              0.2                2.6       2.8      6.6       0.2       2.3      9.0       6.2
Yrl1                               0.2                2.3       2.5      6.6       0.3      2.3       9.1       6.6
Yr12                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6      37.4      2.3      46.4     44.3
Yrl 3                              0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       0.5      2.3       9.4       7.3
Yrl 4                              0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       0.4      2.3       9.3       7.2
Yrl 5                              0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6      14.8      2.3      23.7     21.6
Yr1 6                              0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       0.5      2.4       9.5       7.5
Yr1 7                              0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       0.6      2.4       9.6       7.5
Yrl 8                              0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6      18.8      2.4      27.8      25.7
Yr1 9                              0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       0.8      2.5       9.9       7.8
Yr2O                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       0.8      2.5       9.9       7.8
Yr21                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6    151.4       2.5    160.5    158.4
Yr22                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       0.8      2.5       9.9       7.8
Yr23                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       1.1      2.6      10.3       8.2
Yr24                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6      22.3      2.6      31.5      29.4
Yr25                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       1.2      2.6      10.4       8.3
Yr26                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       1.1      2.7      10.4       8.3
Yr27                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6    213.0       2.7    222.3    220.2
Yr28                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       1.1      2.7      10.4       8.3
Yr29                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6       1.2      2.7      10.4       8.4
Yr3O                               0.2                1.9       2.1      6.6    93.51       2.7    102.8    100.7
NPV=    -58.9 Tk. Million             ERR=      8.2%
Source: Revised Financial and Economic Analysis, Kampsax International A/S, June 1994.



BANGLADESH                                      Table 13
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project
Pidority Works Programme
Implementation Completbn Report
Economic Analysis (Tk Milrion)
Sitakunda Polder
Investmernt   Land  Investment    O&M  Total Costs  Inc. Agrc.Afforestatior Indrect &    Total   Balance
Embnk/   Acquisition Afforestatior   Costs      Net BenefitsNet Benefits Non-Agric.  Benefits
structures                                                          Losses Avoid
Yr 1 (FY93)              31.7       0.1      0.0       0.0      31.8       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    -31.8
Yr 2                     22.6       0.1      0.0       0.0      22.7       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    -22.7
Yr 3                      9.1       0.1       0.0      0.0       9.2       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      -9.2
Yr4                      21.2       0.1       3.2      1.5      26.0       0.2       0.1       1.5      1.8    -24.2
Yr5                                 0.1       1.7      1.5       3.3       0.4       0.1       1.5      2.0      -1.3
Yr6                                 0.1       1.2      1.5       2.8       0.6       0.2       1.5      2.3      -0.5
Yr7                                 0.1       0.7      1.5       2.3       0.6       0.1       1.5      2.2      -0.1
Yr8                                 0.1       0.6       1.5      2.2       0.7       0.2       1.6      2.5       0.3
Yr9                                 0.1                1.5       1.6       0.7       5.7       1.6      8.0       6.4
Yr1O                                0.1                1.3       1.4       0.7       0.1       1.6      2.4       1.0
Yr1 1                               0.1                1.1       1.2       0.7       0.2       1.6      2.5       1.3
Yrl2                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7      16.9       1.6     19.2      18.2
Yrl3                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.3       1.6      2.6       1.6
Yr14                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.2       1.7      2.6       1.6
Yrl5                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       6.7       1.7      9.1       8.1
Yr16                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.3       1.7      2.7       1.7
Yrl7                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.3       1.7      2.7       1.7
Yr18                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       8.6       1.7     11.0      10.0
Yr19                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.5       1.7       2.9      1.9
Yr2O                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.4       1.8      2.9       1.9
Yr21                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7      69.2       1.8     71.7      70.7
Yr22                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.4       1.8      2.9        1.9
Yr23                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.6       1.8      3.1       2.1
Yr24                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7      10.2       1.8     12.7      11.7
Yr2S                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.6       1.8      3.1       2.1
Yr26                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.6       1.9       32       2.2
Yr27                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7      97.5       1.9    100.1      99.1
Yr28                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.6       1.9       3.2       2.2
Yr29                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7       0.6       1.9       3.2       2.2
Yr3O                                0.1                0.9       1.0       0.7      43.7       1.9      46.3     45.3
NPV=      -42.9 Tk. Millon              ERR=      6.1%
Source: Revised Financial and Economic Analysis, Kampsax International A/S, June 1994.



BANGLADESH                           Table 14
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project
Priofity Works Programme
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis (Tk Million)
Six Polders
....................................................... Net Incremental Benefits.
Patenga Bashkhali   Sandwip  Chakoria Sitakundu   Anowara  Total
Yr1 (FY93)           -392.5   -177.9   -151.0   -100.3    -31.8    -62.4   -915.9
Yr2                   -288.2    -71.5   -157.8    -29.1    -22.7    -23.2   -592.5
Yr3                   -173.2    -30.8    -17.6    -19.3      -9.2    -42.4   -292.5
Yr4                     75.9   -19.7    -25.6      -9.4    -24.2    -36.0    -39.0
Yrs                    208.0    -4.9       9.6    -0.9       -1.3    -89.1    121.4
Yr6                    212.3      0.8     23.8       2.2    -0.5      -3.7    235.0
Yr7                    215.8      3.8     35.0       3.8    -0.1      -2.2    256.1
Yr8                    218.6      5.3      45.2      4.8      0.3    -1.6    272.5
,>Yr9                   234.8      36.7     79.2     18.3       6.4     16.4    391.8
YrlO                   225.3       8.5     49.0      6.2       1.0      0.3    290.3
Yrll                   228.4      9.3     50.3       6.6      1.3       0.7    296.7
Yr12                   269.2     96.6    144.5      44.3     18.2      50.8    623.6
Yr13                   233.9     10.5      52.0      7.3      1.6       1.4    306.7
Yr14                   236.2     10.5      51.9      7.2      1.6       1.4    308.8
Yr15                   253.2     43.7     88.0      21.6      8.1      20.5    435.1
Yrl6                   2412      10.9     52.5       7.5      1.7       1.6    315.4
Yr17                   243.6     11.0     52.7       7.5      1.7       1.6    318.1
Yr18                   264.8     53.4      98.7     25.7     10.0      25.9    478.5
Yr19                   248.9     11.6      53.7      7.8      1.9       1.9    325.8
Yr2O                   251.3     11.6      53.5      7.8      1.9       2.0    328.1
Yr21                   410.0    357.6    434.4    158.4      70.7    200.7   1631.8
YR22                   256.4     11.7      53.7      7.8      1.9       2.0    333.5
Yr23                   259.3     12.1      54.4      8.2      2.1       2.2    338.3
Yr24                   283.6     61.6    107.9      29.4     11.7      30.6    524.8
Yr2S                   264.6     12.5      54.9      8.3      2.1       2.4    344.7
Yr26                   267.2     12.4      54.8      8.3      2.2       2.3    347.1
Yr27                   490.3    498.9    591.9    220.2      99.1    281.8   2182.2
Yr28                   272.6     12.5      54.9      8.3      2.2       2.4    352.8
Yr29                   275.6     12.8      55A       8.4      2.2       2.5    358.9
Yr3O                   371.6    228.3    285.6    100.7      45.3    126.3   1157.8
261.4Tk. MiNon              ERR=    13.4%
Source: Revised Finaicial and Economic Analysis, Kampsa Intenational A/S, June 1994.



BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
MINISTRY OF WATER RESOURCES
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
EVALUATION REPORT
ON
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION &
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PART-C, (PWP)
PREPARED BY:
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
APRIL, 1996*
* Some subsequent adjustments in actual costs and treatment of Value
Added Tax occurred after this date and are not reflected in this
report.



BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIORITY WORKS PROGRAMME
APPENDIX 3
BWDB EVALUATION REPORT ON CERP-PWP
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   This is the pre-final evaluation report on the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation &
Reconstruction Project, Part-C (Priority Works Programme). For the implementation of this
project, IDA made available SDR 21.35 Million (US$30.50 Million) from 4 IDA Credits and a
Japanese Grant Fund of 2.7 Billion Japanese Yen. An EC Grant of about 4.3 Million ECU
covered the cost of the supervision consultant of the project. These funds were utilized for
rehabilitation & reconstruction of the infrastructures of the CERP on priority basis damaged
during 1991 cyclone with the following objectives:
(a)   to protect the agriculture areas within the polders against inundation by saline
water;
(b)   to provide protection against loss of human lives & damages caused by cyclonic
storm surges;
(c)   to introduce improved technology in the design and construction of protection
works and improved method of construction of Coastal infrastructure; and
(d)   to protect the Export Processing Zone (EPZ), the adjoin EPZ development area
and other major industrial area in polder 62, Patenga against inundation by saline
water due to storm surge and wave overtopping during saver cyclonic condition.
2. BACKGROUND
2.1   The Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project (FAP-7) is a part of the comprehensive
Flood Action Plan 1990-95 prepared by the World Bank in close cooperation of Government of
Bangladesh.
2.2   In 1986 GOB formulated a national cyclone protection programme including the proposed
programme for improving the existing coastal embankment and protecting newly accredit land as
a part of mid-term programme. The Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation project was conceived
to strengthen, extend and improve the existing coastal embankment and allied structures. The



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Programme
Appendix 3: BWDB Evaluation Report on CERP-PWP
project comprises of more that 400 Km. of embankment in 21 polders and was to be constructed
starting from 1992-93.
2.3    A severe cyclonic storm struck Bangladesh during the night of April 29-30, 1991 which
left a trail of destruction in the coastal region of Cox's Bazar and Chittagong. As a result, it
became necessary to rehabilitate the damaged embankment systems on priority basis. Accordingly,
the PWP was identified and sub-divided in 3 parts as shown below according to the source of
financing available at that time:
(e)   Part-A              :  To be financed from GOB own resources for immediate
repair to prevent agricultural losses during 1991
monsoon.
(f)    Part-B             :  To be financed out of the grant from Saudi Govt. for
rehabilitation & reconstruction of 4 polders.
(g)   Part-C                 To be financed out of surplus IDA Credits (Cr. 1467-
BD, 2048-BD, 1784-BD, & 1870-BD) and Japanese
Grant supported by EC Grant ALA 91/18. So Part-C
(PWP) is a part and parcel of the mid-term programme
for the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project.
3. SCOPE OF WORK:
3.1   The works of Part-C all together covers polder 72 (Sandwip), polder 61/1 (Sitakunda),
polder 62 (Patenga), polder 63/1A (Anowara), polder 64/lA (Banskhali) and polder 64/lB
(Chokoria). The works comprises 73 Km. resectioning of embankments and construction of
about 47 Km, new retired embankments; construction of 1.4 Km. reinforced concrete sea/river
wall, 18 new hydraulic structures, repair of 25 hydraulic structures and construction of about 6.3
Km. allied protective works (Please see Table 1).
3.2    GOB financed the works of all the contracts of which the contracts 1, 4, 5, 6 & 7 was
under the credit provided by the International Development Association (IDA) and the contracts
2, 3 and 8 under the grants provided by the Government of Japan.
2



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Programme
Appendix 3: BWDB Evaluation Report on CERP-PWP
Table-1: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
SI. No.   Key implementation indicators at preparation   Estimated        Actual
1.   Land Acquisition (ha.)                                     80      317.4
2.    Embankments
Retired (Km.)                                            44.2           46.7
Resectioned (Km.)                                        78.9          73.10
Stripping top soil (cu.m)                            435,000       399,8100
Removing soft soil (cu.m)                              13,000        516,374
Existing embankment material (cu.m)                  357,000         375,707
Core fill class (cu.m)                              4,780,000      7,084,485
Cover layer class I (cu.m)                          3,773,000      4,733,265
3.   Revetments (Nos)
Under layer class 1 stones                            42,200          58,600
Armour layer pre-cast concrete blocks                  89,000        110,600
4.    Total drainage structures (Nos)                            17            43
New                                                                       18
Repair                                                                   25_
5.   Naval Academy river/sea wall (cu.m)
Hard cover layer                                        6,600          4,756
compacted filter                                         815            355
Concrete                                               15,930         16,803
6.    Consultancy services (man-month)
International                                             74            120
Local                                                    293            714
4. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS:
4.1   BWDB with considerable assistance from the project consultant is responsible for
implementation. The Executive Engineer of the Division is the "Engineer" of the contract and
the consultant is the "Engineers Representative". The consultant is mainly responsible for
contract management.
4.2   The "Engineers Representative", the consultant is the Joint Venture consisting of
Kampsax International A/S, BECOM & Danish Hydraulic Institute in Association with
3



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Pnority Works Progranune
Appendix 3: BWDB Evaluation Report on CERP-PWP
Development Design Consultant Ltd. of Bangladesh. The consultancy services is finance by the
Europeam Commission.
4.3   The Employer is the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) acting through the
Chief Engineer, South Eastern Zone, Chittagong.
5. OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE:
5.1   During tender stage it was assumed that the works could commence during the dry season
before May, 1992. But in fact due to prolonged tendering procedure and specially the delayed
awards of contracts, the work could not commence before October, 1992. On the other hand the
volume of work subsequently increased to almost 40% to that of the work conceived based on
pre-construction surveys. Inspite of this set back the original completion date of June 30, 1993
was still maintained. Therefore, the time allowed for completion of rehabilitation works was
unrealistic. The overall progress achieved during the period was only 44%.
5.2   In general, it was observed that all the contractors were too slow in mobilizing labour
force and construction equipment. This coupled with the inclement weather and lack of
possession of land caused considerable delay in all work sectors. Based on causes for delays
outside their control, as well as the increased quantities of work, the contractors forwarded
application for time extension. The consultant assessed the eligible time extension and submitted
it to BWDB for perusal. This was discussed in a meeting in the Chief Engineer's office on 14
June, 1993. The meeting concluded that recommendation for time extensions would be presented
to the Board of BWDB with revised contractual dates. Accordingly completion dates were
approved by the Board and communicated to World Bank. Based on actual progress of work and
situation obtainable in the field further extensions were agreed. The approved programme aimed
at completion of all work under the contracts as per dated indicated in the following table:
4



BANGLADESH: Coastal Enmbankment Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Programme
Appendix 3: BWDB Evaluation Report on CERP-PWP
Table 2: Interim Completion Dates, Actual Completion Dates and
Anticipated Completion Dates
Contract  Interim Completion Date  Actual Completion Dates as   Anticipated Completion
No.      Given by the Beginner   per Taking Over Certificates       Dates
1.          31 May, 1994              31 May, 1994          *) 31 December, 1995
2.          31 May, 1994              30 June, 1995          **)31 March, 1996
3.          31 May, 1994              30 June, 1995           **) 15 April, 1996
4.          31 May, 1994                   *                   *) 30 June, 1996
5.          31 May, 1994            13 October, 1994                 *
6.          31 May, 1994              09 July, 1994                  *
7.          31 May, 1994             17 August, 1994        **) 31 December, 1995
8.          30 April, 1994            31 May, 1994            **) 30 June, 1996
*)   Anticipated date for completion of reactivated works.
**) Anticipated date for completion of May 95 Cyclone Damage repair works.
5.3   The project overall progress by March 31, 1996 is about 96.5% which is satisfactory. The
works of seven out of eight contracts have been substantially completed and taken over by
BWDB. Contracts 1, 2, 5, 6 & 7 have been completed in all respects including the variation
orders within the stipulated time period. Contracts 3 & 8 are likely to be completed by April, 96
& June, 96 respectively. At Banskhali & Sandwip objections by land owners interrupted
implementation. At Sitakunda & Anowara public opposition to the alignment of retired
embankments caused considerable delays including stoppage of works in Anowara for almost a
year. In Anowara though land possession along the sea facing alignment has been attained in
January 1996, the contractors could not yet start work from Ch. 35.30 Km. to 36.80 Km as there
is still disputes with the land, homesteads & other infrastructures. The land along the Sungu river
is yet to be acquisitioned. The progress of this contract at the end of March, 96 is 75%. As the
peak time for construction is almost over, even employment of huge man-power by the contractor
at this stage would not be helpfil to achieve anything worth of specification overnight. It is likely
that the project may be carried over to the next year programme.
5.4   Generally the contract management by the consultant was carried out satisfactorily.
Administrative and financial aspects were addressed and executed in a timely manner. Though
initially there was little slack in the supervision, it improved to a great extent at the later stage. It
is understood that these contracts being a new type of work in the country, the contractor and
even the consultants were to some extent inexperienced. Financial resources were generally
adequate, abnormal delay in land acquisition and during the closing stages of the project, delay in
5



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Programme
Appendix 3: BWDB Evaluation Report on CERP-PWP
the settlement of variation orders affected the progress of the contractor. It is observed that
mainly due to substantial increase in the earthworks (under estimation at project preparation) and
the increased land prices, the actual total costs of PWP by December 1995, including the costs of
land acquisition and the consultants, are estimated at about Tk. 2,645 million (US$ 66 million),
representing cost overrun of about 50% in nominal terms and 35% in real terms.
5.5   The reconstruction works were awarded following International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures and full responsibility for contract management including supervision & quality
control was entrusted to the consultant who were also responsible for the preparatory works.
This proved a success as contracts were awarded to contractors specialized in works similar to
those included in the programme, and effective financial & administrative control, supervision &
quality were ensured. The full devolution of responsibility to the consultants through proved
beneficial, the development of capacities of field staffs of BWDB in contract management &
supervision for this reason has been drastically reduced. The field staffs below the level of
Executive Engineer were not being utilized and BWDB eventually has been deprived of grooming
its young technical staffs especially the SDE's and S.O's to improve their standards in
construction supervision.
6. EVALUATION OF BANK PERFORMANCE:
6. 1 APPRAISAL
6 1 1 Government of Bangladesh (GOB) formulated in 1986, a National Cyclone Protection
Programme (NCPP) with the objectives of minimizing disastrous effects of cyclones and storm
surges. NCPP included plans for improving the Coastal Embankment System and introducing
associated preventive measures. In pursuance of the above programme, a consulting firm
financed by the European Union (EU), assisted GOB in the preparation of the cyclone protection
project (presently called the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project (CERP). The
preparation work for CERP was in progress when a devastating cyclone struck Bangladesh in
April 1991. As a result, the entire coastal embankment system in the north eastern parts of the
Bay of Bengal came under intense surge pressure and suffered heavy damage. Thus, in addition to
the improvements of the coastal embankment system originally planned, it became necessary to
rehabilitate the damaged embankments as quickly as possible to protect areas against further
cyclonic surges. GOB therefore, requested assistance from its development partners. IDA and
EU responded quickly, appraised the project and arranged the necessary funds for carrying out
the intended works.
6



BA,NGLADESH: Coastal Embankimienit Rehabilitation Project-Priority Works Programie
Appendix 3: BWDB Evaluation Report on CERP-PWP
6.2 FUND RELEASE
6.2.1 The Bank was quick to respond to GOB's request for assistance after the devastation
caused by the April 1991 cyclone. Its assistance was instrumental in the preparation and approval
of the package of funding to meet the cost of repairs for the six polders of the programme. The
Banks performance continued to be satisfactory during implementation. Disbursement were
closely monitored and to avoid delays in payment to contractors the Bank arranged for direct
payment to the contractors on bills certified by the consultant & BWDB.
6.2.2 EC response was also instantaneous. A Financing Memorandum as signed in July 1991
for 2.5 million ECU. Subsequently this was raised by another 1.00 million ECU to cover the
extended services of the consultant. EC also arranged the bridge financing amounting to ECU 1.5
million for the period February 1995 to date.
6u3 SUPERVISION MISSION
6.3. 1 During the pre-construction phase of the programme regular monitoring by Bank staff,
particularly during tender award phase minimized the delay in award of contracts. During the
initial years of implementation no formal supervision was carried out. However, regular visit by
the resident mission staff and visit by headquarters staff and consultants effectively ensured the
fulfillment of the supervisory responsibilities of the Bank. Two formal supervision were carried
out, the first in June 1994 and the final one in July 1995 regarding contract management
according to project profiles the Bank supervision missions performance was satisfactory.
7. EVALUATION OF THE GOB PERFORMANCE
7.1 TECHNICAL/FINANCIAL MATTERS
7. 1.1 Generally the Borrower's performance has been satisfactory. Although it responded
speedily in formulating the emergency programme, its performance during the preconstruction
phase was less than satisfactory. Contract awards which were critical to meet the agreed
deadlines for completion of works were made after a delay of about 6 to 8 months. During
implementation, claims. The GOB's performance on acquisition of land for construction purpose
was highly satisfactory, although in a few cases delays were faced for unavoidable reasons.
7



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project-Prionty Works Programme
Appendix 3: BWDB Evaluation Report on CERP-PWP
7.2 GOB FUND ALLOCATION/RELEASE
7.2.1 GOB Fund allocation was adequate and fund release was made in timely manner.
7.3 VARIATION IN ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
7.4.1 Initially it was estimated that construction would be completed by June 1993. Current
estimate indicate that final construction is not likely to be completed until June 1996. This would
increase burden on the GOB's budgets from 7% to 11%. The variation in actual & estimated final
cost of the packages works is shown in Table -2. Accordingly, the final cost of the total project
as Tk. 3096.4 million from the original 1743.30 million.
7.4 BIDDING PROCEDURE & CONTRACT APPROVAL
7.4.1  All contracts were awarded following ICB procedure of the Bank. The "Employer" is
the Bangladesh Water Development Board acting through the Chief Engineer, South Eastern
Zone, BWDB Chittagong. The acting Chief Engineer, South Eastern Zone had to operate within
the limit of the delegation of power by the Bangladesh Water Development Board.
Contract   Polder No/Name   Original Contract Final Contract  Increase in  Increase in
No.                             Price           Price        Tk.         %
1     72, Sandwip                264,352        391.837    127.485       48.23
2     62, PatengaNorth            308.262       521.540    213.278       69.19
3     62, Patenga South          335.354        474.286    138.932       41.43
4     63/lA, Anowara              230.161       282.567      52.406      22.77
5     64/lA, Banshkhali          281.804        333.277     51.473       18.27
6     64/2B, Chokoria             144.649       176.549     31.900       22.05
7     61/1, Sitakunda              77.036        96.900      19.864      25.79
8     62, Naval Academy           120.515       146.993     26.478       21.97
Total                       1,762.133     2,423.949    661.816       37.56
8. COMMENTS ON LESSON LEARNT FROM IMPLEMENTATION
8.1   The main lessons learned from implementation are as follows:
(a)   The existing system of land acquisition causes significant delays. In case of
priority projects, in particular, for the CERP there must have a special land
acquisition system to quicken the processes;
8



BANGLADESH: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitatioii Project-Priority Works Programme
Appendix 3: BWDB Evaluation Report on CERP-PWP
(b)    Public opposition to the alignment of retired embankments was a main factor in
implementation delays. Involvement of affected communities, consultation with
land owners and elected representatives at a very early stage of planning could
resolve the impasses;
(c)    During the planning phase, beneficiaries need to be involved in the deciding the
provision of Hydraulic structures, particularly inlets to shrimp and salt fields, and
flushing sluices for agricultural crops, and their judgments on the requirements
should be addressed critically;
(d)    Designs for improvement and/or repairs to existing structures should be done to
minimize maintenance;
(e)    Contract management of major civil works by consultants is efficient and improved
quality in civil works construction can be assured. However, to ensure improved
supervision and quality control, and the earlier identification of contract issues
such as cost overruns, BWDB in its role as the "Employer" of the contract,
should effectively supervise the consultant. In addition, it is essential that the role
of BWDB field staff in assisting the "Employer" in further works is clearly
specified, and these staff be provided with facilities to improve their construction
supervision standards.
(f)    In planning an emergency operation such as the PWP which mainly involves civil
works construction particular consideration should be given to the considerable
time required for completion of both the preconstruction activities leading to the
tender awards and the actual construction of works.
(g)    The implementation of the foreshore afforestation development under CERP
should be given priority. This was evident by the ICR mission's field observations
that most of the damages sustained during May 1995 cyclone and normal monsoon
spring tides could have been averted by the foreshore afforestation.
M:CERPPWP/PWPAPP3
9






MAP SECTION






:         <       lthulnaO                        1      0     0    3  _:  tg  _  ,<\z/ XMA5I 0 NDIA j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD2498
ESSOREl(q                                                                                                   FENINefC s
/+Xtk~~~~~~~~~ N OAKTLBRWNRHABLI                                                                                      60, ON4RJC <A,             A  >A
C ,   <   j                                                                                                        a 9 , M O H E S X F t A t S   / /B \rh a t  - 3 '   M P'N I
r~~-a't2  POLDERSINPRIORNWORKSPROGRAM{PWP)~al                                   o/13                                .      C     O'TTa/  i(
5   9   ;8 0 q 1 8   g ; m e n s m X   7 5                             T 1 1 A N A  8 0 U N D A 4 1 E S          6 1 S /I,  K U R U S H K U t  R   a njg)
H  i9                                       9 j          ISRIC  0NAR I ES  \ 
) &    '  t-  ~~~~~~~~   )  '  INTERNATtONAL80UNDARIES \ \ MYANMAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
S        ;     . AT              BAEtA                                                                     San                                      Ka ta
I N  I  t      t          p\mplKH_7ULNA'
\  r  5 nq0A 1  Ti_A _ :%rop                  O        i        40       O       80       00                         <4P [ENOLA
_  AREA OF UAP   > l                   90o                                           910                                           92                         AcRt lziSgP  T, I   HAL












