                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 26149

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (IDA-27830; IDA-27831)

                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 46.1 MILLION (US$62.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                       FOR A

                  COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                     June 23, 2003




Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                    Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
               At Appraisal (April 1995) Tk 1.00 = US$ 0.0248
                                         US$ 1.00 = Tk 40.25
                            ICR (December 2002) US$1.00 = Tk 57.90
                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                          July 1  June 30

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB   Asian Development Bank                          MIS      Management Information System
ADP   Annual Development Program (GOB)                MOWR Ministry of Water Resources
BBS   Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics                 NCB      National Competitive Bidding
BWDB  Bangladesh Water Development Board              NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
CEC   Commission of the European Communities          NPV      Net Present Value
CEGIS Centre for Environmental and Geographic         NWP      National Water Policy
          Information Services                        O&M      Operation and Maintenance
CERP  Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project       OED      Operations Evaluation Department
CIDA  Canadian International Development Agency       PAP      Project Affected Person
DC    Deputy Commissioner                             PEM      Policy Entitlement Matrix
DoF   Department of Fisheries                         PIU      Project Implementation Unit
EC    European Commission                             PPAR     Project Performance Audit Report
EIA   Environmental Impact Assessment                 PMRU     Project Mgmt & Resettlement Unit
EMP   Environmental Management Plan                   PSR      Project Status Report
FAP   Flood Action Plan                               PWP      Priority Works Program
FCD   Flood Control and Drainage                      QAG      Quality Assurance Group
FCDI  Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation          RAC      Regional Accounting Centre
FD    Forest Department                               RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
FDR   Flood Damage Rehabilitation                     SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
FIDIC Federation Internationale Des                   SCF      Standard Conversion Factor
          Ingenieurs-Conseils                         SDR      Special Drawing Right
FPCO  Flood Plan Coordination Organization            SOE      Statement of Expenditure
FPIU  Forestry Project Implementation Unit            SRP      Systems Rehabilitation Project
GOB   Government of Bangladesh                                     (IDA Credit 2099-BD)
GRC   Grievance Redress Committee                     TOR      Terms of Reference
ICB   International Competitive Bidding               WARPO Water Resources Planning Organization
IDA   International Development Association           WFP      World Food Program



                                   Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
                      Country Manager/Director:      Frederick Thomas Temple
                        Sector Manager/Director:     Gajanand Pathmanathan/Constance A. Bernard
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        S.A.M. Rafiquzzaman

                                       BANGLADESH
                         Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   16
10. Additional Information                                                            16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 32
Annex 8A. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                          33
Annex 8B. BWDB's Operation Plan                                                       45
Map: IBRD 241 98R Bangladesh Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project
                    (Note: Read 'Thana Boundaries' as 'Thana/Upazila Boundaries'

Project ID: P009549                                                      Project Name: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation
Team Leader: S. A. M. Rafiquzzaman                                       TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 23, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-27830; IDA-27831
   Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                                         Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (11%); Other social services
                            (4%); Flood protection (85%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Other rural development (P);
                            Rural policies and institutions (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    07/13/1989                                        Effective: 06/18/1996              06/18/1996
   Appraisal:    10/16/1995                                            MTR: 08/01/1997;               02/28/1999
                                                                               08/01/1999
    Approval:    11/09/1995                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOB/Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) & FOREST DEPT.
                      Other Partners:      European Community (EC)

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Mieko Nishimizu                                     D. Joseph Wood
Country Director:          Frederick Thomas Temple                             Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:            Constance A. Bernard                                Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:        S.A.M. Rafiquzzaman                                 Henry P. Gassner
ICR Primary Author(s): A. Azad (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

            The project's main objectives were: (a) improved security of life, property, crops and livestock
along the cyclone prone coastal areas; (b) improved agricultural production through the prevention of saline
inundation during normal weather and improved crop production made possible by reducing cyclone
damage; and (c) introduction of improved technology in the design and construction of protection works,
and improved methods of embankment maintenance. In addition, the implementation of a social forestry
component for improved maintenance of embankments was expected to generate ancillary benefits in terms
of income generation, poverty alleviation and environmental improvement.

                 Box 1: Background Summarized from the SAR and Supplemental
                                           Credit Agreement

                 Cyclones occur annually and cause widespread devastation and loss
                 of life. Major cyclones have occurred in November 1970, May 1985,
                 November 1988, and April 1991. After the cyclone of November
                 1970, The Government of Bangladesh (GOB), assisted by the
                 International Development Agency (IDA) under the Coastal Area
                 Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 339-BD) and other donors, initiated a
                 reconstruction program aimed at: (a) rehabilitation of the economy of
                 the affected areas, and (b) protection from future cyclones. The
                 benefits of these investments were demonstrated during the cyclone of
                 May 1985 when the coastal embankment withstood a tidal surge at
                 the peak cyclone period. Although the embankment was overtopped
                 or breached in several places, much of the energy of the tidal surge
                 was dissipated and damage was reduced significantly. The radio
                 system also worked satisfactorily and conveyed timely warnings, and
                 the cyclone shelters and other facilities were used effectively. In
                 contrast, on the polders with no embankments and on the newly
                 accreted parts of the mainland, most houses and livestock were swept
                 away by the tidal wave and a large proportion of the inhabitants lost
                 their lives. By the time of the April 1991 cyclone, embankments were
                 in a poor state of maintenance and were breached in many locations.
                 The same cyclone caused about 140,000 deaths and severe damage
                 throughout the eastern coast of the Bay of Bengal. Had the
                 embankments been in better condition, the damage would have been
                 much less severe. At the time of the 1991 cyclone, a coastal
                 embankment rehabilitation project was under preparation. Following
                 this cyclone, a Priority Works Program1 (PWP) was put together to
                 provide for the most urgently needed embankment repairs and
                 rehabilitation work covering 10 polders. Funding was provided from
                 amendments to four IDA Credits, and grants from Japan, Saudi
                 Arabia, and the EU. In 1997, during the implementation of this
                 project, two severe cyclones hit Bangladesh. The most severe had
                 wind speeds of up to 200 km/hr. While loss of life was comparatively
                 small, there was severe damage to infrastructure, including coastal
                 embankments.

                  1/    See WB-ICR report of the Priority Work Programs dated September
                  1996. Report number 15998.




                                                       - 2 -

             The objectives were clear, realistic and well designed, and clearly responded to the survival
strategies of the population living in 21 polders of the coastal areas affected by regular cyclones (Box 1).
                                                       2


Many of the polders were unsafe. Funding for operation and maintenance had been generally inadequate
and in some cases severe damage had been caused by higher floods that the embankments were designed
for. The project objectives were consistent with the National Cyclone Protection Program which included a
mid-term program for improving the existing coastal areas. The project was also in line with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy which emphasized both the need to reduce negative impact of flooding on
people's lives and livelihood and the importance of agricultural growth. The project was based on
preparatory work carried out by the Government of Bangladesh (GOB), the Bank, and the Commission of
the European Communities (CEC), and took account of the experience gained from the earlier projects.
Apart from the protection of human life, one of the first priorities of this project was to ensure the
long-term sustainability of newly constructed and rehabilitated embankments. The project was innovative in
its attempt to introduce community-based approaches in operation and maintenance and afforestation on the
embankment and on the foreshore lands to help absorb energy waves and tidal surges and to reduce the
costs of embankment maintenance.

             2/   Polder is an area of low-lying land encircled by embankments for protection against tidal flooding with the
                  provisions for drainage sluices.

3.2 Revised Objective:

             The project objectives were not revised during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

              The project included the following components: (i) rehabilitation of and improvements to 12
sea-facing embankments, plus the completion of similar works in two polders treated under a previous
Bank project (Priority Works Program-PWP); (ii) minor rehabilitation and improvements to the non-coastal
section of the polders, including re-excavation of drainage canals, repair or replacement of sluice regulators
or minor embankment repairs; (iii) afforestation of embankment slopes and foreshore to reduce cyclone
damage and embankment maintenance costs; and (iv) improved O&M of all polders. These main project
components were to be complemented by : (a) a program for compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement
of people displaced by the project; (b) environmental monitoring and provision for appropriate mitigation
measures; (c) studies to investigate the possibility of cost effective town protection works for Sandwip; (d)
technical assistance for implementation support; (e) training; and (f) vehicles and minor equipment required
in support of project implementation by GOB. The project area was spread over the coastal belt
surrounding the Bay of Bengal, from Teknaf on the southeast tip of Bangladesh to Sharankola in the
Bagerhat District. Of the 21 polders covered in the project, 18 were in the southeastern part of the country
and three were in the southwest (see Map).

              The total cost of the seven years project (FY96-FY02) was estimated at US$87.8 million and
was to be financed by an IDA credit of US$53 million, a grant from the CEC of US$19.7 million and a
GOB contribution of US$15.1 million. The IDA credit was declared effective on June 18, 1996.

              The Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) was the principal executing agency,
responsible for all civil works, including improved operation and maintenance. The Forest Department
(FD) was to be responsible for the implementation of the afforestation component.                                 A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and a Forestry PIU (FPIU) were to be established in Chittagong to be
responsible for overall management of project activities.



                                                            - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

              The scope of the project was expanded following the provision of a supplementary IDA credit
of US$16.5 million in May 1999. The purpose of this credit was to finance : (a) emergency works
undertaken after 1997 cyclones to repair breaches in the embankments, not only in the CERP polders, but
also in some 46 additional polders; (b) cost over-runs and some additional works required in some CERP
polders; and (c) additional activities for piloting of toe3 protection trials and feasibility studies for a second
CERP.

             3/  Lowest part of the embankment slope, generally forming the transition to the sea/river bed.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

             Quality at entry of the overall project design is rated satisfactory. Project preparation was well
advanced at the time of appraisal and complied with that the procurement for the first year's civil works
program was ready to start shortly after Credit approval. Project design fully addressed the Bank's
safeguard policies. Key risks including the possibility of poor coordination between BWDB and FD, and
delays in land acquisition were correctly identified at appraisal. No formal Financial Management
assessment was conducted at the appraisal stage (1995). However, more attention should have been paid to
the CEC's parallel funding, in view of the different financing and administrative arrangements (para 5.1).
In addition, afforestation targets were unrealistically optimistic.

             The issue of cost recovery was addressed by means of an innovative system of embankment
maintenance whereby part of the cost for routine O&M would be borne by embankment settlers whose
livelihoods, through tree plantation and homestead plots, would depend on the embankments. Conceptually
and strategically, this was a useful step. However, project experience illustrates that institutional and
implementation arrangements to introduce such an innovation are complex, difficult in practice and need
much more time to implement fully. In addition, experience from other countries generally indicates that the
establishment of plantations on embankments is avoided to prevent the risk of slope instability through root
penetration. Similarly, no settlement or building of houses is allowed within 50 m on either side of the toe
of the embankment. These practices have been applied in this project with carefully chosen afforestation
and vegetation models and the houses are of light construction.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

              The achievement of development objectives is rated satisfactory. Protection from cyclones has
been improved for about 1.2 million people and has made a major contribution to the protection of human
lives. Although a wave overtopping of one meter can still occur in the event of a cyclone with a 1 in 20
years return period, flooding of the polders will be delayed and reduced and the inhabitants will have more
time to move to safer areas and cyclone shelters. The massive and sudden flooding which happened with the
April 1991 cyclone, due to missing sections of the embankment and breaches is unlikely to recur - thanks to
the project. However, out of 21 project-polders, peripheral embankments in seven polders (Teknaf,
Matherbari, Sitakunda, Hatiya, Sandwip, Ramgati and Swarankhola) are either open or have weak sections
in one or more locations. As a consequence, these polders may not provide sufficient protection to some
areas in the event of cyclone.




                                                        - 4 -

               The project had a significant impact in reducing soil salinization and flood damage due to
incursion of tidal water. This has raised yields on about 40,240 ha, especially through increased cropping
intensity and use of better crop varieties. The project has also resulted in increased salt and shrimp
production and other related income-generating activities. Without the project much of the polder land
areas would have remained below spring tide or high tide level and thus vulnerable to sea water intrusion
                                                                     4


several times a month. Drainage improvements within the polders have also mitigated flooding caused by
direct rainfall as well as lowering water levels within the polders.

               The third development objective was not entirely achieved because of the unrealistic targets set
at appraisal. Assumptions were made at appraisal that the eleven PWP polders selected for afforestation
would not need repair and rehabilitation were found to be optimistic. The foreshore plantation to reduce
cyclone damage and the cost of embankment maintenance, as promoted through the project, are clearly
replicable, in physical, financial and social terms, in other areas. Vegetation cover controls gullies
formation. The maintenance required is provided by embankment settlers who are encouraged to stay on by
the benefits of embankment plantations (i.e. fruit and timber trees and seasonal vegetables), and the
livelihood support these can offer. In general, the plantation program of the project is enhancing the general
physical environment of the area in addition to creating a source of income for the poor families.

               There have been improvements in the skills and motivation of BWDB staff for O&M. There
has been some involvement of beneficiaries in the project's embankment maintenance and operation of
sluices but no involvement in planning and construction.

               Completion of the emergency repairs under the supplemental credit to 50 polders (including
four CERP-polders) has provided the functional infrastructure and improved the opportunities for raising
production in the adjacent lands and immediate hinterlands. These emergency measures were urgently
required to prevent the intrusion of saline water and to provide protection against future cyclones.

               The project has generated substantial economic benefits which will have a direct and
significant impact on poverty. Average income from a one-hectare farm in the project area has gone up in
real terms by 53%. This has a direct impact on poverty through increased hired-labor requirement during
growing and harvesting as well as for transport and marketing. A further positive impact on poverty will
occur through afforestation related benefits since, by design, poor individuals and families were favored for
this activity. About 663 families were provided with formal usufruct rights to 0.5 ha of embankment each .
Of these, 221 (33%) were previously landless squatters. Finally, civil works undertaken by the project has
generated local employment in the project area. The project will enhance opportunities for short and long
term employment for landless,              marginal and women-headed families in: (i) routine and periodic
embankment maintenance, and (ii) embankment afforestation. The landless contracting societies that have
been engaged in periodic maintenance work also have female members.

         4/   Water levels rise and fall with the tides throughout the coastal belt. The normal tide cycle in the Bay of Bengal
              is 12 hours 25 minutes. Spring tide and neap tide occur alternately twice a month in relation to lunar cycle.



4.2 Outputs by components:

               The assessment of the individual components are outlined in the following section.
Comparison between actual physical achievements and the targets established at appraisal are shown in
Annex 1.




                                                              - 5 -

4.2.1.        Rehabilitation and Improvement Works

4.2.1.1       Major Civil Works. This component is rated satisfactory. Most of the major civil works were
completed by 1999 as planned and included the construction of 69 km of new embankments5 (against the
SAR target of 73 km), re-sectioning6 of 61 km of existing embankments (against the SAR target of 78 km)
and repair or replacement of 40 hydraulic structures (against the SAR target of 23 numbers) such as
drainage sluices and water control regulators. Protection works constructed was 13 km against 7 km
envisaged at appraisal. The procurement of the major civil works, through international competitive bidding
(ICB) and national competitive bidding (NCB), was satisfactory. A foreign consulting company was given
the responsibility for contract management and supervision of progress and quality control and financed
from the CEC parallel funding grant.

              Quality control tests for embankment works were regularly carried out and the construction
works utilizing labor-intensive methods is generally of good quality. However, the quality of the sea-facing
external embankment slope is open to question following the slope erosion problems consistently observed
by the ICR mission throughout the areas visited. Quality of concrete works including flap gates of the
major water control and drainage sluice structures is of a high standard. Cost escalations have occurred
where an increase in earthworks was required, and due to increase of remedial measures for drainage
sluices and the rebuilding of damaged sections due to the 1997 cyclone. Cost escalations were also caused
by implementation being started two years after designs and estimates had been drawn up, with the base
line conditions modified by intervening aggressive changes of morphology. (See also Section 5.4 for more
details on the cost escalations).

         5/  The sea facing embankments were generally constructed with outer slope 1:7 and inner slope 1:3. The crest
             width is 4.3 m. The embankment consists of compacted earth fill with a clay cover layer of one meter thickness
             on the outer slope and 0.6 m thickness on the inner slopes. The design criteria applied for all the polders, except
             the Patenga Polder, were: (i) for monsoon conditions, the return period (defined as one event in a number of
             years) of 5 years and about 13% of waves overtopping; (ii) for cyclonic storm conditions, the return period of
             20 years, where flooding and wave overtopping of sea facing embankments should not result in an average
             depth in the polder exceeding one meter. For the Patenga Polder, where economic activity has been very high,
             criteria applied were cyclonic storms with a return period of 40 years and overtopping by about 13% of waves
             could take place.

         6/  Re-sectioning means repair and strengthening of existing embankments that will be kept in their present
             alignment.

4.2.1.2       Minor Civil Works. This component is rated unsatisfactory because of the low level of
achievements against SAR targets. Minor civil works included 22 km (against the SAR target of 127 km)
of minor embankment repair on the non-coastal sections (i.e. interior and marginal embankments) and 115
km (against the SAR target of 381 km) of re-excavation of the drainage network. The first priority polders
were Hatiya (73/1B), Sandwip (72), Kurushkul (66/1) and Chakoria (64/2B). The 1997 cyclone occurred
during the implementation of these works and project funds were re-allocated to major and emergency civil
works. During construction, the contractors experienced some difficulties with oversized machinery and the
presence, in places of aquaculture activities adjacent to the embankment. Procurement of the minor civil
works was through NCB, direct contracting and the food for work program.

4.2.1.3       Sandwip Studies. The project had a provision to investigate the possibility of cost-effective
town protection works for Sandwip. BWDB took the initiative in 1997 to undertake the study. However,
after a reconnaissance study, this was dropped in view of the high rate of coastal erosion.


                                                           - 6 -

4.2.1.4       Emergency Works. This component is rated satisfactory. The emergency repairs in 50 polders,
which were damaged by the 1997 cyclone were completed by BWDB and were financed under the
supplementary credit. The additional works needed in CERP polders due to 1997 cyclone were carried out
through variation orders under the major civil work contracts. In addition, the repair works in 11
non-CERP polders were carried out following NCB procedures under 32 contract packages and completed
as planned. Because of inappropriate procurement practices, one civil works contract of US$52,147 was
declared misprocurement and an equivalent amount was cancelled. Prior to the approval of the
supplementary credit in May 1999, IDA declared, based on SOE review by the Bank staff, 315 small
contracts for emergency civil works amounting to US$2.26 million ineligible for financing for similar
reasons and the amount was adjusted from the proposed supplementary credit amount.

4.2.1.5       Toe Protection Trials. Toe erosion has been recognized as a major problem in coastal
embankment systems. One of the reasons for toe erosion is close proximity of the embankment to the
river/sea, so that high tide water can reach the toe and erode it. In many cases, the embankments cannot be
re-located because of social pressure. To stop toe erosion, the conventional engineering approach is to use a
surface protection of heavy concrete blocks and stones, but this has been found to be expensive. In this
project, trials have been made in a few polders with various engineering approaches in combination with
protective vegetation that were thought to be more cost effective. The costs range from US$68 to US$152
per meter, depending on the design, and are expected to decrease when applied over longer sections of
embankment. This compares to US$350 per meter for the traditional engineering approach.

4.2.2         Afforestation. This component is rated unsatisfactory because of the low level of achievements
against SAR targets. The afforestation program financed by CEC, has been introduced in all polders, with
a delay of 2-3 years. The SAR targets were revised during the project implementation. Assumptions made
at appraisal that the eleven PWP polders selected for afforestation works would not need repair and
rehabilitation and were found to be optimistic. Sequencing between planned and actual works was a definite
weakness. The embankments were to be maintained by the contractor for about one year after completion
(i.e. during the defects liability period) so that their condition would be suitable for planting to commence.
As a result of this, as well as competing activities, such as cattle grazing, encroachment and the absence of
routine maintenance, the embankments deteriorated resulting in revising the SAR targets. Afforestation of
embankment slopes completed by December 2002 represent 78% of the revised target, against 35% of the
SAR target. In case of foreshore plantation 35% of the revised target was accomplished, which is only
18% of the SAR target. The revised target for each polder was prepared in consideration of the ground
situation prevailing during implementation and excluding the areas covered by the Forest Department under
Coastal Greenbelt (ADB) and Forest Resources Management (IDA) Projects. Total plantation by other
projects in twenty one polders are 647 ha on the embankment slopes and 3,353 ha on the foreshore.
Combining the progress of CERP and Forest Department projects ­ embankment plantation is 1,312 ha
(69% of SAR targets) and foreshore is 4,178 ha (88% of SAR targets).                  In most polders, social
mobilization and contract signing with Embankment Settlers (ES) and other maintenance groups have been
achieved, but the payment of the agreed supporting allowances to these groups has been irregular. The
embankment slopes are in relatively good shape in areas where trees and other vegetation have grown. If
properly maintained, it will eventually provide additional benefits through increased output of timber and
other forestry products including seasonal fruits.

4.2.3         Improved Operation and Maintenance (O&M). The project provided support for improved
O&M of the coastal embankments. Support included funds for routine and periodic maintenance and for
preparation of O&M plans, based on needs assessment, for all polders. On the physical side, this
component is rated satisfactory. Routine and periodic maintenance activities under the project included


                                                        - 7 -

repairs of damage caused by less severe cyclones and monsoon flood. The procurement of these works was
through NCB and Direct Contracting (DC). For the latter, contracts were negotiated through assistance
from NGOs, with the Landless Contracting Societies, ranging in value from US$1,500 to US$38,800, and
totalling US$222,000 over the period between June 1999 and December 2001. The works implemented
under the NCB contracts took place over a period of 5 years, up to June 2002, with contract values ranging
from US$575 to US$167,000 per contract. Based on the ex-post review by Bank-hired independent
auditors, nine civil works contracts were declared as misprocurement for a total value of US$908,856
equivalent because of inappropriate procurement practices. In addition, Government auditors identified five
Landless Contracting Societies (LCSs) contracts for a combined total of US$110,355.23 equivalent, which
were subject to improper practices and this led to the Bank declaring those contracts ineligible for financing
under the credit. The improved O&M procedures are being partially implemented in 15 out of the 21
polders. Vetiver grass and other protective vegetation are being integrated into the planting models and have
been introduced in 10 polders, but the progress is satisfactory only on a very limited section of the
embankments in some of the polders. PIU, with the assistance from the TA team, has prepared an
operational plan for the future O&M of all 21 project-polders and BWDB is organizing its O&M Units to
implement it.

4.2.4        Technical Assistance. The CEC funded the technical assistance component, which focused on
the project support and NGO services to organize and facilitate community participation in afforestation
and maintenance of embankments. The TA was focused on two distinct goals: (a) services and assistance to
the project implementation unit in implementing the physical works; and (b) developing O&M plans and
strengthening the institutional capacity within the project implementation unit and among NGOs
responsible for afforestation of embankments and foreshore areas. The TA provided under the project was
generally effective and the performance was generally satisfactory. However the timing envisaged under the
Work Plan and the funding arrangements for the TA program did not synchronized, causing major
disruption in TA inputs. There was insufficient funding and provision of basic resources for many activities
envisaged under the project such as M&E, environmental impact assessment and sufficient funds for NGO
services. There were delays in feedback from the CEC on the status of requests for funds transfer and TA
contract extension for which the consultant and BWDB often had no idea whether their requests had any
chance of success. A case in point is the delay of more than a year during the critical period of project
implementation before a decision was made to fund the continuation of the stage II of consultants services.

4.2.5        Training. Through CEC funding the project supported training of staff of implementing
agencies, staff of participating NGOs, and community participants. This training has raised awareness
among BWDB staff of the need to move towards participatory management of polders in partnership with
local communities and NGOs. The training was implemented by BWDB/PIU, TA team and the NGOs: (i)
PIU carried out 13 training programs with about 360 participants, (ii) the TA team organized training
through 54 events, in which 1,488 persons participated, and (iii) the NGO's program covered about 2733
participants from community organizations in 87 events.

4.2.6        Community Development Fund (CDF). This was financed by the CEC and was intended to
fund welfare and poverty alleviation activities, complementing project interventions. The activities could
include, for example, water supply and sanitation for embankment settlers, community training and
education programs, and income generating activities. Although there appears to be an urgent need for
these, especially within the settler communities, steps to initiate CDF activities have been taken only in the
last few months. Therefore this sub-component is rated unsatisfactory.

4.2.7        Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) also financed by the CEC, was implemented by the project's
Resettlement Unit to mitigate the adverse impact of land acquisition and other forms of displacement. The


                                                     - 8 -

RAP was prepared according to the Bank's Operations Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, taking
into account GOB's current legal provisions. The Bank's safeguard policy provisions were applied and
called for compensation assessment at current market prices and inclusion of persons without legal land
titles who were, nevertheless, affected by the project. The project used a total of 454 hectares of private and
134 hectares of public lands which have, respectively, affected 4,866 private landowners and 1,156
squatters. The implementation of RAP is rated satisfactory.

4.2.8         Environmental Impact Assessment. Environmental consultants financed by the CEC
undertook an environmental assessment for the project at appraisal. The report concluded that the overall
environmental impact of the project is positive and the project was classified as Category B. The main
environmental impact has been protection from cyclones, floods and saline intrusion. It has also reduced
salinization of soils and flood damage due to incursion of tidal water. In addition 43 drainage sluices were
constructed and the drainage within the polders improved resulting in reduced water logging caused by
direct rainfall as well as lowering of the water levels within polders. The project included the afforestation
of foreshore and embankment slopes in order to reduce erosion and damage by wind and waves. This also
created a natural habitat for wildlife. The protected areas of the polders have no major inland lakes and
since no major or medium size rivers were affected, the free movement of fish to spawning grounds was not
impeded. Only one major channel was closed- the Bamni river- and this will affect local fisheries along a
ten km length as the river will be transformed from a tidal channel into a fresh water reservoir that is likely
to dry up during the dry season.

4.2.9         Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Project design envisaged the recruitment of a M&E
specialist to be financed by the CEC, to set up a MIS that would compile data on engineering works, O&M
activities, afforestation, social organization and NGOs performance. A MIS system focusing on technical
and engineering aspects has been developed and integrated with polder data base. However, no systematic
gathering of information on the socio-economic impact of the project has occurred. This gap in information
on project impact reduced the scope for substantiating and quantifying the benefits of the project. The
following aspects were not monitored and evaluated during the implementation period by the BWDB: (a)
surface water and groundwater quality and availability; (b) water management, specifically drainage; (c)
sedimentation, accretion and erosion of coastal areas; (d) land use and agricultural intensity; and (e)
fisheries and shrimp culture assessment. Information on land-use was regularly collected by Government's
relevant line agencies, which were used for socio-economic impact study of the project. It is recommended
to plan for monitoring and evaluation of environmental impacts during the operational phase of the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

              At project preparation, economic analysis was done separately for 11 polders for which major
civil works were financed under the project. Together, these accounted for 63% of the total base costs. The
main perceived benefits from the project were reduction in loss of life and property during major cyclones,
increased agricultural production from prevention of salinity intrusions and storm surges during monsoons,
and benefits generated from project-linked afforestation activities. No attempt was made to quantify the
benefit from lives saved, although this was used to justify investment in three polders where estimated ERR
was less than 12%. The ERR for the combined net benefits for these 11 polders was 19% with a NPV of
Tk 1.1 billion (1994 prices) or Tk 1.5 billion (2002 prices). At project completion, ERRs have been
estimated for each of the 11 polders with updated costs and benefits derived from agriculture and
afforestation. Following the methodology adopted in the SAR, the ERR for the combined net benefits for
these 11 polders is estimated at 29% with a NPV of Tk 2.6 billion (2002 prices). Adjusting for growth in
the crop sector due to other factors, the overall ERR for the project is estimated at 25% and NPV at Tk 2.1
billion. The significant increase in estimated benefits over and above the SAR projections are attributable



                                                     - 9 -

mainly to increase in yield (50% compared to 30% projected in the SAR), cropping intensity and changes
in cropping pattern to cash crops and high yielding varieties. Variations in crop mix along with associated
changes in area under different crops account for approximately 50% of the total incremental agricultural
income compared to about 25% anticipated in the SAR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

              Not calculated.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

             The project had a modest institutional development impact. The capacity of the BWDB and ten
participating NGOs in afforestation and participatory embankment maintenance has improved through
on-the-job training and TA inputs. Through supporting participating NGOs, the capacity of the community
for embankment afforestation has also improved. There is increased institutional recognition of the need for
routine O&M to protect project investments within the BWDB. In the field, establishment of embankment
settlers and their formation into various groups is a major step forward. Of course, eventual withdrawal of
NGO support after project closure will remove the main source of institutional support for these groups.
However, it is likely that settlement of the embankment will continue, with modifications introduced over
time in settler population and settlement practices, as the settler community interacts with polder
population.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

             A number of factors outside government control negatively affected project implementation.
The major cyclone in 1997 (i.e. during the second year of project) severely damaged works under
construction, and project related activities were disrupted. The dynamic morphology of the coastal areas,
characterized by a vast network of rivers, high discharge flow conditions, strong tidal and wind action and
very active accretion and erosion process, all affected project implementation.

              TA inputs were also reduced and interrupted for about one and half years during
implementation due to lack of harmonization of the donor policies and procedures with the TA work plan.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

              These included delays in provision of adequate O&M funds, in taking steps to overcome CEC
funding problems, and getting the Forestry PIU to function properly, and cumbersome land acquisition
procedures.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

              Overall performance of BWDB was adversely affected by frequent change of project directors
(over the first four years of project period, three project directors were changed), cumbersome
administrative arrangements and lack of familiarity with Bank and EC procedures (despite experience of
managing previous Bank and EC projects). Excessive delays were also experienced between the receipt of
bids and the award of contracts, particularly for NCB contracts below IDA's prior review threshold.
Procurement processing of NCB contracts were not well controlled, particularly with respect to O&M and



                                                     - 10 -

emergency works, which led to the Bank declaration of "misprocurement" for ten civil works contracts
(paragraphs 4.2.1.4 and 4.2.3). Finally, there were considerable delays (6-9 months) in NGO related
payments and payments of subsistence and house shifting allowance to settlers and the community groups
throughout the project life.

5.4 Costs and financing:

              The original total project cost was revised to US$97.6 million (11% increase) from the SAR
estimate of US$87.8 million, by addition of a supplemental credit of US$16.5 million approved in 1999.
The total value of IDA Credit funding increased from US$53 million to US$69.5 million, out of which
US$62.17 million equivalent was available due to SDR-USD exchange rate fluctuations. The details on
project cost and financing are presented in Annex 2. At the closing of the Credit account, disbursement
totalled at US$59.58 million (96% of the IDA Credit), cancelled US$1.56 million due to misprocurement
and lastly, the undisbursed amount US$1.56 million was cancelled.

5.4.1         Civil Works Cost Overrun. Against an original value for the eight ICB contracts of US$34.2
million, cost overruns and additional works have increased this value to US$45.2 million. Two of the
eleven polders - namely Sandwip and Teknaf-have had extensive erosion problems and were redesigned,
resulting in variation orders totaling 55% to 220% respectively of their original contract values. The
average 33% increase above the original estimates for the said eight ICB contracts is attributed to higher
quantities of earthworks as well as to additional structures and coastal/river bank protection works. This
was due to differences in ground levels (Polders Sandwip and Teknaf), change in alignment (Polder
Sudharam) and errors in estimated earthworks quantities (Polder Pathergata). Physical conditions of
coastal shores and of the river banks during the construction period (1997-1999) were reported to be
different to those at the design period (1992-1994). The condition of the existing embankments and
structures had deteriorated due to cyclones, lack of adequate maintenance and human interference. Hence,
more rehabilitation works were required than originally foreseen in the ICB contracts.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

              Many of the project's achievements are likely to be sustained, in terms of land protected and
livelihood enhanced, for the near term at the current level of O&M support. The designs of the civil works
were appropriate in most cases for the local conditions and cost effective; key design features, such as crest
level and embankment slopes, were determined on the basis of adequate hydraulic studies and embankment
optimization analyses. Although the quality of workmanship was not always to specified standards, the
overall quality of the civil works that have been completed is good. The quality of the sea-facing external
embankment slope is open to question and the slope erosion problems consistently observed by the ICR
mission is illustrative of this concern. The civil works will require heavy maintenance. The afforestation
program has been introduced in all polders. Embankment slopes are in relatively good shape in areas where
trees and other vegetation have grown. The maintenance of some sections of embankments is now entrusted
to maintenance groups. Experience gained over the last two years with the performance of the embankment
settlers (ESs) and protection groups (EPGs) indicates, that a continuous support & supervision would be
necessary for these groups in the medium term.

              Since the GOB treats the polders essentially as a public good, the National Water Policy
                               7


(NWP) suggests that in the foreseeable future cost recovery of flood control and drainage (FCD) schemes
is not envisaged. Based on the past track records, O&M management and budget support by GOB is



                                                    - 11 -

difficult to forecast. This problem is of course generic almost to all the sectors. There is a risk regarding
the provision of timely and adequate funding to ensure the maintenance and management of coastal polders
rehabilitated under the project. As an alternate means to supplement the O&M funding, GOB intends,
through use of the "Guidelines for Participatory Water Management", approved in April 2001, to
encourage community participation in management of FCD schemes, including contribution to O&M costs.
In some of the recent projects (such as ADB-funded Khulna-Jessore Drainage Rehabilitation and Command
Area Development Projects, CIDA-funded Dampara Water management Project, Netherlands-funded Char
Development and Settlement Project), this approach has shown encouraging results. If properly
implemented, this community-based approach could contribute effectively to longer-term sustainability of
the coastal polders. In absence of concrete measures, non-sustainable funding sources could result in the
costly rehabilitation within five years due to lack of maintenance. Recent actions taken by Government
suggests that it recognizes O&M as crucial for sustainability of the rehabilitated polders and has initiated
measures to address this issue.           Given the Government's apparent commitment at this time, the
sustainability of the project is rated as likely.

7/     National Water Policy states that "for the foreseeable future, cost recovery for flood control and drainage projects is
not envisaged".

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

              The operation wing of the BWDB is responsible for O&M of the project. An operational plan
for the future O&M of project works has been prepared for all the 21 polders. The plan is consistent with
established polices, rules and real time management requires reliable and timely data for which strong links
should be developed with the Institute of Water Modelling (erstwhile Surface Water Modelling Centre), the
data monitoring and evaluation division of the Water Resources Planning Organization (WARPO), local
government organization and established community based organizations. The plan has specified
O&M-related performance indicators to monitor operation and development impact. BWDB was relying so
long on World Food Program (WFP) to finance part of O&M earthworks through the food-for-work
program, which has gradually been phased out and will fully stop from FY04. Therefore, a careful review
will be needed to ensure that adequate provision is made for O&M of works earlier covered by WFP's
contribution. As many polders have hydrologically independent boundaries, the gradual transfer of polder
assets and O&M responsibilities to community-based organizations and/or local government organizations
should be considered. It is recommended to plan for monitoring and evaluation of environmental impacts
during the operational phase of the project and the possible effects of sea level rise to be considered in the
                                                                                                 8


design of sea embankments and drainage sluices.

         As a part of BWDB's ongoing process, wide-ranging reforms in the water management sector and
improved O&M are on high priority. Government is aiming to progressively move BWDB to focus more
on the management of the completed schemes over new construction. BWDB has already merged
Implementation wing with the O&M wing and abolished the position of Additional Director General
(Implementation). To address the issues of O&M financing, a budgeting and public expenditure review of
BWDB, and an O&M methods and procedures study, have been undertaken by BWDB. It is expected that
these will help develop concrete measures for better O&M resource allocation, prioritization, planning and
execution. Implementation of these measures is envisaged to be supported under the Government's proposed
Water Management Improvement Project.

8/  One prediction gives 20 cm sea water rise in the next 30 years for Bangladesh. (Source:WB report no. 21104-BD
    Bangladesh: Climate Change and Sustainable Development, December 2000).




                                                          - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

              The Bank's performance in identification, assistance in preparation, and appraisal is rated
satisfactory. The project was prepared by an experienced team. It was consistent with GOB strategic
priorities of the five-year Development Plan as well as with IDA country assistance strategy and sector
priorities. Project preparation and appraisal responded to complex social, environmental, technical,
engineering, and economic viability issues. The Bank's performance at appraisal was satisfactory. The
mission appraised, among other aspects of project design, the Government's commitment (including
counterpart funding) and the performance of the implementing agency in terms of O&M, project risks and
mitigation measures, the incentives for stakeholders to sustain the project, and safeguard issues
(environment and resettlement). In addition, the Bank team, which had a good mix of skills, provided
significant inputs in project design by providing framework and detailed terms of references for the TA
inputs and guidance on afforestation and improved O&M aspects. However, the appraised capacity of the
GOB to undertake procurement, monitoring and evaluation, environmental impact assessment and two
mid-term reviews was optimistic.

7.2 Supervision:

              The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory. The Bank fielded 17 supervision
missions and invited the CEC to join in these. The number of supervision missions undertaken was
sufficient and the skills-mix was good (except never an environmental specialist joined these mission).
The participation Financial Management Specialist (FMS) on supervision/review missions helped to
provide appropriate briefings and to discuss FM issues with the project staff, which benefited them in
understanding the Bank's financial management and reporting requirements. FMS staff being based at
Dhaka office, the two--way communications were a regular feature - not timed with missions only.
Aide-memories were regularly prepared and transmitted, which alerted the Government, the CEC and the
Bank Management to problems with project execution and suggested remedies in a timely manner. The
Form 590s and Project Status Reports realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of
achievement of development objectives and progress in implementation. The Bank also carried out one
Mid-Term Review. The Resident Mission-based task team leaders contributed significantly to the timely
project implementation and had to handle significant issues related to CEC parallel financing, contractors
and NGO payments, cost overruns and mis-procurement of civil works. However, more attention should
have been given during project implementation to the monitoring and evaluation aspects.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

              Overall bank performance is rated satisfactory. Similarly, its performance in maintaining good
cooperation with the other main donor, the CEC, was good.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

              The Borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The deferral of
appraisal from 1992 to mid-1995, during which time long-standing institutional issues at BWDB were
addressed, provided sufficient time for a higher level dialogue to secure GOB's commitment to the project.
At project start there was a high level of preparedness due to the inputs, commitment and cooperation of the
GOB agencies, BWDB and the Forest Department. A project launch workshop was organized and this



                                                    - 13 -

helped clarify the roles of the different agencies and raise awareness. The Government's Project Proforma
was prepared and approved at project start. Furthermore, the borrower prepared an resettlement action plan
and an environmental impact assessment in accordance with WB operational directives. Detailed designs
and tender documents, including a procurement schedule, were prepared. However, the land acquisition was
not completed as assumed and other stakeholders, such as local government organizations and polder
inhabitants, were not adequately consulted on designs and preparation works.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

             GOB's performance during implementation was satisfactory. The Government maintained its
commitment throughout implementation and the project did not suffer from any counterpart funding
problems.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

             The performance of the BWDB was satisfactory throughout the implementation period despite
difficult implementation conditions and problems. BWDB played a key role in both project preparation and
implementation. However, coordination between BWDB and FD was very poor which resulted in
devolvement of the responsibility for the entire afforestation program from FD to BWDB. Two mid-term
reviews were planned to examine the project progress at the end of the second and fourth project year.
However, only one mid-term review was carried out. The BWDB did not focus on M&E and linkages with
other on-going projects in the sector. The project is in compliance with all the legal covenants except for
the provision of adequate funds for O&M.

             The overall project's financial management performance was satisfactory, although Forest
Department Implementation Unit (FPIU) did not furnish the documentation to support an expenditure out
of the funds received by the Forest Department adequately or in a timely manner. BWDB maintained
necessary books and records including timely preparation of the financial statements and the reports and
submission of withdrawal requests to the donors. Post review of supporting documents, on sample basis,
for the amounts claimed through Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) revealed that the amounts claimed
were appropriate and for the intended purposes, except few cases for which IDA has identified some
expenditures were not eligible for which refund had to be made as detailed below. Annual audits were
carried out regularly by the Government's Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate (FAPAD) and Audit
Reports were submitted mostly on schedule. The total number of audit observations was 135 for the
period of FY1995-2002. The number of observations settled were only 6 out of 14 relating to FY1995 &
1996 leaving an outstanding 129 observations. MOWR arranged a tripartite meeting (MOWR, FAPAD
and BWDB) and it was agreed to settle the outstanding audit observations after further verifications, which
was not followed through. Out of the audit observations, IDA identified a few as material up to FY 2001
and were satisfied eventually on receiving clarifications from BWDB. For FY02, Government auditor has
raised 26 observations, two of which have been identified as material to IDA and clarifications on those
two, related to inappropriate procurement procedures and cost over-run, are awaited. The Ministry of
Water Resources has agreed to pursue resolution of all outstanding audit observations through tripartite
discussions. The expectation on BWDB's Directorate of Internal Audit at appraisal was found optimistic
as it has limited its role in compiling and coordinating government auditors observations. The legal
covenants under the Credit were generally in compliance; however, refund of US$908,856.95 for ten
mis-procured contracts and another refund of US$110,355.23 for ineligible payments to five Landless
Contracting Societies (LCS) requested by IDA to made by June 30, 2002 and October 31, 2002
respectively were made on March 31, 2003 after a long delay (see paragraphs 4.2.1.4 and 4.2.3). This
delay in refund was mostly due to GOB's funding mechanism and lengthy approval process. However,



                                                    - 14 -

procurement management capacity needs strengthening and improvement, including procurement
performance tracking on a regular basis. This project benefitted from the training offered to BWDB
Accounts Staff under a separate project (CIDA-assisted : Modernization of BWDB's Accounting System )
covering the entire organization.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

             The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.          Project ownership was
generally good and consistent, especially in implementing the major investment in civil works, despite
governmental, organizational and executive management transitions.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be drawn for similar projects:

        ·       Embankment design must combine engineering solutions with appropriate plantation.
                The components supported by the project, including vegetation on the embankment slopes
                and foreshore afforestation to reduce cyclone damage and embankment maintenance cost,
                are good in physical, financial and social terms. Those technically sound project
                interventions combined sustainable embankment maintenance practices with gains in
                agricultural production and farm incomes were the foundation of the project's success.

        ·       Need a comprehensive approach in coastal zone management. Coastal projects require
                comprehensive approach for the long-term sustainable economic and social development of
                the coastal zone.    Any future project should assist the Government to prepare and
                implement a comprehensive development plan in line with their policy that would include
                three key elements: (i) coastal protection plan; (ii) a network of safe havens; and (iii) a
                modern disaster preparedness and response system. In the long run, the Integrated Coastal
                Zone Management (ICZM) concept will be essential for ensuring sustainable overall
                development of the coastal zone. To this end, adequate attention and funding has to be
                provided for survey and monitoring the physical conditions of coastal embankments and
                environmental & social impacts in the coastal areas. The information should be used to
                shape the future strategy.

        ·       Sustainability should not be an afterthought.          Sustainability of the coastal polders
                requires regular monitoring and timely maintenance of the physical facilities. To ensure
                this, an appropriate plan for participatory operation and maintenance of the polder systems
                shall be built-in into the future project design. In future project preparation, community
                participation should be a central element in all stages of the project cycle.           The
                establishment of community-based maintenance groups with "locked-in incentive" has
                been successful and should be replicated where practicable. It is important to ensure that
                the groups that exist do not wither away for lack of legal agreement and resources to pay
                them under the operation and maintenance budget.

        ·       Harmonization of donor policies and procedures The difficulties, experienced in
                co-financing of TA, reflect lack of implementation readiness and the need for harmonizing
                donor policies and procedures for timely flow of funds.




                                                    - 15 -

        ·         Procurement reform is essential to improve public sector accountability. The
                  cases of mis-procurement and improper procurement practices found under the
                  project reinforce the importance and urgency of public sector procurement reform.
                  It is fortunate that a public procurement reform project supported by IDA is now
                  underway. BWDB should strictly follow the new procurement rules and standard
                  bidding documents; it should also reform its approach toward procurement of
                  maintenance works.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

        GOB/BWDB endorsed the conclusions of the ICR with one exception of the rating of sustainability
        as 'unlikely", where the Ministry of Water Resources advised the Bank to review it and
        appropriately rate it reflecting the Government initiatives. This has subsequently been revised to
        'likely', following the Government taking action towards better O&M of the coastal polders and
        their apparent commitment at this time.

        [Borrower's contribution to the ICR and BWDB's Operation Plan are in Annex 8.]

(b) Cofinanciers:

        Delegation of the European Commission to Bangladesh's comments on the draft ICR
        [Ref. Mr. Arham Siddiqui's email dated April 10, 2003. EC intends to undertake ex-post
        evaluation of the project by end of 2003 or early 2004.]

        Delegation of the European Commission to Bangladesh's has made two specific comments - one on
        'unsatisfactory' rating of Afforestation and the other one on BWDB performance. Regarding
        afforestation, the EC argues to upgrade it to 'satisfactory' level, because of combined total progress
        of CERP and the Forest Department against the SAR target is quite satisfactory. About the
        performance of the BWDB (para 7.6), EC considers that this should have been rated as "modest"
        rather than "satisfactory".

        The remaining comments on the draft ICR are mostly editorial, which have been incorporated.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

        Nil

10. Additional Information

The ICR mission have prepared the following working papers:

        1.    Condition assessment
        2.    O&M aspects
        3.    Cost-overrun.




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Gross area of 131,100 ha protected in 11                                                  1.1 Gross area of 131,100 ha protected in 11
polders                                                                                       polders

1.2 Direct area of 62,761 ha protected                                                        1.2 Direct area of 56,030 ha protected

1.3 Protection against cyclone for 5 years                                                    1.3 Protection against cyclone for 20 years
return period                                                                                 return period

2.1 Net cultivated area of 66,500 ha in 11    BWDB has undertaken an impact                   2.1 Net cultivated area of 40,242 ha in 11
polders benefitted                            assessment since September 1, 2002. The         polders benefitted
                                              results will be known by end of December
2.2 Overall cropping intensity increased from 2002. Anecdotal evidences suggest that          2.2 Overall cropping intensity increased from
136 % to 155 % by 2007 (seven years after     cropping intensity is on the rise and likely to 136 % to 169 % .
project implementation).                      increase from 136 % to 155 % or more by
                                              2007.
2.3 Adaptation of HYV rice in 23,600 ha                                                       2.3 Adaptation of HYV rice in 25,876 ha

2.4 Overall increase in yield by 10-15%                                                       2.4 Overall increase in yield by about 52%

2.5 Average farm income of Taka 23,600 per                                                    2.5 Average farm income of Taka 24,800 per
ha (2002 prices]                                                                              ha (2002 prices]

2.6 Shrimp farms benefitted [no projection                                                    2.6 Shrimp farms benefitted in 1,681 ha
was made in at appraisal]
                                                                                              2.7 Salt farm benefitted in 1,379 ha
2.7 Salt farm benefitted [no projection was
made in at appraisal]

3.1 Afforestation in 1,902 ha on embankment                                                   3.1 Afforestation in 665 ha on embankment
slopes and 4737 ha on the foreshore areas.                                                    slopes and 821 ha on the foreshore areas
                                                                                              completed under this project. In addition,
                                                                                              plantation in 21 project polders through two
                                                                                              Forest Department projects is 647 ha on
                                                                                              embankment slopes and 3353 ha on the
                                                                                              foreshore.
3.2 Fruits of about 227, 600 tons produced
over project life time of 30 years                                                            3.2 Fruits of about 101,767 tons is estimated
                                                                                              to be produced over project life time of 30
                                                                                              years.
3.3. Timber of 224 million cubic-feet on 4737
ha over project life of 30 years.                                                             3.3. Timber of 39 million cubic-feet on 821 ha
                                                                                              is estimated to be produced over project life
                                                                                              of 30 years.
4.1 O&M unit costs progressively reduced as 4.1 Because of delay in implementation ,
improved O&M procedures applied from          O&M works have started late and the
1997.                                         possible cost reduction is yet to be evaluated.

4.2. The improved O&M method spreading to 4.2. The improved O&M method is unlikely to
non-CERP polders from 2003.                   spread to non-CERP polders from 2003
                                              without a special effort by BWDB.




                                                                 - 17 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Rehabilitation and Improvement Works:
Major Civil Works in 13 polders:
(a) New/Retired Embt. 73 km                  (a) Target revised to 69 km and completed;   (a) 69 km
(b) Resectioning 78 km                       (b) Target revised to 61 km and completed;   (b) 61 km
(c) New Regulators /replace 23 nos.          (c) Target revised to 40 nos. and completed; (c) 40 nos.
(d) Protection works 7 km                    (d) Target revised to 13 km and completed;   (d) 13 km

Minor Civil works completed in 15 polders
(a) Rehabilitation of drainage net works/
Khals 381 km                                 (a)Target revised to 115 km and completed;   (a) 115 km
(b) Resectioning of existing embankments
127 km                                       (b)Target revised to 22 km and completed;    (b) 22 km
(c) Repair/Replacement of Regulators 143
                                             (c) No works taken up. 17 extras under major (c) n. av.
                                             civil works are from this category.
1.2 Resettlement Action Plan implemented     The project has used 454 ha of private and   The project has used 454 hectare of private
and the project affected persons             133.63 ha of public lands, which have ,      and 134 hectares of public lands, which have
compensated as per entitlement on a timely   respectively, affected 4,866 private land    , respectively, affected 4,866 private land
basis.                                       owners and 1,156 squatters. The              owners and 1,156 squatters. The
                                             compensation have been paid to most of the   implementation of RAP is satisfactory.
                                             entitled persons. For private lands, 95.6%.
                                             BWDB's payment to the squatters and others
                                             entitled persons reached 100%.
1.3 Afforestation:
(a) Embankment slopes : 1,900 ha             (a) Embankment slopes : 556 ha, against a    (a) Embankment slopes : 662 ha.
                                             revised target of 850 ha.
(b) Embankment slopes : 570 km                                                            (b) Embankment slopes : 211 km
                                             (b) Embankment slopes : 210 km
(c) Foreshore : 4,900 ha                                                                  (c) Foreshore : 824 ha
                                             (c) Foreshore : 709 ha, against a revised
                                             target of 2350 ha.
1.4 Improved Operation & Maintenance:
(a) O&M Plan Prepared : 21 polders           (a) O&M Plan Prepared : 21 polders           (a) O&M Plan Prepared : 21 polders

(b) Routine/Periodic Maintenance: 21 Polders (b) Routine/Periodic Maintenance: 21 Polders (b) Routine/Periodic Maintenance: 21 Polders

(c) CBO/No of Maintenance groups             (c) CBO/No of Maintenance groups             (c) CBO/No of Maintenance groups
organized: 1,977 nos.                        organized: 658 nos.                          organized: 658 nos.

(d) Embankment maintained : 575 km           (d) Embankment maintained : Not estimated    (d) Embankment maintained : 887 km

1End of project




                                                                - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal       Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                             Estimate        Estimate         Appraisal
                      Component                            US$ million       US$ million
Rehabilitation and Improvement/Civil Works                     44.60             56.50            126.7
Rehabilitation and Improvement/Emergency Works                                    4.40
Rehabilitation and Improvement/Erosion Experiments                                1.10
Rehabilitation and Improvement/Afforestation                     7.10             5.90              83
Rehabilitation and Improvement/Surveys and studies               0.50
Rehabilitation and Improvement/Land Acquisition and              3.70             3.70             100
Resettlement
Rehabilitation and Improvement/BWDB Engineering and              2.70             2.90             107
Administration
Technical Assistance/Project Support and Training              10.60             12.10             114
Technical Assistance/Preparation of CERP II                                       4.10
Vehicles and Equipment - procurement                             0.90             0.90             100
Vehicles and Equipment -operating cost                           0.40             0.40             100
Improved O&M                                                     5.40             5.50             102

Total Baseline Cost                                            75.90             97.50
 Physical Contingencies                                          6.70
 Price Contingencies                                             5.20             0.10
                         Total Project Costs                   87.80             97.60
                   Total Financing Required                    87.80             97.60
 Ref: Appraisal estimates are based on MOP (March 1, 1999), Schedule A. Latest Estimate is based on
 GOB's proposal for re-allocation among categories [Re. IDA letter dated December 3, 2002.]




                                                - 19 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category          ICB         NCB                 2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                            Other
1. Works                         43.60        9.20           3.20            3.60         59.60
                                (39.20)       (7.60)        (2.10)           (0.00)      (48.90)
2. Goods                         0.00         0.70           0.20            0.00         0.90
                                 (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.10)           (0.00)      (0.50)
3. Services                      0.00         0.00           0.50            0.00         0.50
                                 (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.40)           (0.00)      (0.40)
4. BWDB Operating Cost           0.00         0.00           3.20            0.00         3.20
                                 (0.00)       (0.00)        (3.20)           (0.00)      (3.20)
5. Project Support               0.00         0.00           0.00            10.30        10.30
                                 (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Afforestation and others      0.00         0.00           0.00            13.30        13.30
                                 (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                         43.60        9.90           7.10            27.20        87.80
                                (39.20)       (8.00)        (5.80)           (0.00)      (53.00)
Source: SAR, page 28, Table 2.3.




                                           - 20 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                56.20              1.59              0.34             0.00              58.13
                                       (44.76)            (0.51)            (0.06)           (0.00)           (45.33)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.53              0.00             0.00              0.53
                                       (0.00)             (0.47)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.47)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              5.58             0.00              5.58
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.42)           (0.00)            (4.42)
4. BWDB Operating Cost                  0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
5. Project Support                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
6. Afforestation and others             0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   Total                                56.20              2.13              5.92             0.00              64.24
                                       (44.76)            (0.98)            (4.48)           (0.00)           (50.22)
SAP Procurement Summary Report shows the contracts above IDA prior review threshold of US$150,000.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
   the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 21 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                  Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.       CoF.         IDA       Govt.       CoF.     IDA     Govt.  CoF.
Civil Works (excluding        45.00        5.00        0.00         50.20      7.80                111.6   156.0   0.0
FFW)
Earth works - FFW                          3.60                                3.60                        100.0
Improved O&M                   3.90        2.10                     3.70       2.00                94.9     95.2
Afforestation                                          5.80                               4.20                     72.4
Private Foreshore Leasing                              2.10                               1.70                     81.0
Surveys and Studies            0.40        0.10                     0.50                           125.0     0.0
Land Acquisition                           3.50                                3.50                        100.0
Resettlement                                           0.40                               0.40                    100.0
BWDB Engineering and           3.20                                 2.50                           78.1
Administration
Technical Assistance/                                 10.30         1.30                 10.00                     97.1
Project Support
Technical Assistance/                                  1.10                               0.80                     72.7
Training
Technical Assistance/                                               4.10
Preparation of CERP II
Vehicles and Equipment         0.50        0.80                     0.60       0.70                120.0    87.5
- procurement and
operating cost
Total Financing               53.00        15.10      19.70         62.90     17.60      17.10     118.7   116.6   86.8

Ref: SAR, page 27, Table 2.2 for Appraisal Estimate. For Latest Estimate MOP (March 1, 1999), Schedule A and B.




                                                         - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project Benefits

1.       The main perceived benefits from the project were reduction in loss of lives and destruction of
property during cyclones, and prevention of salinity intrusions and storm surges during normal monsoons.
The latter, along with drainage improvements, was expected to stimulate production of crops as well as
shrimp and salt. Social forestry for embankment maintenance and cyclone protection was expected to yield
further economic benefits through output of wood and non-timber forest and garden products.

2.       At project preparation, economic analysis was done separately for 11 polders for which major civil
works were financed under the project. Together, these accounted for 63% of the total base costs. No
attempt was made to quantify the benefit from lives saved, although this was used to justify investment in
three polders where estimated ERR was less than 12%. Four types of gains were quantified: (i) agricultural
benefits; (ii) afforestation benefits; (iii) reduction in agricultural losses caused by salinity and cyclones; and
(iv) non-agricultural benefits. The main sources of agricultural benefits were expected to be changes in
cropping pattern (shift to high yield varieties and diversification into other crops during rabi season),
increase in cropping intensity (from 136% to 155%) and in yield (with average expected increases of
10-15%). Agricultural benefits included increases in crop as well as salt and shrimp production.

3.       Afforestation benefits were expected from three types of activities: (i) foreshore plantations; (ii)
plantations on embankment slopes; and (iii) homestead plots farmed by embankment settlers. The major
outputs expected from these activities were fruits, vegetables, timber and fuelwood. About 227600 tons of
fruit and 224 million cubic feet of timber were expected to be produced during the project's 30-year
lifespan.

4.       Estimates of agricultural (crop, livestock and fisheries) losses due to cyclones were based on
damage from cyclone surges with 10 to 20 year return periods. (It was assumed that cyclones with 40 year
return periods would lead to severe flooding causing damage in both "with" and "without" project
situations.) Finally, non-agricultural benefits included damages to houses, buildings, roads, culverts and
other structures during cyclones.

5.       At preparation, the ERR for the 11 polders ranged from 6.6% to 28.1%. Investment in three
polders, which had rates of return below 12%, was justified on grounds of the (non-quantified) benefit of
lives (both human and animal) that would be saved. The overall ERR for the 11 polders was estimated at
19.2% with a NPV of Tk 1.09 billion (1994 prices) or Tk 1.54 billion (2002 prices).

ICR Re-estimation

6.       The economic benefits from all the 11 polders have been re-evaluated for the ICR. For
comparability, the re-estimation tracked the original analysis as far as possible. The main
assumptions/features of the economic analysis are:

         (i)      A project life of 30 years
         (ii)     All costs and benefits have been updated to 2002 prices. Parity prices of major traded
                  goods have been used, based on World Bank Commodity Price Projections for 2002.
                  Financial prices of non-traded goods and services have been adjusted using a standard
                  conversion factor (SCF) of 0.91, in keeping with recent Bank projects in Bangladesh.




                                                        - 23 -

         (iii)    Projections for O&M costs assume a regime which involves preventive maintenance every
                  year, minor periodic maintenance every two years, major periodic maintenance every four
                  years, and operations from emergency fund once every five years on average.
         (iv)     The foreign exchange component of project costs is assumed to be thirty percent.
         (v)      In keeping with the SAR, the without-project ("W/O") situation with respect to crops is
                  taken to be a situation where saline intrusion causes yield to decrease 2% annually over
                  five years leading to a total decline of 10%.
         (vi)     On average, three-quarters of the potential benefits forecast from afforestation activities
                  are expected to be realized, given that afforestation activities began in the last year of
                  project implementation (2001-2002). These activities, therefore, will not be able to benefit
                  from continued project support for several years as was envisaged in the SAR.

7.       The revised ERRs are based on updated project costs and agricultural and afforestation benefits.
Changes in agricultural benefits are based on reported changes in cropping intensity, cropping pattern and
crop yields and inputs. Given their recent start, major afforestation-linked benefits have yet to be realized;
their quantification is therefore based on updated projection of the various types of expected benefits flows
from the different afforestation-linked activities during the remaining lifetime of the project.

8.       Since the project, by design, reduces the risk of cyclone-related agricultural and nonagricultural
(property and infrastructure) losses, these benefits are difficult to estimate on basis of actual observations.
Much depends upon projections and hypotheses. Little additional information is available to justify the
modification of parameters underlying SAR estimates. For the ICR analysis, underlying assumptions and
parameters related to benefit flows used at SAR have been retained and, where appropriate, inflated to
2002 prices.

Economic Rate of Return

9.       Following the methodology adopted in the SAR, the ERR for the combined net benefits for the 11
polders at ICR is estimated at 28.6% with a NPV of Tk 2.6 bn (2002 prices). This however risks
attributing all increases in agricultural value-added arising from changes in crops, cropping pattern,
input-use etc to project investments alone, ignoring other possible causative factors (e.g, improvements in
extension, inputs and seed availability/prices, etc). Over the last five-years for which relevant data is
available (1994-95 to 1998-99), value-added in the crop subsector in Bangladesh grew by 15.5% or by 3.7
% p.a. In the analysis, this 3.7% p.a. growth in value-added is used to proxy secular changes in agricultural
sector. Netting this effect out leads to an overall ERR of 25.4% with a NPV of Tk 2.1 bn.

10.      The significant increase in estimated benefits over and above SAR projections is attributable
mainly to much higher than anticipated changes in cropping intensity, yield and crop variety. To measure
the impact of yield changes, the average yield in a polder (weighted by area under a crop relative to gross
cropped area in the W/O situation1) was calculated and then aggregated across the 11 polders (weighted by
relative cost outlays). The overall average yield was 1.94 mt/ha for W/O, 2.5 mt/ha for SAR and 2.91
mt/ha for ICR. Hence, there was an actual yield increase of over 50%, which was significantly higher than
the SAR projection.

         1/ In order to filter out effects related to change in crop area, a common set of area-weights need to be used to
              calculate average yield in the W/O, SAR and ICR settings. W/O weights were used in order to estimate change
              to W/O income (or value-added) due to yield-effects alone.




                                                              - 24 -

11.      Average cropping intensity across the 11 polders (weighted by their cost outlay relative to the
overall outlay for the 11 polders) increased, in line with SAR projections, by about 18% compared to the
W/O situation.

12.      Change in cropping pattern is another significant source of growth in value added. Not only has
cropping intensity increased, in all polders there has been a change in crop mix, generally towards higher
value crops. In many polders significant area has been brought under new HYV or high-income crops like
chilli, groundnuts, pulses etc which were not envisioned at the beginning of the project (i.e., were not in
W/O situation). To measure the combined impact of change in crop mix along with associated crop area
changes, the percentage change in incremental (i.e., between ICR and W/O and between SAR and W/O)
polder-wise agricultural income has been estimated . Aggregating across the 11 polders, about 50% of the
                                                           2


change in agricultural value-added is due to change in crop mix and associated area changes compared to
about 25% anticipated in SAR.




         2/  Net income (or value-added) per ha at W/O for each crop was multiplied by the difference between area under
             that crop at ICR and W/O and at SAR (projection) and W/O. Net income at W/O was used so as to freeze out
             effects relating to yield and input-use changes. In cases where the crop was not grown at W/O, net income at
             the ICR was used.


13.      The ERRs on individual polders varied from 10% for Pathargata to 179% for Hatiya. Hatiya is
however considered an exception; the next highest returns are for Kuakata (44%) and Sudharam (33%).
Hatiya's massive increase in EIRR is driven by a more-than doubling of yield compared to the W/O
situation and a more than 50% increase in cropping intensity. Changes in crop mix and associated area
under various crops accounted for over one-third of the observed change in agricultural income. Similar
changes in yield, intensity and crop mix seem to underlie the large differences between SAR and ICR
returns in Kuakata, Sudharam and Companigonj.

14.      The three polders of Kuakata, Ramgati and Matherbari, which had returns below 12% in SAR,
turn out to have returns of 44%, 12% and 17% respectively, which makes all these investments



                                                          - 25 -

economically justified. The two cases in which the return falls below 12% (Pathargata, 9.6% and
Kurushkul, 8.8%) may be related to the fact that afforestation activities are not expected to produce
benefits at the anticipated level. Overall, at the aggregate level, this project appears to be economically
justified.

Data

15.       Due to weaknesses in M&E, periodically collected information on project activities and their
impact (such as income from farm and embankment activities, employment for different categories of
people, etc) are not available. The ICR estimates are based on agricultural data specifically collected for
this purpose from nine polders. Data for Teknaf and Pathargata polders were taken from recent (separate)
impact assessment and evaluation studies organized by the Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB).

Farm Incomes

16.       Following the SAR, the project's effect on annual farm incomes has been re-estimated using one
hectare farm models prepared for each polder area. The results are shown in Table 2 which also mentions,
in updated 2002 prices, the incomes at the time of project appraisal as well as SAR estimates.

              Table 2. Farm Incomes at Appraisal (Start of Project), SAR Projection and ICR (2002 Prices)

   Farm      Sharan-  Patharg  Kuakata   Ramgati Sudharam       Compa    Kurushkul    Teknaf    Mather   Sandwip Hatiya Overall
  Income      khola     ata                                     nigonj                            bari
A = At            6.0    15.6     10.9       16.8         18.7      14.4        22.4       26.0    16.5     19.7   12.0   16.3
appraisal
(000Tk)
B = SAR         12.7     24.2     18.1       19.8         26.2      18.0        38.0       37.6    22.3     27.1   15.0   23.6
Projection
(000Tk)
C = At ICR      14.3     14.1     21.9       19.4         21.7      22.1        31.4       33.6    34.7     19.3   40.1   24.8
(000Tk)
(B-A)/A (%)     1.12     0.54     0.67       0.18         0.41      0.25        0.70       0.45    0.35     0.38   0.25   0.45
(C-A)/A (%)     1.39   (-0.10)    1.01       0.16         0.17      0.53        0.40       0.29    1.11   (-0.02)  2.36   0.53
(C-B)/B (%)     0.13   (-0.42)    0.20     (-0.02)      (-0.17)     0.23     (-0.17)     (-0.11)   0.56   (-0.29)  1.69   0.05

17.       On basis of the reported numbers, the average family income has gone up in real terms by 53%
(from Tk 16300 at appraisal to Tk 24800 at ICR, 2002 prices). The expected increase in average O&M
costs, on the other hand, is expected to be Tk 731 per ha. (Thus, even if full cost were to be met from
private rather than public resources, the investment would be financially justifiable from a farmer's point of
view.) Given the average farm size of 0.68 ha, a typical family will gain an additional income of over Tk
5000. The gains have also been fairly widely distributed: except for Pathargata and Sandwip, all polders
have seen increase in average farm incomes. A considerable proportion of this income growth comes from
introduction of high-yield and market-oriented crops. This has a direct impact on poverty through increased
hired-labour requirement during growing and harvesting as well as for transport and marketing. A further
positive impact on poverty will occur through afforestation related benefits since, by design, poor
individuals and families were specifically targeted as beneficiaries of this activity.




                                                             - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Supervision
              06/30/1996 -                                                       S               S
              Update/PSR#2
              01/15/1997               5    SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER               S               S
              -PSR #3                       (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                            OFFICER (1); IRRIGATION
                                            ENGINEER (1);
                                            RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); AGRICULTURIST (1)
              05/11/1997               4    DISBURSEMENT OFFICER                 S               S
              -PSR#4                        (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); IRRIGATION
                                            ENGINEER (1);
                                            RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)
              02/15/1998               8    IRRIGATION ENGINEER (2);             S               S
              -PSR#05                       PRINCIPAL AGRICULTURIST
                                            (1); RESETTLEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                            (1); FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC.
                                            (1); PRINCIPAL TEAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1); TEAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1)
              10/08/1998                                                         S               S
              Update/PSR#06
              02/15/1998              10    AGRICULTURIST (2);                   S               S
              -PSR#07                       IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                                            RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MGT. (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1), Operations
                                            Officer (1), Team Assistant (1)
              02/16/1999              10    AGRICULTURIST (2);                   S               S
              -PSR#08 (MTR)                 IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                                            RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MGT. (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1), Operations
                                            Officer (1), Team Assistant (1)
              01/04/2000                                                         S               S
              Update/PSR#9
              04/22/2000               6    TASK TEAM LEADER/ECON.               S               S
              -PSR#10                       (1); ENGINEER (1);



                                             - 27 -

                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                               FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                                               DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1)
            10/29/2000                     6   ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION      S    S
            -PSR#11                            ENGINEER (1); NR
                                               ECONOMIST (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                               (1); SOCIOLOGIST (1); FIN.
                                               MGT. SPECIALIST (1)
            12/10/2001                                                        S    S
            Update/PSR#12
            06/17/2001                     7   AGRICULTURIST (1);             U    S
            -PSR#13                            IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                                               RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT (1);
                                               FINANCIAL MGT. (1);
                                               DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                               ENGINEER (1)
            11/27/2001                                                        S    S
            Update/PSR#14
            &15
            02/17/2002                     9   ECONOMIST (2); IRRIGATION      S    S
            PSR#16                             ENGINEER (1);
                                               RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT (1); FMS (1);
                                               DISBURSEMENT (1); EU/ (1);
                                               EU/ENGINEER (1)
            09/15/2002                     8   Agriculturist (1), ECONOMIST   S    S
            PSR#17                             (1); IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                               (1); RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT (1); FMS (1);
                                               DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                               EU/ENGINEER (1)

 ICR



Initial Summary (PSR#1) was prepared as of 05/15/1996.




                                               - 28 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Supervision                                 145                           508
  ICR                                        12.6                            63
  Total


    SWs and amount shown against Appraisal/Negotiation includes amount for Identification/Preparation.
    Supervision amounts are as of June 2003 and ICR amount is the budget amount for FAO/CP.




                                                 - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. World Bank, 1996-2002. Supervision Reports, including Form 590 and PSR

 2. World Bank QAG Report on Supervision Quality (30/07/1997)

 3. World Bank, October 16, 1995. Staff Appraisal Report for Bangladesh Coastal Embankment
    Rehabilitation Project

 4. World Bank, November 21, 1995. Development Credit Agreement and subsequent amendments.

 5. World Bank, October 16, 1995. Memorandum of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors

 6. World Bank, March 1, 1999. Memorandum of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors

 7. TA progress reports (2001-2002)

 8. CEC monitoring reports of November 25, 2002, December 20, 2001 and November 26, 2000

 9. World Bank, December 19, 2000. Climate Change and Sustainable Development. (WB report no.
    21104-BD)

10. DPM-DPC Consultants, January 2003. Final Report on Impact Assessment Study of Coastal
    Embankment rehabilitation Project




                                             - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation
Completion Report




                                      - 33 -

                                                                                                    Annex 8A
                        Bangladesh - Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project1
                         (IDA Credit 2783-BD and EC Grant : CERP/ALA/93/20)
                               Summary of Borrower's Contribution to the
                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

Background

1.          The coastal areas of Bangladesh have approximately been delineated as 42,000 square kilometres
with a population of approximately 33 million. Over the last four decades a cluster of 123 polders, covering an
area of about 13,000 square km, has been constructed, primarily to support agriculture and provide protection
to life and properties of the inhabitants during cyclone.      The polders, consisting of about 5,000 km
embankment, 6000 km drainage channel, 2500 water control structures, in association with 1,845
multi-purpose cyclone shelters and cyclone warning system, provide protection against daily tidal inundation to
farms of crops, fish and salt. During cyclone and tidal surges, the polder system, where in good shape,
minimizes the damaging impact on the life and property over the embanked area.

2.          Following the May 1985 cyclone, the Government of Bangladesh (GoB) formulated in 1986 a
National Cyclone Protection Program (NCPP) with the objectives of minimizing disastrous effects of cyclones
and storm surges. NCPP included plans for improving the coastal embankment system and introducing
associated preventive measures. In pursuance of the above program, a consulting firm financed by the
European Community (EC), assisted GoB in the preparation of the Cyclone Protection Project (presently
called the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project (IDA Cr. 2783-BD), which was planned for inclusion in
the World Bank's FY93 lending program. A devastating cyclone struck Bangladesh in April 1991, when the
preparation work for CERP was in progress. As a result, the entire coastal embankment system in the
north-eastern and eastern parts of the Bay of Bengal came under intense surge pressure and suffered heavy
damage. At that time the embankment network was in a poor state of maintenance and embankments were
breached in many locations. The cyclone caused 140,000 deaths and severe property damage. Thus, in
addition to the improvements of the coastal embankment system originally planned, it became necessary to
rehabilitate the damaged embankments as quickly as possible to protect areas against future cyclonic surges.
GoB therefore requested EC assistance for the existing consultant to prepare designs and engineering
documents for the reconstruction of the damaged coastal embankments under a Priority Works Program
(PWP). Actual implementation of PWP, which was an emergency operation, was divided into three parts
according to sources of funds: (i) Part A under GoB's own funds for immediate repairs to prevent agricultural
losses during the 1991 monsoons; (ii) Part B under the Saudi Government's grant funds for the reconstruction
of four polders; and (iii) Part C under savings from four on-going IDA Credit and Japanese grant funds
(PHRD 2127-SBD) for the reconstruction of six polders, viz., Patenga, Bashkhali, Anowara, Sandwip,
Sitakundu and Chakoria, with consultants for implementation assistance, financed under an EC grant. The
works under Part C were substantially completed by June 1996, except one polder (Anowara) where there
were objections to the planned alignment, and a second (Sandwip) where additional chainage were formed
necessary (Ref. ICR, PWP, Sept. 1996).

1/ GoB Project Proforma (PP) refers it as Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project, Phase-II, while PWP is
   referred as CERP, Phase-I.

3.          The Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project was appraised in 1995; jointly by IDA­EC,
based on the Feasibility Study carried out by KAMPSAX International. This is a seven year project- the IDA
Credit 2783-BD was effective on 18 June 1996, while EC Grant became effective on 22 January 1996. IDA
Credit has closed on 31 December 2002, while EC Grant will close on 30 June 2005.



                                                     - 34 -

Project objectives

4.           The objectives of the project were to: (a) provide improved cyclone protection, including personal
security, protection of infrastructure and minimizing crop and livestock losses; (b) increase agricultural
production through reduced saline inundation; and (c) support introduction of improved technology for the
design and construction of protection work, and improved methods of embankment maintenance. An additional
objective supported by the Supplementary Credit is to facilitate the resumption of agricultural and economic
activities through emergency repairs to embankments damaged in the May 1997 cyclone.

Project Components

5.           The project originally included the following components: (a) rehabilitation and improvements to
12 sea-facing embankments, plus small amounts to complete similar works in two (Anowara & Sandwip)
polders of the PWP; (b) minor rehabilitation and improvements to the non-coastal sections of the polders in the
Mid-Term Program, including re-excavation of drainage canals (khals), repair of replacement of
regulators/surface sluices or minor embankment repairs where appropriate to assure agricultural benefits; (c)
afforestation of embankment slopes and a strip of 50 to 200 meters of foreshore to reduce cyclone damage and
embankment maintenance costs; (d) improved O&M of all polders in the Mid-Term Program; (e) a program
for compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement of people displaced by the project; (f) environmental
monitoring and provision for appropriate mitigating measures; (g) studies to investigate the possibility of
cost-effective town protection works for Sandwip; (h) technical assistance for implementation support for
components (a) through (g) above, and for coordination between the project and other projects in the area
supporting increased agricultural production, and NGO activities to organize and support community
participation in afforestation and maintenance of embankments; (i) training of staff of implementing agencies
and participating NGOs, and for community participants, and (j) vehicles and minor equipment required for
GoB supervision of project implementation, and for afforestation.

             Additional components were added to address the objectives introduced under the 1999
Supplemental Credit, involving: (i) consultancy services to undertake the feasibility studies, design for
rehabilitating physical facilities of 46 coastal polders; (ii) bridge financing of an ongoing low-cost erosion
control experimental program, funded by the Netherlands; (iii) undertaking repair works for 50 coastal polders
(including 4 CERP polders), which were damaged during the 1997 cyclone; (iv) bridge financing of
consultants' and NGO services, originally programmed to be financed by EU, (v) financing the gap due to
depreciation of the US dollar against the SDR since Credit approval and cover up the shortfall amount in the
estimate of earth work under major civil works, and (vi) gap financing for the services of Resettlement
Consultants (RC) to complete RAP implementation for additional land acquisition.

6.           Further, the EC grant supporting this project includes a Community Development Fund to enable
NGOs to implement such poverty alleviation activities complementary to the project as may be agreed between
GoB and EC.

Project Cost

7.           The total appraisal estimate is US$87.80 million equivalent of which GoB, IDA and EC
shares US$15.10, 53.00 and 19.70 million equivalent respectively. Similarly, the total revised
estimate is about US$97.60 million equivalent with the preceding respective share of US$17.60,
62.90 and 17.10 million equivalent.




                                                        - 35 -

Project Implementation

8.          The physical progress as of December 2002, is shown in Table 01 below:


             Table 01: Physical Progress of Key Components

                                               Original Target Revised     Actual Status
        Key Work Components             Unit      as of SAR     Target    as of December
                                                                               2002
 Major Civil Works
 Resectioned Embankments,               Km.           78          61            61
 New Embankments,                       Km.           73          69            69
 Replaced Structures,                   No.           23          43            40
 Protection Works,                      Km.            7          15            13
 Minor Civil Works
 Embankments,                           Km.          127          22            22
 Khal Excavation,                       Km.          381         440            115
 Afforestation
 Length of Embankment Slopes            Km.          570         264            211
 Planted,
 Area of Embankment Slopes Planted,     Ha.        1,902         850            662
 Area of Foreshore Planted,             Km.        4734         2350            824


The afforestation supported by EC and some rehabilitation works funded by GoB will be continuing up to June
2003.

Disbursement Status

9.          Total disbursement as of April 30, 2003 is Tk. 47.50 million (about 95%) against the revised
estimated project cost of Tk. 4,980.34 million. Of this the IDA credit contributes Tk. 28.91 million (SDR
44.25 million), which is 96% of the total credit amount (excluding SDR 0.75 million declared cancelled which
is 1.6%). The balance amount of SDR 1.10 million which is 2.4% of the total credit amount remains
undisbursed as of April 30, 2003, the date of financial closure.

Implementation Arrangements

10.         BWDB with considerable assistance from the project consultant was responsible for
implementation. The responsibility for civil works construction, improved O&M activities and afforestation
including community development and training was with BWDB's Additional Director General O&M-1
(former ADG, Implementation). A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established in Chittagong under the
Addl. Director General, O&M-1 (former ADG, Implementation) with a Project Director of the rank of a Chief
or Additional Chief Engineer responsible for the overall management for all BWDB components of the project.
This unit of the PIU headed by the Project Director was subsequently shifted to Dhaka in January 2000 for
efficient management, co-operation and co-ordinating with the key actors. The Project Director was assisted
by two Superintending Engineers, who were the Deputy Project Directors for Implementation and O&M, a
Deputy Director Resettlement who headed the Project Resettlement Unit, and the project consultants. Forest
Department (FD) appointed a full-time Project Director Afforestation based in Chittagong, who headed a
separate Forestry Project Implementation Unit (FPIU) and liaise with the PIU to ensure coordination between
the activities of the civil works and afforestation component and the respective maintenance activities. Since



                                                        - 36 -

February 1999, BWDB took over the responsibility for the afforestation component, as per government
decision. A Project Coordinator, based in Dhaka, at the Superintending Engineer level, assisted the Project
Director in monitoring and coordination, which was abolished in January 2000 in the process of reorganisation
of BWDB.

11.         Six existing O&M divisions, located at Cox's Bazar, Chittagong, Noahkhali, Laxmipur, Barguna,
and Bagerhat, functioning under the direction of the existing O&M Zonal Chief Engineers through four Circle
Superintending Engineers, carried out all operations and maintenance activities in all polders.             The
Superintending Engineer of the O&M Circle at Chittagong, in addition to his normal duties, worked as Deputy
Project Director-O&M, and assisted the Project Director in coordinating project O&M activities. Existing
O&M circles located at Chittagong, Feni, Barisal and Khulna, will continue to be responsible for their current
work in addition to the work under the project.

12.         Six NGOs were also involved in the afforestation component including training and community
participation aspect of the project. Two (NEED-Bangladesh and GUDSEK) out of six NGOs during
implementation stage were dropped for their failure in the afforestation work.

13.         Project Coordinating Committee was established in each participating administrative district to
review progress and ensure coordination at the regional level. The Project Steering Committee headed by the
Secretary of the Ministry of Water Resources was also established to overview the project implementation and
ensure inter-ministerial co-ordination. The committee was responsible for policy decisions and directives.

14.         IDA-EC facilitated the implementation on a day-to-day basis including review of the project
implementation at regular interval. EC monitored and evaluated the project implementation process on yearly
basis.

Implementation Experiences

Rehabilitation Works

15.         Overall objectives and needs defining the project remain relevant. Although inputs and activities
have been adequate to address the results, their scheduling or sequencing was not well conceived civil works
were designed prior to the project start without considering requirements for embankments afforestation nor
for embankment toe protection or homestead platforms; foreshore was connected to other project's components
and programmed too late, after the civil works and; institutional arrangements whereby BWDB and the
Department of Forestry working together proved to be difficult.

16.         The Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project is part of the mid-term programme and was
subjected to intensive planning and preparation process. Available planning tools were used, but later formed
to be inadequate in the face of the dynamics of the coastal hydro-morphology. As a consequence, several
rehabilitated embankment and structures have either been severely damaged/threatened resulting part of the
project non-functional.

17.         Procurement of small works other than International Competitive Bidding (ICB) package such as
O&M and emergency works could not be satisfactorily handled by the BWDB field units due to lack of their
understnding of the IDA Procurement Guidelines as well as difficult socio-political contexts. Consequently, a
reasonable amount of credit money was declared misprocured (US$ 908,856.95) and ineligible for
replenishment (US$110,355.23) by the IDA.

18.         Physical works are substantially complete in all the nine major civil work contracts. The additional
works in one contract for Polder- 68 at Teknaf have been taken up from GoB funding. . Although the overall



                                                      - 37 -

physical progress in terms of polder rehabilitation is satisfactory, the O&M aspects have not progressed on the
ground as planned due to lack of operational focus and inadequate budgetary support including the physical
setting of the polders in a dynamic environment, where river morphology is constantly changing. Some
improvement in O&M has been realized recently.

19.         The quality of completed works is good. Out of 21 project-polders, peripheral embankments in
seven polders (Teknaf, Matherbari, Sitakunda, Hatiya, Sandwip, Ramgati and Swarankhola) are open in one
or more locations. As per initial assessment the areas affected by tidal flooding are in the range of about 17%
to 70%. As a consequence, the above seven polders may not provide sufficient protection to the localized areas
in the event of possible tidal surges. In all these cases, BWDB has initiated remedial measures, expected to be
funded by GoB.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement

20.         The project has so far used a total of 454.13 hectares of private and 133.63 hectares of public
lands, which have, respectively, affected 4,866 private landowners and 1,156 squatters. The acquisition has
also caused temporary income loss of 178 persons who were business employees and wage labourers. Among
the affected private landowners, there were 543 whose homesteads were also affected. Of the squatters, there
were 1,013 who have been displaced from their homesteads on the embankments. While self-relocation was a
preferred option, those who could not do so were supposed to be relocated on the embankment and at some
locations chosen to serve the project's embankment plantation and maintenance purposes.               For better
coordination with the plantation and maintenance needs, the entire relocation program had to be deferred to
allow time to organize the embankment plantation program. Some 663 settlers have been selected as of
December 2002, of whom 442 are those evicted from the embankments, and 221 are those not affected by the
project. As of now, they are yet to be given plots and relocation assistance stipulated in the Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP). Affected Persons (PAPs) of those who lost their homesteads moved else where over time
during the process of re-settling them on the embankment with support from NGOs.

21.         The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared for implementation of CERP according to
covenants for the loan between IDA & GoB. The RAP formalities were implemented by PMRU unit with
assistance from Resettlement Consultant (RC) and NGOs. The payments made under RAP requirements fall
under two categories; CCL payments made to PAPs through DCs office, Extra-CCL and Squatters payments
were made from the Project directly. The compensation payments for both types have mostly been completed
(about 96%). The remaining payments could not be made till to date mostly due to ownership disputes,
litigations and individuals reluctance to bear the cost of travel and time required to collect relatively small
amounts.

Embankment and Foreshore Afforestation

22.         This project supported afforestation in 21 polders. The overall afforestation achievement, as of
31st December 2002 against the revised targets, on the embankment slopes is 665 ha (78%) and 821 ha (35%)
on the foreshore. The revised targets were prepared in consideration of field situation during implementation
and excluded the areas covered by the FD in its two on going projects ­ Coastal Green-Belt (ADB) and Forest
Resources Management (IDA). Total plantations in 21 polders under these two FD projects are 647 ha on the
embankment slopes and 3353 ha on the foreshore. In most polders, social mobilization and contract signing
with Embankment Settlers (ES) and other maintenance groups have been done successfully, but the payment
of subsistence allowance to these groups have been very irregular throughout. Since some of the earlier
plantations have started producing economic benefits (fruits, timber etc), physical presence of the ES on the
embankments is essential to protect the plantations and ensure proper maintenance of the embankments. In
this regard, demarcation of individual plots and establishment of ES homestead on the embankment slope are



                                                         - 38 -

essential. Allocation of the homestead plots and advances to cover the house relocation costs to ES are the
contractual obligation of BWDB. Overall, integration of foreshore afforestation including vegetation on the
embankment slopes and protection of its toe has been found to be reasonably effective.

23.          Vetiver grass and other protective vegetation have been integrated into the planting models and has
been introduced in 10 polders, namely, Anowara (Polder 63/1A), Banshkhali (Polder 64/1A), Chokoria (Polder
64/2B), Sandwip (Polder 72), Teknaf (Polder 68), Shudharam (Polder 59/3B), Companyganj (Polder 59/3C),
Sharankhola (Polder 35/1), Patharghata (Polder 40/2), and Kuakata (Polder 48), but the progress is
satisfactory in only very limited sections of the embankment in some of these polders. The vegetation controls
rainfall-induced gulleys on the slope. Integration of afforestation and protective vegetation with planning and
design of coastal embankment system deserves due attention and needs to be a regular feature in future designs
of the embankment for their long-term sustainability.

24.          The intuitional arrangement under the project for FD and BWDB working together was not
effective. The NGO support services to afforestation, community development and training components was
found to be useful, but their services were interrupted more than once due to piece meal contract arrangements
with different funding sources. Beside, the existing procedures for payment to community groups were not
operational to ensure regular payments of fees and subsistence allowances.

Improved Operation and Maintenance (O&M)

25.          The sustainability of coastal polders is dependent on better-planned and funded O&M activities by
BWDB including well-maintained plantations on the embankments and foreshore. An important project
initiative is to introduce improved O&M of embankments, associated drainage structures, and khals (canals).
So far, BWDB, with assistance from the Consultants, has prepared a detailed database and annual O&M
plans for 21 polders. These O&M plans focus on community involvement for a cost effective operation and
maintenance of the polders. If properly implemented, it is estimated that the O&M cost is likely to be reduced
by 30-50% in the long run. BWDB is keen to introduce the O&M plans in a phased manner starting from its
Chittagong Circle and working on FY03 O&M budget for O& M of 21 polders. Progress has been made in
establishing different categories of community groups (such as Embankment Settlers, Embankment Protection/
Maintenance Groups, and Landless Contracting Societies) for maintenance of embankments including
plantation.

26.          Toe erosion is an initial indicator towards non-sustainability of the embankments and has been
recognized as a major problem in coastal embankment systems. One of the reasons for toe erosion is close
proximity of the embankment to the sea or river so that high tide water can reach up to the toe and erode it
gradually. In many cases, the embankments cannot be re-located under social pressure. To stop the toe
erosion, conventional engineering practices (such as bank revetment by hard materials, spurs, groynes and
deflector) were found to be expensive and in most cases not affordable. So, there is a demand to find out
alternative cost-effective solution (such as composite land-use plan for the fore shore of coastal region as
found in few polders like Patenga, Kurushkul with a combination of conventional embankment, fish/shrimp
pond, low-dykes and mangrove plantation on the fringe), which is likely to be affordable in the long run. In
this project, trials have been made in a few polders with various engineering approaches in combination with
vegetation and other non-engineering components viz. community development and training that would be
more cost effective. The polders, located in active estuary/ or sea without adequate foreshore land, are
subjected to far more aggressive situation, which shall still require conventional engineering solutions.
Introducing innovative maintenance approach would have required the project to concentrate resources in
limited numbers of polders instead of all the twenty-one.




                                                         - 39 -

Social and Environment Aspects

27.         Gender: The project has provided enhanced opportunities for long and short term employment for
landless, marginal and women headed families in: (i) routine embankment maintenance, (ii) embankment
afforestation, and (iii) periodic embankment maintenance. The women are also members of the landless
contracting societies that have been engaged in periodic maintenance work.

28.         Environment: Generally, the project has had positive impacts on agriculture. It has reduced
salinization of soil and flood damage due to incursion of tidal water. It is unlikely that the project has had
adverse impacts on open water fisheries since the project embankments do not close up major or medium
rivers, which are the main routes for migration of fish to the spawning grounds in the flood plains. The
plantation program is also enhancing the general physical environment of the area in addition to providing a
source of income to the poor families.

Training

29.         The project supported training of staff of implementing agencies, participating NGOs, and
community participants, funded by European Union. The training were implemented by BWDB/PIU, TA
team and the NGOS: (i) PIU carried out 13 training programs with about 360 participants, (ii) TA Team
organized training on 54 events, where 1488 persons participated. and (iii) NGOs program covered about
2733 participants in 87 events from the Community organizations. All this training has helped the BWDB
staff to more towards a process of participatory management in the polder systems in association with the
communities and NGOs. The Training implemented in different events during project life developed the
knowledge, skills and attitude of BWDB officials as well as community members towards community based
implementation and sustainable O&M of the project activities. These training also helped to create awareness
and develop the inter-personal skills and facilitated the offices to exchange the information for an integrated
approach to the resource planning & management of project.

Community Development Activities

30.         This project includes a Community Development Fund (CDF) to enable NGOs to implement
poverty alleviation activities complementary to the project as agreed between GoB and EC. BWDB in
association with NGOs has identified, although after a long delay, the following activities to be eligible under
CDF: (i) water supply and sanitary facilities for the embankment settlers; ii) training and education programs
for the community members at large; and iii) income generating activities for the community group members.
The Action Plan for community development in ten polders has been prepared and approved. The components
are: (i) awareness raising campaign/convention, (ii) tube well installation, (iii) construction of latrine, (iv)
emergency treatment/health education, (v) training on legal aid etc. Revolving Advance (15%) on community
development has been provided to all NGO's. The implementation has already started in Ramgati and
Companigonj and is at various stages in remaining eight polders. The community involvement contributed
towards increasing agricultural productions, resolution of potential conflicts and, generated economic growth
that eventually supported the poverty reduction strategy and management of polders. Involvement of
community is seen as the most important element that strongly supports and firmly holds the overall water
management in the coastal polders.




                                                       - 40 -

Major factors affecting the project implementation

31.          Implementation of the project components was impeded due to the following main reasons;

             (a)    Lack of Flexibility In Project Planning and Design: The single most factors that affected
                    the project implementation is the assumption of an apparent "static" coast line, as against
                    a constantly changing physical setting in a dynamic coastal environment. Due to the
                    frequent changes, several revisions of designs were required, which were not foreseen at
                    the planning stage.
             (b)    1997 Cyclones: This cyclone caused considerable damages to certain polders particularly
                    in Cox's Bazar area due to wave action including overtopping of embankments. This high
                    water due to the cyclone also damaged 46 non-CERP polders in Khulna and Satkhira area.
                    The damages, thus caused, impeded the project implementation.
             (c)    Co-financing: The co-financing by the EC for technical assistance in relation to the project
                    implementation and other non-structural components (viz. afforestation, training and
                    community development) that came in slices during the entire project period, frequently
                    disrupted the implementation pace.
             (d)    Lack of Co-ordination: Inter-agency co-ordination between BWDB and FD, BWDB's
                    Implementation and O&M Wings, BWDB and NGO impacted the project implementation
                    particularly the community participation component of the project. The organisational
                    culture, behaviour and attitude towards working as a partner rather than more as `Builder'
                    added to delayed project implementation.
             (e)    Delayed     and    Piecemeal    Consultancy     Service:   Procurement    of   services   of
                    consultants/NGOs in several cases was delayed eventually affecting the project
                    implementation at different stages. Further more, the contacts being in piecemeal not
                    covering the project cycle hindered the implementation progress.
             (f)    Project Management: Frequent changes of the Project Director at the initial stage led to
                    partial failure in maintaining continuous leadership in the project implementation.
                    Exclusion of the Forest Department from the responsibility of foreshore afforestation and
                    re-organising the same by BWDB partly affected the implementation. Approval of the PP,
                    issuance of authorisation Government Order for withdrawal of IDA-EC funds from central
                    bank etc, which are linked to the Ministries beyond the Ministry of Water Resources, and
                    of generic by nature also partly affected the project implementation pace.

Outcome of the Project

32.          The project led to increased agricultural production due to three major factors: (a) prevention of
salinity intrusions during normal monsoon and protection against storm surges and cyclones; (b) adoption of
high yielding varieties (HYVs) because the increased security provided against periodic investment for HYV
production; (c) introduction of high value crops like water melon, oilseeds, ground nut etc., and (d)
improvement of drainage conditions in the polders. These factors contributed towards increased agricultural
output through higher crop yields per ha, increased cropping intensity, shifting cropping patterns from local to
HYVs, and accelerated crop diversification. The average cropping intensity for 11 polders in the `without
project' situation was 1.44 and was projected to increase to 1.70 at appraisal. Now, at ICR the cropping
intensity have been found to be around 1.69. In addition, change in the cropping pattern in most of the polders
towards high value crops like chilli, groundnut, pulses, watermelon etc were not envisioned at the beginning of
the project.

33.          Beyond the benefits afforded during monsoons and normal cyclones, the rehabilitated embankments
have provided additional benefits from protecting crops and livestock during major cyclones. It is estimated



                                                        - 41 -

that about 50% of the crops would be saved in the case of cyclonic surges with a return period of 10 years.
Over 50,000 head of cattle that were lost during the 1991 cyclone; would now be saved, as the embankments
may not breach any more. Improved embankments and sluices also preserved shrimp farms, culture fisheries
and salt production. The outputs would also come from afforestation in the form of fruits, vegetables, timber,
and fuel wood.

34.         Benefits in human lives to be saved are difficult to quantify. However, it is estimated that about
140,000 people were killed in the project area during the 1991 cyclone. The embankments would help save
lives during future cyclones. Although overtopping could still occur after the construction of the new
embankments, the flooding of the polders would be slowed and reduced. The massive sudden flooding of 1991,
which happened due to breaches in the embankments or missing sections, would not happen in the present
situation. Delayed flooding would give more time for the people to escape to safer areas or cyclone shelters.

35.         The project has provided enhance opportunities for short and long term employment for landless,
marginal and women-headed families in: (i) routine embankment maintenance (ii) embankment afforestation,
and (iii) periodic embankment maintenance. In general, the plantation program of the project is enhancing the
general physical environment of the area in addition to creating a source of income for the poor families.

Sustainability

36.         Despite overall satisfactory progress in polder rehabilitation and afforestation, the O&M aspects
are little behind in terms of implementation of planning and constrained by limited GoB resources. The
sustainability of the rehabilitated polders will be out of risk as the current initiatives to introduce improved
O&M procedures involving users' communities are planned to be continued and provisions for increased
resources allocation will be made in the future unified annual budget i. e. development plus revenue.

37.         The project rehabilitation works were implemented by BWDB's implementation wing, while its
O&M wing is responsible for water management aspects including the maintenance of the physical facilities.
BWDB's O&M Units have already taken over the completed sections of the polder embankments, and the
remaining polders will be taken over fully by June 2003. Given the availability of polder database, BWDB's
O&M Units will be in an advantageous position to monitor and maintain the facilities in a very systematic
manner. Polder data-base has been established at Chittagong and equipped with all logistics. BWDB System
Analyst has already been put behind the key-board to assist the O&M Staff.

38.         Government in principle agreed to enhance its efforts to make the completed BWDB schemes
operational and more efficient by allocating increased resources in O&M. Meanwhile, BWDB has brought an
institutional change in the top-management replacing ADG (Impl.) by ADG (O&M). Political and institutional
support from national to local level has in the past been in favour of rehabilitation instead of preventive
maintenance but now has focussed more on O&M. The Govt. on its own fund has already undertaken a
follow-up project in O&M of coastal polders. Further, BWDB with assistance from the IDA has initiated
formulating a program captioned `Water Management Improvement Project (WMIP)' which is expected to be
on board by mid - 2004. This program will further strengthen the change process focusing more categorically
on the management improvement thus ensuring the sustainability of this project. The on-going reforms in
BWDB will eventually support the projects sustainability. NGOs contracts expired on 31 March 2003. It has
created a temporary institutional vacuum but being attempted to replete by BWDB O&M staff. Meanwhile,
BWDB management had a dialogue with the Delegation of the European Commission on May 11, 2003
wherein the issue of continuation of Commission's support was discussed. Further negotiations with the
Delegation at the level of the Ministry has been planned to acquire the Delegation's support to pursue the
current developments and initiatives in the project. BWDB is planning to carry forward the GO-NGO
partnership approach by involving NGOs in O&M works into the mainstream of decision making process.



                                                        - 42 -

Evaluation of Consultant's performance

39.         Civil Works Component: The scope of consultants' services was primarily to assist PIU to
implement the project as efficiently and effectively as possible.          A team of Construction Supervision
Consultant (CSC) was selected to supervise the major civil works contracts including implementation of
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The Consultants site supervision team consisted of international experts and
local engineers & staff.       The supervision consultant played a critical role in providing the necessary
coordination in ensuring that the civil works were being executed to the appropriate specifications and within
the stipulated contractual time frame. In spite of interruptions in their contract due to CEC's approval process,
the consultant support to BWDB in managing all contracts and in implementing the RAP, afforestation
activities were satisfactory.

40.         Afforestation & Community Development Activities component: Consultant's performance is
satisfactory. Their main responsibilities and accomplishments are: (i) review proposals for afforestation in the
context of technical and organizational feasibility and recommend changes as needed to the proposed plan; and
(ii) make a firm schedule for afforestation of the ten PWP and 11 CERP polders; and (iii) review the
construction schedule for re-sectioning and new embankment construction and make changes as needed to the
afforestation schedule, updating this as construction work progresses. The project appears to be well managed
on a day-to-day basis. Consultant prepared progress report and annual work plan timely. NGOs/TA relations
were good & constructive.

Evaluation of Bank's Performance

41.         The World Bank task team played a vital role in facilitating the implementation of the project
satisfactorily. The Bank's supervision of the project was adequate and appropriate. The Bank and EC
monitoring team reviewed the implementation status and achievement towards its development objectives
almost in every six months during project period. The team, comprising staff from different discipline, visited
and reviewed the progress of works. In the process, the team pro-actively id6ntified various implementation
issues and assisted in resolving those. They advised the concerned officials of GoB and CSC to implement the
work as per IDA standard procedures. In addition, the Bank staff periodically visited the project sites and
discussed implementation with the BWDB officials, local administration and stakeholders, who helped in
smooth execution of the works. In general, the withdrawal applications as well as the direct payments were
handled mostly in time. Response from the Bank regarding withdrawal application & other financial aspects
was satisfactory.

Evaluation of Borrower's Performance


42.         The government handled the project implementation reasonably efficiently. The contracts were
finalized within reasonable time. The Construction Supervision Consultants (CSC) was also engaged within
reasonable time. As per provision in the project, BWDB Engineers and other technical staff were seconded to
the Construction Supervision Consultants. They were part of CSC's team and actively participating in
supervision and quality assurance activities. The senior engineers acquired knowledge about contract
administration, which will be helpful in implementation of large construction contracts. BWDB tried to make
payment to the contractors timely so that work continued unhindered. In spite of constraint on GOB resources,
counterpart funds were made available mostly on time. BWDB has also been able to demonstrate its attitude
fairly reasonably towards attaining a sustainable O&M. Besides, Govt. tired to resolve all issues related to
implementation timely and comply with all the Credit covenants.




                                                        - 43 -

Key Lessons Learned

43.         Comprehensive Planning Approach: The project narrowly focused on the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of the polder-infrastructures, apparently to be consistent with the objective of providing
improved cyclone protection, including personal security, protection of infrastructure and minimizing crop and
livestock losses. A comprehensive approach towards an overall water resources management in the polders, in
support of the second project objective to increase agricultural production, could have further enhanced the
community involvement and agricultural production. Afforestation by its own merit deserves to be an integral
part of the coastal embankment system to support community livelihoods and the environment. A composite
land-use plan for the foreshore of coastal region (found in few polders like Patenga, Kurushkul) with a
combination of conventional embankment, fish/shrimp pond, low-dykes and mangrove plantation on the fringe)
deserves immediate attention of the policy makers and the planners for long-term sustainability of the coastal
polder systems.

44.         Resettlement and Community Role: Re-settlement of the Project Affected Persons eased the
implementation process and helped to avoid further delays. Settlement on the embankment as against routine
maintenance work is an approach towards cost sharing eventually reducing the O&M expenditures. A legal
coverage to contracting between the IA and the community-based groups is essential for protecting their rights.
The community involvement in place requires to be institutionally integrated with the overall polder
management aspects with necessary linkages with the local government institutions.           Relevance of the
community role and the importance of their involvement in the polder management process is likely to dictate
the course of future water resources management in the country.

45.         Procurement Management: All major civil works had been implemented through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Because of ICB, GoB was able to procure, in a most effective manner,
experienced contractors of competence to execute technically challenging civil works. However, ICB alone,
without a strict Pre-Qualification process, would not have resulted in the procurement of the suitably qualified
contractor at the lowest possible price to execute the works. Thus the lesson learned from implementing the
CERP is that a combination of ICB together with a very strict PQ process produces the best results.
Procurement management capacity of BWDB needs strengthening, including procurement performance
tracking on a regular basis. Fragmentation of works into a large number of small packages must be avoided
and a core group of professionals should be developed within the implementing agency to assist and monitor
all procurement matters.

46.         Erosion and Toe Protection: Implementing agencies' should continue the experimental toe
protection works (conventional engineering design coupled with vegetative protection) and organize systematic
monitoring to develop models for different situations. At the same time, the recommended models should be
applied in phases. This approach would greatly reduce the recurring operation & maintenance costs of the
coastal embankment system, particularly for the inland polders.

47.         Technical Assistance: The role of the supervision consultant authorized as `the Engineer' worked
well. The Engineer had the necessary authority and independence, which helped expeditious disposition of
issues and reduced payment delays including potential problems with the contractors. Thus for a large complex
project like the CERP, the role of the supervision consultant as the Engineer can be effective if properly
managed. The TA experts and NGOs working together on the ground facilitated on-the-job training for the
work-face.




                                                      - 44 -

                                                                                                   Annex 8B
                          Bangladesh - Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project
                          (IDA Credit 2783-BD and EC Grant: CERP/ALA/93/20)

                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        BWDB's OPERATION PLAN

1.         Introduction: Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) is responsible for planning,
implementation and O&M of flood control, drainage and irrigation projects including river training, river
erosion control and flood damage rehabilitation works. About 628 nos. of projects/schemes have been
completed by BWDB as of December 2002. Of these, there are 123 polders, covering 30% of 42,000 square
kilometres of Bangladesh coastal area.

2.           CERP - Project Infrastructures: The table below shows the infrastructures of 21 project
polders. This includes among others 1397 km. of embankment (541 km sea-facing and 856 km river-facing).

                                  Table 01: Overall Polder Infrastructure
             Sl.    Polder       Polder      Polder     Sea-facing     River-facing             Drainage
            No.       No.       Location      Area      Embankment     Embankment    Regulators Channel
                                            Hectares         Km.          Km.          Nos.       Km.
             1         2            3           4             5             6           7          8
             1        35/1   Sharankhola     14,598         7.93          53.80         58       131.25
             2        40/2   Patherghata      4,628         2.40          4.62          25        5.08
             3        48     Kuakata          5,065         19.78         18.10         14       56.11
             4        59/2   Ramgati          25,588          -           86.04         30       128.00
             5       59/3B   Sudharam         29,529        50.25         5.00          15       106.00
             6       59/3C   Companigonj      14,449        35.19         7.07          6        26.40
             7        60     Sonagazi         7,710           -           25.60         11       46.26
             8        61/1   Sitakunda        10,170        19.67           -           22       50.45
             9        62     Patenga          6,203         21.94           -           13       29.20
            10       63/1A   Anwara           1,304         14.67         7.80          42         -
            11       64/1A   Banskhali        5,220         31.15         16.00         24       60.00
            12       64/1C   Chanua           2,038         10.19         12.74         37       14.90
            13       64/2B   Chokoria         8,014           -           75.86         32       52.01
            14        66/1   Kurushul         4,847         5.14          13.06         63       23.50
            15        66/3   Chaufaldandi     3,427         11.89         15.54         22       40.00
            16        68     Teknaf           4,366         10.10         13.90         26       20.10
            17        69     Moheshkhali      2,279         15.61           -           8        14.00
            18        70     Matherbari       3,000         32.00           -           41        5.80
            19        71     Kutubdia         5,150         40.11           -           10       46.50
            20        72     Sandwip          17,682        52.80         73.25         21         -
            21       73/1B   Hatiya           17,333          -           73.25         21        -
           Total     192,600      380.82     501.63          541         855.56


3.         Operation & Management: The polder management consists of two principal aspects: operation
and maintenance with an institutional arrangement for community participation. The sustainable management
of coastal polders emphasizes on securing and improving the quality of coastal population conserving the
environmental heritage and natural resources for future generations by developing economically viable
solutions to reduce resources consumption, stop pollution and conserve natural habitats. Day to day operation
of infrastructures, providing benefits to the polder population, are handled by the local-level community
groups, while BWDB manages annual maintenance and other special repairs requiring technical skills and
financial supports.




                                                      - 45 -

4.          Operation & Maintenance (O&M) Plan: BWDB is responsible for O & M of all completed
projects including the coastal polders. BWDB has prepared a database and O&M Plans for 21 project
polders. The monitoring and maintenance program will include: (a) monitoring & evaluation, (b) preventive
maintenance, (c) need based periodic maintenance, and (d) special emergency repairs. These plans have
provided a framework for participatory polder management in line with `Guidelines for Participatory Water
Management, April 2001 approved by the Government.

6.          Institutional Arrangement for O&M: BWDB with two Additional Director Generals (O&M)
organizes the O&M of the completed projects through seven Zonal Chief Engineers supported by 18
Superintending Engineers and 73 Executive Engineers. At BWDB HQ, there is one Chief Engineer, O & M to
co-ordinate the overall programme and monitor the budgetary requirement. Twenty-one project polders are
part of BWDB's 123 coastal polders. Three Zonal Chief Engineers through four Superintending Engineers and
their field Units will administer annual O&M programme.

7.          O&M Cost and Funding: Contrary to existing practices of preparing resources-based budget,
Need Based Budget (NBB) has been prepared for all the 21 CERP-polders for their preventive/routine
maintenance, periodic and emergency maintenance. As per plan, the estimated O&M costs per ha for the
short-term and long-term are shown below:




            In spite of GOB emphasis on appropriate operation & maintenance of the completed scheme during
implementation phase, the government budget in most cases during the O&M phase falls short of what is
needed due to financial constraints. Given the extreme vulnerabilities at the polder/scheme level and inadequate
budgetary allocation, BWDB continuously revise its annual O&M plans and set new priorities to go for the
emergencies in a fire-fighting mode. It is unlikely that GoB budget situation will change in the near future. So,
BWDB is exploring various alternatives like handing over management responsibilities to the Community
Based Organisation for the entire or part of the scheme, enhance service charges in irrigation schemes,
charging beneficiary organization (such as municipalities, inland port authorities, highway department etc.)
Some of these are being piloted/attempted through the recently completed Char-Development Project,
Dampara      Water     Management      Project,   Khulna-Jessore    Drainage     Rehabilitation    Project   and
Pabna/Meghna-Dhonogoda Irrigation Projects. The results of these recent initiatives will provide a basis for
future plan of operation.




                                                        - 46 -

8.          Beyond the Project: The future out look beyond this project is to support the coastal population in
their endeavour to a better livelihood. The unique experiences carried forward from past coastal water projects
such as, Coastal Embankment Project (CEP), Delta Development Project (DDP), Land Reclamation Project
(LRP), Meghna Estuary Study (MES), Early Implementation Project (EIP), System Rehabilitation Project
(SRP) and Char Development and Settlement Project (CDSP) are the building blocks for the Government's
development strategy towards preparing an integrated coastal zone management plan. The implementation
completion of this project has been recognized by the Government as a turning point for future coastal water
resources management programmes. With a view to continuing the achievements made so far, the Government
had formulated a Coastal Zone Water Management Programme (CZWMP) under this project. As a follow-up,
the Government is considering to undertake repair and rehabilitation of 72 out of 123 polders for better water
management under CZWMP. In the short-term, BWDB will focus particularly on the Netherlands funded
coastal projects in the pipe line, such as Integrated Planning for Sustainable Water Management (IPSWAM),
Char Development and Resettlement Project (CDSP) and Estuary Development Programme (EDP). IPSWAM
covering nine coastal polders in hydro-logically delineated south-central zone, aimed at enhancing the capacity
of water sector organization including local level Water Management Organisations (WMOs) and to a limited
extent of Local Govt. Institutions (LGIs) for responsibly assuming their roles in line with National Water
Policy (NWPo) and the Guidelines for Participatory Water Management (GPWM). The extended phase of
CDSP and the Estuary Development Programme (EDP) are under active consideration of the Govt. Among
others these two projects include principally survey and investigation, design of potential coastal interventions
and potential erosion control & accelerated land accretion. Besides, some of 123 coastal polders are likely
candidates for the upcoming Water Management Improvement Project (WMIP) that shall support the on-going
change process in the water sector. To conserve natural resources and stop pollution the Government has also
undertaken Coastal and Wetland Bio-diversity Management, Conservation of Bio-diversity Marines Park
Establishment & Eco-tourism Development, Bio-diversity Conservation in the Sundarbans and, Forestry
Management with international supports. Disaster Management Programmes including non-structural
components have been internalised by other sectors within the Government.

9.          The Government in its policy note of September 1999 on integrated coastal zone management plan
has set the frame work for future development and is committed towards sustainable management of the
coastal resources with pro-poor focus.      As a follow-up, the preparation of an Integrated Coastal Zone
Management Plan (ICZMP), funded by the Netherlands and DFID, is ongoing. The broad objective of ICZMP
is to create a condition in which the development of sustainable livelihoods and the integration of the coastal
zone into national processes can take place. As per current schedule the ICZMP will be ready by 2004.




                                                        - 47 -

- 48 -

