Environmental
Assessment/Analysis
Reports                       _____
Report E 0003
Bangladesh -
Coastal Embankment
Rehabilitation Proj ect
EA Category B
Environmental Assessment
July 1992
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6
Comnmission of the European Communities
Environmental Assessment of the
Coastal Embankment
Rehabilitation Project:
Bangladesh
July 1992
Evrnental Resources Limited
106 Gloucester Place, London WlH 3DB
Telephone 071-465 7200
Telex 296359 ERL C
Facsimile 071-935 8355
T .7 T;
,<.-  ['t7~JZP



CONTENTS
I           WRODUC7ON                                                    1
1.1        BACKGROUND                                                    1
1.2        ASSESSAIENr MFODOLOGY                                         2
1.3        ORGANISA7TON OF THE REPORr                                    3
1.4        THE PROPOSED PROJECr                                          3
2          BASELNE iNFORMATION ON EMMRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS
OF 27HE PROJECT AREA                                         9
z1         NATURAL ENVIRONMENT                                           9
2.2        SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS                               13
2.3        CROP PRODUCTION                                              15
24         FISHRES                                                      21
2.5        FORESMY                                                      25
2.6        IDUSTRy                                                      27
Z27        INSTITUTIONAL FRAME WORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENr        27
2.8        SELECTD NGOs INvOLvED IN ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES     30
-9         'RELATED DONOR SUPPORT                                       32
2.1        AGRICULTURE                                                  32
.11        FISHERIES                                                    32
212        FORESTRY                                                     34
3          POTENTIL EVVRONMENTAL IMPACTS                                35
31         nE COASTAL EMBANKMENT PROfECT REVIEW OF IMPACTS              35
3.2        POSFTIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS                               37
3.3        NEGA77VE ENWVRONMENTAL IMPACrS                               42
4          PROIECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT                                    43
4.1        IN7RODUCTJON                                                 43
4.2        AGRJCULTURE                                                  43
4.3        FISHERIES                                                    50
44          YDROLOGY AND SEDIMENT DYNAMICS                              52
4.5        SoCIo-ECONOM&CS                                              53
46         MISCELLAEOUS                                                 55
5          ENVIRONMENAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 171E PROJECT AREA    56
5.1          MRODUCrION                                                 56
5.2        MA NAGEMENT OF AGRICULTURAL IWFENSIFICAT7ON                  57
5.3        MANAGEMENr OF FIShMIES ISSUES                                 62
5.4        MANAGEMENT OF SOCIO-ECONOMIC ISSES                            63
5.5        COASTAL AFFORESTATION                                         63
&6         INST7IUTIONAL RESPONSIBLITIES FOR ENVIRONMETAL MANAGEMENT     64
5.7        PROCrE CONDIONALTES                                           65



6          ANALYSIS OFALTERNA77VES                                       66
il        TnE LAISSEZ-FAIRE OPTION                                        66
7          MAN CONCLUSIONS                                               68
7.I        OVERAU  DIRONMENTAL IMPAcF                                    68
7.2        SCOPE FOR LMPACT Mm7GAo770i                                   68
7.3        LmPACr MONFTORING                                             68
7.4        ENviRoNMEENTFAL MANAGEmENT                                    69
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



EXECU77VE SUARY
1IIROD1IC7ON
1.1          BACKGROUND
This report has been prepared by Environmental Resources Limited (ERL) and is an
environmental assessment of the proposed Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project
(CERP) in Bangladesh. The project was formerly bkown as the Cyclone Protection
Project 11. ERL's assignment has been funded by the Commission of the European
Communities (CEC) which is co-financing the project in conjunction with the World
Bank and the Government of Bangladesh (GOB).
1.1.1        The Assignment
7he CEC has contracted ERL to provide environmental consulting services to conduct
an assessment of the environmental and social aspects of the CPP 11 and to participate
in the World Bank's project appraisal mission in Bangladesh. During the latter. ERL
consultants will assist the mission in project appraisal and will identify opportunities
for CEC support within the project.
T7his report is concerned with the environmental assessment of the project which was
carried out by an ERL Senior Consultant over a three week period in Bangladesh
during June 199Z  A report on the World Bank appraisal mission and opportunities
for CEC support is the subject of a separate report which will be produced in August
after the Bank's appraisal mission (scheduled for July 7992).
2            THE PROJECT
The project has the following components:
* Rehabilitation and improvements to 12 sea-facing embankments.
* Minor rehabilitation and improvements ro the non-coastal sections of polders in the
mid-term programme (induding re-excavation of drainage canals and repair or
replacement of drainage structures).
* Afforestation of embankment slopes and a 700-200m wide strip offoreshore to reduce
embankment damage and maintenance costs
* Improved Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of all embankments and polders in
the mid term programmew with provsfns for the inolvement of displaced/landless
people.
E-must3.EL RKc LzA,u                             Com   um UG -ESwACmu



* Technical assistance jpr implementation support and training of implementing
agency staff and communities participating in O&M and afforestation activities.
* Vehides and minor equipment for GOB supervision and for Non Covernmental
Organisations (NGOs) involved in organising community participation.
* Environmental monitoring and mitigation measures.
3            KEY POTE7NIfAL PROJECT IMPACTS
The key potential project inputs are summarised in Table 3a.
4            MAiV CONCLUSIONS
4.1          OVERALL ENVIRoNMENrAL DWPACT
7he environmental appraisal confirms that the overall environmental impact of this
project is positive The expected impacts on fisheries, agrnogre and soco-economic
status of the apouation in the project area will be significantly positive in most
reapects.
The main source of signifiamnt negative impacts is likely to be lant aeuisition_fr
embanknent construction and rehabilitation. Unless compensation and resettlement
provisions are adequate, long term residual impacts (which persist after ottempts at
mitigation) may arise in relation to:
- Loss of fruit trees.
L oss of prime aRrltural land
* Ibtion of surface water bWes.
4.2          SCOPE FOR IMPACT MIGATION
There is adeqate scope for the mitigation of virtually all the identified adverse
environmental and social impacts of the project. We have stressed throughout this
report the need for those families who are affected by embankment tcm tuon-tsbL
compensated for their immediate assets and loss of produce from lost trees and crop
land
BnuWONmSMAL RMSoWum 1u1                          Coinww cwnu Eim.i Commua,m
E _ L R                         a o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



TabIc 3a        Key Pote,itiail Project limipacts and AMonitoriIj/Mitigation Measures
Nature of Impad                               lmpact Characterization  (-,          e        Miligaltlor/Management Activities
Ground water pollution                        Sig, LT, LP, LO, Irr                           Promnote efficient use of agrochemcakL
Restrict agrochemkal use in areas where problems
aris.
Promote integrated pest managenenL
Changes in ladder availability                Insig, LT, LP, La, Rev                         Encourage growth of lodder pants in afforestation
areas and on public land
Salinisalion of groundwater                   5ig, LT. HP, La, Irr                          Impose sirks contrls on grmundwater abstraction
Promote crops of low water demiand.
Drawduwn of surface water resources           Sig LT, HP, LO, Rev                            Encourage cultivation of low water demand cops.
Provide LLP irrigation rorn outside pokiers.
Rcstrict cropping pallerns.
Decline in openwater capture fisheries        Insig, LT, LP, LO, Rev                         Artifkial stocking of captum fisheries.
Time drainage schedule to migratory patterns.
Increased aquaculture production.             Sig, LT. HP, Lo, Rev                           NGOs to provide assistance in aquacullure
development.
Increased employment opportunities            Sig, LT/ST, HP, Ex, Rev                        NGO - coordinated ernployment training.
Increased credit dependence.                  Insig, LT, Lo, Rev                             NGO advice on credit invesiment management
Improved socio-economic stalus.               Sig, LT, HP, Ex, Rev                           and income generating activiles.
Loss of 14lad to embankment conutructitn and/ar  Sig LT, HIP, Ex, Ir                         Minimise land take on landward side.
raw material acquisition.                                                                    Replace/compensate for affected assets.
Ensure adequate compensation for crop lss on
long term basis.
Provide advke on management of cash
compensation.
Social conflicts amongst affected groups.     Insig. ST, LP, Lo, Rev                         NGO mediation
Social fabric of communities disruptled.      Insig, ST, LP, Lo, Rev                         Beneficiary participation in reseltleawnt plAnning.
Genetic erusion                               Sig, LT, Ex, Iff                               Colleclion and prescrvation of indigenous
varieties.
Rodd daiiage and accidlenits caused by        Insig, ST, LP, LA), Rev                        Repair damaged ra sections and property.
c(nstruclican tr4ffic.                                                                      Impuse kiad/spexd restrictions on coristruclion
traffic.



Nature of Impact                                Impact Characterization                          MillatlganJMaaagement Activitie
Sedimentaliin (if khidls  dnI wdlercourss       Inrsig, LT, Lo, Rev                              Re-excavater allected watercourses if necessary.
NGO saistance in fisheries deelopmenwt.
Increased recruitment of shrimp I.rvje due to   Sig, LT, Lo, Rev                                 NGO advice on patterns of afforeslation and
mayngrove affurestatiun.                                                                         suslainabkl explilakion
Suggest ranaagemenl practies as appropriate.
Conflicts of ldnd-use amongst rice/shrimp farmers. Sig, LT, HP. In, Rev                          Introduce land-use zonation
Key      Sig - Significant
Insig - Insignificant
LT. Long Term
ST - Staort Term
HP - High prubability
LP - Low probMbility
Lo- Localized
Ex - Extensive
Rev * Reversible
hrr. Irreversible



7the fort required to mitigate tte effects of increased water demand and reduced
availability of surface water resources will vary widely. In some areas full mitigation
may be possible by excavating dep borrow pit ponds, whilst in other areas the
provision of surface water irr.gation schemes may be required. The NMIDP could
support some of these requirements.
4.3          ImPAClT MONIToRoNG
The impacts of the project can be monitored effectively by drawing upon the information
collected by other agencs and donor-supported monitoring programmes.
The consultants of the Project Implementation Unit will have to formulate and establish
mechanisms for this to be achieved.
44            ENViRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
The existing institutional framework is inadequatefor the purpose of long term holistic
management of coastal polders. The most appropriate way of achieving this goal is by
development of an Environmental Management Cell within the Bangiadesh Water
Development4 which could collaborate witlhout coordinating the actions of other
agencius involved in poWder management
E-moNmoaAL ,.ouwa [Aaw                            Cdm~ oF 7m Eunapow Cammum.
EI'4V.~~~~OtNTLROCULuwC.m aiM Eiuu CoSdu



I           WNRODUC77ON
11          BACKGROUND
This report has been prepared by Environmental Resources Limited (ERL) and
is an environmental assessment of the proposed Coastal Embankment
Rehabilitation Project (CERP) in Bangladesh. The project was formerly known
as the Cydone Protection Project 11. ERL's assignment has been funded by the
Commission of the European Communities (CEC) which is co-financing the
project in conjunction with the World Bank and the Government of Bangladesh
(GOB).
1.1.1       The Assigment
The CEC has contracted ERL to provide environmental consulting services to
conduct an assessment of the environmental and social aspects of the CPP 11,
and to participate in the World Bank's project appraisal mission in Bangladesh.
During the latter, ERL consultants will assist the mission in project appraisal
and will identify within the project opportunities for CEC support.
This report is concemed with the environmental assessment of the project
which was carried out by an ERL Senior Consultant over a three week period
in Bangladesh during June 1992. A report on the World Bank appraisal mission
and opportunities for CEC support is the subject of a separate report which will
be produced in August after the Bank's appraisal mission (scheduled for July
1992).
1.1.2       Tffm  of Refcwc (ToRs)
The Terms of Reference for ERL's environmental assessment of the Cyclone
Protection D Project are reproduced in Annex A. In summary they involve the
foilowing tasks:
* Reviewing the adverse impacts of the first Cydone Protection Project and
suggesting ways in which the proposed prQject can be modified to mitigate
against such impacts.
* Identifying potential impacts of the project, in quantitative terms where
possible.
* Comparing the environmental costs and benefits of project implementation
against the laissez-faire option.
* Preparing an impact mitigation plan which includes cost estimates and
implementation arrangements.
* Describing, evaluating and making recommendations on the institutional
framework for environmental management of the project.
ENV.ONM.rL RUsCIS LDUD                      Comm  or .m Ehm  Co%stum
*1



* Preparing and costing an impact monitoring plan.
1.2         ASSESSMENT METHODOL OGY
This report is based upon the findings of a three week period in Bangladesh
during which field visits were undertaken and discussions held with local
inhabitants and relevant agencies, primarily in Dhaka. We conducted the
environmental assessment in accordance with the World Bank's Operational
Directive 4.00 on Environmental Assessment. Consideration was also given to
the World Bank's policy and guidelines on resettlement and compensation, and
to the environmental assessment guidelines produced under the Flood Action
Plan (FAP) environmental component (A   j
During the time available, it was not possible to collect detailed primary data on
the existing environmental and social characteristics of the project area. The
assessment is therefore largely based upon the data coDected for Cyclone
Protection Project II, other components of the Flood Action Plan and relevant
projects such as the Agricultural Support Services Project and the National
Minor Irrigation Development Project. Information from these sources is
available for environmental and social characteristics at the district and upazila
administrative levels but not for individual embankment and polder areas
covered by the project. This places limits on the depth to which environmental
assessment can proceed though we have attempted to take local conditions into
accDunt as far as possible.
For many aspects of the environment, there is inadequate data to allow for
quantitative analysis of environmental impacts refletiing poor data collection
activities in the past. This has imposed constraints on impact analysis of some
environmental aspects such as fisheries, water quality and agro-chemical based
poilution. Similar difficulties have been noted by the Kampsax International-
lead consortium.
The term 'environmental impact' is used here in its broadest sense to include
socio-economic issues unless otherwise stated.
We have characterised environmental impacts, where possible and appropriate
in the following ways:
* Significance.
* Duration.
* Likelihood.
* Extent.
* Reversibility.
In devising impact monitoring and mitigation measures we have taken into
consideration local institutional difficuties arising from inadequate resources,
staffing levels and experfise, mainly bcattempting to combine the monitoring
requirements of this project with other related projects.
ENwONuL RBVmcu Lmw                           Commi 0 1F6 Eumww Cosamm



Any quantitative assebsments of costs and benefits arising from project impacts
are based on the Flood Plan Coordinating Organisadon (FPCO) guidelines on
conversion factors.
1.3         ORGANISAT7ON OF TME REPoRT
This report consists of various sections which are supported by annexes
containing further information. Section I contains information on the proposed
project and its context within Bangladesh whilst in Section 2 we outline the
environmental and social characteristics of the project area. Section 3 relates the
potential environmental and social impacts of the project and coastal
embankments in general whilst in Section 4 the positive and negative
environmental impacts which we consider could occur are discussed.
In Section 5 environmental management of the project area is considered and
indudes monitoring and nmtigation measures. In Section 6 a brief consideration
of the laissez-faire option is presented. Finally, in Section 7 we present our main
findings and conrlusions.
The supporting annexes contain the following information:
* Annex A: Terms of Reference.
A Anner B: Fisheries.
* Anner C: Agriculture.
* Annex D: Socio-economics.
A Annex E: Afforestation.
- Annex F: Flora and Fauna.
- Annex G: Selected Bibliography.
1.4         THE PROPOSED PRIOJECT
1.4.1        Cotext
Bangladesh has suffered from a spate of natural disasters in recent years mainly
as a result of its geomorphological and geographical position within the
floodplain of three of the world's largest rivers; the Ganges, Brahmaputra
Uamuna) and the Meghna which flow into the Bay of Bengal.
The country lies within the monsoon zone of the Indian Sub-continent and
being a coastal low-lying country is subject to the full force of the monsoon.
Annual rainfall totals in coastal areas rank among the highest in the world.
Floods associated with the monsoon rains are a frequent phenomenon which
vary in the extent and depth of flooding according to rainfall and tidal patterns
in the region. The worst floods in recent years were experienced in 1987 and
1988 when much of the country was inundated.
Localised flooding of coastal low-lying areas also occurs during periods of high
river discharge and spring tides. In some areas 3m high tidal bores have swept
over the coastil zone. Flooding, particularly by saline waters, imposes major
EzAwnuA. RODUmU Law                          C0-C 1 Ema h CEu _ j
3



constraints on the agricultural and industrial development of coastal
Bangladesh.
An additional natural hazard experienced in the Bay of Bengal is that of
cydones. Over the last 125 years, 42 cyclones have hit the coastal area of
Bangladesh; 14 of these have occurred in the last 25 years. Figure 1.4a indicates
the trajectories of more recent cyclones. The most recent cyclone of April 1991
resulted in the loss of 140,000 lives and severe damage to infrastructure and the
agriculture and industry sectors of the economy.
GOB Protection Mmsures
Since the 1960s the Govemments of Pakistan (prior to independence) and more
recently, Bangladesh, have taken measures to reduce the risk of coastal flooding
and afford some protection against cyclones. The Coastal Embanknent Project
(CEP) was originally designed to prevent flooding by spring tides and monsoon
associated high river flows. It offered protection to approximately 14,000 km.
of coastal land through the construction of embankznents along the coast.
Damage to the coastal embankments by successive cydones has been
exacerbated by coastal erosion (estimated at 2.5 m3L/rWr) and human
disturbance. After the November 1970 cyclone the GOB aided by the World
Bank and other donors, initiated a reconstruction programme which was also
aimed at rehabilitating affected coastal areas. The benefits of this programme
were readily apparent during the May 1985 cyclone when the embankment
dissipated much of the tidal energy surge, considerably lessening the cyclones
impact
Inadequate repair and maintenance of the coastal embankments meant that
witfi iadeiintof ihe ApniT9cdonemuchof the coastal embankment
system was in a poor state and was overtopped and breached in many areas.
The GOB had been conscious of this state of affairs for some time and in 1986
it had formulated a National Cyclone Protection Programme (NCPP) aimed at
* Improving the existing coastal embanknent.
* Protecting newly accreted land.
* Developing coastal forests.
* Improving communications.
* Rehabilitating local economies.
* Providing cyclone protection.
This programme was to proceed in two stages:
* A mid-term programme for the strengthening of existing embankments.
a A long-term programme aimed at the construction of new embankments to
extend protection to newly accreted land for example.
Following various delays, a contract was awarded to a consortium of
consultants lead by Kampsax International ANS. The consultant's studies were
in progress when the April 1991 cydone occurred and as a result the
E-JE,amiwrAL RZSOIS Ezaimm                  CcO   OF I EAMOILAN C_m
4



Figpm 1.Ua Recent Cyclone Paths aid the Area affected by the 1992 Cyclone
_ __ _____ _  _ -r               I                  I                 I        fmq    ii
BANGLADESHi
CYCLONE PATHS AND CYCLONE AFFECTED AREA
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.I.h
F   City or Town . aMynwn
Ryln  ainswhil'ea
Severey Oaqe..-\ 
IE N    I                   IA"   O  I                    I
&~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N 0  1 A  
. (~~I N    } ntil A J
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~    R M A  
LEGEND                                     \ //Stm Milin*
i nternational l3vundory------_          / t 
City or Town - - -    a                
Cyclone Pathms m     99Yew
Acfec ed Aea (192
Severey Damaed...  /y
Sow=c B;WDB (-92



consultants were asked to modify their outputs to produce a Priortv WVorks
Programme (PWP) for urgent embankment repair and rehabilitation work. The
programme involves the rehabilitation of 135 km-oLexisting embankment and
the construction of 55 km of retired embankment. This project is currently
being implemented an-disfina1nced by IDA.
Separate projects and programmes are addressing the need for improved road
access to the coastal areas, the construction of cyclone protection shelters and
an effective cydone preparedness system.
Flood Action Plan
Following the disastrous floods of 1987 and 1988, the donor community and the
Government of Bangladesh, lead by the World Bank developed a programme
of assistance which will greatly reduce the potential for natural phenomena to
create such significant and widespread disruption to the economy of the
country and to reduce the risks of loss of life. The Flood Action Plan (FAP)
consists of over 20 components which address the risks due to flooding and
cyclones. The CERP or Cyclone Protection I! Project constitutes FAP component
7.
1.4.2       ProCct CoGponcts
It is intended that the coastal embankment design concepts proposed under the
Priority Works Programme should be extended to other coastal areas by the
proposed project which has the folowing components:
• Rehabilitation and improvements to 12 sea-facing embankments.
* Mfinor rehabilitation and improvements to the non-coastal sections of polders
in the mid-term programune (including re-xcavation of drainage canals and
repair or replacement of drainage structures).
* Afforestation of embankment slopes and a 100-200m wide strip of foreshore
to reduce embankment damage and maintenance costs.
* Improved Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of all embankments and
polders in the mid term programme, with provisions for the involvement of
displaced/landless people.
* Technical assistance for implementation support and training of
implementing agency staff and communities participating in O&M and.
afforestation activities.
* Vehicles and minor equipment for GOB supervision and for Non
Governmental Organisations (NGOs) involved in organising community
participation.
* Environmental monitoring and mitigation measures.
E,w.A,a,aAL REacB Iuu                      Cm.m. aF -on EGoCmm



Project Area
The project will target discrete coastal areas which have been identified on the
basis of economic analyses and in relation to their vulnerability and proneness
to cydones. The areas range along the coast from Teknaf in the extreme south
east to Sarankhola in Bagerhat District (Figure- 7.4b). The figure-
distinguishes between those areas which are included in the PWP (shown in
red) and those included in the mid term programme. Adi;;4stively, the
project ranges over 11 Districts and 32 upazilas of the country.
The coastal embankments of Bhola Island are the subject of an Asian
Development Bank (ADB) project (Second Bhola Irrigation Project) and are
therefore not catered for in this present project.
-1.43        Prject Benefits
The PWP and Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project will provide the
following benefits to the coastal areas affected.
* Protection to human life: approximately 140,000 people died during the
previous cydlone.
= Increased agricultural production: it is expected that flood protection will
result in increased production due to the prevention of flooding and by the
increased investment in farming inputs which will result from enhanced
farmer confidence.
e Increased production of fish and shrimp through aquaculture developments.
* Protection of property (over 5 million houses) and coastal infrastructure.
* The generation of forestry products such as fuel, building materials and
foods as a resuit of afforestation.
* improved long term employment opportunities in intensified agricultural
production, aquaculture development and O&M activities.
The area protected by the project is approximately 4 million ha and supports a
population of about 30 million. Some insight into the protection afforded by the
project can be gained by considering the recorded losses of the April 1992
cyclone:
* Human life; @140,000.
* Livestock; 1,061,029.
D Damaged housing; 819,608.
* Crops affected; 55,530 ha.
e Educational establishments damaged; 3.865.
* Forest destroyed; 112,316 acres.
* Embankments affected; 697 miles.
* Bridges and culverts affected; 496
Er_awwffAL bSmIa LUm                          CAmm oN Om ELumqa CmaIi
7



.Lf  ..~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iceovnw  .                                                                    .
rn*9rI*;p,.  ,  , *                                                                                                                                  Pe4d.(s in M.d Toro
~~.  NY'j*~~~~.~                                                                                                                       PVO9Iff 1P1410 II .
63AAA, ~~~fWin ..0
BARI    CIRCLEfMo~g-                                                                           , 
3e/~~~~? u~~~  I  i                    /      /                   r ~~~~~~ PEOPLE'S NtEPUSUC OF BANGOLADESH
I                  /                                   I~~~~~~~~~~mTI Fm WFATmI4WATER0rFa0;mm
5g,I, RGM6EI1-1             I                     /                                      M@.m.1 VOTER ODS.otdf som
S                                                               7S/IS,NIIIO       I  H                 /                          ,     ..~~~~~~~73A.H0  CYCLONE PROTECTION  PROkJECT It
1. ,UEnds,ip-                                  l~~~~~~~ASS MWP
O,MG M toIiIrI -                                         K OIUWSAX INlEWdAOMA Al&. BCIOM and
*6/I.Ce.,Sou.r  I  *. ..  --              WMSI KfORAAIACINSTITUTE             015@045
-. .)..~~~~~~~.- . -- - ~~~~~~Toktaf-    -.DWLGP9JNT DESIGN CONSULANTMS LID
* ~~.  -.   ..... .....                                                                                                                       23..,  .*.*   -  W OWa % M          Figutre 1.41



2           BASELMETORMAT77NONENVIROAN TALAND SOCLALASPECTS OF
771E PROJECT ARE4
In general, the available data in Bangladesh is inadequate for the purpose of
environmental assessment. This view is echoed in many reports on the Flood
Action Plan such as the Regional Plan Report for the South East region which
states that 'views of the available regional database in a number of subject areas
have raised concem over the quality of data on which good regional project
planning can proceed. Data on climate and soils is adequate though the length
of time series data is limited. Official data sources on basic agricultural,
irrigation and yield statistics have often proved inconsistent and unreliable on
closer examination'.
In this section we provide baseline infornation on the foDowing environmental
and socio-economic aspects of the project area:
* Natural environment
* Socio-economic characteristics.
* Agriculture sector.
* Industrial sector.
0 Institutional framework for environrmental management
* Related projects in Bangladesh.
- NGO activities in environmental, fisi;eries and agricultural issues.
21          NNATuRAL ENVIRoNMENT
- 1.1       Climate
General climatic data are available for Comnilla and Noakhali and there are
rainfall stations at a number of sites along the coast According to climatic
norm data, temperature varies fro:;A 19-28.3"C, relative humidity from 66-875%,
windspeed from 0.9-4.3 rn/sec, and rainfall from 6-700mnVmonth.
21.2        Physical Zonation of the Coastal Area
Much of the coastal area is low lying; a im rise in sea level would inundate
much of the south western triangular part of the country from (and including)
Khulna to the south of Noakhali.
Various studies have delineated geographical zones in Bangladesh based upon
physical and chemical characteristics. One of the most comprehensive attempts
at this has been the zonation of the country into agro-ecological zones (AEZs).
These are based on climatic conditions, soil characteristics, physiography and
land use capabilities. The agro-ecological zonation of the coastal zone consists
of the following-
E,Auma,iWAL RUOLVS LWn                       Cwo  o,i,s Euo.inm Cmwam
Q



* Ganges Tidal Floodplain (AEZ 13) in the west
* Young Meghna Estuarine Floodplain (AEZ 18) in the central area.
* Chittagong Coastal Plain in the eastern part
The agro-ecological zones for embankments and polders of the project are
indicated in Annex C of this report
The Master Plan Organisation also developed a countrywide zonation on the
basis of the depth and duration of flooding, which is a reflection of local
hydrology and elevation.
Conscious of the fact that these geographical zones are comparatively large and
that at the individual polder level there may be considermble variations in soil
fertility and crop suitability, the Kampsax consortium have categorised polders
in the project area according to soil salinity and cropping intensity Annex C
An examination of current physical processes allows one to recognise three
distinct physical areas along the coast In the south west, there is a close
anastomosing network of rivers and creeks which do not permit extensive
erosion. In this area is found the largest mangrove forest in the world, the
Sundarbans. In terms of sediment dynamics, this region is relatively stable.
It is also less liable to flooding, experiencing on average Z floods in 10 years
compared to 3-5 floods in 10 years further eastwards.
In the central region of coastal Bangladesh lies the confluence zone of 3 of the
world's largest rivers; the Meghna, Jamuna and Ganges. The. sediment
dynamics of this region is highly unstable with considerable simultaneous
erosion and deposition. The rivers migrate laterally to a large extent, creating
new char lands and eroding older lan,d.
In the south east, along the Chittagong and Cox's Bazaar coast is found
extensive areas of sandy beaches and a coastal belt which rises into the
Chittagong H1i Tracts.
Parts of the coast can be considered to be seismically active. The south east is
a zone of medium risk from earthquakes.
v1.3         Soil Resources
Within the project area some 9 soil types are recognised and their polder-wise
and AEZ occurrence have been described in Appendix D of the Kampsax
International reporL In summary they are as follows:
* Alluvium (calcareous and non-alcareous).
* Floodplain soils (calcareous and non-calcareous).
* Acid sulphate soils.
* Peat.
In the Ganges Tidal Floodplain, the soils are mainly calcareous and non-
calcareous floodplain soils with a significant proportion of acid sulphate soils
which can be extremely acidic during the dry season. Soils of the Sundarbans
ENVo.wmTaAL RasOsnMus Lmmun                   Cominwm op nm Euummra. C
in



area are alkaline in nature. In terms of fertility, the soils of this AEZ have
medium to high fertility and high organic content. The land capability
classification is poor to moderately good, with salinity being the main
constraint
The Young Meghna Estuarine Floodplain has loam and silty clay floodplain soils
and alluvium. The general fertility is medium but the soils are reported to be
low in nitrogen and organic matter. The land capability status of soils in this
AEZ are poor to moderately good with scope for improvement folowing flood
protection measures.
The soils of the Chittagong Coastal Plains are quite variable with floodplain
soils, alluvium and acid sulphate soils being the predomninant types. Soil fertility
is classified as medium with some limiting factors. The present land capability
classification is poor to moderite but there is scope for improvement with
adequate flood protection to moderately good/good.
Variations of salinity in coastal soils are illustrated in Annex C
Z1.4    zWatcryo
There are very little data upon which to characterise the water quality in the
projecL GeneraDly it appears that water quality is satisfactory in most areas
apart from the Chittagong area where some industrial pollution occurs.
Natural Habitats
The following natural habitats can be identified along the coast of Bangladesh:
* Intertidal estuarine mudflats and sandflats.
Forested regons.
* RiverOmhals and tidal creeks.
* Char lands.
* Arable land.
The main coastal forest area is the Sundarbans in the south west. This forest
has an area of 395,600 ha. The forest supports a varied flora and fauna and is
one of the last refuges of the Bengal tiger. The forest is an important source of
timber and other products of which Sundari and Gewa constitute 80% of the
marketable volume.
In addition to the Sundarbans forest, natural mangrove forest also exists along
the Chittagong coast though this has been subject to felling by shrimp farmers
in recent years and has lost much of its faunal diversity. The crab eating
monkeys are reported to have virtually disappeared in some areas.
Since 1966, an additional 0.036 million ha of mangrove forest has been planted
along the coast in the Noakhali, Chittagong, Patuakhali and Barisal Districts.
Mangrove forests are an important spawning and nursery area for many fish
and shrimp species. Associated mudflats also support valuable shellfish.
*    E,AumSONNAL RmuoKi L.AMM                  Co_> OuF TM Ewus C    _wau
11



The char lands support little natural flora and fauna apart from a sparse
pnrmary colonising community.
2.1.5       Resecves and Prtectcd Areas
Within the coastal region are three protected forest areas:
* Sundarbans Forest
e Choakhalia Mangroves, south of Chittagong.
* Teknaf tropical forest, near Cox's Bazaar.
2.1.6       FPa and Fauna
The coastal zone supports communities of flora and fauna which are of
economic importance to the fisheries and tourism sectors and are also of
conservation importance. Unfortunately the database on wildlife is considered
inadequate to allow satisfactory impact assessment by most workers. Partial
inventories of the flora and fauna have been compiled by Kampsax
International and are presented in Annex F.
.
Mammals
Noteworthy mammals of the -coastal area which are mainly found in the
protected areas are spotted deer, leopard, tiger, jungle and leopard cats, civets,
Gangetic dolphin and various monkey species (Annex F).
Birds
Over 660 species of birds have been recorded in Bangladesh, about 80 of which
are found in the coastal zone. About 170 birds are associated with wetlands
and some 220 are migratory birds. Banglidesh is an important transit area for'
birds overwintering, birds migrating latitudinally between India and South East
Asia, and for seasonal migrants from Burma and the Himalayan region.
Amongst these species are several intemationally imnportant and endangered
species such as:
* Spoon-billed sandpiper.
* Asian dowitcher.
* Green shank.
Reptes
There are many species of terrestrial snake (such as cobra), lizard, tortoise and
aquatic reptiles in the project area, including the gavial and saltwater crocodile
which are linited to small areas of the coast and are endangered.
Fish and Shnmp
Over 70 species of fish from the coastal zone can be found in Bangladesh
markets and the coastal zone is an important breeding zone for many manne
I _
EIvm,aaAL RmE CI                              c-n h ~Eiom Cmm~
1X



spedes. In addition, there are major spawning beds of the giant shrimp along
the coast, particularly near the coast of the Sundarbans and Cox's Bazaar.
Flora
Bangladesh has over 5000 recorded plant species. However, little is known of
the flora of the project area- apart from the mangrove forests which have
received considerable attention. Common speces of the coastal area are listed
in Annex F.
The most common species of mangrove tree found along the coast indude the
foUowing
* Keora (Sonneratio aseolans).
* Baen (Avicennif offinalis).
* Gewa (Excoario agailodw).
* Kankra (Brugeria gymnorrhiza).
* Babul (Acacia niliticz).
Keora is the most common tree species and al of the above are used in
mangrove afforestation exercises. Acacia which is the main component of
plantations in drier littoral areas, is an introduced species.
2.2          SOaO-FcoMoMIc CAuCA uRISTICS
The socio-economic characteristics of human settlement vary considerably along
the coast of Bangladesh. Some variations such as the nature and size of
settlements can be attributed to the 'remoteness' and poorly developed
communications network whilst other characteristics such as land use and
J socio-economic status may reflect agro-ecological differences. For example the
contribution of various economic sub-sectors such as fishing and aquaculture
to the local economy vary along the coastal zone.
Rural water supply in the project area is mostly from two sources, tubewells
and ponds and shallow ditches (Annex D). A small minority of people obtain
their water from flowing surface waters such as canals and rivers.
Western and Central Coastal Areas
In the south westem and central parts of the project area, the land mass is
heavily dissected by anastomosing rivers and creeks and there are large
numbers of coastal islands and newly accreted 'char lands'. The level of
development in these areas is quite low and settlements mainly consist of smal
villages and individual homesteads scattered amongst agricultural land. The
difficulties of surface communications imposes constraints on the level of
econornic development and there is a general absence of 'urban' infrastructure
and institutions such as banks.
One of the major constraints to economic development is likely to be access to
credit facilities; most people borrow from professional moneylenders (who
E_vmmarAL Rmamnc LED                           Cmm  oi in EzmcwLvh Co_amu
13



charge exorbitant interest rates) or less commonly from family or friends. NCO
credit provisions are limited to those small areas in which the NGOs operate.
Targets for agricultural lending by the formal credit sector have been poorly
met over a number of years (Annex D).
Markets are an important focal point in the rural communities and they provide
some opportunites for families to supplement their incomes by seling excess
produce and livestock and homemade items.
The costs of transport to remote polder areas also result in higher prices for
goods and supplies which is also a constraining factor. This is likely to be less
of a problem as the rural road network improves.
The main forms of transport in these areas are boats and rickshaws; motor
vehides are scarce. There appear to be no major official river navigation routes
in the project area (apart from the Meghna) which could be affected. Any
unregistered routes from the coast or river delta area along smalE tidal rivers
have long since been disrupted by the construction of the original coastal
embankments.
Despite the absence of large hospitals, health care is reasonably well developed
and in areas visited villagers report that several doctors are available localEy.
Most people are engaged in agricultural activitiess ch as crop cultivation,
fishing and aquaculture (Annex D). Livestock rearing is also important but
supports tew families in its own right. In some areas it is reported that up to
17% of males may be engaged in migrant labour in other parts of Bangladesh
and neighbouring countries. This can create local labour deficiencies and
provides opportunities for women to gain employment. Generally, it appears
however that female employment in the agricultural sector is comparatively
uncomnon.
There are appreciable numbers of landless people living upon the embankments
or upon char lands (Annex D). Often tbese people have lost their own land
through debt repayment or because of river erosion. They appear to subsist
mainly by fishing, crop cultivation and labouring.
Eastern Coastal Areas
The coastal stretch from Chittagong to Teknaf is markedly different in several
ways. Firstly, the area is much more sparsely populated than further north and
the land rises from a narrow low lying coastal strip into the foothills. As a
result, cropping patterns are different.
The infrastructure of the area is much more developed, being served by two
airports, good quality roads, train links and port facilities. Tourism is promoted
in the vicinity of the sandy beach resort of Cox's Bazaar.
Industrial activities in the Chittagong area are quite diverse and support a
significant labour force. The fisheries sector also supports many families,
especially the landless people living along the beaches who catch shrimp larvae.
FieNwWaxr RKoucTs EmIw                         Cowm oN am Ew a  Comm_um



On some islands such as Moaskhali agricultural labour shortages have been
noted since most families are engaged in the fisheries sector.
2.3         CROP PRODUCTION
In this section we briefly review the nature of crop production practices in the
coastal area of Bangladesh in relation to the potential environmental and social
impacts of coastal embankments. More detailed information on agriculture in
the project area can be obtained from Appendix D of the 'Draft Project
Preparation Report for CPP 11 Feasibility and Design Studies' produced by the
Kampsax-lead consortium (BWDB,1992).
2.31        Farming Put ices
There are two main cropping seasons in Bangladesh (Table 23a):
* Kharif: March to%November (pre-monsoon and monsoon periods).
* Rabi: November to March (dry or winter period).
Kiarnf Crpping Practices
In the pre-monsoon period, water can be in short supply and soil salinity is at
its highest. During this period an 'aus' rice crop may be planted in field
moistened by the pre-monsoon showers. This crop is a short season crop and
matures in about 3 months. Transplanted aus rice (T.aus) is grown as seedlings
in watered beds and transplanted to the land after its preparation. It is usually
harvested in July though the time of harvesting and crop yield depend to a
large extent on the timing of pre-monsoon and monsoon rains. Transplanted
varieties usually produce higher yields than broadcast (B.aus) rice.
The monsoon rice crop ('aman') can be grown from broadcast or transplanted
seedlings. In the case of transplanted aman (T.aman), seedlings are
transplanted into prepared fields which have a water depth of about 0.3m. This
is usually in late July/August. The crop is harvested in November or December.
In some areas B.aus and B.aman crops are sown together though they are
harvested at the usual periods. This strategy is adopted in areas where flooding
is unpredictable to an extent and the farmer hopes to secure at least one crop.
The Baman used in this fashion is a long stalked floating variety and can
survive prolonged extensive flooding. This practice is declining with the
development of FCD schemes.
Rabi Cropping Practices
During this period the crops grown are generally of lower water demand,
unless irrigation is possible using surface or ground water. Such crops are
wheat, vegetables, lentils, chilies, oilseeds and pulses and these are grown for
home use and for sale.
EwwamPffAL Rmoua Umu                          Coaau ouiW Ehmima Coammum
11 r



Table 73.        Gamemlised Cropping Pattern in the Project Area
Season            Crps C       Land Ptcp.rmon    S owinElTrnsPiueamC lIr ng
Khalif-I        B. Aus            Febmry/Maveb       Mid Match-Mid Apnil  Mld July-Mid Augu
(MarchJunc)    T. Aus             March              Early March-Early      :..jrly July-Lame July
Jute              Febnaary/marh      Apnil                  Early July-Early Augt
5 Tm!             Marh               Eary March-Early      June
S. Vegable        March              April                 Juiy- September
MardiL
Apnl
I;hrir-ll       T. Amen (HYV)   June                 Early July-Lame July   Laie Nuvcmbcr-Mid
(July-Otober)   T. Amon (L)       July               Late July-Late Augst   Dccembcr
______________ .________________   loNwomber/Dccemnber
Rabi            Born (IIV)        DeCember/Jauu-    LAtc Jan.-Mid Febria-   Early June-Lage June
(Novenbef-      Wheat             am                 ivy                    Late Februar-Eavly
Fcbruny         Oil Seels         November                                  March
Poawr             November           Mid Nov.-Early Dec.    February
Spaao             Novcmber           December              March
W.Melon           Decerber          January                May
ului              Dccember           January               Apnl-May
W.Veptablc        November           Latc Nov.-Mid Dcc.    Fcbrnary-Mareh
G. Nut            November           Mid Nov.-Mid Dcr      January-Maelab
C-PC (Fal
o                 Ner                Deembr                March
SpucS             Dceinber.          January               Marth-Apul
December          Janmuaty               March-April
Soue: BWDB (1992)



If irrigation is possible by pumping with low lft pumps from surface waters
(groundwater is not available for irrigation purposes in the coastal zone), a dry
season ('Boro) rice crop can be grown. Generally HYVs are used and grown
in seed beds prior to transplanting in late January/early February. The crop is
harvested in May and June.
212          Faras Ad Farm Sim
Those people whose livelihoods mainly depend on the agriculture sector can be
categorised as follows.
Squatters; having no land or homesteads.
* Sharecroppers; who may have homesteads but cultivate anothers land.
* Small farmers cum sharecroppers.
* Marginal farmers.
* Large farmers; these may be absentee landlords.
The proportion of each category vanies widely throughout the project area.
Generally as one would expect there are a greater number of landless and
hmaWlmarginal farmers (Annex C). In the south west, farms tend to be larger
and many are owned by absentee landowners who lease their land.
2.33         Land Use ad Cropping Patterns
There is little irrigated agriculture in the coastal zone of Bangladesh. This is
because the sparse freshwater aquifer bodies are conserved for potable supplies.
Agriculture is therefore constrained in the drier periods of the year.
General comments on the cropping patterns and land use of the project area,
which varies on an annual basis to a certain extent, are presented below. They
are based on a categorisation of land use devqloped by the Kampsax
International consortium.
K tha Area (Category 1)
In the south western Districts of Satkhira, Khulna and Bagherhat, the land is
generaDy flat with little significant variation in elevation. Approximately 80%
of this region is cultivated, the remainder is accounted for by rural
infrastructure, homesteads and water bodies. The soils have moderate to high
dry season salinity. This is the main limiting factor for crop cultivation and the
soils of this area support a low cropping intensity, mainly of T.aman. Only
about 8% of this area can support a second crop as a result.
Barisal Artr (Category II)
Approximately 65% of the Districts of Borguna and Patuakhali are cultivated.
About 5,575 ha remains uncultivated. The principal crops grown in this area
of low to moderate dry season soil salinity are T.aman, and B.aman in the lower
areas which are more prone to flooding. Single cropping predominates (78%
of cultivated area) though some double cropping is possible.
ENvu0MWENAL RBOI*C L&AED           Ca_               O   Eaumu Commm
'17



Northem Boin Area (Category 111)
In the northern part of Bhola District (which has less saline soils) and on
Sandwip Island, about 76% of the land is cultivated. Double cropping is
predominant (50% of cultivated area), mostly with local and high yield varieties
(HYV) of T.aman and T.aus. About 15% of the cultivated area supports triple
cropping consisting of rabi crops, B.aus and LYV Taman. Jute is grown in a
small portion of this area during the pre-monsoon period.
Southern Bhola and Suidharom (Category IV)
The southern part of Bhola District is characterised by high dry season soD and
water salinity and the soils generaDy support only a low cropping intensity
though 75% of the total land area (36,150 ha) is cultivated. Single cropping with
BJT aman predominates (83% of cultivated area) whilst double cropping is
possible to a lesser extent (rabi(T.aman, B.aus).
NoakhalilLaximpur/Feni Areas (Category V)
In these central areas of the coastal belt about 85% of the available land (99,640
ha) is cultivated, mostly by a single LYV T.aman crop. Soils are often inundated
by saline water through breaks in the embankments and this liniits dry season
and pre-monsoon cropping. In the drier season, before the monsoon, crops of
lower water demand such as chilies and lentils may be grown.
Chittago/Cox's Baaar Area (Category VI)
In this eastem region of the coast lies the second largest concentration of
infrastructure in Bangladesh, mainly around the port of Chittagong. About 64%
of the area is cultivated out of a gross area of 48,240 ha, mainly with B.aus and
T.aman rice. Besides B.aus, other pre-monsoon crops are water melon, chilies
and cowpeas. In the Teknaf area, betal leaves are the main cash crop. Dry
season soil salinity can be high in this eastem part of the coast. Some triple
cropping is reported in this area with rabi crops,B.aus and LYV T.aman (12%
of cultivated area).
Z3.4        Agricultnl Inputs
Seed Supplies
Statistics collected on an upazila basis suggest that the use of improved seed
varieties is very limited. The rabi crops and T.aman crop are grown almost
entirely from local seed varieties whilst some improved varieties are used for
T.aus, boro and water melon crops. There is scope for substantial improvement
of crop yields by promoting the adoption of new improved varieties of seed.
Agrodiemicals
Agrochenical usage varies widely throughout Bangladesh, particularly at the
polder leveL The use of fertblise.s is dictated largely by soil fertility and the
economic status of the fanner. In some cases, fertiiiser use is consbtained by the
E_awmANaL Raswi Duv                           Cawmot ow we EiMoaF    h Ca _u
18



occurrence of unpredictable adverse conditions which may damage crops;
farmers will not invest heavily in agrochemicals unless they can be reasonably
sure that the crop can be successfully brought to harvest.
In some areas of the country where the constraints of climate uncertainties have
been removed; by the provision of irrigation water for example; the use of
fertilisers and pesticides has increased by a factor of 2 to 3 fold.
It appears from district-wise statistics on fertliser consumption (Annex C) that
ferdliser consumption in the project area is quite low compared to the rest of
the country (13-17% of the national average usage). This low usage is probably
related to the level of farmer uncertainty since fertiiser appears to be available
in anl areas. Financial constraints are possibly a major factor determining the
rates of ferdliser usage in some areas.
There is no information on the variation in pesticide use at the polder level;
statistics are only available at the district level, produced by the Pesticides
Association (Annex C).
As in other parts of Bangladesh, farmers have a poor knowledge of the
appropriate application and safety issues of pesticide use and use poor quality
inefficient sprayers.
A wide range of pesticides are reported to be in use, particularly in the
Chittagong area where the usage appears to be the highest for project areas.
Noakhali district has the second highest consumption rate followed by Barisal,
Patuakhali and Khulna. In the Chittagong area herbicides are also in use.
Rural Credit
It is reported that the main forms of credit are provided through the informal
sector (moneylenders, friends and relatives). Institutional lending is mainly
provided through the Grameen Bank and the Bangladesh Rural Development
Bank. Short term loans are available for the purchase of farm inputs such as
seed and agrochemicals. These loans are repayable after the harvest. Medium
term loans (1-4 years) is available for the purchase of livestock and minor
equipment. Longer termn loans are also available.
NGO credit is also available in some areas. Proshika, BRAC and the Grameen
Bank are predominant in this area.
Labour
Most small holdings are managed by household members and it is only on the
larger farm holdings that farm labour is hired. Generally the requirement for
farm labour is seasonal and local demand is affected by a number of factors
such as the following:
* Farm size and cropping intensity.
* Availability of landless and low income marginal farmerAabourers.
* Crop value.
EW,UQImar.fAL RmSOUaK LaaMM                    Cnmm.u ou we  EuRo,wj CowAuwws



* Labour costs.
Labour requirements are at their highest in June and July when the T.aman
crop requires transplantation. The daily wages for labouring do not vary
significantly throughout the country; this is partly because migrant labour is
cheap and suppresses any tendency for local prices to rise.
In some areas, women are also able to provide labour though they role is still
mainly confined to household activities and homestead farming.
Extension and Research Support
The Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) has an extensive network of
extension officers (Block Supervisors) who offer extension advice to farmers on
cropping practices and the control of pests. The DAE will shortly receive
institutional strengthening to improve its effectiveness and outreach capabilities.
This is considered further in Section 2.9).
There are numerous research institutes charged with the task of improvingtrop
varieties, cultivation methods and disease and pest resistance. Those relevant
to the crops grown in the project area are as folows.
* Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI).
* Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI).
- Bangladesh Jute Research Institute.
- Fisheries Research Institute.
Bangladesh Livestock Research Institute (BLRI).
* Forest Research Institute.
BARI conducts research on all crops not covered by the specialist crop research
mstitutes.
The activities of the research institutes has been evaluated in relation to the
World Bank's Agricultural Support Services Project, a component of which is to
improve the quality of research, making it more farmer orientated. Amongst
the conclusions drawn are that the research institutes are to some extent 'out
of touch' with farmer requirements and that there is some reluctance of the
farmers to adopt locally produced strains when better strains can be obtained
illegally from neighbouring countries.
Several NGOs are also actively supporting agriciltural development in the
project area. These are considered in Section 2.8.
2.35         Constraints on Agricudtural Production
Food production is generally low compared to more northerly parts, for
example, the per capita food grain production in polder 59/2 is estimated at
>0.4kg/day whilst in Gumti it is estimated at 0.6 kg/day.
E_AUcNgAL RSSLY*                               Comama r rA Eumai Cbm,
20



The main constraints on agricultural production in the coastal area of the
country are listed below. Not all these constraints operate within individual
polder areas though in general the list is fairly indicative of average conditions.
* Variability in the weather, mainly the timing and intensity of rainfali events.
* Short winter season which limits the time available for rabi crop cultivation.
* Comparatively high soi salinity and saline intrusions.
* Low fertility status of soils; particularly in terms of individual macro- and
micro-nutrient concentrations.
* Inadequate supplies of irrigation water during the dry season which limits
boro and rabi crop cultivation.
* Unavailability of improved crop varieties.
* Highly variable soil conditions which dictate different cropping patterns and
irrigation schedules and detract from the value of general extension
messages.
* Perennial waterlogging in some areas arises due to inadequate O&M of
drainage structures.
Land use conflicts with shrimp farmers who often breach embankmnents and
introduce saline waters to the detriment of crop production.
* Inadequate agricultural extension activities.
* Poor communication networks which mitigate against effective provision of
farm inputs.
- Unequitable distribution of cultivable land, often concentrated amongst a few
large landowners, which discourages land improvements by tenant farmers.
* Inadequate fodder provision may also be a limiting factor for the use of
draught animals in some areas.
There is considerable scope for these constraints to be addressed through
various means of assistance.  The pre-requisite to success is an initial
improvement in flood prevention, drainage and cydone protection.
e4           FISHEES
The fisheries sector contributes approximately 35% of Bangladesh's CDP (World
Bank,1991) and accounts foar_0%-of the national protein intake. The sector
earns about 12% of the nation's eiport earrngs; mainly from shrimp export.
The sector employs about 1.2 million commercial fishermen and the numbers
of occasional or subsistence fishermen is likely to be considerably higher. The
Regio-nal Plan Report for the South East Region (FAP 5) remarks that 'there is
a dearth of data on the actual numbers of full time and subsistence fishermen'
but reports that rapid rural appraisal suggests that 2% of the population are
full-time fishermen whilst 5% fish on a subsistence basis.
Over 62% of the area under surface water in Bangladesh is located in the
project area and thus these waters contribute a considerable proportion of the
nation's protein supply. We can conveniently subdivide the activities in the
fisheries sector into the folowing categories which are considered further in this
section.
E_NNOAMAL REWMcS LOAM                          Co     asn< o; Ewopuivi Co_mwu
'1



* Freshwater capture fisheries.
* Freshwater aquaculture.
* Brackish water aquaculture.
* Marine fisheries.
*   2.41     Freswauter Capture Fishies
It is estimated that the total annual fish catch from open surface waters in the
project area is 166,681 mt, mainly from rivers and estuanies. The contributions
of the various water body types in the project area to this total is indicated in
Table 24a. It is estimated that in the average 150 days when floodplain spilling
occurs, I ha of land produces over 100 kg/ha of fish. The World Bank (1992)
recognises that this could be infcreaseWd   k  150  with   appopriate
management
Fishing in major govemment water bodies requires a licence; this is a far more
equitable arrangement for the poor than the previous system where water
bodies were leased to (comparatively wealthy) individuals who then sub-leased
or sold fishing rights to others.
Many of the important food fish species such as hilsa and carp are migratory
and there is circumstantial evidence in many areas that the abundance of
freshwater fish is declining due to the construction of flood control, drainage
and irrigation structures which have prevented the migrations necessary to
complete the life cycle, and which also prevent fish from dispersing across flood
plains during the monsoon season. These issues are clouded by the fact that
indigenous fish biology is not weU understood. The 1992 Regional Plan Report
for the South East region (FAP 5) comments that 'there is not any weil
documented study of fish migration in the river systems of Bangladesh and
misgration patterns of the majority of fish...are very poorly understood'.
There are reported to be 4 species of freshwater crab and 20 freshwater shrinmp
species which are captured, of these, the freshwater giant prawn (Macrobradhium
rosenbergii) is an important additional fishery resource. It also is migratory,
returning to the sea in order to breed in identified breeding grounds. FCDI
structures are reported to adversely affect this species.
Z4.2         Frskwater Aquaculturc
A recent survey by the Bangladesh Fisheries Resource System (Annex B)
estimates that there are about 1%,000 ponds in the project area of which the
majority support fish cuture (54%) whilst 32% are 'culturable'. The remaining
14% are stated to be 'derelict' which means that due to poor maintenance they
could not support fish life. These ponds account for about 8% of the project
area (31,024 ha). Many of these ponds are multi-purpose, supplying domestic
water requirements, laundry and bathing facilities.
Fish production from pond aquiculture in the project area is about 53,861 mt
The Kampsax International report estimates the yield from these ponds to be
E,AvMo,P_L Rmasuc lai                          Comwio oF n   Euma Cmas_
".1



Tabk Z4a         Distsibution of Fish Catch by Inulad Open Water Bodies in Project Districts,
1987-88
_________________   _______________             ___________        in  mn )
District       Riwuis & esauan=   Sundem            BHeels       Floodlnds    Rnw toal
Onilagong                270019               -191                       12519       39726
NoakhIli                  1651                               I 1         9722        26291
Banral                   41300                               n7          11391       59718
Khulna                    EE                 B066           125          87          21972
Patuakhali                15                  .                          3222        18974
PrJt Tool                112437              1066           251         45877        16681
Bangladcsh Total         133817              8066          45610        182037       419530
Projc shae as %           61.2              10.0             0.3         25.          39.7
of Bangi
oc BEWDE (9
Table 2.4b   Princp  modes of bnakish uwteaqnaclturm deelopmet in Bangkdesh
Si.               Mode                             Major Physica Componcn«s
NcL
1.     Shnmp/rish only (pesent       Minor embankmcnt. eanhworl; wOoden inliLs. pOst larvac
pracce)                       and traps-
2.     Shnmp and nce (presen         Mmnor cmbankmcnt. carthwork. wooden inlets, post larvac.
_____   practic)                     taps and additional inputs for nec cultivation
3.     Shrimp and salt (present      Minor embanukment. eanhworLk wooden inleuts post-lame.
practie)                      traps and additional embankment for salt
4.     Shnmp only -                  Major embankment. canhworL &enilizcr, ltnc. sccncd
trei4i..intensire)           minlt and oullenL concretc replaors and pstl4aivac
S.     Shnrmp only                   Major cmbankmnct earthworl, screened inlets and oulcts
(Intensie)                    concte mgulaiots past-lamc, fetiizcr, lime and Iced
6      Shnmp only and ncc            Shnmp Major cmbankment, carh worL screcned concrctc
(impmved)                    inlets and outlets, lare and fertslizcr. Rwc: Requircd
inputs for riee cultivation
7      Shnrnp only and salt          Shrmp: Major embankmenL carthwork, screened concr,te
(imped                        and outlet pon lam  and fcrilizer. Salt Additil
S c BWahwo19
soumv BWDB (19,)



281 kg/ha, This is comparatively low and there is considerable scope to increase
this yield to 3000 kg/ha without substantial inputs. Yields as high as 9000
kg/has are possibleiwith intensive culture methods, including pond aeration.
A small number of hatcheries are located in the project area; at Raipur, in
Lakshmipur and at Chhagainaiya near the Muhuri river. The former was
established in 1979 to mitigate against the adverse effects of FCDI schemes in
the area.
Pond species recorded in the Noakhali and ComiDa districts include the
folowing.
* Rohu (Labco rohita); 34% of catches.
* Catla (Catla catla); 28-31%.
* Mrigal (Cirrhina mrigala); 19%.
* Silver carp (Hypophtlwlmichthys molitrix).
* riapia (0. Niloticus, mossambicus).
* Boal (Wallago atts).
* Shol (Channa sp.).
* Shing (?Chrnna batranc*s).
Puti (Puntius sp.).
Prices quoted (April 1991) for these species vary in different areas of the
country, for example, catla vanes from 35-90 Tklkg and carp vanes from 30-60
24.3         Brackish Water Aquaultuve
Coastal brackdsh water aquaculture is mainly concemed with shrimp farming.
bie v4b. sumnmarises the prindpal modes of brackdsh water aquaculture in
Bangladesh. This activity has increased rapidly in recent years, primarily due
to the high export value of the commodity. Exports of shrimp in 1989/90 eamed
about 84 million ecu in foreign exchange.
The species Peneus monodoa is farmed in the Satkhiia, Khulna and Cox's Bazaar
areas.
During shrimp culture, post-larvae are netted in coastal waters and introduced
into brackish water ponds where they are allowed to grow and mature before
harvesting. A more traditional method simply involves flooding ponds with
brackish water which introduces the larvae. Both approaches tend to give
variable yields since predatory fish larvae may also be introduced and these can
consume much of the potential shrimp yield.
Shrimp culture was a long practised activity along the coast of the Khulna
region which was interrupted, temporarily by the construction of coastal
embankmnents. The rise in market values has caused a resurgence of shrimp
culture in the Khulna and Cox's Bazaar areas.
Generaily farmers stock up to 20,000 post larvae per hectare-in ponds of up to
40 hectares in size. The ponds are often fertilised and may incorporate sluice
E&-.MrAL _ RoSmcES                            Cobau    o WE EuoW.4 Caa.u
24



gates and fry screens. Average production is reported to be about 100-175 kglha
though up to 700 kg/ha is possible without supplementary feeding; even this
is considered low by intemational standards.
Rottional Skrimp/Rice Farming
In some areas, such as Khulna, 'double cropping' in agricultural fields with
shrimp and aman rice occurs. The shrimp are grown from January to late July
and rice is grown from August to December. It. has been reported in some
areas that shrimp farming in this manner has adversely affected adjacent crop
production due to salinisation of the soil. It has also been reported that rice
farmers are being forced to allow shrimp cultivation on their land after the
aman crop.
In the Cox's Bazaar area shrimp farming is carried out in rotation with salt
production.
24.4         Constrints in Coastal Aquaclture
The following constraints on coastal aquaculture have been identified from
existing reports and discussions.
* -High tidal amplitude causes soil erosion and the subsequent loss of valuable
nutrients.
* Cyclones and tidal bores tend to discourage capital investment.
* Crabs often seriously damage shrimp farm embankments, allowing shrimp
to escape.
* Variable quality of collected wild seed.
* Conversion of mangrove forest to ponds leads to loss of spawning and
nursery areas.
Inadequate draiage provisions and O&M  which results in poor water
circulation and control of water supply by shrimp farmers.
2.5          FORESMr
Natural forest in the project area is almost entirely restricted to the coastal
mangrove; the Sundarbans, Choakhalia and Teknaf forests. It is estimated that
there are about 587,380 ha of natural mangrove forest. Very little natural forest
exists further inland in southem Bangladesh though there is a considerable
amount of social forest, particularly around homesteads.
The Forestry Department has been involved in coastal afforestation since the
mid 1960s and has planted an estimated 1.08 million hectares along the coast
using species from the Sundarbans. The initial plantations of the Coastal
Afforestation Project were in Chittagong, Noakhali, Barisal and Patuakhali
Districts (Figure 2.5a). Initial afforestation rates in the 1970s were about 4000
ha/yr but this slowed down to about 1000 ha/yr in the early 1980s.
Etwahn. ROOM= Lam                              Ccminu oruE Ewi m
75



Khtdna                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NoakhaII 
-4
-I
MNIA                                                                                                         0  htaog)
,,,°I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Se.i
-ii.                                                                NOAI'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00HALI               -4 
~~     CA  DIV. ICHITTAGONG
C/A Div.
PATUAKHALI  0  S  °ARISAL
C/A Div.            C/A Div.
B A Y   OF  8 E N G A L                                                          N
Coas Baz ar
"BURMA
Figure 2.5a Planltations of the Coastal Afforestation Project
_ 30         *     Sl     .0     Ic0



Attempts at afforestadon have yielded nixed results. The Regional Plan report
for the South East (FAP 5) notes that 'attempts at afforestation to stabilise the
coast have had mixed results for a number of ecological, social and
administrative reasons.  The coastline is generaUy too active to support
extensive areas of mangrove'. Some of the ecological factors are physical factors
such as soil salinity and other physico-chemical characteristics, the nature of
flooding and the degree of maintenance. Some species establish themselves
better in certain regions. For example, Avicennia officinalis is now mostly
confined to the Chittagong area whilst Excoecaria agullocha is linited to areas
within Noakhali Division. Attempts at afforestation with Bruguiera gymnorrhiza
are reportedly not very successful whilst Acacia is reported to grow most
successfully on higher drier ground.
v 6         INDUSTRY
Industry along the coast is predominantly concentrated within the Patenga area
of Chittagong area (polder 62). This area supports a variety of industrial plant
which include the following:
* Fertiliser manufacturing plant (TSP).
* Chittagong steel mills.
* General Electrical Manufacturing.
* Chittagong Cement Clinker Factory.
Eastern Cable.
* Eastern Refinery.
Another concentration in this industrial area is the Bangladesh Export
Processing Zone which was established in 1983. Industry continues to be
attracted to the area and it is reported that when all recently approved
developments are established, the total value of investment will reach 473
million US dollars.
*Z61         Salt Production
It is reported that 14,600 ha of land are used for salt production, mainly in the
Chittagong area Table 26a. Approximately 29,000 farmers were estimated to be
involved in this activity recently (Kampsax 1992). Production estimates suggest
that 50 tonnes of unrefined salt can be produced from I hectare of land.
Z7           INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
In this section we briefly describe the activities, organisational structure and
environmental management capabilities of selected agencies and describe any
institutional strengthening activities which are in progress or forthcoming.
Z7.1         Depabnent of Ervimnment
The DoE, formerly known as the Department of Pollution Control has recently
become the focus of attention by the Government in terms of its functions in
E_rN.L RuEmxI L1_                             Cbm  cr n, Egmw C     _muwm
27



Table 26     Main Areas of Salt Production
Pdlder No.       Upazila             Salt-Ccntrc       Area Undcr       P.C.
Salt Malking
l __________                     _____________________      (in   ha.)
P 71     1.Kutubdia          1.LCmSILhali                1473.09     10.08
P 69     2.Maheskhali        ' U[iara Nalbila            2024.28     13.86
P 70                         3.Gorokghata                1274.38      .72
4.Maiarbari                1809.80     19
Sub-Td2al      5108.46     34.97
P 66/3    3.Cox's Bazar       5.Gomatoli                  1341.96     9.19
6.Cloufaldandi              842.17      5.76
7.Dulhazari                  49.78      0.34
8.Fulchari                 1320.52      9.04
l________        .Sub-Total                                 3554.43     24.33
P 64/2B    4.Chokoria          9.Darbcshata               328M88      22.47
P 64/IA    5Banskhali          10.Purbo Boroghona          800.48      5.48
11Sarol                     299.07      2.05
i_________   ________________    Sub-ToLal      1099.55      753
P 68     6.Tcknaf            12. Tcknaf                    91.06     0.62
Total     14609.47     100.00
Soure: BWDB (1992)



potlution control and the development planning process. This is mainly due to
increasing global (and donor) awareness of environmental issues. The DoE has
been involved in the sporadic monitoring of river polution for several years,
mainly at well known polluted environments such as the Kharnafuli River.
The central office is based in Dhaka and there are regional offices in Khulna
and Chittagong. The DoE is inadequately staffed, particularly at the middle and
higher management levels. This is not due to inadequate financial resources
but is a reflection of the inadequacies of the education system which fails to
deliver sufficient expertise for the DoE's needs. Expertise in environmental
issues is mainly concentrated in the private sector where the remunerative
rewards are higher.
The DoE has received substantial donor support in recent years, particularly
from the Asian Development Bank's institutional strengthening programmes.
Pollution monitoring capabilities and EIA expertise have been strengthened
though the management of natural resource issues has not been specifically
addressed. The regional offices are deficient in skilled technical manpower and
are poorly equipped. This may be addressed by further donor support;
principally the World Bank.
Given the existing state of affairs and the emphasis on the management of
industrial pollution and EIA, it is unlikely that the DoE will be able to
substantially contribute to the management of natural resource issues in the
near future apart from giving general advice and guidance.
27.2         Fowst Department (IFD)
The FD of the Ministry of Ernvironment and Forests is the main agency
concerned with -the management of forest resources. Field operations are
managed on a regional basis, with each of 6 regional offices headed by a
Conservator of Forests. Each regional cirde is sub-divided into several divisions
patrolled by Divisional Forest Officers.
At the end of 1991, the FD had a staff of about 10,000 which includes 4850
technical and professional staff. There is also an additional manual labour force
of 0.5 million.
The SAR for the World Bank's Forest Resources Management Project makes the
following points about the operational capabilities of the DF.
* Performance of the field organisation varied widely due to inadequate
monitoring of quality and effectiveness.
* The structure relies too heavily on the Chief Conservator of Forests for
control and decision-making.
* The organisation is not sufficiently developed on functional lines.
* The headquarters is weak in project planning, programming, monitoring,
and evaluating and has poor environmental management capabilities.
E,4vm_waFErAL RlCES~XUCWS L~UmI               comN lwe Ei  ar C_aiww



* There is a shortage of technical staff at the .iddle and upper management
levels.
The SAR also comments that the FD has been slow to introduce 'people-
orientated forestry'.
There has been on-going donor support for mangrove afforestation for several
years assisting not only in the area of plantations but also in training, remote
sensing and colorisation research.
The proposed Forest Resources Management Project will also finance the
strengthening of environmental management capabilities. This would involve
the FD establishing an Environmental Management Wing which would be
concerned with:
* Planning and implementation of nature conservation activities.
* Establishing environmental standards and criteria for forest management.
* Collecting environmental data.
Monitoring environmental effects of forestry operations.
U
The staff salaries of the Environmental Management Wing woultd alsro be
financed by the project, in addition to the short term inputs of a mangrove
afforestation research scientist and an entomologist
These developments should substantially enhance the capabilities for
environmental management of forestry issues under the CPP H.
.7.3        Bangladesh Water Development Board
The BWDB is the responsible agency for all aspects of FCDI development,
operation and management within the Ministry of Irrigation. It has been in
existence since 1972. Its operations are administered on a regional and
divisional basis and there is a total of 18,000 staff in the organisation. The
World Bank's draft Final Executive Project Summary notes several problems
within the BWDB which include financial constraints, management system
deficiencies and poor staff motivation. It further notes that benefits of past
projects have not been fuly realised due to weaknesses in the O&M system.
At present the BWDB does not have environmental management capabilities
though environmental issues related to water quality and supply can be
adequately addressed by existing technical staff resources.
ZZ4         Departmnt of Agricultural Extension
The DAE is the executing agency within the Ministry of Agriculture that is
concerned with providing knowledge support to the farming community. There
are urrently some 12,000 officers (Block Supervisors) who interface with the
farming community. Technically, they come under the administration of the
Upazila Pauishad (village council) though their extension activities are directed
by the Ministry through higher levels in the DAE. The block supervisors are
&m"awwAL Rawcu Lum                           Camm  oP 76 EAman  C auwuhs
,n



involved in the collection of basic aricultural data on cropping pattems, yields
and use of agrochemicals amongst other things.
Deficiencies in the efficiency and adequacy of the DAE's extension work with
the farming community is being addressed through the World Bark's
Agricultural Support Services Project which amongst other things improves the
training and outreach capabilities of the field staff.
2.8         SELEcTED NGOs INVOLVED IN ENiRONMENAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES
Of the several thousand NGOs operating in Bangladesh, the following are the
main ones operating in the areas relevant to the project. It is likely that many
smaller ones operate at the village level.
2.8.1       NGO Involvement in Embankment Leasing
The concept of leasing stretches of embankment to the landless is not new to
the BWDB. One NCO which has been involved in such activities is Bithahin
Shamabaya Society which is an organisadon geared to catering for landless,
destitute or widowed women.
2.8.2       iVNGOs mwolved ix Agrwcultre, Fisheries and Forcstry Activities
Bangladesh RumOL Aduancament Committer (BRAC)
Founded in 1972, this is the largest national NGO with over 3000 staff working
in health, agriculture, education and income-generating programmes for the
rual poor. BRAC activitie., are not uniformnly distributed around the country;
they are presently concentrated in the districts of Manikganj, Sherpur, Ramgpur
and Pabna Districts. Recently some agricultural development activties have
begun on Kutubdia.
In terms of social forestry, BRAC's main area of involvement has been in
roadside planting and homestead gardening. Fodder. cultivation has also been
a main area of farmer encouragement. Experience of coastal afforestation is
limited.
Proshik&aManobik Unnayan Kendra
Proshika branched off from BRAC in 1976 and has become involved with rural
groups in the areas of group formation, training and income and employment
generation.  It has organised approximately 20,000 groups of farmers
throughout the country (72 upazilas) and- conducts training and group
formation activities through over 35 Area Development Centres. Like BRAC,
it has a rural credit scheme which operates on a revolving basis.
Proshika's objectives in the forestry sector are to develop environmental
awareness and provide training and credit for self development of the poor.
The organisation has considerable experience of roadside afforestation,
homestead agroforestry, nursery developmer.t and protection of natunrl forests.
Eua_OMamA RamUac LaM                        C      <anm  o 1W EuwANm C.waIU
1



Following submission of a proposal for participatory forestry in the sal forests
of central Bangladesh, Proshika is now collaborating with the Forestry
Department in forest protecdon and agroforestry activities.
Apart from activities in the Comilla area, Proshika is not well represented in the
coastal areas of the project.
Suanirbhar
This movement, which began in 1975, promotes self-help amongst the rural
poor, the target population being mainly landless women and marginal farmers.
The NGO's main area of activity in the forestry sector is in homestead agro-
forestry. Substantial numbers of its staff have received training fr-m the
Forestry department in this area.
Banchte Shekha
This NGO, established in 1976, works with widows, divorcees, abandoned or
landless women mainly in the Jessore region where there are over 400 BS
groups. It is mainly involved in social forestry, tree planting and homestead
nursery development. It has been promoting tree planting on char lands,
particularly fruit trees whose produce can be sold.
Gono Unnayan Prochesta (GUP)
GUP was established in 1973 and works with the poor in Madaripur and
Patuakhali Districts. It is involved in social forestry and agricultural and
homestead crop production.
CARE International
CARE began worldng in Bangladesh in the 1950s and now has over 1300 staff
involved in a range of projects concerned with agricultural development,
women's development, agroforestry.and farmer training.
Mennonite Central Committee
The Mennonites are involved in agricultural development, tree-planting and
nursery developrBenL Districts where the NGO is particularly active are Feni
and Noakhali.
Cantos
Caritas is the relief and development agency of the catholic church. It is well
established in Bangladesh, having regional offices in Barisal, Chittagong and
Khulna amongst other places. The organisation has been involved in social
forestry issues for about 20 years, the main thrust being in fruit tree
developments on homesteads.
EWNVCWAL Ruosacmm                            C        OFu ELOmN ComaU"=
32



2.9         RELATD DONOR SUPPORr
210         ACRICULT7URE
National Minor Imgation Deelopment Project
This project will be executed over a period of 7 years and will be co-financed by
the Overseas Development Administration (ODA)-and the Commission of the
European Communities. It has the following components:
* Installation of new and rehabilitation of existing old deep tubewells.
* Provision of pnimary water supplies to about 100.000 ha of coastal land by
improvements in drainage infrastructure to allow tidal freshwater irrigation.
* Provision of primary water supples to 30,000 ha by river abstraction using
pontoon-mounted low lift pumps.
* Demonstration of command area distribution systems on 10,000 ha of low lift
pump schemes.
* Environmental monitoring and consultancy advice.
Agriculture Support Services Project
This project which will be co-financed by the ODA and the World Bank will be
implemented over a 10 year period. Its main aim is to improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of the extension system which will hopefuDy be reflected in
increased crop production, crop diversification and more efficient use of farm
irputs. Some of the projects cr.iponents address the foDlowing:
- Improving seed availability to farmers.
Promotion of crop diversification and horticultural export activities.
* Promotion of integrated pest management and more appropriate use of farm
inputs, including water and agrochemicals.
There will be an environmental monitoring component which will address
issues such as soil physical and chemical characteristics and agrochemical usage.
v.11        FIsHERIES
Second Aquaculture Development Programme
The on-going ADB financed SADP project focuses on carp and shrimp culture
in various parts of the country and floodplain stocking in eastem Bangladesh.
The project also provides credit facilities through internediate financial
institutions for shrimp and fish farmers to upgrade ponds and for the
construction of new ponds, hatcheries and nurseries.
E,ma6AL REMoWB LAar                          CAu  e w Eawmnh C_.msw
33



Shrimp Culture Project
This IDA financed project ended December 1991. It was concerned with
improving shrimp culture in the eastern Cox's Bazaar area. Paddy/shrimp
cultivation is also part of the project. The project has supported hatchery
development, extension services, credit and technical assistance. NCOs have
been involved in organising farmers into groups. Yields have reportedly
increased from 75 to 135 kg1ia in pilot study areas .
Institutionl Strengthening of the Department of Fisheries
The UNDP and FAO are co-financing a 4 year project aimed at improving the
management capabilities of the DOF. It also involves support for pond and
freshwater shrimp culture through the use of demonstration farms and staff
training.
Integrated Fisheries Development Project
The GOB has solely financed this project which began in 1988. It involved the
establishment of mnini hatcheries in upazilas throughout the country as well as
floodplain stocking and surveying of all public water bodies in the country.
Third Fisheries Project
This project aims to improve the fisheries sector in the western half of the
country through the foDowing
Major stocking of up to 100,000 ha of floodplain fisheries over a six year
period (not in the project area however).
* Improvements in infrastructure for draipage and irrigation on 13,000 ha of
existing polder-based shrimp cultivation.
* Financing packages at the upazila and district level to support pond
aquaculture developments, and women's involvement in fisheries amongst
other components.
Production of freshwater prawns is also supported.
Noakhali Integrated Rural Development Project
This project which has entered its second phase is concemed with the
promotion of rural development from several angles. Extension work to
improve agricultural yields and social development in the area is a major
activity. Cooperatives have been forned , consisting of local farmers, landless
and destitute groups. Ponds have been leased to cooperatives for fish
cultivation which has proved successful. The groups are for the time being
provided with free fingerlings and fry and technical advice.
Em_mopWiAL ROIAKU Lamm                        Cogmaui oe wE Euinom C _maua,
34



X.12        FoRErm
Forest Resources Manogemnmt Project
This World Bank project is concemed with establishing a forest management
system 'responsive to the economic, environmental and social goals of the
country' and increasing the productivity of the forestry sector.
The project has the foflowing components:
* Forest Resources Management; this involves improving the capabilities to
make forest management plans and involving local communities in forest
development and protection.
* Expansion of forest resources; rehabilitation of degraded forest and planting
of 60,000 ha of new mangrove forest.
* Nature conservation; preparation of management plans for all national parks
and wildlife sanctuaries.
* Institutional support; reorganisation of the FD headquarters, training and
development of an environmental wing.
Upazila Afforestation and Nxrsery Development Projedt
This UNDP/ADB-funded project supports tree planting on public non-forest
land, homesteads and along transport corridors and river and coastal
embankments.
Integrated Resource Development of Sundarbans Reserve Forest Project
The UNDP and FAO are financing this project which is concemed with the
development of a multi-use management plan for the Sundarbans.
E&#AmrWL RocUK LANf                           CGa   oW hw EmmuLw C_wdu
35



3           POEV14L ENVRONAMENTAL IMPAC7S
In this chapter, we briefly list and describe the environmental impacts which
could arise from or be exacerbated by the project. The impacts identified are
based primarily on an environmental review of the existing literature on flood.
control, drainage and irrigation (FCDI) projects in Bangladesh, and also on our
experience of the country.
It should be emphasised that the CERP does not involve the construction of
entirely new  embankments.  Apart from  a few  areas where existing
embankment sections will be retired, construction works will involve elevating,
repairing and strengthening existing embankments. To our knowledge the
alignment of the embankment will not be substantially altered and no new
water courses will be either regulated or obstructed by the project. In most
cases the impacts of coastal embankment construction have been extant for a
considerable period of time and will continue to exist with or without the
proposed project, unless actions have or will be taken to address them.
We preface our discussion of potential positive and negative impacts of the
project by first reviewing the impacts of the original Coastal Embankment
Project (CEP).
31          THE COASrAL EMUANKMENT PROJECJ: REVIEW OF IMPACZS
3.1.1       Backgmund
Coastal embankments have been constructed in Bangladesh for many years, at
-sast since the creation of the East Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority (EPWAPDA) in 1939. Prior to this period low lying embankments of
the Zamindar System were in existence. In 1961 the Coastal Embankment
Project (CEP) was conceived and implemented over a 10 year period, its main
aim being to afford flood protection to the coastal area.
An evaluation of the CEP was carried out for EWAPDA in 1969 by Leedshill De
Leuw Engineers and the report makes several general comments and
observations on the project's impacts Table 3.1a.
The report does not elaborate on the nature of the impacts or the extent to
which rural communities were affected. Neither is there an indication of
project-instigated or individual-inspired mitigation measures which address the
impacts. An exception to this relates to the negative impacts on polder drainage
and flooding due to siltation and land accretion where civil works
were carried out We were unable to locate any information which documents
how affected people adapted to adverse impacts such as the decline in open
water fisheries or the obstruction of navigation channels. Discussions that we
held suggest that people engaged in such activities were forced to change their
occupations.
_gv..u~fALROMui Law                         COMm_ O im ELaw.v Cmmw



The main benefits envisaged of the project; increased production of crops, salt,
fish and shrimp; have occurred to a large extent. However the relationship
over time between polder construction and increased production has been
confused by natural disasters in subsequent years.
We are able to draw some lessons from this project for the planning of the CPP
I1. These are listed briefly below and considered further in Section S which deals
with impact mitigation.
* Borrow pits should be excavated on the landward side of the embankments
to provide water storage areas for local inhabitants.
* Improved drainage capacity to relieve drainage congestion during the rains
was required in some areas, beyond that originally thought necessary.
* It was thought that the suitability of drainage sluices should be improved to
aDow them to be used for the introduction and control of irrigation water
and to allow passage for migratory fish and shrimp.
* The land acquisition process was often extremelyjengthy, delaying project
progress; the acquisition process should be improved/expedited to avoid
delays in obtaining necessary land.
* To prevent embankment damage, grazing on the embankmnents should be
prohibited or carried out under strictly controlled conditions.
* A public relations exercise should have been undertaken to communicate the
advantages of the project to local inhabitants.
* In some areas saline waters could be introduced through the embankmnents
undeircontrolled conditions to mitigate adverse impacts on shrimp culture.
* Fisheries development should be encouraged inside polder areas to offset loss
of natuzal fisheries by involving on-going donor and NGO assistance
programmes in the area.
VirtuaDly al these issues have been addressed adequately by the CPP II.
EmwamaL Ruxmc Lauu                           cm.a O TM Eumalvl COwwgus
37



Table 3la     Evaluation Report Commcnts on the Coastal Embankment Projcct
* Confinement of river channels by embankments tended to increase the flushing of saline
waten fom the project ara during the miny seson.
* Incresed water levels in rivem contained by embankments would be limited to about 30
cms and conained by the embankments.
* Water quality was not considered to be substantially altred in surface streams
surrounding the polders and water quality within the polders should have improved
bemuse of the elimination of saline walers by the embankwents.
* Grater protection to surface and groundwaler supplies would result from the prevention
of saline floods.
* Alteration of sedimentation and erosion dynamics would not be significant and any
efforts to control or prre.ent erosion would be ineffective and costly.
* Sedimentation of closed channels took place due to the bss of energy from riverine or
tidal motion.
* Unsubstantiated reports suggested that fish catches in channels closed by the
embankments were reduced. It was rmarked that this may be due to overfishing.
* Some ponds and shrimp rearing ponds were lost during construction. In addition the
shrimp rearing ponds were cut off from a source of sea water and shrimp post-larvae.
- Project embankments closed some khals and navigation routes necessitating transhipment
and overland transport
a Embankmnents blocked freshwater flooding in some areas, depriving them of freshwater
supplies.
* Natural drainage channels were blocked in some areas leading to flooding within the
poldem.
* In polders which had elevation diffeences (for example. 35fl in Khulna District) some
landowners wanted excessive floodwaters drained from their land whilst Fhrmers with
higher land wanted the water to be retained for irrigation of their land during dry
periodse
32            PoSITrVE EwVRONMEWVAL IMPACTS
We list in Table 3.2a the potential positive entrironmental impacts which could
arise from the project. It is widely accepted that the project will have significant
positive impacts on the human and economic communities by affording a high
degree of flood and cydone protection.
It is difficult to assess the number of lives that will be saved by protection from
cyclones and floods though reference to the numbers of lives lost in the April
1992 cydone readily indicate that this could be substantial.
EwivmowAL Ru.oua LiC                                          u mg Eaeu.w Cm_am
R



Table 3.2a     Potential Positive E,wivowental Impacts of the Project
AFFORESrATION
* Stands of forest will act as a naturl wind bmak and may lead to incrsed rice
production by preventing polen losa
* Affomestation with mangroves provides bmreding and nurwsy grounds for shrimp and
fish,
* The coastal nangrove strip will protect the coastal embankmient by absorbing wave and
tidal bore energy.
* The maturing mangrove forests will provide fuel, as chamoal or wood, for domnestic use.
* Afforested ares will provide valuable grazing for livestock. amelionrating local lodder
deficiencies.
* Forests will also provide fruits and materials for agro-processing and construction.
* Affiestation will provide additional habitat for wildlife and may lead to an increase in
the numnbes of endangered species.
e Mangrove affomestation provides additional breeding and nursely habitat for mnany
species of food frsh and shrimp and provides habitat for shellfish which are collected on a
commercial basis.
* Coastal afforestation will provide long term employment and a means of liviihood for the
most vulneable groups in Bangladesh society.
Coastal afforestation may lead to increased rates of sedinent accetion and thus stabilise
the coastline.
EMBANKMENT CONSTRUC7tON
M The project will offer greater protection against lass of life and damage to coastal
infrastructure.
* Short term employnent opportunities will increase during the construction phase.
* Local rural economies will receive short term stimulation, providing services to
construction workers (meals, local transport).
* Embankbents will provide increased protection to. and facilitate extension and
improvements within brackish water aquaculture.
* The greater degree of coastal protection afforded will eliminate the potential for
contamination of surface water supplies and shallow groundwater aquifers
* Flood pmtection will reduce lbws of fodder supplies due to salinity related death of
vegetation.
* Embankments will provide incrnased protection against floods and will encourage
intensification of freshwater pond culture.
* Construction borrow pits provide enhanced opportunities for water storage and
aquacultue.
E,SoeMWArL Rususu Loom                                 C    N o hw Eua.n Camam



* Incread crop prmduction will stimulale the rurnl economy through increased demand
for Ibour, agrn-proceuing, agricultural inputs and tunport
* Crop production is likey to inceas due to increasd cropping intensity and use of farm
inputs (ferdliser, pesticide and improved seed vaieties).
* Imprved quality of agricultural cash crops may arise from to minimisation of damage
due to saiuation and flooding.
* Many of the above impacts will contribute to an overall increase in the nutritional status
of the kcd population.
MISCELLANJEOUS
* The project may encourage fulurm, further collaboration between NGOs and Govemment
agencies on ruma development.
* The social development component will facilitate technology transfer to government
agencies in the management of resettlement and compensation issues and beneficiary
involvemenL
EsmN aL RoKa Lass                                    Camm or TB Euen  Commuaw
An



Table 33a    Potential Negative Environmental Impacts
EMBANKMENT CONSTRUCTION
* Intenfiction of agricultume involving HYV cmps nmy lead to deceaed availability od
livestock fodder and fuel beause of ek rmsidual stubble.
* Agnculturl intemwifixation nuy result in incread uwe of agiuchemicals and lead to
ground and surfae water pollution
* Farmem encouraged to intenify crop pmduction may begin to dmw upon groundwater,
jeopaidising donestic freshwater supplies by saline incursion into aquifem
*  LLP irigation ol crnp using rsidual water bodies within polders in the dry sason will
redues avibbility of water to the poor and landkea
* Embankment construction will requirr land acquisition and the loss of homesteads and
agricultural land.
* Embankments prevent the seasonal flushing of sediment in khals and other waterways
leading to sedinientation.
* Embanklnts prevent the seasonal flooding of land by rivers. klading to lob of natural
nutrient replenishmenL
* Reduced avaiablity of dry season water supply may anse due to loss of access to water
courses and rduced retention of floodwaterk
* Due to oss of flood induced sedimentation within poldemn polder klvels remain static
whilst the land elevations outside poldem rise. This causes difficulties for gravity
drainage of poWers.
• Embankmenrts can lead to soil waterogging problems due to poor or siltation-affected
dinage systens (eg Beel Dakatia).
* Emnbankments pernwantly disrupt mnmor inland water transportation Outes, affectirg
the livelihoods of boat ownes
* Coastai embankients reduceteliminate periodically available numseTy and grazing
grounds (on flooded land) for juvenile fish and shrimp.
* Embankments isolate populations of aquatic organisms preventing genetic interchange.
* Embankments restrict the natural movements of fish and shrimp, preventing breeding
and feeding migrations and thus lead to a decline in natural fish and shrimp stocks.
* Embanknents will tend to 'trap' people living on char lands, making them more
vulnerable to flood and cyclone events.
Emmmmwrax Rousa LaDm                                  Coamin wF 1t #mm  Cowaugi
All



AFFORESTATION
* Affoemstation will lead to increased habitat diversity and may enhance the potentiai for
corp, human and livestock pests to arise.
* By encouraging the exploitation of foreshore forest resources. the proiect My inditily
kead to an inemsed exploitation of natural existing mangrove forest.
MISCELLANEOUS
* Shrimp farwmes, encouraged to increase production, may fal ciear natural mangrove
fonst lor pond construction, diminishing wildlife divemity and larval fish and shrimp
production.
* The nutritional status of some poor and destitute people may fall due to the decline in
open water capture fisheries.
* Construction traffic may advemely affect local roads and villages by physical damage.
The potential for accidents also increases.
* Land-take for embankment consiruction could reduce the economic status of marginal
fanrnems who may lose prine agricultural land. Compensation in the form of poorer land
or cash mnay be insulficient to maintain pne-project living standards on a long term basis.
* By encouraging agricultural intensification, farners will become more dependant on
agricultural inputs and credit than previously.
* The adoption of HYV crops will lead to 'genetic erosion' of local indigenous crop
variefes.
X The soci jtlfaria Dof rural communities may be disrupted as a result of land-take and
concomitant resettlement of existing homesteads clbse to the embanklment and
landlessidestitute people. This may lead to social conflicts within new communites
* Some agrictural land may be lost during raw material acquisition (earth and clay).
The value of economic investments in the irndustry sector in the Chittagong
area alone is in the order of hundreds of millions of ecu. Protection of this
investment and of human lives and infrastructure serves to prevent the
country's sparse development funds from being continuaUy sapped in disaster
reGef.
Most of the potential impacts we lst relate to the crop and fisheries sub-sectors
and changes that may arise due to their intensification. The nature of these
impacts will be largely determined by farmers individual responses to greater
protection. Some farmers may seek to intensify their farming, others may not.
The socio-economic impacts will largely result from increased econonmic
investment and returns from crop production and aquaculture. These will
create employment opportunities both directly, and indirectly, in service
industries such  as agro-processing, packaging and  transport.  Increased
industrial development in the Chittagong area will have similar Tesults.
&EM.OMAWdAL hSuES L&D                                CO      OF A s  h'S EUAii CM.Wu



These positive impacts will not be universally or equally received by all sections
of the project's communities. Land and wealth distribution affects the extent
to which impacts are equitably experienced by the rural community. This issue
is considered fully in the next chapter.
The afforestation component of the project serves two important functions;
firstly, through the social forestry component, it provides low cost long term
maintenance of embankments by disadvantaged groups. Secondly, it offers
such groups long term means of Uvlihood through social forestry and mninor
crop cultivation activities.
3.3         NEGATIvE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Potential negative environmental impacts of the project are listed in Table 3.3a.
Most of the impacts relate to the following:
* Agricultural practices.
* Fisheries sector activities and impacts on fish and shrimp natural history.
* Socio-economic aspects of the affected communities.
* Natural and modified field hydrology.
As mentioned earlier, negative impacts will not be experienced everdy
throughout the rural communities. Large landowners and aquacultura}ists are
less likely to be adversely affected by the project than marginal farmers and
open water subsistence fishermen who are amongst the most impacted groups
in the community.
E,aaMNWra ROwcis Lui                          CFauuou ci Eu nm Cmouw&E
43



4           PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
41          ITRODUCTION
In the previous chapter, we identified a range of potential positive and negative
impacts of the project based on previous FCDI experience in Bangladesh. In
this section we consider the key environmental impacts which are likely to arise
from the project and artempt to characterise them in terms of their scope,
duration, probability of occurrence, significance and other appropriate factors.
Since many of the potential positive and negative impacts are inter-related, can
occur simultaneously amongst differing social groups and to a certain extent,
negate each other, we wil consider them together. This will allow a greater
appreciation of the relative environmental costs and benefits of the project.
For convenience, we consider project impacts under the foDowing headings:
* Agriculture.
* Fisheries.
= Hydrology and Sediment Dynamics.
e Socio-econonics.
-  Miscellaneous.
The impacts are summarised in Table 4.7a.
4.2         AGRICULTURE
Two of the greatest constraints on agriculture in the coastal strip are tlSe
salinisation of soil and flood damage due to incursion of saline and tidal fresh
waters. One of the main aims of the project is to offer greater protection to
coastal areas from high tide levels and cyclone surges. One would t xpect to see
a decline in soil salinity in the post-construction years and an increase in the
farmers confidence that investments in agriculture will be secure. It is widely
expected that these changes will manifest themselves as agricultural
intensification. Kampsax have estimated the increase in cropping intensities
which are likely to occur in the various categories of coastal land. In terms of
environmental assessment, the two key issues are how intensification will be
achieved and what groups in the rural community will be impacted.
Predictions of the changes that will occur in cropping patterns have been made
by the Kamsax consultants. Generally, it appears that the percentage of
cropped area under single cropping will decline and the area that is double
cropped will increase. This mostly involves cultivation of rabi and T.aman
crops. It is not likely that the area which is triple cropped will increase
substantially. This is mainly due to the constraints of inadequate water supplies
(HYV cultivation in the drv season has a very high water demand). The report
does not suggest that the replacement of local varieties with high yield varieties
will be widespread.
EMWO,aArL RfLUcU Lae                          Comminm cG U EuowN Ca_w_
44



Table 4.1a     Key Potenttiail Prtiject eimpacts anid AMonitoring/Mitigation Measures
Nature of Impact                             Impact Charactcuizallon                     MiligationManagerent Adivitl
Ground water pullution                       SIg& LT, LP, Lo, Ir                         Promote efilent use of agrocuhmikak
Retict agrchemicul use in as  whl problers
arse.
Promote integyraed pst malngement
Changes in fodlder availability             fnrig, LT, LP, Lo, Rev                       Encourage growth af fdder plants in alloismion
areas and on public land.
Salinisation of groundwaler                  Sig, LT. HP, Lo, Irr                        Impose stricl controls on groundwater abstractonL
Promote crops of low water demandr
Drawdown of surface waler resources          Si LT, HP, La, Rev                          Encourage cultivation of low water demand crps.
Provide LLP irrigation Irom outside poldCe
Resrict cnopping patlerns.
Decline in openwater caplure lisheries       Insig LT, LP, La, Rev                       Artifcial stocking of capture fisheris.
lime drainage schedule to migraloqy pmtterm
Increased aquacullure production.            Sig LT, HP, Lo, Rev                         NGOs to provide assistance in aquaculture
developwenL
Increased employment opportunities.          Sig& LT/ST, HP, Ex, Rev                     NGO  coordinated employment training.
Increased credit dependence.                 Insig, LT, Lo. Rev                          NCO advice on credit investrenl managenet
Imprwved socio-economic status.              Sig, LT, HP, Ex, Rev                        and incorf geneating activities.
L"ss of land (a embankmnent construction and/or  Sig LT, HP, Ex, Irr                     Minimise land take on andward side.
raw materiil acquisilion.                                                                RepcWcompensate for affected assets
Ensure adeqjuate compensation for crop km on
long lern basi.
Provide advkce on nanagement of cash
compensation-
Sucidl conflicts amongst affected gronups.   Inisig. ST, LP. Lo, Rev                     NGO mediation
Social fabric of comnnunitics dignpted      Insig, ST, LP, Lo, Rev                       8enerwciary participation in rsettleent panning.
Cenetic erosion                              Sig, LT, Ex, Irr                            Collection and preservation of indigenous
vaiieties
Road da1mage and accidents caused by         Insig ST, LP, Lo, Rev                       Repair damaged nod  Ctions and property.
construction Irdalic.                                                                    !mpcse loadspeed nsthiio on constntion
Iraffk.



Nature of Impact                              Impact Chafacteuatlion                         MiltlgatIoMaapment AciviLu
Sedimentation of khials and watercourses.     Insig, LT, Lo, Rev                             Re-excavator affected watercoursa f necessay.
NGO assistance in fisheries devekpmenL
IncreasVd rucruitment of shrimp larvae due to  Sig LT, Lo, Rev                               NGO advice on 'utterns of affoestation and
niangrove afforestation.                                                                     sustainable exploitatiorL
Suggst maugeuwnt practkes as appropriate.
Conflicts of land-use amongst rice/shrimp farmers. Sig, LT, HP, Lo, Rev                      Intfoduce land-use zonation
Key      Sig - Significant
Insig * Insignificant
LT - Long Term
ST  Sholrt Term
HP - High probability
LP - Low probability
La- LWcalized
Ex - Extensive
Rev - Reversible
In - Irreversible



4.2.1        AgrAcultural Intensification
The sources of environmental impact which are associated with agricultural
intensification are as follows.
* Increased use of agrochemicals.
* Exploitation of groundwater for supplementary irrigation of crops.
* Depletion of existing surface water resources within polders for
supplementary irrigation.
* Increased use of improved seed varieties and the abandonment of traditional
local varieties.
* Increased dependence on credit for agricultural production.
* Increased employment opportunities in the agricultural sector.
Increased Use of Agrachemicals
Intensification of agriculture is usually accompanied by increased use of
fertilisers and pesticides which may pollute surface waters by runoff from soils
and contaminate groundwater and aquifer bodies due to the downward
percolation of polluted soil water. As a result, surface and groundw'ater
supplies may be rendered unpotable and fisheries and other aquatic life may be
adversely affected.
Bangladesh has a comparatively low rate of fertiliser and pesticide consumption
compared to neighbouring countries. Statistics at the upazila level indicate that
the rate of agrochemical use in the coastal area is quite low compared to other
parts of the country where agriculture is more intensive, for example in the
Syhlet area, where tea is cultivated, and in much of the country where HYV
boro rice is grown. In areas where irrigated agriculture has developed, double
and triple cropping are widespread. Previous socio-econornic surveys indicate
that in areas where the development of groundwater resources has allowed a
boro crop to be cultivated, the consumption of fertilisers and pesticides has
increased two to three fold. Much of this increased consumption is the result
of boro cultivation with HYV rice which has a greater demand for nutrients
than low yielding varieties and is also more prone to pests.
We are aware of no figures which document increased consumption of
agrochemicals due to improvements in agricultural conditions which arise from
coastal flood protection projects. As stated above, it is not expected hat triple
cropping or the adoption of high yield varieties will be widespread and so we
would not expect the agrochemical consumption rate to increase as much as
two fold.
Another factor that constrains the rate of agrochemnical use is the financial
status of the fanner. Richer farmers, or those who have access to credit
through leasers, cooperatives or family will be able to invest in . grochemicals
whilst marginal and landless farmers.may be unable to do so. The rate at
which agrochemical consumption increases will therefore vary widely within
polders and there may also be some regional variation; the south west has a
larger proportion of large farms for example.
E,jv.oMuAL Rmasmc Lmm                          CoamW O 'E EaM,woi h
47



In summary therefore, we do not anticipate that agrochemical consumption will
increase to rates which cause environmental concem. Furthermore the build-up
of unacceptable levels of agrochemicals within polders is unlikely to occur due
to the flushing effects of seasonal flooding and drainage of polders.
With respect to contamination of groundwater and aquifer bodies by pesticides,
any residual pesticide which is not bio-degraded in the upper soil horizons will
most likely be adsorbed onto clay particles. Thus the potential for groundwater
contamination is low. Many of the coastal aquifers are smaDl and isolated and
'protected' by the imperneability of the confining layers; widespread
contamination is therefore difficult to envisage.
As a result of the above, we make the following comments on the
environmental impact of agrochenmcal use:
* For the project area in general, there is a low probability that surface waters
resources will become polluted to the extent that the water is rendered unfit
for use or that fisheries and aquatic life will be significantly affected. This
impact is considered insignificant as a result.
* There may be local incidences of water pollution which could be deemed
significant but these are lkely to be the result of inappropriate use or
accidental spills rather than a general build-up over time.
* There is a low *robability that the groundwater or underlying aquifers
within localised areas will become contaminated by agrochemicals. In
general we would not expect such contamination to reach significant levels.
Supplementary Irrigation using Surface Water Resources
Intensification of crop production which involves the growth of ttew HYV
varieties, extends the length of the rabi season, or involves cultivation of an
additional aus/aman crop will require some irrigation to supplement the existing
soi water resource. In polder areas, opportunities for using water courses are
usually limited by embankments; water in residual watercourses is no longer
replenished by upstream flow and access to adjacent surface water bodies
outside the polder is constrained by the embankments. In this case, farmers,
polder residents and vulnerable groups have to rely on surface water bodies
within the polder area for agricultural and domestic use.
An increased demand on this resource during the dry season can clearly lead
to conflicts of interest amongst the users of surface water bodies; the potential
exists for vulnerable groups to be adversely affected. Many marginal farmers,
sharecroppers, landless and destitute people rely on surface water bodies for
their domestic use, for bathing and laundry, for livestock watering and for
fishing. The quality of surface water in ponds and khals is often directly related
to its quantity such that any significant reduction in water volume will render
the water unfit for many uses. It is important to remember that access to
tubewells is not universal in rural communities.
E,dw.waEAL RaE%mw LAW=                         Camumi c w EuSWhw Cmmmm
48



Fish in reduced volumes of water are more iikely to suffer from thermal stress
and die from asphyxiation, depriving poor people of a valuable source of
protein.
The actions of the richer farmers and landowners are more likely to precipitate
problems of surface water supply than the marginal and landless farmers. Their
ability to hire or purchase low lift pumps (LLPs) make supplementary irrigation
of crops highly feasible.
* It is highly probable that the poorer elements of rural communities will be
significantly and adversely affected by increased use of surface water bodies
for supplementary irrigation. Such impacts are liable to occur for several
months during the dry season on a yearly basis.
* FLsheries resources are highly lkely to be adversely affected by seasonal
drawdown of surface water bodies. Species diversity and abundance are
likely to decline over a period of years with concomnitant effects on nutrition
in poorer groups.
* The nature of inpacts will vary amongst polders, depending on farming
practices, the number and location of surface water bodies and access to
tubewell water supplies among other factors.
Supplomnary Irrigtion Using Groundwater
Within the National Water Plan, the coastal groundwater resource is to be used
for domestic purposes only. This is to prevent saline incursion of aquifers
which would render them unsuitable for domestic use. Some farmers may be
tempted to further exploit the groundwater resources for supplementary
irrigation of their crops. Whilst this may not result in any-appreciable decline
in the quantity or quality of water in limited areas, as a widespread practice it
woutd have drastic effects in the project area.
Soil Waterlogging
One of the adverse impacts of the previous coastal embankment project was
that waterlogging of soils occurred in some areas as a result of inadequate
polder drainage. In general, this appears to have been addressed by polder
drainage improvement schemes. The rehabilitation of embankments will result
in their height being increased. If the existing drainage structures are
employed, it is possible that flood waters (rain-derived) will accumulate to a
greater depth within the polders andwill take a longer time to be cleared under
gravity drainage.
This may result in soil waterlogging in some areas, particularly where field
levels vary greatly. It is difficult to determine the significance of this impact; at
the farm level though any waterlogging which results in loss of crop
productivity wiil be significant to the farmer.
Since we are not aware of any significant waterlogging problems at present
which are attributable to coastal embankments, we do not consider that this
EmeoNaawL Rk I_ms oo CLaLun                           OF h ..M       CO_&**=
44



impact has a high probability of occurrence or significance. Further, the project
will finance additional drainage improvements in selected polders which will
help to prevent this impact from occurring.
Abandonment of Local Seed Varieties
A widespread environmental concern in the Asia region is the abandonment
and loss of traditional seed varieties which are adapted to local conditions, in
favour of 'improved' high yield varieties. This has lead to considerable erosion
of the local genetic resource which may at some future date be extremely
useful. It is estimated that 62% of Bangladeshi rice varieties share a single
maternal parent which places the total crop in a vulnerable position shoultd a
major crop epidemic arise.
It is uncertain to what extent varietal use will change in the project area as a
result of the project. In the initial post-construction years, the pattem of use
may not change greatly due to the residual salinity of the soil. As'this declines
due to the flushing effects of yearly flooding and drainage, it may be possible
to replace local salt tolerant varieties with HYV strains.
The significance of this impact at the farm level is not great; some would argue
that it is a positive impact rather than a negative one. However, it is our
opinion that at the national level this impact is a significantly adverse one. The
coastal area of Bangladesh is liable to change markedly as a result of global
eiimate change. Rising water levels may lead to greater depths and duration of
flooding which would tend to favour traditional flood resistant strains of rice
rather than improved HYV rice, for example.
An additional impact related to the adoption of HYV rice is the poten'tial
reduction in fodder availability. This arises because the residual straw after rice
harvesting is much less with HYV rice than with local varieties. Whilst this
inpact may be of local significance, we do not anticapate that it will be of
significance throughout most of the project area since it is not envisaged that
HYV strains will be widely adopted. We have no information on changes in
fodder availability which may arise in relation to changes in other crop varieties
such as wheat. It is likely that the afforestation component of the project will
provide opportunities for fodder production which may reduce or eliminate this
adverse impact.
Credit Deedew
The extent to which credit dependence occurs is largely dictated by individual
farner behaviour, economic status and credit availability.
Whilst it is undesirable that credit dependence should arise, we do not consider
that this will become a significantly negative envirenmental impact Indeed
provided that credit is obtained through the formal credit sector, NGOs and
cooperatives, it will allow marginal farmers and the landless to reap some
additional benefits from the project.
&AUGPRWNAL Rs.Msmi La-w                          COm.   cw CF   Eumpsw caw.yw
so



42.2         Costs and Benefits
The overall impact of agricultural intensification can be determined by
comparing the positive and negative impacts associated with intensification
which are described above. The two key negative impacts which have to be
weighed against agricultural intensification are the loss of genetic diversity and
the depletion of surface water resources as a result of increased irrigation
requirements. It is difficult to compare these impacts on a quantitative basis
with the benefits of increased crop yields. A more central issue to the cost-
benefit analysis however, is the scope and cost for impact mitigation and the
significance of any residual impacts. It is possible to collect and preserve for
future use coDections of indigenous seed (a component of the World Bank/ODA
Agriculture Support Services Project addresses this issue). It is also possible to
encourage farmers to plant crops of lower water demand and to make
provisions for improved surface water irrigation using water resources outside
the polders (where practical). The cost of the latter option is likelv to be a
significant factor which will have to be weighed against increased crop
production on a polder by polder basis. It should be noted that credit facilities
for surface water irrigation are available for the coastal areas under the World
Bank/CEC National Minor Irrigation Development Project.
43           FISHERIES
The construction of coastal embankments affects the fisheries sector in two
ways. Open water capture fisheries are most likely to be adversely affected due
to the barrier effect of the embanknents. In contrast, embankment construction
and the protection it affords will create a relatively risk-free environment for
investments in intensive aquaculture to take place.
4-31         Opn  Water Captive Fisherics
Open water capture fisheries are extremely important sources of income and
nourishment for the poor. It is estimated that a 25% decline in open water
fisheries production would require a doubling of the dosed water fishery
harvest to maintain fish production at its present levels.
Open water fisheries are affected by embankments in the following ways.
* The life cycles of many species of fish and shrimp include a migratory phase
in the sea or estuary which is essential for successful breeding.
Embankments may prevent this and thus the species will eventually
disappear due to poor stock recruitment.
* The loss of fish and shrimp diversity that this would entail has adverse
effects throughout the aquatic food chain; induding man.
* The barrier effect of embankments prevents the interbreeding of local
populations when extensive flood plain conditions previously prevailed. This
results in a loss of genetic diversity and makes the species affected more
vulnerable to disease.
&^aUOMflALRElsawo LaauD                        CmmN c@ im Eufow*m Couuwam



Generally inland fisheries have been in decline for some time. The reason for
this is not clear-cut and is likely to involve a combination of factors in different
areas, including overfishing and the development of FCDI systems.
In many areas there is insufficient data upon which to draw any firm
conclusions on the cause of decline. One area in which the effects of
embankmnent construction has been studied is the Chandpur FCDI project,
north west of Noakhali. It was found that overall diversity and the abundance
of important food fish and shrimp declined significantly. Two years after
project completion, the total fish catch declined by 35%; this was also reflected
in per capita fish consumption.
It is unlHkely that the CPP 11 will have any significant discernable impacts on the
open water capture fishery which are additional to existing pressures on the
fishery. Any impacts related to coastal embankment construction arose due to
the previous Coastal Embankment Project. Any impacts of the CPP 1I will be
restricted to areas where previous embankments have virtually been destroyed
by previous natural disasters allowing a greater degree of free movement of fish
and shrimp. This is likely to occur in only a few restricted areas. Due to these
factors, we do not consider that the project wiU have significant adverse impacts
on inland fisheries.
4.12        AquaCUlALm
In Section 2.4 we relate how aquaculture production in the coastal areas of
Bangladesh is well below potential rates of production for the country.
With a greater degree of protection, investments in both brackish and
freshwater aquaculture could yield significant increases in fish and shrimp
production.
Freskwater Aquaculture
In the Kamsax report estimates of the area of cultivable and derelict ponds are
made and of the approximate production of existing cultured ponds. If
adequate investment of manpower and capital were available freshwater
production of fish and shrimp could increase greatly.
Increased production benefits in existing cultured ponds will accrue to the
owner or leaser rather to the population in general. There may be limited
additional employment opportunities for the underemployed, however.
There ib considerable potential for involving the rural poor in reclaiming derelict
ponds for freshwater fish and shrimp culture with the assistance of NGOs.
This could have significant positive impacts on the nutritional and economic
status of people involved, bringing project benefits to a wider section of the
rural community.
Brackish Water Aquaculture
It is highly probable t1tat the project will result in an increase in the production
of existing bracldsh water shrimp and fish fanns, and also an increase in the
Ewmaw.ofruA RKouwcs amD                        Coumaf o1K FSaOIU CoLNamm



area under aquaculture activities. The net result will be increased income to
farm owners, increased employment opportunities and stimulation of support
activities such as product processing and packaging, refrigeration services and
transport.
Some conflict of interest with rice farmers is likely to arise in areas where both
activities co-exist. It has been reported in some areas that shrimp farmers are
forcing rice farmers to yield their land for expansion. Even in areas where this
does not occur salinisation of agricultural land adjacent to aquaculture farms
is an interference factor. Where rice farmers are coerced into allowing shrimp
production on their land during the dry season, late release of the land may
compromise the farmers ability to prepare and plant his land prior to the rains.
4.3.3        Costs ad BCnefits
It has been argued that any decline in the open water capture fishery is more
than compensated for by the potential increases in fish and shrimp aquaculture
and the secondary effects mentioned above. This is a simplistic view for the
following reasons.
The increase in employment opportunities arising from  aquacultural
intensification and expansion are not large; in economic terms it is highly
unlikely that they would compensate for the loss to the poor of open water
capture fisheries.
= The main beneficiaries of increased aquacultural activities are the richer
elements of the rural community since ownership of aquaculture ventures
lies almost entirely in their hands.
- Whilst fish and shrimp production and availability benefit from improved
FCD measures, the market cost of protein to the poor is much higher
compared to subsistence fishing.
In summary, it can be said that the net result of improved FCD measures;
including coastal embankments; has been a shift in fishery resources from the
public to the private sector with predictable economic effects on those
dependant on open water capture fisheries. We conclude therefore that the
main beneficiaries of the CPP 11 in terms of fisheries resources will be the- higher
income groups whilst the poor wiD benefft rinallgriry-orallan.---
4.4          HYDROLOGY AND SEDIMENr DYAMICS
The construction of embankments alters the natural pattern of river flow and
of seasonal flooding in the project area. These changes in hydrology manifest
themselves in different ways:
* A relative increase in land elevation outside polders due to the deposition of
materials during floods; this may cause natural drainage problems in the
polders.
i .Ca,wmm or 3m Eumain Cammuus



* In shrnmptrice rotations, during the flushing of fields to remove salt, a
considerable loss of soil nutrients also occurs.
* Alteration of natural drainage patterns may cause land accretion outside
drainage structures, affecting their operation.
* Changes in the natural drainage patterns may affect the ecology of existing
mangrove areas. Since the project does not involve significant changes to
the alignment of existing coastal embankmeats, this is unlikely to arise due
to CPP H.
We do not consider that any of the above impacts can be considered
significantly adverse since they are likely to be localised, and, through adequate
operation and maintenance, the impacts need not arise at all.
4.5         SocIo-EcONoMIcs
The CPP n gives rise to several socio-economic impacts which are related to the
construction of embankments, agricultural and aquacultural intensification and
to the afforestation component of the project. Some of these impacts have been
addressed in Sections 4.2 and 4.3 which deal with fisheries and agriculture. In
this section we wiD concentrate on the folowing key socio-economic impacts
arising from embaninent construction and afforestation.
3 Resettlement and Compensation.
3 Improved econonic status of the Landless.
* Changes in the Social Fabric of Rural Communities.
4.51        Rtesettlement and Compensation
The rehabilitation of embankments will require additional land on both the
seaward and landward sides of the embankments. This will affect existing land
owners within the polders in the folowing ways.
* Some homesteads which lie close to the existing embankments will have to
be relocated.
* Homestead gardens, fruit trees and ponds may be lost due to land take.
* Agricultural land may be lost, affecting the families ability to sustain itself.
In general, family agricultural land consists of small scattered fields around the
homestead area which usually has a smail homestead garden immediately
surrounding it. At first impression it would appear that if a land owner loses
an area of land due to land-take this would not create significant problems for
the family concemed since they would have land elsewhere upon which they
could intensify agricultural production and offset the loss of production from
the destroyed land. This may not be the case however and such assumptions
should not be used as a basis for compensation planning.
EmvawRnu.uu LmmP                             C      01 a  EUtoIN C_wam
54



Unless adequate provision is made for compensation and resettlement, the
affected land owners could face long term hardship since their ability to
produce food for subsistence use and for sale could be seriously compromised.
There is a general shortage of agricultural land in the coastal area and any that
is available for re-allocation is unlikely to be as good as land which has been
lost (otherwise it would already be farmed). For marginal farmers the loss of
any land could be enough to entrain them in a cycle of long term indebtedness.
The loss of fruit trees can also have significant adverse impacts on family
income budgets particularly for established coconut trees which yield a variety
of products induding fuel, cooking oD, water, buDding materials and raw
material for cottage industry.
We understand that a detailed polder-wise survey of affected assets is in
progress. A preliminary assessment indicates that about 800 ha of land will be
acquired for embankment construction, affecting 2000-3000 families (about 10-
20,000 people). The information from the polder survey should be used as the
basis for compensation planning.
It has been remarked in other FAP reports (eg FAP 5) that unfair assessment of
land values often occurs due to a deflation of reported land prices at the time
that transactions are recorded for the purpose of tax evasion. In addition,
farmers may be subject to substantial delays in payment of compensation, and
to complex and costly payment procedures. According to land acquisition rules
about 14 steps are required which can take up to 2 years to complete.
It is apparent that there is scope for land owners to be significantly adversely
affected by land take and deficiencies of the associated compensation process.
Loss of income whilst awaiting compensation issues to be settled could lead to
indebtedness and hardship for affected families which would be long term in
nature.
Adequate provisions for short term resettlement of people affected by
embankment construction will need to be made if adverse impacts are not to
* arise from this source. It is our experience in many countries that this does not
occur due to poor planning and surveying of affected people and resources.
Provided the issue of compensation and resettlement is managed efficiently and
effectively, only short term inconvenience may be experienced which could be
deemed insignificant
4.5.2        Economic Status of the Landless
The landless people currently living on the existing embankments or on char
lands will receive the opportunity to lease embankment and foreshore land
which can be cultivated for the long term livlihood of the landless family. The
minor income which they will receive for embankment maintenance will also
improve significantly their economic status. The net result of successful
afforestation and embankment leasing will be a long term significant positive
impacts on the landless community. The detailed proposals for coastal
ENV_ON*WM Rasuwu Lmw                          CmammF no EUNmm Cammumi
Zcz



afforestation were not yet available from the Forest Department. We will
appraise these during the Bank's appraisal mission.
Presently We are not aware of any surveys which have been carried out on the
number of char land inhabitants which could benefit from the project and we
are therefore unable to estimate the number of potential beneficiaries.
4.53        Social Fabric of Rural Communities
There is the potential for social conflicts to arise between the land owners who
are affected by land take, and the newly settled landless who may occupy the
area of the formers land. In addition, the social fabric of existing rural
settlements may be disrupted by the resettlement of land owners elsewhere.
Overall such impacts may not be significantly adverse. However, at the local
level serious conflict could arise. This can largely be prevented by careful
consideration during the planning stage and the involvement of beneficiaries.
The existing char land communities will of necessity have to disperse if they are
to benefit from the leasing of embankment sections. -This is not considered a
significant inpact however.
4.S4        Costs and Benefits
At the gross project level, it is apparent that project benefits far outweigh the
costs; one has to compare the loss of about 800 ha of land due to land take
(affecting up to 3000 families or 30,000 people) with the protection afforded to
3.1 million ha of paddy land and approximately 5 million homesteads.
At the polder level, the positive impacts which arise from the CPP n are of high
significance for the landless and land owning groups of the project area. The
enhanced opportunities for long and short term emnployment for landless and
marginal farmers and the reduced potential for loss of life gMreatly outweigh, in
our opinion the potential negative impacts of disruption to rural communities
and hardship for land owners due to land take; there is considerable scope to
prevent or mitigate these negative impacts.
4.6         MISCELLANEOUS
We do not consider that it is likely that the afforested areas will give rise to
significant increases in wildlife populations other than birds, smail mammals
and other vertebrates and invertebrates. The area of habitat will be too small
to offer additional habitat refuge to predatory cats for example.
E,waWm*iL KaMwc RECa                          co         c Um Ew  C_
C"A



5           ENVVROWMEIVAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 771E PROJECT AREA
5.1        INTRDUC77ON
In this chapter we draw upon the findings and condusions of the previous
sections to develop a strategy for the environmental management of the project
area which will achieve the following:
Monitoring of environmental impacts in a cost effective way and where
possible combining the project monitoring requirements with those of related
projects.
* Enhancement of the positive impacts of the project by providing assis.ance
to beneficiaries in achieving sustainable development of polder resources
through technical assistance and the development of self-help groups.
* Prevention and/or mitigation of negative impacts through improved polder
management involving beneficiaries, agricultural extension activities and
NGO guidance and assistance to beneficiaries.
We have drawn upon the experiences of the first Coastal Embankment Project
and of other FCDI projects in Bangladesh in developing an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) for the project area. The key factors which have
shaped our approach are as foilows.
- The relative weakness of the Department of the Environment in
environmental management and monitoring (apart from pollution control
and water quality monitoring) limits such activities to those agencies which
deal with agricultural and water resource issues, at least for the present.
* The failure of past FCDI projects to incorporate the views of beneficiaries
who were expected to cooperate in managing the projects in itself lead to
negative environmental impacts.
* The key to adequate management of compensation and resettlement issues
lies in detailed evaluation of families affected by the project early in the
project's life and involvement of the rural community in the compensaltion
planning process.
* To maximise the benefits received by the landless and marginal farmers and
to prevent benefits being usurped by the richer elements of the rural
community, it is important to galvanise the rural poor into groups which can
defend and promote their interests.
* There is a need ror a stron& supervisory role in the management of
environmental and socio-economic issues during project implementation by
the consultants to ensure that issues are addressed satisfactorily.
E_NM.WAL RnmUK5 LEiI                        Cg     apma Eumog Coiagw



* Long term environmental management of coastal polders is required to
prevent adverse impacts arising in the future. For this purpose there is a
need to develop environmental management c.-pabilities within the BWDB
and an established framework for liaison and collaboration with other
agencies concerned with in-polder management (such as the DAE, FD and
DoF).
We have summarised in Table 5.la the options for the environmental
monitoring, mitigation and management of project impacts. Comments on
these options are presented below.
5.2         MANAGEMENT OFAGRICULTURAL INTENSIRCATION
The potential for negative environmental impacts of agricultural intensification
to arise are directly related to the nature of cultivation practices in the project
area.
The requirements for environmental management of agriculture are two-fold:
* To maximise agricultural production by all elements of the rural community.
* To ensure that such production increases take place in an environmentally
sustainable way, minimising the potential for water pollution and other
adverse inpacts.
It is evident that these requirements will not be met by the rural communities
without assistance and that this could be provided by NGOs and GOs such as
the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE). A catalyst for the necessary
actions to take place is required. Mechanisms to achieve this are outlined
below.
5.21        Stimulating SusStinable Agrculturl Development
The role of GO and NGO agencies in promoting appropriate methods of
agricultural intensification is a vital one not only iLl the coastal areas ot
Bangladesh. The approach and strategies adopted by these agencies is different,
reflecting their philosophies and raison d'etre. The approach of the NGOs is
essentially a 'bottom up' approach where NGO village level workers work
directly with farmers to improve production methods. In contrast, the GOs
such as the DAE operate in a 'top down' approach with agricultural production
strategies and extension methods being developed at relatively high levels in the
administrations. Often extension messages which originate from centralised
structures are inappropriate for local conditions. The aim of this project should
be to entrain the assistance of both types of agencies to ensure that effective
strategies for agricultural intensification, appropriate at the individual polde.
level are formulated and implemented by farmers.
The Role of the DAE
The DAE's approach to its role in promoting agricultural production in the
country is in the process of being transformed under the Agricultural Support
Services Project (ASSP). The changes involve improving the dffectiveness,
Emmouwea. biataci Law                        Commom up ima Eumm*, Cmwwm
5R



Table 5.1a     Key Eiviromnental and Social hoipact AMonitoring Requirments
Natur of Impact                    Monitoring Activity                Frequency and Duration             Moriltoring Agency
Etiviroiineilat Issies
Increased use ol agroxhemicals     Tlst groundwater quality at        Annual basis for 5 years           DWDD/DADC '
leading to gruundwater pollution.    BADCBWDB monitoring wells.
Incredsed absiraclion of groundwater Monitor dry season well water levels                                BWDBIDADC'
for irrigdtion purposes.           at BADC/BWDB monitoring wells.
Random field visits.                                                 BWDB
Decline in open water capture      Monitor upazila catch statistics.  Annual basis for 5 years.          DoF/Jpazila Paslhad.
fisheries,
Increased aquaculture proxduction.    Monitor upazila production statistics. Annual basis for 5 years.   DoF/Apazia Parishad.
Shrimp/rice farming conilicts.     Farmer groups to report            Upazila Parishad to investigate as    DoF/DAE/Upazia Pasihad.
encroachment attempts and farnning  required.
dilficulties.
Destruction ol mangroves for       Examine remote sensing imagery.    Annual basis for 5 years.          FD
aqUdCUliure expdnsion.                                                                   a
Codslal afforestation.             Exdmine remole sensing imagery in   Annual basis for 10 years.        FD
conjunction with ground-truthing.
Genetic erosior/cWhanges in cropping  Mionitur varietal use and cropping    Annual basis for 5 years.    DAE/Upazila Parishad
patternm                           pdalerrs.
Increased abundance of shrimp      Monitor littoral shrimp larvae     Every 2 years for 6 year.          DOP
larvae.                            recorded catches.
Drawdown in surflace water badies.  NGO dialogue with affected        Investigate grievances as requiud.   NGO/DAE
communities.
Socio-ecotiowic issues
Increase in employment rate.       Examine upazila statistics.        Annual basis for 5 years           BWDBAJpaib, PaIishUVNGOs
Changes in income budgets for      Sicia-economic survey of prnoect  Investigate specilic grievances.   BWDWUpaula PaishahuNGOs
marginal farmers antI IdndIess.   impdcled groups.
Review progress and adeLuacy of
cI)mnpvsetion provisitUIs.



Nature of Impact                 Monitoring; Activity              frquency and Vunaatbn            Monitoring Agency
Social connlicts amongst landless and  NGO dialogue with affected  Investigate grevances as required.   NGOJUpmila Pmisiad.
landed groups.                   communities.
Changes in community social Iabric.  NCO dialigue'with alfected    Investigate grievances as required.   NGO/Upailia Pauisha4
communillts.
Changes in fodder availability.  NGOIDAE dialogue with farmers    Annual basis for 5 years.         NGO/DAE/Upazia Purishad.
and livestock owners.
Increased credit dependence.     Mi-nitor NGO and banking sector    Annual basis for 3 yearm post-  NGO.
lending.                         construction.
Incrnased agricultural production.    Review upazila and polder wise  Annual basis for 5 yeamn.     DAEAl.pazila Parishad
statistics.
Changes In cropping patlem.      Review upazila and polder wise                                     DAE/Upazia Parishad'
statistics.
Sedimrientation of didals and other    Investigate specific complaints  As required.                BWDB/JpaziIa Panshad.
walelcourses.                    relaling In lisheriesVnavigalion
activities.
Funded by NNIIDP
Funded by ASSP
BADC    BangiddLsl1 Agricultural Development Corporalion
BWVDB   Odnglddesh Water Develtpment BEkarnJ
DuF      Depdriment of Fisheries
DAE      Department af Agricullural Extension
FD       Forest Department



efficiency and outreach capabilities of the extension services. It also involves
devolving the responsibilities for fornulating extension messages to the regional
and upazila level centres, thus a0owing more appropriate local extension
messages to arise. The project will also promote, through demonstration farms
and other communication means:
* Integrated pest management.
* Appropriate application and handling of agrochenicals.
* Crop diversification (also involving lower water demand crops).
* Development of horticultural export businesses.
* Appropriate irrigation water management.
In addition the project will also support the development and cultivation of
more appropriate seed varieties and the establishment of genetic seed banks.
It is important that laison with the ASSP PIU is undertaken to ensure that the
project area benefits from its extension activities. The project implementation
unit (PIU) should establish formal links with its counterpart unit in the DAE to
ensure that its data coDection activities cover the polders of the project area and
that coilected information is shared.
The Role of NGOs
Appropriate NGOs should be invited to collaborate in efforts to increase
agricultural production and promote appropriate use of farm inputs. They
should also play a role in assisting the landless to establish agricultural activities
on the embankments and foreshore areas. One or two of the large NCOs such
as Proshika or BRAC should be given overall responsibility for this task. It
would be desirable if they could utilise the resources of smaller iocal NGOs in
this respect The DAE and the FD should also provide technical support to the
NCOs.
NGOs should be invited to organise farmers and the newly settled landless into
farmer groups. This would have the following benefits:
* It would allow extension messages to be communicated more efficiently and
with much reduced effort than on a 1:1 basis.
* It would allow changes in cropping practices, agrochemical use and irrigation
methods to be monitored with relative ease through the NGO mediated
group meetings.
* It would provide a strong position for the more disadvantaged members of
the rural community to ensure that project benefits and community assets
(such as surface water features) are not sequestered entirely by the higher
income farmers and rural elite.
* It would provide a forum for discussions with the BWDB on project
implementation and polder operation and maintenance which is not
dominated by the rural elite.
EmusaSwmIL Rmmcut Lw.w                        Cair OF TM EAAauiCoWAiau



One of the abovementioned NGOs should be commissioned to undertake a
survey of smaller NGOs which operate in the project area and could be of
assistance to the project.
It is important to take into consideration the fact negotiations on the roles of
the potential collaborating NCOs such as Proshika and BRAC will need to be
carried out. This should be carried out at the earliest opportunity since it will
take some time for the initial NGO survey to be conducted and for the
collaborating NGOs to develop management systems in the project area. An
assessment of their resource requirements and fees will also be required.
Coordinating Devlopment Efforts
To stimulate and coordinate the above activities we recommend that an
Agricultural Development Officer (ADO) is appointed to the Project
Implementation Unit for a 10 month period spread over 18 months commencing
towards the end of the first year of construction. The main duties of this officer
would be to ensure that the necessary actions take place to promote agricultural
intensification in the project area. The officer would be responsible for
channelling inputs of the NGO and GO agencies to achieve this. In particular
the ADO will seek to ensure that extension messages appropriate at the polder
level are communicated by NGOs and the DAE on the folowing issues:
* Integrated pest management.
* Appropriate application and handling of agrochemicals.
C Crop diversification (also invoiving lower water demand crops).
- Development of horticultural export businesses.
- Appropriate irrigation water management.
*The ADO would coBaborate with the Social Development Officer and the
0 Environmental Specialist in ensuring that a holistic approach to environmental
management is adopted.
5.22        Icmrsug the Potential for Surf ace Water imgation
To further increase the dry season water storage volume within polders. it is
recommended that deep borrow pits be excavated rather than relatively shallow
trenches which have a high surface area to vJlume ratio for evaporation. The
resulting ponds can also be used for aquaculture purposes.
The project has provisions for the re-excavation of silted khals and other
watercourses by BWDB. In colaboration with NGO groups and the upazila
parishad, suitable khals should be identified for excavation to support
aquaculture and provide water supplies.
Staff of the PIU should collaborate with their counterpart staff in the NMIDP
Project implementation unit to identify suitable polder sites which could benefit
from the surface water irrigation provisions of the NMIDP. The NMIDP
environmental consultants would carry out EIAs of the chosen development
schemes.
E,vwtam   RaOcD I..u                         Comm   oP nE hAmmi C_mmim



5.3         MANAGEMENr OF FISHERIES ISSUES
The main issues which have to be addressed in terms of the environmental
management and monitoring of fisheries impacts are the potential increase in
freshwater and brackish water aquaculture, and the decline in open water
capture fisheries.
We recommend that the Environmental Specialist should monitor and supervise
all fisheries related activities during project implementation.
5I3.1       Incrasing Frshuater fisheries Production
Aquaculture
We recommend that the following actions are carried out:
Promotion of freshwater aquaculture development by marginal farmers and
landless by encouraging and assisting in:
* leasing of water bodies by fisherman/farmer groups.
* rehabilitation of derelict ponds.
e increasing production of public water bodies by artificial stocking and
enhanced aquaculture practices.
* training of group members in intensive aquaculture techniques.
NGOs should be invited to provide the necessary assistance in conjunction with
the Department of Fisheries. The main NGO which should be involved in this
activity is Proshika.
Through NGO dialogue with aquaculture groups, increases in freshwater
fishery production can be monitored at the polder level by the P1U staff
and the DoF. The experience and assistance of the DANIDA-funded Noakhali
Integrated Development Project should be sought to provide initial impetus to
aquaculture development.
Polder Management
To the fullest extent possible drainage structures which-obstruct major natural
water courses should be open at least for certain periods during fish and shrimp
migration. The locations of these watercourses should be identified by the
environmentalist in consultation with local groups and DoF staff at the upazila
level. Generalised calendar schedules for shrimp and fish movements are
illustrated in Annex B. It should be emphasised that in some cases, it may not
be feasible for drainage structure opening schedules to coincide with fish and
shrnmp movements due to adverse tidal conditions.
5.3.2       Incasing Brzckish Water Aquaculturc
The intensification and expansion of the area under bracidsh water aquaculture
is being addressed by on-going donor funded projects in this sector such as the
IDA-funded Third Fisheries project which is concemed with improving public
E_iVoUa4a. Imouwc L.-                        c_.oA o TM EcWWCA



infrastructure on 13,000 ha of land already under shrimp cultivation in the
south west of the country. No further assistance is recommended under this
project.
Expansion of the area under bracidsh water cultivation should not be aDowed
to proceed at the cost of mangrove deafforestation such has been occurmng
north of Cox's Bazaar. The Forestry Department and the Department of
Fisheries should discourage ail such activities. Credit assistance to develop such
areas should be blocked.
In order to reduce the potential for land use conflicts between shrimp and rice
farmers, it is recommended that land use be zoned within affected polders so
that farm crops are not adversely affected by salinisation from adjacent shrimp
farms. The BWDB in conjunction with the upazila fisheries and agricultural
officers should devise and enforce such restrictions.
5.4         MANAGEMENT OF SOCIO-ECONOMIC ISSUES
In order to determine requirements and options for satisfactory resettlement and
compensation, it is recommended that a detailed socio-economic survey of the
embankment areas is undertaken to determine the number of families affected
by the project and the nature in which they are affected. The assessment
should indude an inventory of rural assets which require compensation should
also indude communal assets such as wells, ponds and social forestry stands.
The study should be conducted by local consultants or NGOs. The Social
Development Officer should be responsible for designing the study and should
play a supervisory role during its execution.
Based on our experience of compensation issues elsewhere we would strongly
recommend against lump sum cash compensation payments. BWDB should
encourage NGOs to offer counselling to compensation beneficiaries.
We would further recommend that loc,i groups and NGOs be involved in the
planning of compensation and resettlement provisions.
5.5          COASTAL AFFORESTA4ION
The variable conditions along the coast of Bangladesh are not universally
suitable for mangrove afforestation.  Some degree of experimentation is
therefore required to identify suitable species for afforestation. We therefore
recornmend that pilot studies be carried ouit at the earliest instance to identify
suitable species for afforestation along the coast of the project area.
Ermo.TAL REoS Lam_                            Cf  ns im  CEUEWU
'4,



£6          INSTIUIONAL RESPONSIBILJES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
5.6.1       Polder Opetion and Maintenance
The operation and management of polders should ultimately rest witn the
BWDB through its local offices. O&M schedules should be developed which
take into account the drainage and irrigation requirements of polder occupants.
The DAE and the DoF are the most appropriate agencies for fisheries and
agriculture.  We suggest that the most appropriate local forum for such
collaboration is the upazila parishad.
The PIU consultants should ensure that mechanisms are put in place for this
to occur.
5%62        Land Lse Management
The BWDB would be responsible for enforcing land use restrictions within
polders based upon the development of a suitable land use plan for each polder.
S.63        Eaironmental Monitoring
It is important that ata coUlected for monitoring purposes should be on a
polder-wise basis, where possible, to allow infonnation generated to be
channelled into management decisions at the polder level. Again, the PIU
consultants should ensure that working mechanisms are put in place to achieve
this.
We will be in a position to offer further advice on environmental monitoring
when the detailed monitoring proposals for the NMIDP and ASSP are available.
3@64        Deucoing WWDB's Einm ental Manajm6nt Capabilities
The BWDB is concerned with the development and management of a wide
range of flood control, drainage and irrigation measures throughout
Bangladesh. It would be appropriate the agency whose actions have far
reaching consequences for the human and natural environment to incorporate
environmental considerations into its activities. At presen,t there is no formal
institutional capacity to achieve this.
We would recommend therefore that an environmental management cell be
developed within the BWDB. This could be achieved by providing short term
in-country training to a limited number of technical and senior managerial staff
from each region within the agency. On a wider time frame, long term
overseas environmental management training could be provided for selected
individuals. The proposed activities of the PIU could be considered as an initial
step in this direction. Counterpart staff would receive initial environmental
awareness from working with the expatriate PIU consultants.
E,v-nMWAi R'u osacus                        Cauwn  c op im Eiua. C_wAuw



.6.5        Estimated Costs of Enirovnmental Managemcnt Mcasures
At this stage we have not been able to estimate the costs of environmental
mitigation, monitoring and management options since we do not have sufficient
information on the folowing factors.
* The nature and extent of NGO involvement.
* NCO transportation requirements.
* Detailed proposals for Forest Department assistance in afforestation.
* Detailed monitoring proposals for the NMIDP and ASSP.
During the appraisal mission many of the above factors wiln be adequately
darified and cost estimates can then be prepared.
The relative cost of mitigation options for the reduced availability of surface
waters varies from the inexpensive (such as excavation of khals and borrow
ponds to the expensive (low Uft pump irrigation using improved drainage
channels). Cost-benefit analyses should be undertaken by the PIU economist
to ensure that 'real' benefits accrue from such measures.
5.7         PRoyEcr CoNDmoNALrFIEs
The World Bank and the CEC may wish to consider the following
conditionalities for the Mid Term Programme.
* Development of an environmental management cell within BWDB.
* Detailed pre-acquisition survey of affected people and assets.
o Involvement of NGOs in the assessment and management of compensation
issues, forestry and agricultural development.
* Land use zoning in polders where shrimp/rice farming conflicts arise.
EtJ LRs5OUDum                        CtOO hU EAUIiM C_&Wn



6           ANALYSIS OF ALTERVATIES
6.1         THE L4ASSEZ-FAIRE OPTON
In Section 4 we discussed the environmental costs and benefits of the project in
relation to certain environmental issues. In this section we qualitatively
compare the environmental state of affairs which would prevail in the 'With
Project' (WP) and 'Without Project' (WOP) scenarios.
6.1.1       Fisheries
Aquaczdture
In the WP situation, the rehabilitation of embankments would offer a greater
degree of protection (though not absolute) from flooding and it is highly likely
that aquacultural activities would both intensify and expand within certain
polders. It is difficult to estimate the extent of this because there are too many
variables involved at this stage. The WOP scenario would most likely see the
existing state of affairs continue; a gradual increase in the area under
aquaculture over time accompanied by only modest increases in productivity.
Open uwater Capture Fises
It is unlikely that the existing state of embankaent disrepair would continue
indefinitely, even without the project The BWDB would eventually address the
deficiencies by Food For Work programmes and with the assistance of other
donors. We woultd not therefore expect that the embanknent system would
decay to the extent that all original natural water:ourses and navigation
channels would become unobstructed. The open water capture fishery in the
coastal area would therefore either continue to decline or stabilise ait some low
level of productivity. It would be difficult to envisage substantial efforts being
made to improve productivity without a greater degree of protection from
flooding. We conclude therefore that improvements in the fishery will only
arise from rehabilitation of coastal embankments accompanied by some attempts
to synchronise drainage outlet operation schedules with fish and shrimp
breeding movements.
6X12        Agriculture
In the WOP scenario, the activities supported by the Agricultural Support
Services Project wiil lead to improvements in agricultural production,
stimulation of crop diversification and the promotion of more efficient use of
farm inputs. Increased crop production and crop diversification will be
constrained by soil salinity and flooding events. With the WP scenario, the
eventual flushing of soil salinity, the reduction in flood risk and increase in
farner confidence will lead to some synergism in these impacts.
It is unlikely that water consumption will increase dramaticaily in the WOP
situation. Some increase in consumption is expected in the WP situation
E&MM M_AL REaSac Law=                        CoMMiN OF s EmF Cm
67



though the extent to which this will be tempered by the effects of the ASSP is
not known.
61.3        Industy
lndustrial Development
It is likely that industrial development will continue in the WOP situation
because of increased economic opportunities and the incentives offered by the
COB. The WP scenario would be expected to result in a greater rate of increase
in industrial development, particularly in industries which are more susceptible
to damage during flooding, such as chemical industries.
Salt Production
In the WOP situation salt production is likely to increase in an attempt to
reduce import requirements. The rate of increase is likely to be much higher
in the WP case.
6.1.4       Socma-ecnnic Conditions
The WOP scenario is Ukely to result in the continuation of the existing socio-
econonic status of the majority of people whose relative prosperity will be
constrained by flood events and soil salinity problems. The landless will
continue to languish in poverty on the char lands, w.tere they are exposed to
flood risks, and will lack long term means of livelihood. The WVP situation
would however result in improvements in the socio-economic status of the
landless, the marginal farmers (provided compensation provisions are adequate)
and the relatively rich land holders.
6.1.5        Coastal Affo ,station
Efforts to afforest the coastal area will continue to be made by the GOB and
will be assisted by the donor community without the project; The project
would however accelerate the process, affording protection to coastal
embankments and a long-term means of livelihood to the landless in the
process. It also provides the opportunity for NGO involvement in embankment
rehabilitation in which may not be possible without the project.
ENVUOPaQiTAL Rasem  D                         coa.CiaoN 0   Euaeuu CA_nwuu



7           MAV CONCLUSIONS
7.1         OVERALL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACr
The environmental appraisal confirms that the overall environmental impact of
this project is positive. The expected impacts on fisheries, agriculture and socio-
economic status of the population in the project area will be significantly
positive in most respects.
The main source of significant negative impacts is likely to be land acquisition
for embankment construction and rehabilitation. Unless compensation and
resettlement provisions are adequate, long term residual impacts in relation to
the fogowing may occur:
* Residual impacts (which persist after attempts at mitigation) may arise in
relation to:
* Loss of frtit trees.
* Loss of prime agricultural land.
• Depletion of surface water bodies.
7.2         SCOPE FOX IMPACT Ml77GATION
There is adequate scope for the mitigation of virtually aD the identified adverse
environmental and social impacts of the project. We have stressed throughout
this report the need for those famnilies who are affected by embankment
construction-to be compensated for their immediate assets and loss of produce
from lost trees and crop land.
The effort required mitigate the effects of increased water demand and reduced
availabildity of surface water resources will vary widely. In some areas full
mitigation may be possible by excavating deep borrow pit ponds, whilst in other
areas the provision of surface water irrigation schemes may be required. The
NMIDP could support some of these requirements.
7.3         IMPACT MONITOR[NG
The iLmpacts of the project can be monitored effectively by drawing upon the
information coDected by other agencies and donor-supported monitoring
programmes.
The consultants of the Project Implementation Unit will have to formulate and
establish mechanisms for this to be achieved.
E>a_aFmAL Rocus Lau                           ComN ov nlE EfiAN Couaim
Ic



7.4        EmnRONMENrAL MANAGEMENr
The existing institutional framework is inadequate for the purpose of long tern
holistic management of coastal polders. The most appropriate way of achieving
this goal is by development of an Environmental Management CeD within the
DWDB which could collaborate without coordinating the actions of other
agencies involved in polder management.
_,dNUG&_AL KUicis LEMi                     C     m ism AEa   Caa..mu
70



Annex A
Terns of Reference
0



ANNEX liI
Part I : Environmental Assessment of the Coastal Embankment Prolect
The terms of reference shall involve completion of the following tasks:
review  of  the  adverse  Impacts  of  the  first  Cyclone  Protection
Project. suggesting ways in which the proposed project may be
modified to mitigate against such impacts;
compare the relative environmental costs and benefits of project
Implementation against the laissez faire option;
Identify potential  impacts of the project and attempt to assess in
quantitative terms where possible these impacts;
prepare an  impact mitigation plan which  includes details ot cost
estimates and implementation arrangements;
describe and evaluate the existing  institutional  arrangements for
environmental management of the project and recommend measures to
strengthen these where required.
prepare  and  cost  a plan  for  impact  monitoring  and  for  taking
corrective measures where required.
Methodoloay
The consultant will conduct his assessment of the project based upon the
World Bank's operational guidelines on environmental assessment. To the
fullest extent possible all potential impacts will be characterised in
terms of their likelihood. duration. extent. reversibility and
significance.  The  extent  to which  identified  impacts  are  assessed
snall. in addition to the measures listed, be determined by their
significance relative to other impacts.
The following observations regarding potential impacts arising from the
project shall guide the contractor in his assignment:
-   The mission will start from. u.e and develop the  information and
analysis in the EC-financed "Cyclone Protection 1I Study" reports
produced by KAMPSAX.
Impacts on Open Water Catchment Fisheries
The mission will attempt to assess the effects of the proposed project
on fish production in the coastal areas included in the proposed
project. Account shall be taken of the special characteristics of the
proDosed embankment project. Special attention snall go to ensure that
effects on fishing in the khals can be minimised through, among others.
aporopriate operation of regulators (which the mission should prescribe
in the report).  In assessing the project's likely impact on fisheries
and in recommending Possible corrective measures, the mission will make
maximum use of knowledge and information generated under the Flood
Action Plan (particularly in the fields of environment and fisheries).



-2-
Loss of Agricuitural Land to Embankments
This is likely to be a major impact of tne proposed project since
virtually everywhere in tne coastal zone. cultivable land is extremely
scarce. The approach In assessing land take impacts on agricultural
production will therefore take Into account potential increases In
agricultural production due to Improved crop protection afforded by
embankments. Assessment of this impact must also take Into account the
status of affected  farmer/producers;  as  it  is  likaly  that  landless
producers and lessees will be more significantly affected. special
attention will go to analyse the project's impact on these categories.
lmnacts of FarPer Land Use Chanoss
ImDrovements within the agricultural sector in Bangladesh over recent
years have caused significant chanqes In cropping patterns throughout
the country.  D -elopments  In  irrigated agriculture and FCDI  are the
main causative factors. The mission will attempt to identify changes in
farming practices and land use due to improvements  in the embankment
system  of  coasta,  areas.  Conversion  to  shrimp  cuiture  foLlowing
embankment construction will be given special attention.
Increased Use of Aaro-Chemicals
Assessment of the impacts of increased agro-chemical usage will be
carried out within the Agriculture Support Services lioject (ASSP) and
the NMIDP. The mission will examine mechanisms to satisfy the mutual
renuirements of these projects and the Coastal Embankment Project in
order to overcome the lack of information adequate for quantitative
assessment of agro-chemical impacts in future.
Qothr IRRAWIS
The impacts described above are, to a large extent, adverse in nature.
It is important that the mission seeks to identify both positive and
adverse  impacts of  the project.  Potential  positive  impacts  include
enhanced employment opportunities (short term), improved security of
life and Property and also secondary benefits derived from afforestation
of embankments and foreshore areas.
ImpaCt Monitoring and Mitigation
Many of the impacts which will need to be monitored and mitigated
against in this project will also be addressed within the context of
the Agricultural  Sector  Services  Project  (ASSP).  The  mission  shall
explore ways in which overlapping impacts can be monitored jointly for
both projects with due consideration to the relatively weak capabilities
of   Bangladeshi   agencies   in  terms  of   environmental/agricultural
monitoring and management.



- 3 -
This part of  the mission provides  for uP  to 20 days  in Banglaaesni
(including travel) plus 10 days of report writing in EuroDe.
The mission will produce a report (in English) acceptable to both the
Commission and the World Bank.  A draft report will be available in 10
copies latest 5th of July 1992.  A final report will be produced by 30th
of September 1992 In 15 copies.



Annex B
Fisheries
r



Lr, rilgr,uti(iii aiioal   1'iuislwcries (Talki,dar iii the South Fast Region
Man FWw t hCt        
Monih    J   FM          A    M   |                             N
B amaii
t bofo 
F3 land           ItYV bola
Crop                             Ptlses
calendar                         Oil seed
.F4              LboF
Spawning migration
Spawning                                                            l    j    j
HLisa                            IRivoliinhavsl   -  __:
Harvest al sea                                  . -        -
Dispersal of young in rivers
Spawniing migration
Spawniing
Disporsal ol young over flood plain
Major carp                        fletuirii tolyonig to beel and river
I laivost in beal and liVer
Ilarvest dtiuifkg spawning migration
Laloral migiation to (lood plain                              -
Floodplain                        Roproditlion
Floocfplc-in            ~~Dispaisat and GiowLh
resident                    Ilotiuri to standing waite
species                I farvestl              tI
Dry season residence in standing water         -   -
Mglrtalioi to estluary
Siiawrniino in esatuary
Giant Fresh Water Prawn           JIivaL,iloiniufatioi to fieoslwaler
f outinirj dipisoeal into flood plain
I  .larvusl                                         ,   I     II               ,_               .. ,
Stiurce: I'AI' 



GHNER&LIZKI PINARID SEBIMP LIFK CYCLE
No. of       Approx.
Stage         Duration      Moults    Total Length   Comments
Egg           15  hours        -        0.3mm       Demersal marine
Nauplius      24-48 hours      5           lm      Demersal marine
Protozoea     5-7 days         3           3mm      Planktonic marine
Mysis         5-7 days         3       4-lO.        Planktonic marine
Post-larvae   1 month        about 10  1-3cm.       Enters nursery area;
gradual metamorpho-
sis to juvenile form
Juvenile      3-4 months    many      3-10cm        Estuarine  phase,
males often mature
as    they      leave
nursery area.
Adult         8 months       many     iO-30cm       Marine  phase;
females generally
mature at sea and
spawn after ferti-
lization.
Source: MPO (1987) Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture Resourrces



Enclosue 15:    Distribution of Ponds in the Study Areas
Poldcr                    Upazila          Numbcr of Ponds               Toul Arcah No. of pun:ds Prop. of ponj
Numbcr                                Cultivcd   Cult:- |Dcrclic   Total  Under   per R0I       arca to ZICt
I vabic          I        nlld ilia:  liusuchlcIls  cronned arci
Group 1: AEZ.  13
Sub-croup 1:
P-S                   Kalieani          1835     636      408      1059    27('.2        4           1:82
P-7/1 & P-7/2         Asashuni          11(14    383      293      1 7X0    168.0         SI. I cis
P-10.12               Paikeacha         2121      735      565     3421    322.5        11           1:93
P-14/1 & P-14/2       Kovra             4217     1462      133    6802    641 4         3(           1:30
P-S (pan) & P-15      Shamnacar         485       168      130     783  j  73.7          2          1:461
P-31 & P-32           D;aconc           4443     1541     1182    7166    675 x         4.4          1-24
Sub-eroup 2 .
P-35/1                |Sarankhob     |  3S7   |  134  |  103       624      5 5 7       4      1 j   :17tn
Sub-eroup 3:
P-40/l & P-40/2      4Patherchala       2736     1315     932  | 4983    3 ;75.6 2|      4           1:53
P-45                  Bareuna           4377     2105     1491    7973 t4(1 1 4         25           1:44
P45 & P46            IKalanara          4346     2090    1481    7917    597(1  |    32              1:53
Group 11: AEZ - li
Group 4:
P-57/56               Char Fasson       81|77    3932    27R5    14894   1123.0         33           1:40
Daulatkhan       3556     1710    1212    6478    488.5          27           1:29
Burhanuddiii     3435     1651    1170    6256 |471.9            17           1:56
T;azumnuddin     4073      1959    1387    7419    559.7         66           1;28
LalmoiGn         4425  | 2032    1439    7696    58(0.3          23           1:41
P-5912                Ramcati           6734  I 3442      1374    11550.   1297-4       26           1:32
P-5913B & P-59/3C(Pan) Sudharam         11148    5699    2276    19123   214s8.5        23           1:29 
P-59/C (pan)          Comnanican:       2870  11467        586    4923    553 3         20           1:4|   1 i
P.60                   Sonacaza         2594  I 1326       530    4450 |499.8        -  14           1.2b
P-732rB                Hanava           11011  J 5628    2247| 1886   2121 s|    44h                 1.23    7
P-72                   Sandwi.p         4439  T 4808    1297   10544  I 1401.   i    2-    J    1:12
rGroup III: AEZ - 23
Sub-eroup 5:
P-62                   ChaiL2conePon I  755   |  818  |  220(    1793i   248.5           5           1:37
Sub Group 6:
P-61/1                 Siiakundu        2355      2 '551   689     5 S595    775.0  !    13       !   :I(1
P-63/IA                Anowara           876      948      256  | 2080    288.1          15 | S      1:32
P-64/1A                Banslikhali      2114      2290     617  7 5021    695.5          11          1:26
P-64/2B                Chokoria         3518      3811     1028 7 8337    1157.8         17     |    1:26
P-66/1                 Ramu             2250      2437     65.7    5344    74(1.T        25          1:10
P|66/3                 Coxs Bazar        1163     12601    339     2762    3X2.8         12          1:23
PC68                   Tduaf            2144      2322     627     5093    705.4         4           1:16
jP.9&P-70              Maheskhali        1887     2044      52   24483    61.2|          19          1:13
IP-71                  Kutubdia           619   | 670       181      1470    203.6       -1           1:21
Sourcc: DcparneCn of FisheriCs. GOvL of Bangladesh                                Tab-3/CPPI[



i~~~~~~~~~
EENv                                                                                                 f@ENGA  L  %5   
LSJ       - - -                                                                                                    \s   !AJ         _n. 
1'   1°-      '.                                                    '                                                ,'l
E//XA~~~~~~~~                                                                                                            ~~ A-t  s. 0 Ft  V  
.~~~~~l-                                                                              PERCtJARE- OF  UPA; IL;. \1
<,,*.,."z.^,l.*c_ ..................... F. .  . F.qO
_...___. ....... ..... .  ----jl.  v  ......, _,,<,    



BANGLADESH
BRACKISH WATER SHRIMP AND FISH
CULTURE CROPPING PATTERN
M            0            N            T             H            S
I TRAOITIONAL
JAN    M    WARt  &FII  t 0^    JU    JUL   AV    IcP   oclr  Nov   ote
A. Shrlmp/ Fl oh
i sCOU'u 11ArAR--;-
B.Shrimp/Ralh/RCe.
I 111HULMAISATUINA,         4               ' -   /Rl E /FRESHWATER SHRINIP/
q
X~~~~~~~~~
ha
_ 9.Shrlmr /Safl
" ".coXs ^z^|*_S A L T                                     :         ** 
I SEMIU-INTEA SIVE            _
INTENSIV E-
A.
O A ShrImp /SaIhmHv
_    Ricl/FProdeshwa Ot Shrimp ro
*1~~| 'ol  -AA.. S2 £rwt  JrdcLoJlrt ptTr
a~~ A| Shbtp4tmw. Hers,
Ecoza~~    Rlco.~...   .. -.swoo   ..n    ro
or Salt.
Note.
Brackish water required throughout growth and production period
is 1-5 %  of the total water volume exchanged/ day
MPO/HARZA JULY 1CS.
Souwe   MPO (19S8  Coasta s9imp Aqucahiw Rcsosac



EMPLOYMENT( MANDAYS/HA I IN BRACKISH WATER                            SRm"|p DULY
SHRIMP FARMING ACTIVITIES
L.ARVAL SHRIMP!}                                                                          '9
COllECTION*-  O    \
IN RIVERS                                                                          p F00S\\5 S
present:    liN M e..hih.ot \  _h:\
Pusure. 333-555   " ' a
PrPV.g: 2.5i: 222lso iteru SSmn
Futur: m O-  ; 12. O O 2    hg/I
StOtlI uuIUUWin
Y I E LD 
r"zw; ,000-2.000l/z:    >;                  :S
PROCESSING                      BEHEADING
FOR ExPORTI.
Ptgfl: 1.4 a  wejs/ma.tPof  uwu   Present: 6 MsedayeeU/S. of Produce
Pufure 29-S_mori.IrNfp'UiS    Fuiurm: 25-S0 Iloamedsdbo. of produce
/eUoud on ! future Sloctifig r"eq mnI of 60.000 -iO0,O0O/Io.
3,For Softife Dlelct. See TibIas 2 and 3 of Sefhumlro S5uy
3/Mar6w narf  D. CMfftg"O. 0oor; ama o a .rw m HE   ed by
U/S. siwimo sM Fish  TuCeGeS. P1o.1 LTO. CT6



Anex C
Agriculture



-           . l -                 - 
____          _____                    ____ 
w  .fI,0 B  SS     8>   t   0t   S   b  a   0  b:   a  _. g   3
r- n     a FI2 |~ EdP i!-UrUHa-ifi
P I1
LA,, ,,   ,. E ' '   '   '  '' A
*   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~s



FiGURE 1I5-
~~~~~~**  I  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             
* ~ ~~~~~~~                         A r      o~. .4     * X  *                      9    
s~|t,.,,,-,.,    .    E,,,,.                   *    __                                                        .
Wor"Z_ l,.,\,* .K_. _I" _                                                                              'aS
es *.fwze.X ..........'..'.                                     -    . ' !-.CATLAE   i 
lo, 111gM, lob.  3-4  I~fl    a-
~~~ernernmg S.W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1v,   -_",o   
*1,I'WI S..WAv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WA be.4    .~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%
IIp.*US S3Wd8~~~~~~~ M@~~~ ~  ~~                       COASTAL AREA~~~~N
Simon WI 01540  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MOF,mw, f.smNe..a.~oc..A                                                    OLSLNT   A
______________  ___________________________ --   -   (DRY EASON CNDITIO')             a ~aeoumaA
a-n~~~~~LANOV



Peveatage DistibutionI of Farms as per Si= of Holding
1w                |   UpBh   ]PUmemap DsanbuLon          jPcanuia Domnbuton: ;      Avenue Famn Suac           1' of Non.
Nkgu                              INo. of Forms             Operued Ama               n in Ilecuatm               Fann lIeou.
I Smal iMediu  Lro ia | Tmil Smalnl ed%uv4 LarteI Total Small Miedium | I    AvcVS  holds (No
GCnp l:AEZ -13
Sab.toup 1:
P-5                  ';almann       66.7  24.6   3.7  1000 20 1   399    0 0(11 000  033   1 76  4Jh| 1.111          276
P.711 & P72          Asaihuni       67.0  24.1   3.2  11100 22.7  395   37.3  inno0 037   . 32   50J 4   I On        263
P.10.12              Paikgacha      61.1  23.1  10.3  I M0.  173   40.0  42.2  100 0  0 36   2_77   435    1.24      21 5
P-l4I1 & P-1472      I;ovm          64.5  26.    9.3  1000.  19.3  29.3  5t) 4  l00 n 0 35   1 74   5 03   2.1       222
P*S(pool& P-15       Shamunar       60.7  27.2  11.i i   0.n0  154   38.5  46.1  100.0  0.32   1.30   5000   1.      272
P_31 &P-32           D cop         Iso. 50.1  35.3  14.1  10001 12.5  43.2  44.3  1000  0.38   12   4 73    1.51     205
Sub.um2 2_-
P_3511 _S_ankho1a    f 6912  254   5.5  1100O0 22.6  4Sh 1 23S| Ion  o02e   171  |.1641   70                         266
Sub-emu3                                 _         __                                       
PA4ll & P. 40R       Padhcrvh1am    67.1  26.3   6 1  InO0 22.E  43.5  2H 7  1000 032   1.72   452 { 095  |           93
P.45                 Barruna        7. 1  27   5.   1.0 266   43.6  29- -0-.o                 0.33   169   5.0    0 O   203
P-4&p.46             I;aapa n       55.0  29.5  15.5  100.0  1Z.1  32.7  55.1 I0001 0.35   1.7b  |       5   159     3,0
GrowlI: AEZ- 15
GNup 4:
P.57/5 CharFasmo                    62.2  25.4   3.4  100.0 .21.6  39.0  394  1n0.0 10.37   1.73   5.30   1.13       30.2
Daulaikhan    |73.7  13.1   3.2  100.0| 36.2  41.4  22.4  200.01 0.33   2.66 4|96 0W72         35.1
Burhanuddin    71.7  23.3   5.0  100.0 23.3  412.2    7   100.0 I035   2.67   4 73   0339       27 3
Tazumuddun    73.4  22.6   4.0  100.0 32.6  45.5  21.9  100.0 0-37   1.67   4 57   (133         26 5
|_______________ Lalmoh|an          70.0 I 23.3   6.2  1200.0 26.4  42.2  31 4  1000 0.36   1.69   4.34   095        28.5
IP-5912R_ me41i                      66.3  25.3   7.4  100.0 23.3  42.0  34 7  100.0 0.36   1.70   4.95   1.05 | 29
P-5W03B& P-5913CfPan) Sudharam       73.3  20.3   6.4  1100.01 26.3  36.5  36.7  100.01 0.34   1.65   5.30   0.92    21.9
P-5913C(panI          Comnanmean,   79.6  17.1   3.3  100.01 35.9  37.9  26.2  100.0 0.33   1.61    5 71   073        25.5
P.60                  Snsaea2z       32.9  15.7  1.4  100.0 490  40.2  10.3  100.0 0.36   1.55   4 72   0.61    294
P.73)29         a    Haiwva          66.2  25.0  38.3 TIO.O  20.54 39.3  40.2  100.01 034       .-75   5104  111      256
P.2                  {Sandwnp        70.61  25.6   3.3  100.01 31.8 1 46.1  22.1  100.l0  0.381  1.50   4 301  03 4 I   51 U
Crua  I11 : AEZ - D
Sub.gw,u 5: 
P-62                 |Omunaon Pn  36.7 I 11.9   1.4  1 00LO  50.9  36.5  12.6  1000 10.32   1-6 i 49  | 1 054         539 1
_       _     _     _     _     _                I                           _    _                       I          _ _   I T 1 T          
P.6111               $Siukundu       36.0  13.2   0.3  1200.0 554   37.5   71   1000 0 5   1.53   5.24   0.54         62.3
P-M IA               IAnOwara       I39  l0.4   0.7  2000 62.9  30.2   6.9 tOO0 0.7   1.52   404   0.52               310   1
P-6411A              lBanshkhab      34.2  14.3   1.5  1000 50.7  37.1  12.2  100.0 G.,36   1.55   494 1 060          305 I
P.64)2B              lChokona        734   2.:4   4.2  1OO  337   41.7  246  1000  1040    7n0  452 f(96              311.1
|D6/                 iRamu           63.1  26.9   5.0  100.0 23.6  47.7  23.7  100.0 04n   1.70   1 4521  096         331
____________Cocs .fLawa    T777   19.5   2-3  100.0 331.0  43.0  19.  200.0 0.36   1.63   4-90   0.74                 41.3
P.6| Tdknaf                          67.4  26.0 166  100.0 224   45.4  3Z2 100.0 033   2.76   4.92 I.00               42.2
IP69&P-70             Mabcskhai    | 77914    2.7 100.0 416  40.9  17.5  1000  041 |62   5.22   0.77                   47.3
P171                 IKuubdia         773   19.3 I.9  200.0 40.7  422  17.1  100.0 0.40   1.6T 4.46   077 I            33.3 
Sa am    giWes, Cems of Agncaltum  Lavsad. 193486



Distrct-wise Distibution of pfeticides
(Mectric Tonne)
|Pamo    Yer        _On-   Cam1-   sail           Amnc-       Fin.    Rait-       We-
D lu4a               uI      N1MI_       law.    Idn          PC       *iuadea    edic.
/Doep.   twiod                  idu                 mks
l                    ~ ~pies---
Oimu     19UJ7         m           55       2.5          2        2          20      0.5
prg      191174       345         52         2           5       2         0.5       16
193.9        405         63       1.5          3        2        0o5        10
Nok-    1986.17        210         33         1    1              2                  0.5
hail    19740        230          32        1           5        I
1953         270         46       1.5          Z        3         05         .
Bar    l9 13687        190         32       0.5           I       .
193743       212         30         -                   ,           .        .
13199        245         34         .         1.5       .
*                        KUzhulm    193617       so         20         1         0.5                            -
19I74S        92         IS         I           I       I           .        .
193549       107         26       1.5         1.5       Z
atuak-   1964          ISO          16        -         OS
hbe     197-43       130          16                    2 .      .          .
139U39       115         21         -         13  _       .
Distrit-wi   Cosmption of Fertilir
1985-86          1986-87           198748            1988-89
Chittagong                5                5                 4                  3
Noakhali                  3                3                 4                  3
Barisal                  2                3                 3                  3
Khulna                    3                2                 3                  7
Patuakhaii                                 1                 1                  1
Total                 13               14                15                 17
Bangladesh              100%             100%              100%               100%
rofDis-                  13%              14%               15%               17%
relation to
Bla:ngladesh
Sour=: DWDB (192)



Annex D
Sodo-economics
a



Position of Agricultural Lending by the Institutional Credit Agencies
______  ________  ______  ________ ______  ______  ____ _ 'Am ount in  Crore  Taka)
Targei Ior   Disbursed  P.C. of Turgei  Dcmand for           Net Credit Flow   P.C. of             Oulsianding    P.C. of Overdue to
Year    Disbu:semcnt               Acliicved     Rccovcry    Rccovcry                   Rccovcry  Overducs   including          Outstmnding
(Col. 3 - 6)                         overdues
1           2           3            4             5           6            7            8          9           10                 II
1980-81     548.30       373.42       68.1         452.36      221.35        152.07        48.9     234.91       678.51             34.6
1981-82     653.740      423.84       64.8         648.30I      314.34       109.5(1       48.5     322.30       839.87             38.4
1982-83     817.20l      678.55       83.0         817.27      342.33        336.22        41.9      456.69      1321.51             33.8
1983.84    II 5s.nn     1005.30       90.1         1238.22      517.57       488.73        41.8      755.67      2077.35             36.4
1984.85    I ' .n0     1149.68       1(1.0        15I5.50      583.90       565.78        38.5     1158.89      3034.24             38.2
1985.86     1276 50      631.72       49.5         2375.19     607.15        24.57         25.6     1778.77      3514.25             50.6
1986-87     1075.0       667.28       62.1         2683.54     1107.56    (-1 440.28       41.3    1575.98       3294.41            47.8
1987.88      050.0       656.31       6'.5         '528.16     595.78        60.53         23.6    1932.38       3863.49             50.0
1988.89     1250M.0      807.62       64.6         2933.66      577.96       229.66        19.7    2355.68       .411M66             50.0
1989-90     1350.00      686.7T       50.9         3986.27      701.95        15.17         17.6    3284.33      5381.29             61.0
(Provisional)
Includes lk. 200 Crore uniir SACP
*  Includcs the T1. 625 Crure E&riiaukeld fur inisc.AgpicuIure
Source: Bangladesh Bank



Availability and Settlement of Khas Agricultural LAnd in the Coastal Districts
C Area In Hectares )
H  Coastal District IKthas Agril.land: Land actually 5 No. of farm      Average land   :Agr1l. land yet It of Total
Available for   settled upto  I  families         alloted per     to be settled   avallable
tH                   t settlement   1   31.10.90   t benefitted            family       '                     land
I 1   Khulna         t        875.82           557.51 ,    1,657            0.34                  318.31      36.3
t 2    Bagerhat               854.21           672.85      3,131             0.21       ,         181.62      21.3
t 3    Borguna               1399.94         . 1219.35     2,464             0.50                 180.59      12.9
t 4    Patuakhali   I        4720.88           713.31      1,302     t       0.55                4007.57      84.9   :,
t 5    Bhola                 1046.43          4577.50      7,858            0.53                 2468.93      35.6    ;
6 6    Satkhira      t       3066.70 1        2341.43      8,683             0.27 1               724.05      23.6   :
1I 7    Chittagong           7669.32 '        4035.99      11,127           0.36                 3633.33      47.4
' 8    Cox's Bazar          4497.08 1         960.71      3,924      '      0.24                3536.38      78.6   :
tig   Feni                   2364.08          1938.00 '   8,409              0.23                 426.07      18.0
" 1o    Laxmipur            12252.08 0        2046.37      4,286             0.48                 426.07      83.3
HII   Noakhali               9211.95          6086.91      7,650            0.80                 3125.03 '   33.9
'':::=:=--=-=:===,-:::=::=: -------,::-:::-:t---  --====-:=:z==='--:=:-::==-==,
't  Total :     t      53958.55         25149.73 a   60,491             0.42    .          19027.95    35.26   :,
Source : Hinistry of Land Reforms and Land Administration.
Oovernment of Bangladesh , Dhaka.



Pautarg' U   of VarwouS Drinking Water Sourac
Polder              |   Upazila   |   Tap,      Tube-  Pond. Shallow  Rivcrs. Surcams
Numberg                               Waler   Wells         Wells        Canals        Total
Group I: AEZ-13
SUb-grOUp 1:
P_       _       _   Kaligani          0.01      73.05      26.92         0.0         10.0
P_.1/ &P-7/2          Asashuni         0.01      48.76      51.08          0.15        100.0
P-10-12              Paikgacha           -       61.43      38.38         0.19         100.0
P-14/1 & P.1412       Kovra                       1.21      98.61          0.18        100.0
P-S {) & P-Is        Shamnaear         0.01      7.77       92.05         0.17         100.0
P-31 & P-32          Dacope            0.08       9.02      83.48         7.42         100.0
Sub-iroup 2:
P-35/1              |Sarankhok     |   0.05       4.37      78.59         16.99        100.0
Sub-g tp  3:                                   _ _ _ __                  _  _ _  _
P-40/1 & P-40/2       Patherchata      0.03       8.90      72.89         18.18        100.0
P-45                  Bareuna          0.25      50.78      27.94         21.03        100.0
P-48 &P-46            Kalapa           0.06      49.10      46.34         4.50       100.0
Group 11: AEZ-18
Grou 4:
P-57/56               Char Fasson      0.06      44.29       48.71         6.94        100.0
DaulatIchan      0.13      66.66      24.89         8.32         100.0
Burhanuddin      0.26      44.15      52.08          3.51        100.0
Tazmnuddin       0.15      43.01       52.69         4.15        100.0
Laimohon         0.11      46.91      46.85          6.13        100.0
P-592                Ramnau           0.13      46.98       48.18         4.71        100.0
P-59/3B & P-59/3CParz) Sudharam        0.99      38.72       60.08         0.21        100.0
P-59/3C (pan)         Copmoanianj      0.30      60.76       38.59         0.35        100.0
P-60     *            Sonarazi           -       67.46       31.90         0.64        100.0
P-7312B               Hativa           0.22      46.43       51.74         1.61        100.0
P72-                  Sandwip          0.70      34.50       94.60         0.90        100.0
Group m: AEZ-23
Sub-group 5:
P-62      *ChiuaIong Pon I
Sub Group 6:
P-61/1                Simakundu        5.57      50.34       43.58         0.51        100.0
P-63/1A               Anowaa             .       62.78       37.10         0.02        100.0
P-64/lA               Banshkhaili      0.40      67.70       31.00         0.90        100.0
P-64/2B               Chokona            .        78.12      17.13         4.75        100.0
P.66/I                Ramu             0.96      72.83       14.58         11.63       100.0
P-66/3                Cox's BaZar      2.57      68.90       25.71         2.82        100.0
P-68                  Teknaf           0.96      40.37       57.58         1.09        100.(
P469 & P-70           Mahcskhali    .  0.09      59.08       39.43 _       1.40        100.0
P-71                  KulUbdia                   67.00       33.00                     100.0
Saurce: UIpazila Sucs of Bangladesh 1988. BBS



Pentage Distrinbution of Households as per Ownuship of Laud and
Homestd and Agricultural labour
-_________________    _____________(Figueis  Pcrcenar cl
Pdider                    Upala          Total      Households     Households    Houschold with   Agnculural
Nunber                                  Farm &       with no     with no Homes-  Honc t ad but no    Labour
.__________________  _______________   Non-Farm    Owned Land  tead Amca  cultivatcd Iland    Households
Group I AEZ 13                                 _
Sub.anup 1:
P-5                  KaliSani            100.0         IOA             1.5            18.0           46.3
P-71i & P-7/2        Asashuni            100.0         3.8             1.6            20.5           62.0
P-10-12              Paikpacha           100.0         6.5             1.3            15A.           42.4
P-15                 Shunnaiar           100.0         3.0            0.1            20.9           58.7
P-31 & P-32          Dacope              100.0         10.6           1.4             13.2           44.1
Sub-rroup 2 :
P-3SA     2         ISarankhola          100.0 1       12.             1.2            13.0           42.9
Sub-crotup3:
P-4011 & P-4012     IPatherIphaia        100.0         4.0             1.4            Iii5           40.5
P.45                jBaraun|   100.0                   5.1            2.6      .      10.9           36.2
P-46&P-48            Kaiapara            100.0         15.9            1.5            25.3           41.0
P.54                 Amioii              100.0         10.7           6.2             23.4           43.1
Group nI AEZ 18
GMup 4:
P*57/56              Chr Fasson &         100.0        18.7            1.8            19.6           51.0
_ OiUpazila
P-s9/2               Raogati              100.0        17.8            17             19.2           48_7
P-59/313 & P-59/3EnPrt) Sudharsun         100.0         1.0            1.9            11.3           40.7
P-5913C (pa)         Companizuani         100.0         3.9            1.7            15.1           33.7
,P0                  Sonarazi             100.0         23             3.3     I      20.4           32.2
P-73l2B               Hauva               100.0         1.8            2.0             17.2          47.5
P-72                  Sandwip             100.0         167            1.9             473           35.9
Group M: AEZ 23
Sub-Ump 5:
P-62                 IChittagong P        100.0         2.2            1.9            46.7           24.9
Sub Group 6:
P-6111                Sitakundu           100.0        35.6            6.6             46.2           16.0
P-6311A               Anowan              100.0         1.6            1.7             34.8          37.3
P-6411A               Banshkhali          100.0         1.6            1.6             19.1          44.5
P-64/2B               Chokoria            100.0         9.8            1.7            26.1           39.7
P.66/                 RUnu                100.0        15.5     I       2.2           35.8           28.3
P366/                 Coxs Bazar          100.0        10.8            2.6            37.4           45.7
P.68                  Teknaf              100.0         19.2           25             36.1          27.0
P69&P-70              Mahcskhali          100.0         6.6            3.1            45.7       1 345
P-71                  KUIbdir             100.0         5.7            1.3             31.7      1   32.3
Soumace: B    _Aadesh Cawu of Agiculnae & Liv _ok. 198344



Annex E
Afforestation
a                                                    a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



lOOm.
COCONUT
DATE FULM
TREES
MANGROVE                         CA5UARIIIA SP.
SEA/RIVER
L    BOUIROW PIT      OERM                  EMBANKMEIIT
SliOY SOIL
TYPICAL DESIGN OF AFFORESTATION (SAHDY SOIL IN 1 HE BERN AND FOREL A)
Source BWDB (1992)



MINIMUM zoom.                     |
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
F@         MANGROVE                    '                   HEE
[HOULA PATA
SEA/RIVER 
BORROW PIT
TYPICAL DESIGN OF AFroRESTATION (CLAY/SILTY SOILS)
Source BWDB (1992)



Annex F
Flora and Fauna



*    COMMON FLORAL SPECIES IN THE SUNDARBANS
Tree Species
1. Keora                                    Sonneratia apetala
2. Gewa                                     Exeoecaria agallocha
3. Kankra                                   Bruguicra gymnorhiza
4. Bean                                     Avicennia officiualis
5. Goran                                    Ceriops decandra
6. Pussur                                   Carapa moiuceensis
7. Sundari                                  Heriteria fomes
Shrub Species
1. Gol-patta                                Nypa fruitcms
2. Hogla-patta                              Typha angustata
3. Keya                                     Dandanus odoratissimus



COMMON FISH AND CRUSTACEANS
FISH
Scientific Name                        Common Name
L Rohita                              Rohit
Catla catla                            Kada
Cirrhinus mrigal                       Mrigal
Lalbeo calbasu                         Kal-Baush
Hilsa sp.                                  Elish, Hilsha
Pangasius                              Pangas
Mystus or M. seenghala                 Shilong
Rita rita                              Rita
Scrranus lanceolatus                   Bhol, Poma Bhol, Koia Bhole
S. Sonneratt                           VetWi
Anabus testudincus                     Koi (climbing fish)
Heteropucustes fassilis                Shinghi (stinging fish)
Carias batrachus                       Magur
Plotosus carUus                        Gang-Magur
Carcharhinus gangeticus                Hangur, Kamot
MastoLembelus pancalus                Bain, eel
Notopterus notopterus                      FoBi
M. (Rhinomtugil) corsula               Bhata
E. ambuinensis                         Bale
A- (Tachystopus) gugord                Ghagra
E. (Thryssa) hamiltonii               Physa
pellona elungata                       Toposhi (Mango fish)
Trichopaster sp.                       Khalisha
Silania silondia                       Bancha
Mystus gulio                           Tangra
T. savala                              Puttii
Drepane punciata                       Rupi Chanda
C. Hamiltona                           Bashpatta
CRUSTACEANS
Scientific Name                        Common Name
Panulirus hontarus                     Galdha Chingri (Lobster)
Metapenucus affinis                    Shawla Chingri (Prawn)
M. brevicornis                         Bagdha Chingri (Prawn)
Acetes enythracus                      Chamuya Chingri (Prawn)
Matutol lunanis                         Lonai kakra
Daranuthrox aculeatus                  Macorsa kakra
Ocypoda cratopthalma                -  Lal kakra
Chrydis cruciara                       Jugi kakra
Scylla serrata                         Shila kara
Neptumus pelagicus                     Santaru kakra
Paratelphusa lamrelifvons              Patafalak kakra
N. sangvinolentus                      Neptune kakra



AMMNALS
Scientifc Name                          Common Name
Axis aids                               Spotted Deer
Panthera pardus                         Leopard
Prionailurus bengalensis                Leopard cat
Felis chaus                             Jungle cat
V. zibertha                             Civet cat
Canis qureus                            Jackal
Vulpes bengalensis                      Fox
Homa sapiens                            Hanuman
M. mulatta                              Monkey
Herpestes Edwardsil                     Mongoose
S. scrofa                               Hog
Antherurua macrourus                    Sajaru - (Hedge-hog)
Lepus nigricoUlis                       Hare
B. indica                               Rabbit
Callasciurus pygerythus                 Squirrel
Pieropus gigamten                       Bat (Flying fox)
Megoderma lyra                          Vampire bat
Rattus rattus                           Rat
Bankdicota bergulensis                  Mole-rat
Vandeleuria aleracea                    Tree Mouse
Gargetic dolphin
.Tiger
REPTILES
Scenific Name                           Common Name
Crocodylus porosus                      Crokodile (Saltwater)
Gavials gangeticus                      Ghorial (Reptile)
Trionyx gangeticus                      Turtle (Soft shelled)
Chitra indica                           Kachim (Tortoise)
Naja naja                               Cobra
Dryophis mycterizans                    Tree Snake
Hernidactylus flavivindis               tik-ti-kd (wall lizard)
Gecko gecko                             Girgiti (tree lizard)
BIRDS
Scientific Name                         Common Name
Lethyophoga Icthyactus                  Grayhinded Fishing Eagle
Gyps Bengalensis                        White-backed Vulture
G. fulvas                               Griffin Vulture
(Falco chicquera)                       Red-headed Falcon
Perms pidorhynchus                      Crested Honey Buzzard
Sariddiomis melanotos                   Knob-biRed Gosse
Ardea cineyea                           Gray Heron
Ardeala grayii                          Pond Heron



BIRDS (CONTINUED)
Scientific Name                        Common Name
Egretta alba                           Great Egret
Ciconia-cconia                         White Stork
Ibis leucocephalus                     Painted Stork
Milvas migrans                         Chil, Black Kite
Haliastur indus                        Laichil, Brahmini Kite
Flanus caeyuleus                       Black Winged Kite
Anas sp.                               Duck, wigeon, teal
A. poecilorhyneha                      Spot BiRled Duck
Carina scutulata                       White winged wood duck
S. aurantia                            Gang-chil, River Tern
Laurs ridibundus                       Sea gul
p. capensis                            Stork Biled Kingfisher
H. smyrnensis                          White breasted kingfisher
Aleedo atthis                          Common Kingfisher
Gallinago sp.                          Snipe
Cafdris niinutus                       Little Stint
T. hypolcueos                          Sand Piper
S. nilotica                            Gull biled Tem
S. fhscata                             Sooty Tem
Rhynchops albicollis                   Indian Skimmer
Haloyon cioris                         Swallow
Gallicyex cincrea                      Water-cock
Numentus arquata                       Curlew
Chaleophops indica                     Emerald dove
Streptopelia chnensis                  Spotted dove
T. pompadora                        , Pigeon
C Toulou                               Cuckoo
Apus Sp.                               Swift
Cypstursn  parras                      Pal Swift
Catandrella Raytal                     Sand lark
Gallus gallus                          Red jungle foul
Eudynomis scalopacea                   Koel
Corvus macroyhynchas                   Raven
C. splendens                           Crow
Source: BWDB (1992)



Annex G
Selected Bibliography



SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY
ATAUR RAHMAN, AK. (1989). Freshwater Fishes of Bangladesh. Zool. Soc.
Bangladesh.
BARC. (1986). Women's Work in Rural Bangladesh. Winrock Intemational.
BWDB. (1986). Feasibility Report Package 1: Khulna Coastal Embankment
Rehabilitation Project. Asian Development Bank.
BWDB. (1987). Rehabilitation of Water Development Project: Draft Feasibility
Report Rehabilitation of CEP Polder 59/1A.
BWDB. (1992). Cydone Protection Project Il-FAP 7 Feasibility and Design
Studies: Draft Project Preparation Report. Kampsax Intemational.
CHOU-rlRY, SA. (1986). Women in Development in Bangladesh: briefing
Material for Country Dept on WID Policy.
CHOWDHURY, AN. (1989). Let Grass Roots Speak: Peo-tle's Participation
Self-help Groups and NGOs in Bangladesh. Dhaka.
FAO/SIDA. (1986). Fisherwomen's Activities in Bangladesh: A Participatory
Approach to Development
FAO/UNDP. (1987). The Maturing Mangrove Plantations of the Coastal
Afforestation Project FAO Field Document No 2. FAO/UNDP Proiect No
BGDI15/085.
FALLON, L (1989). Aquatic Resources and Fisheries in Bangladesh. World
Resources Institute (WRI) Washington.
HIFAB & MARC. (1991). Land Acquisition and Resettlement Study. Flood
Action Plan Component 15.
IUCN. (1989). Proposal for Rapid Assessment of Areas of Environmental
Concem in Bangladesh.
JHINGRAM, VG. (1968). Fish Synopsis on Rohu. FAO Fish Synop. Vol 32,
p386-401.
KHAN HA & JHINGRAM, VG. (1975). Synopsis of Biological Data on Rohita.
FAO Fish Synopsis VoL 111.
LEEDSHILL DE LEUW ENGINEERS. (1968). Coastal Embankment Project:
Engineering and Economic Evaluation Volume 1.
Master Plan Organisation (MPO). (1987). Coastal Shrimp Aquaculture
Resources. Technical Paper No 18.
MPO. (1987). Fisheries and Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation
Development Technical Report No 17.



PILLAY, SR & ROSA A. (1963). Synopsis of Biological Information on Hilsa.
FAO Fish. Bio. Synopsis Vol. ;3.
PROSHIKA. (1989). A Proposal on Embankment Protection and Management:
An Afforestation and Environmental Eduction Programme in the Meghna-
Dhonagoda Irrigation Project Area. Comilla Proshika Centre for
Development
SHOWLER, A. (1989). Pesticide Use and Environmental Polution in
Bangladesh. WRI, Washington.
YOUSSOUF ALI. Environmental Conservation and Fisheries Resources in
Bangladesh. In: Inland Fisheries Management in Bangladesh.
DOF/BCASAICLARM.
WORLD BANK Involving NGOs In Bank-supported Activities. Operational
Directive 14.70.
WORLD BANK. (1989). Bangladesh Action Plan for Flood Control.
WORLD BANK (1990). Third Fisheries Project: Bangladesh. Staff Appraisal
Report (No 8392-BD).
WORLD BANK (1990). Bangladesh Third Fisheries Project Staff Appraisal
Report.
WORLD BANK (1992). Bangladesh Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation
Project Staff Appraisal Report
WRL (1990). Bangladesh Environment and Natural Resources AssessmenL
Washington.



Annex H
Photographic Material



~~~~-              a
*~~~~.. r                          "cV.  t.    
L_~~-              -        _           -      '                         -  \',  
-~~~~~~~~ ~                           -.      -               -C _*4.  -
F - -- :,= . ...... =, ........... -                       -_                      II~
-        '.                                -_
CSar Lands Homesteads
I ._ _ __ _ ................................ , .... . . .
_                   ~        ~ -         _--  
Embasnkmet at Polder 59



Embankmcnt Bach along Cowwe of Natural Channel
Homstads adjacent to Existing Embankment



