Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15039-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 16, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT UNITS
(April 1995)
Bangladesh Taka 1          =           US$0.0248
US$1                       =           Tk 40.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =           1.1 yard
1 kilometer (km)           -           0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)             =           2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)       =           2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB   -     Asian Development Bank
BWDB  -     Bangladesh Water Development Board
DC    -     Deputy Commissioner
DoF   -     Department of Fisheries
EC    -     European Community
EP    -     Entitled Person
ERR   -     Economic Rate of Return
FAP   -     Flood Action Plan
FD    -     Forest Department
FFW   -     Food for Work Programme
FPIU  -     Forestry Project Implementation Unit
GOB   -     Government of Bangladesh
HYV   -     High Yielding Variety
ICB   -     International Competitive Bidding
MOWR  -     Ministry of Water Resources
NCB   -     National Competitive Bidding
NGO   -     Non-Governmental Organization
O&M   -     Operation and Maintenance
PAP   -     Project Affected Person
PIU   -     Project Implementation Unit
RBPP  -     River Bank Protection Project
PWP   -     Priority Works Program
RAP   -     Resettlement Action Plan
SRP   -     Systems Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2099-BD)
TOR   -     Terms of Reference
WFP   -     World Food Programme
GOB Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



GLOSSARY
Aman               -     Rice planted before or during the monsoon and
harvested in November or December.
Aus                -     Rice planted during March or April and harvested
during June or July.
B.                 -     When preceding a crop means broadcast. (B. Aman).
Beel               -     Low-lying area subject to flooding by rain or river
water.
Boro               -     Rice planted in January or February and harvested in
May or June. The term is also used locally for
unirrigated rice which is planted in November or
December in the drained out flood plains.
District           -     Also called by its local name Zila, which is an
administrative unit comprising a number of Thanas, in
the charge of a Deputy Commissioner.
Haor               -     Shallow lake or a large low-lying depression in a
flood-plain that may be reduced during the dry season
to a series of beels.
Khal               -     Natural channel.
Khalasi            -     Staff employed by BWDB to inspect embankments or
operate sluices.
Kharif             -     Summer cropping season (May through November).
Monsoon            -     Period of rains starting in June and ending in
October.
Polder             -     An area of low-lying land encircled by embankments for
protection against flooding
Project Proforma  -      An internal Government document required to obtain
authorization for inclusion of a project in the
investment budget.
Rabi               -     Winter cropping season  (November through F
T.                 -     When preceding a crop means transplanted.
Thana              -     Subdistrict, an administrative unit between the Union
and the District.
Union              -     Smallest administrative unit of local government.
Union Parishad    -      Elected council governing the Union.



BANGLADESH
COASTAL  BANK YE NT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND .1
Project  Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
The Agriculture Sector.                                                   3
IDA's Involvement in Agricultural Development . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Institutions Involved in the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
II.  THE PROJECT ............................                             .  11
Project Objectives and Concept  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   11
Rationale for IDA Involvement ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   12
Project  Components  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
Project Area  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   14
Detailed Features ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   14
Status of Preparation and Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . .  23
Environmental Aspects ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   24
Project Cost  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   25
Project   Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
Procurement    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  27
Disbursements    .    .  .    .  .  .    .    .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .    .   .  .  .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .  30
Accounts and Audits .31
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .32
IV.  PRODUCTION  MARKETING  AND FARM INCOMES . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
Agricultural Production ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   36
Marketing and Prices  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   38
Farm   Incomes  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  40
Afforestation:  Production, Incomes and Marketing . . . . . . . . .  41
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .42
Benefits and Beneficiaries .42
Economic Analysis .45
Risks .45
Sensitivity Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
This report is based on the findings of a joint appraisal mission of IDA and the
European Union (EC). Mission members for IDA were M/MM. H. Gassner (Task
Manager), B. Ateng, W. Huq (IDA); G. Schokman, T. Islam and (on a part-time
basis) P. Yoon and M. Hossain (Consultants). The EC was represented by
Mr. M. King and Ms. A. MacGillivray. Messrs. Gassner and Schokman (representing
1DA) and E. Mallorie (representing EC) participated in an updating mission. The
report has been endorsed by Messrs. P. Isenman, Director, SA1DR, and R. Ali,
Chief, SAlAN. Peer reviewers at the time of appraisal were Messrs. W. Price
(ASTEN), and 0. Baykal (SAlAN). The report has been cleared by M/MM. C. Da Silva
(LEGSA), R. Wiratunga (LOAAS), and M. Koch-Weser (ASTEN).



- ii -
ANNEXES
1.  Schedules
(a) Implementation Schedule
(b) Procurement Schedule
(c) Disbursement Schedule
2.   Civil Works and Equipment Lists
(a) List of Civil Works
(b) List of Equipment
(c) Land Requirements
3.  Community Participation
4.  Afforestation
5.   Improved Operation and Maintenance
6.  Project Support
7.  Training
8.  Crop Production
9.  Resettlement
10.   Environmental Analysis
11.   Economic Analysis
12.   Project Costs
13.   Reporting Requirements and Performance Indicators
14.   Supervision Plan
15.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP   - IBRD # 24198R: Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project



- iii -
BANGLADESH
COASTAL FMBANKMKNT REHABILITATION PRWJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Implementing Agencies:         Bangladesh Water Development Board and
Forest Department.
Beneficiary:                   Not Applicable.
Poverty:                       Not specifically poverty focused, but the loss
of life and property during cyclones affects
disproportionately the poor, with weakly
constructed houses and least ability to
recuperate.
Amount:                        SDR 34.1 million (US$53.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                         Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Commitment Fee:                0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning
60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                See para 2.30.
Economic Rate of Return:       The proposed project would reduce the loss of
life and devastation of property during major
cyclones and would lead to increased
agricultural production. An ERR of 19.2% has
been calculated excluding the value of saving
human lives. The ERR does not include the
ancillary investments for polders for which the
major works were financed previously.
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 11675-BD
Mar:                           IBRD No. 24198R
Proiect Identification No.:   BD-PA-9549



BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
I.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.1       Natural calamities are a recurring phenomenon in Bangladesh.  The
most severe occur in the form of cyclonic storms which affect the coastal
districts. The country has over 700 km of coastline on the mainland and
several offshore islands in the Bay of Bengal. Vulnerable areas include the
important port towns of Chittagong and Khulna, and the heavily populated
islands of Sandwip, Kutubdiya and Hatiya. During the last 125 years, over 42
cyclones hit the coastal belt; 14 occurred during the last 25 years. Cyclones
often cause major destruction of human life, livestock, crops, properties, and
physical infrastructure. Such cyclones also tax the country's institutional
and financial capabilities, since resources have to be diverted to provide
immediate relief to the affected population and to restore damaged or
destroyed physical facilities.
1.2       Recent cyclones causing widespread devastation and loss of life
occurred in November 1970, May 1985, November 1988, and April 1991. After the
cyclone of November 1970, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB), assisted by IDA
under the Coastal Area Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 339-BD) and other donors,
initiated a reconstruction program aimed at (a) rehabilitation of the economy
of the affected areas, and (b) provision of protection from future cyclones.
The benefits of these investments were demonstrated during the cyclone of May
1985. For example, the coastal embankment withstood the tidal surge at the
peak period and although the embankment was overtopped or breached in several
places, the energy of the tidal surge was dissipated and, by and large, houses
remained in site. The radio system also worked satisfactorily and conveyed
warnings of the advent of the cyclone, and the cyclone shelters and other
facilities were used effectively. Due to these improvements, loss of life and
damage to infrastructure were relatively limited. However, destruction was
almost total on the unembanked islands and the newly accreted parts of the
mainland where most people, with their houses and livestock, were swept away
by the tidal wave. By the time of the April 1991 cyclone, the embankments
were in a poor state of maintenance, and were breached in many locations. The
cyclone caused about 140,000 deaths, and severe damage throughout the eastern
coast of the Bay of Bengal. Had the embankments been in better condition, the
damage would have been much less severe.
1.3       In 1986 GOB formulated a National Cyclone Protection Program
including proposed programs for improving the existing coastal embankment;
protecting newly accreted lands; developing forests; improving
telecommunications, roads and coastal transport; and providing improved and
less costly cyclone shelters, to be used also as schools and health
facilities. Improvements to the coastal embankments and protection of newly
accreted land were to be undertaken in two phases. The mid-term program would
strengthen existing coastal embankments, while the long-term program would
include the construction of embankments and associated structures for the



protection of newly accreted lands. After various delays, caused in part by
the 1987 and 1988 floods, a contract was signed with consultants (a joint
venture led by KAMPSAX International) financed by the European Community (EC),
which included provision for preparation of the mid-term program and
developing TOR for a study of the long-term program.
1.4       The consultants' studies were in progress when the April 1991
cyclone struck. At GOB's request, the World Bank agreed to coordinate donor
assistance. The Government also requested the consultants to prepare plans
and designs for a Priority Works Program (PWP) to provide for the most
urgently needed embankment repair and rehabilitation work. Meanwhile, the
World Food Programme (WFP) financed earthworks to provide temporary protection
until the full embankments can be constructed. Funding was arranged from
Saudi Arabia (about US$13.3 million equivalent), a Japanese grant (about
US$23 million equivalent, under IDA administration), EC (about US$4 million),
and US$29 million from amendments to IDA credits 1467, 1784, 1870, and 2048,
for a program including about 135 km of embankment rehabilitation and about 55
km of new retired embankments. Work has been substantially completed except
for one polder where there were objections to the planned alignment, and a
second where additional drainage improvements have been found necessary. A
new alignment has now been agreed and about $3 million equivalent for
completion of the work for the two polders is proposed for financing under
this proposed credit.
1.5       Following the April 1991 cyclone, there was increased recognition
that reliable protection of human lives can be provided at the most economic
cost through a program of construction of additional cyclone shelters combined
with establishment of an appropriate cyclone disaster preparedness system.
Proposals for such a project are being prepared separately for consideration
in FY97. A component to improve road access to facilitate post-cyclone relief
operations, originally proposed as part of this project, is now being financed
by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The proposed cyclone embankment
rehabilitation works under this project would complement the above efforts by
providing partial protection of crops and infrastructure, as well as
additional protection of human lives even after the construction of an
appropriate number of shelters. Even in areas of adequate shelters, a portion
of the population does not leave their homes (since most cyclones do not turn
out to be severe and leaving home risks theft of possessions). Moreover,
embankments provide inhabitants more time to reach shelters safely.
1.6       While the project was originally planned primarily in terms of
cyclone protection, it has important benefits in increasing agricultural
production, through protecting coastal agricultural areas from saline
inundation during normal annual monsoons and improved cropping patterns due to
reduced cyclone risks, and better drainage. Most of the proposed project
works would be economically viable on the basis of such increases in
agricultural production, even without the benefits of the project in reducing
cyclone damages and saving lives.



B. The Agriculture Sector
The Setting and Recent Trends
1.7       Agriculture, consisting of crops, fisheries, livestock, and
forestry subsectors, is still the predominant sector of Bangladesh's economy.
Its relative share of GDP, even though on a declining trend, remains high.
The share has fallen from about 53% in FY73 to 43% in FY83 and to 36% in FY92
(at constant 1984/85 prices). Processed and unprocessed agricultural
products, though also declining in relative importance, account for about 32%
of the country's export earnings. Agriculture also has significant forward
and backward linkages with other sectors. It supplies raw materials for the
most important single manufacturing subsector, jute, and for smaller
industries like food processing, tobacco manufacturing, leather tanning, and
pulp and paper. It is the market for the growing fertilizer industry. Trade
and transport of agricultural goods and inputs account for a large percentage
of these sectors' contribution to GDP. Agriculture employs over 60* of the
country's civilian population, provides the principal livelihood for most of
the poor.
1.8       The sector is dominated by the crop subsector, especially rice.
Crop production accounts for almost 70% of the value of agricultural output
while fisheries, livestock, and forestry each account for about 10%. The
share of foodgrains in the value of agricultural output is about 50%. Within
the foodgrains, rice accounts for about 90% of the value of output while wheat
accounts for 6%.
1.9       Overall, growth in agricultural production slowed in the 1970s due
to war, floods, drought, and inappropriate policy decisions. Growth increased
moderately in the early 1980s. There was a substantial upsurge in growth in
the late 1980s, based on trends in irrigation and fertilizer usage, which were
not immediately visible in increased crop production due to severe floods in
FY88 and FY89. Based upon these underlying trends, crop production jumped by
9W in FY90. Rice production, which had been growing at about 2% per annum
between FY61 and FY89, increased by almost 15% between FY89 and FY90. Policy
reforms involving privatization of the distribution of fertilizer and minor
irrigation equipment and resulting in rapid expansion of minor irrigation
(permitting multicropping and growing high yielding variety rice in the dry
season) accounted for the jump in rice production. However, this led to
unprecedented declines in rice prices leading to reduced incentives for
further rapid expansion. During the period FY90 through FY93 crop production
grew at only slightly more than 1% per year. The fisheries subsector, in
contrast, has been growing at over 6% per year during the 1990s.
1.10      As a result of the acceleration in rice production, Bangladesh,
which had long been dependent upon food aid to meet minimal foodgrain
requirements, achieved rice self-sufficiency in years of normal weather and
even began to export small quantities of rice. (In years of poor weather such
as FY94/95, shortages of rice still occur.) If Bangladesh is to continue to
expand agricultural production and take advantage of opportunities for
expansion of low-cost irrigation, it must begin to diversify production
(including export quality rice as well as other crops.) This requires the



spread of knowledge of appropriate production methods, through improved
effectiveness of research and extension (both public and private sector).
Nevertheless, some expansion of rice production in line with Bangladesh's
comparative advantage will still be required to meet the needs of the growing
population.
Aaricultural Development Obiectives and Strateav
1.11      In light of the country's heavy dependence on food aid, GOB's main
objective for agriculture since independence has been to achieve food security
through a policy of food self-sufficiency, the latter being interpreted
largely as a drive to achieve self-sufficiency in the production of rice, the
staple foodgrain. GOB has set two major goals for the agriculture sector in
the current Five-Year Plan (FY91-95): (a) attaining foodgrain (rice)
self-sufficiency by the end of the plan period; and (b) increasing the
production of minor but nutritionally important crops to improve the quality
of food consumption. Attainment of these objectives would also reduce
poverty.
1.12      Since independence, the primary emphasis of development efforts in
agriculture has been to replace the traditional cultivation methods,
characterized by low and sharply fluctuating yields, by more modern techniques
leading to higher production and sustained growth. The poor performance of
the sector was identified with the low level of technology characterizing
traditional agriculture and overwhelming dependence on weather. A
breakthrough in agriculture was considered primarily dependent on a strategy
of a rapid expansion of irrigation-fertilizer-seed technology. The current
Five-Year Plan articulates a strategy for achieving more rapid agricultural
growth, emphasizing the need to shift from high risk, monsoon-dependent
production to lower risk, irrigated production. This is to be achieved
primarily through expanding minor irrigation coverage, stimulating crop
diversification, relying more on competitive markets for input supply to
farmers, improving rural transport infrastructure, strengthening agricultural
research and extension systems to develop new technologies and diffuse the
proven technologies to farmers, making adequate credit available to finance
needed investments, and improving the macroeconomic policy environment.
1.13      The strategy for the sector, as spelled out in the current Five-
Year Plan, is basically consistent with the consensus arising from intensive
dialogue within GOB and between GOB and donor agencies in general, and IDA,
the Asian Development Bank, the European Community, the Overseas Development
Administration of the U.K., and the U.S. Agency for International Development
(USAID), in particular. The dialogue has been based on the findings of sector
work that has been carried out by IDA and other donors. It has been
demonstrated that minor irrigation equipment (shallow tubewells, deep
tubewells, and low lift pumps) has to be the method of choice for expanded
irrigation on grounds of cost per irrigated hectare, ease of management,
minimum reliance on public resources, and affordability by farmers. Expansion
of minor irrigation is also the only alternative that would bring quick
increases in production over the short and medium term. Moreover, the
strategy would not be constrained by availability of irrigable land and water
during this decade. GOB, with donor support, is therefore pursuing private



- 5 -
sector-led minor irrigation expansion as the main pillar of its agricultural
development strategy for this decade. As part of this strategy, it aims to
liberalize further the trade and regulatory framework for agricultural inputs
with a view to allowing a major role for market forces and private
initiatives. While a lot has been achieved with respect to agricultural
policy reforms, further action is needed to: (a) remove remaining policy
bottlenecks (e.g., formal legal actions to make recent reforms in seed policy
and deregulation of foodgrain marketing permanent are needed to give the
private sector confidence to invest in these fields); (b) make the
agricultural credit system work; and (c) improve weak project administration
and the poor implementation record.
1.14      The overall strategy has been fairly successful.  However, the
progress made in the sector has been almost totally the result of increased
irrigation. Average yields per hectare per season for irrigated and non-
irrigated production have not increased, indicating the need for increased
attention to improving agricultural extension and research programs. The
increase in rice production means that Bangladesh may soon have a new problem
of dealing with surplus rice in years of good weather. This requires a
substantial change in the thinking of the Government and the donor community,
with increased emphasis either on policies for encouraging crop
diversification or for the possibly more difficult task of improving a portion
of the crop to exportable quality. Nevertheless, given continued rapid
population growth (which has been reduced somewhat to 2.2t per annum) and
severe shortage of cultivable land, Bangladesh must continue substantial
efforts to accelerate agricultural growth to keep ahead of the population
growth. Moreover, with 601 of the labor force still engaged in agriculture,
any strategy for economic growth and poverty alleviation must include
continued increases in the productivity of the agricultural sector.
C. IDA's Involvement in Agricultural DeveloDment
1.15      IDA has been involved in Bangladesh's agricultural sector for many
years. The involvement has been in the form of lending operations, sector
work and special studies, policy dialogue, and coordination of donor
activities in the sector. The lending program for Bangladesh has emphasized
agriculture, especially deve] )ing water resources, strengthening agricultural
support services, and developing complementary infrastructure. Sector work
and special studies have been used by IDA as the basis for the lending program
and policy dialogue with GOB. IDA has also been working closely with the aid
community to encourage consistency of approach and avoid duplication of
effort.
1.16      Consistent with GOB's priorities, increased food production,
especially rice, has been the main target of IDA's lending in agriculture with
emphasis given to minor irrigation development and flood control and drainage.
IDA is also assisting in the exploitation of the yet unexploited potential
that Bangladesh has in the fisheries subsector. Given that fuel shortage and
population pressure are encouraging encroachment on forests, IDA is also
playing an important role in preserving forests through its lending program,
e.g., financing agro-forestry activities. In addition, IDA is financing



- 6 -
support services (e.g., research and extension) and technical assistance
(e.g., in flood control). Ongoing IDA-supported agricultural projects
include: Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation II (Cr. 1870-BD),
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation (Cr. 2099-BD), Third Fisheries (Cr. 2146-BD),
Agricultural Support Services (Cr. 2233-BD), National Minor Irrigation
Development (Cr. 2246-BD), and Forest Resources Management (Cr. 2397-BD). A
major theme in Bangladesh's agenda for encouraging sector development is
expansion of private sector services to enhance efficiency. IDA has used its
lending program to promote policy reforms in this direction. For example, in
close collaboration with the Asian Development Bank, IDA assisted GOB in 1991
to develop a list of investments and input requirements linked to an action
program for policy and institutional reforms. IDA supported this package
through three projects: Shallow Tubewells and Low Lift Pumps (Cr. 2253-BD,
now closed), National Minor Irrigation Development and Agricultural Support
Services. IDA has also been coordinating an international effort aimed at
formulating a plan to improve Bangladesh's ability to deal with flood hazards.
This included coordinating the work of a panel of experts assigned to oversee
the implementation of a series of studies and pilot projects which will
recommend an appropriate Flood Action Plan (FAP). As this work draws to a
close at the end of 1995, IDA is assisting GOB in developing permanent
institutions for improved water sector planning, preserving the institutional
capacity developed under FAP and making multi-disciplinary planning approaches
part of Bangladesh's normal water sector planning procedures.
1.17      The proposed project is part of IDA's efforts to improve
Bangladesh's ability to deal with flood hazards, but reflects the unique
characteristics of the project area. The problems of saline intrusion affect
only a small portion of the country, and the opportunities for similar yield
increases through keeping out saline water are limited. The high rates of
return available for certain project investments also reflect the inherent
advantages of a rehabilitation project, able to take advantage of the sunk
costs of prior investments. However, the opportunities for similar coastal
embankments to protect newly accreted lands are well worth studying as part of
the longer term post-FAP water sector planning activities described above.
While the proposed project as a whole can be justified based upon its
quantifiable agricultural production benefits, there are significant non-
quantifiable benefits in the savings of human lives during future cyclones.
Therefore, this project should not be considered solely in terms of IDA's
agricultural sector strategy.
D. Institutions Involved in the Prolect
1.18      Two institutions, Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) and
Forest Department (FD), are involved in the preparation and implementation of
the project.
Bangladesh Water DeveloDment Board
1.19      BWDB was established in 1972, when the former East Pakistan Water
and Power Development Authority (EPWAPDA) was reorganized into two separate
agencies -- the BWDB and the Power Development Board (PDB). Under the



- 7 -
supervision of the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR), BWDB's mandate is to
plan, construct, operate and maintain projects for surface water irrigation,
flood control, and drainage, including town protection and river training,
throughout the country. It is also responsible for operating and maintaining
about 400 completed projects ranging in size from small single-structure
schemes to large multipurpose flood control, drainage, and irrigation
projects. Its main sources of funding are: (a) GOB's Development Budget for
the construction of new projects and rehabilitation of a large number of
existing schemes; (b) the Revenue Budget for operation and maintenance (O&M)
of completed projects (including an allocation for debt service, taxes and
arrears); and (c) the Food for Work Programme (FFW) with an allocation of
wheat utilized for the repair and maintenance of existing projects, and for
the construction of new schemes. Since 1972 IDA has supported BWDB's program
with 15 credits, totalling about US$440 million for 11 new projects and four
flood rehabilitation operations.
1.20      BWDB is managed by a six member Board comprising a Chairman, and
five Members for Planning, Implementation, Operation and Maintenance (O&M),
Administration, and Finance, respectively. The headquarters organization is
primarily responsible for administration, finance, planning and design while
construction and O&M are the responsibility of the field organization. BWDB
has about 16,300 staff, of whom about 1,500 are Class I managers, engineers,
and administrators, and about 14,800 are Class II, III and IV middle and lower
level technical and support staff. About one third of BWDB employees are
assigned to O&M. However, these staff have also been responsible for
construction and rehabilitation of small projects.
1.21      Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) prepared for five
completed IDA-financed BWDB projectsl indicate that three have been
successful, one project (the Barisal Irrigation Project) has not reached its
full potential, and one (Drainage and Flood Control I) is questionable. For
the Drainage Project, the PPAR indicated that the assumption that incremental
dry season production would not have taken place in the absence of the flood
control embankment "has not yet been substantiated with appropriate impact
studies." However, the PPAR also noted that the largest of the project's
investments included significant non-quantifiable benefits of protecting
population from periodic flooding. (It should be noted that the benefits of
the proposed project, providing protection from saline high tide inundation
and reduction in damage from cyclones, are different from the more typical
inland flood control projects.) All the completed projects experienced
1.    (a) Chandpur Irrigation Project, Cr. 340-BD, PPAR Report No. 3436,
dated April 30, 1981.
(b) Karnafuli Irrigation Project, Cr. 605-BD, and Barisal Irrigation
Project, Cr. 542-BD, PPAR Report No. 6521, dated November 21,
1986.
(c) Muhuri Irrigation Project, Cr. 725-BD, PPAR Report No. 8654, dated
May 16, 1990.
(d) Drainage and Flood Control Project, Cr. 864-BD, PPAR Report No.
8805, dated June 29, 1990.



serious construction delays. On average, it took about eight years to
complete the schemes instead of five years as originally planned. Projects
currently under construction and those more recently completed experienced
similar delays, most of which occur at the pre-construction stage. There have
been significant delays due to time consuming administrative procedures for
appointing consultants to prepare feasibility studies and designs. Procedures
for acquiring land for construction have been long and complicated and actual
acquisition of land often has been delayed because of shortage of local funds.
Delays have occurred during the construction stage due to procurement
problems, insufficient budget allocations, or delays in release of funds.
Poor quality of construction due to inadequate supervision of works by BWDB
staff and use of inexperienced local contractors was a major problem in the
past. In recent years, BWDB has employed local consultants on several
projects to monitor construction works and help maintain quality standards.
Quality of works has improved but there is still room for significant further
improvement. There has also been improvement in the funding allocations for
the IDA-assisted BWDB projects, which have benefitted from dialogue in
connection with the Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2361-
BD).
1.22      Potential benefits of past investments in BWDB's projects have not
been fully realized due to weaknesses in O&M resulting in deterioration of the
systems. The underlying reasons for these weaknesses include: (a) inadequate
budget allocations; (b) inefficient use of available funds; (c) deficiencies
in BWDB's organizational arrangements, procedures and staff capabilities for
O&M; and (d) insufficient farmer participation. Actions to resolve these
issues have been agreed under the BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP)
(Cr. 2099-BD). Of particular importance are agreements for increasing
budgetary allocations for O&M, improvements in BWDB's organization for O&M,
training programs for BWDB staff and beneficiaries, and measures to increase
beneficiary participation in financing irrigation O&M activities. While there
have been some notable improvements (expenditures on maintenance doubled from
FY89 to FY94), progress on institutional issues has been less than expected.
However, recent steps, such as the approval in August 1994 of Guidelines for
Peoples' Participation in Water Development Projects, the assignment of staff
to implement these Guidelines, and the development of a training program for
such staff, appear to indicate renewed commitment to addressing the key issues
in this field.
1.23      Since mid-1994 substantial progress has been made on long-standing
institutional issues affecting BWDB. Permanent members have been appointed to
BWDB's Board (previously staffed largely through "acting" assignments) and the
Board's original mandate and authority as an autonomous body has been
restored. Acting upon this renewed authority, the Board filled all vacant
Chief Engineer positions and delegated increased authority to lower levels of
BWDB staff to permit project managers to expedite project procurement and
expenditure decisions. A new accounting system, designed to make BWDB's
financial transactions more transparent, has now been introduced. (The new
accounting system had been designed in 1990 by consultants financed by the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) as part of co-financing the
Second Small-Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project (Cr. 1870-
BD). However, implementation of the new system had been resisted until mid-



- 9 -
1994). As noted above, Guidelines for Peoples' Participation have been
approved, and are being implemented. Finally, BWDB established five task
forces on institutional reform, whose recommendations provided the basis for
reaching agreement with IDA in September 1994 on a short-term BWDB reform
program. This program concentrated on what could be accomplished over the
following year, without altering the current allocation of responsibilities
between BWDB and other institutions. The reform program included measures
affecting all aspects of BWDB activities, including implementation, O&M,
accounting, planning, and administration. Key measures, beyond those
indicated above, include a phased program to separate staff and
responsibilities for O&M and construction in order to focus a portion of the
staff on O&M, reforms in personnel planning, evaluation, and promotion
policies, and introduction of multi-disciplinary project planning teams.
Progress to-date in implementing the reform program is on schedule.
1.24      The reform program concentrates mainly on BWDB and leaves issues
involving other institutions in the water sector for further analysis.
However, the program includes agreement to undertake studies on such issues,
including appropriate institutional arrangements for sector analysis, project
evaluation and planning, and mechanisms for decentralization of responsibility
and increasing peoples' participation in project formulation and O&M. The FAP
reports' institutional recommendations include a merger of the temporary
organization established for FAP with an existing, but weak, sectoral planning
organization. Under the proposed River Bank Protection Project (RBPP), IDA
expects to finance technical assistance to improve sectoral planning capacity
(see para 1.16) and carry-out the above referred medium-term studies.
1.25      The proposed project design addresses some of the problems
described above, inter alia, through requiring the use of experienced,
internationally recruited consultants for supervision of works, using
prequalified contractors selected through ICB procedures for the major civil
works, using "Class A" contractors (or the equivalent) and agreed minimum
contract sizes for the minor works, and incorporating community participation
and other measures designed to improve maintenance of project works.
Forest Deoartment
1.26      Formerly part of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Forest Department
(FD) is now under Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) which was
established in 1989. MOEF is in the process of being fully established, but
is still weak, especially in the areas of monitoring and evaluating the
operations of its executing agencies, interagency coordination, and resolution
with other ministries of important intersectoral issues, including land
allocation, wood prices, and human resource development.
1.27      FD, headed by a Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF), is the primary
GOB agency responsible for the day-to-day management of forest resources in
the country. At its headquarters, the CCF is assisted by three Deputy Chief
Conservators of Forests (DCCF), responsible for development planning, forest
extension, and forest management planning, respectively. Each DCCF is
supported by an Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests (ACCF). Reporting to
the CCF is also a Conservator of Forests (CF), who with the assistance of two



- 10 -
ACCFs, is responsible for general administration and wildlife. Also, the
Directors of both FD's Forest Development and Training Center and the Thana
Afforestation and Nursery Development Project are directly responsible to the
CCF.
1.28      FD's field operations, consisting of six Circles headed by CFs and
concerned with territorial forestry, also come under the CCF's direction. The
CF of each Circle is in charge of several forest divisions, which are normally
within the boundary of an administrative district, and under the charge of a
Divisional Forest Officer (DFO). There are 37 forest divisions including one
covering the National Botanical Garden. The divisions are divided into
several forest ranges which are controlled by Forest Range Officers, who in
turn are in charge of several beats, each under a Deputy Ranger or Forester.
The field staff is responsible for the establishment and maintenance of
plantations, supervision of state forest lands, provision of industrial wood
supplies and extension and public relations at the local level.
1.29      FD's total staff is close to 10,000 including about 4,850
professional and technical staff by the end of 1991. In addition, FD employs
a labor force of about 500,000 staff-days/year. The FD has long been a
traditional administration-based organization with accountability focussing
mainly on adherence to budgetary allocations.  Because work quality and
effectiveness are not systematically measured, the performance of FD's field
staff varies widely. The organization was not sufficiently developed along
functional lines, with inadequate specialization of staff. Headquarters'
capacity for planning, programming, monitoring and evaluating, and
environmental management has been weak. Promotion within FD is almost purely
based on seniority with very little attention to merit and managerial and
technical capacity. Top managers, especially CCFs, are frequently promoted to
their post shortly before retirement, reducing their interest in policy and
institutional reform. FD has furthermore been slow to introduce people-
oriented forestry development, which, in view of the country's extreme
population pressure, is crucial for the establishment, protection, and
utilization of forests. While a change in attitude towards people's
participation is already evident, clear policies, institutional changes and
suitable programs are yet to be developed. Some of these issues are being
addressed under the Forest Resources Management Project (Cr. 2397-BD, approved
June 1992). In particular, the organization of FD has recently been reshaped
along functional lines, in accordance with a revised organizational structure
agreed under the credit. However, it would take some time for the new
organizational arrangements to affect long-established administrative
practices.
1.30      Despite the weaknesses noted above, the overall experience with the
two prior IDA-assisted forestry projects has been good. The Mangrove
Afforestation Project (Cr. 1042-BD, approved in 1980) achieved an 18% economic
rate of return and established over 30,000 ha of new mangrove plantations.
The Second Forestry Project (Cr. 1634-ED, approved in November 1985) closed in
June 1992, one year later than originally scheduled. Provisions for
establishment of 40,000 ha of new mangrove plantations, establishment of
23,000 ha of industrial plantations and maintenance of mangrove plantations
have shown good progress. Progress was behind expectation, however, on



- 11 -
components for thinning industrial plantations, improving the forestry data
base, and improving in-service training of FD personnel. IDA assistance to
the forestry sector continues under the Forest Resources Management Project,
which became operational in 1992. This project supports a seven-year
comprehensive forestry development program. After a considerable delay in
procuring technical assistance and contracting for new aerial photographs, the
performance of the project at present is generally satisfactory. However,
there are still some policy and institutional reform issues concerning which
discussions with the Government are continuing. In addition to IDA-financed
projects, FD has undertaken a number of ongoing pilot operations in community
participation in forestry, including projects on private and public wastelands
and the slopes of railway and road rights-of-way. These projects have
involved several non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and have been assisted
by such external agencies as ADB and WFP. The proposed project takes
advantage of some of the community participation models developed in the
inland areas, combined with FD experience in saline tolerant mangrove
plantation in the coastal areas.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives and Concept
Obiectives
2.1       The objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) cyclone
protection, including improving the security of persons living in the
protected areas, reducing damage to houses and other buildings and
infrastructure and minimizing the loss of crops and livestock; (b) improved
agricultural production, through preventing saline inundation during normal
weather and improved cropping patterns due to reduced cyclone risks; and
(c) introduction of improved technology in the design and construction of
protection works, and improved methods of embankment maintenance.
Project Concept
2.2       The proposed project was originally intended to finance the Mid-
Term Program to strengthen existing coastal embankments, while a second-stage
long-term program was being developed for the construction of embankments and
associated structures for the protection of newly accreted lands. In response
to the April 1991 cyclone, a portion of the originally intended project has
been financed separately under the PWP (see para 1.4) to provide for the most
urgently needed embankment repair and rehabilitation work. However, the PWP
works are still conceptually part of the Mid-Term Program for coastal
embankment restoration. The proposed project would finance in addition to the
rehabilitation and improvement of 12 sea-facing embankments, ancillary
investments for improved O&M, afforestation, and minor polder improvements
covering the ten PWP embankments as well as the 12 embankments referred to



- 12 -
above.2 It would also finance small amounts of work required to complete the
PWP embankments in one polder where there had been delays due to disputes
concerning the alignment and in another where improvements in drainage are
required. For reasonable economy in construction, designs for embankments to
protect agricultural land allow for moderate overtopping of embankments during
severe cyclones, but not to a degree which would lead to breaching of the
embankments or to very high flood levels in the polders. Adequate drainage is
also to be provided. Afforestation is provided both to help absorb wave
energy and tidal surges during cyclones and to reduce embankment maintenance
costs. A community participation approach is to be employed for afforestation
and routine embankment maintenance.
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.3       In light of IDA's past efforts in assisting Bangladesh to develop
programs for dealing with the issue of recurrent cyclones, GOB requested IDA
to coordinate donor assistance following the April 1991 cyclone. IDA agreed
and assembled the financing package for the PWP (para 1.4). The proposed
project would extend the PWP program to additional areas, as well as provide
investments to complement those financed under the PWP. The project should
also enable IDA to maintain the ongoing dialogue with GOB on appropriate
disaster control policies and institutional support. Finally, the proposed
project would protect past and ongoing IDA investments in the coastal belt,
specifically the Coastal Area Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 339-BD) completed in
1980, Flood Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1587-BD) completed in 1986, which
included repair of damages caused by the May 1985 cyclone; Second Flood
Rehabilitation (Cr. 1876-BD) completed in 1989, which included repair of
damage during the 1987 floods; and the ongoing Second Small Scale Flood
Control and Drainage Project (Cr. 1870-BD). A revised Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) is scheduled to be presented at the same time as this
operation. The CAS emphasizes, inter alia, the importance of agricultural
growth, development of rural infrastructure, and the need to reduce the
negative impact of flooding on people's lives and livelihood.
C. Prolect Components
2.4       The project includes the following components:
(a) rehabilitation and improvements to 12 sea-facing empbankments, plus
small amounts to complete similar works in two polders of the PWP
program;
(b) minor rehabilitation and improvements to the non-coastal sections
of the polders in the Mid-Term Program, including re-excavation of
drainage canals (khals), repair or replacement of
2.    There is a total of 21 polders, since the sea-facing embankments of one
polder are financed partially under PWP and partially under this
project.



- 13 -
regulators/surface sluices or minor embankment repairs where
appropriate to assure agricultural benefits;
(c)  afforestation of embankment slopes and a strip of 50 to 200 meters
of foreshore to reduce cyclone damage and embankment maintenance
costs;
(d) improved O&M of all polders in the Mid-Term Program;
(e) a program for compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement of
people displaced by the project;
(f) environmental monitoring and provision for appropriate mitigating
measures;
(g) studies to investigate the possibility of cost-effective town
protection works for Sandwip;
(h) technical assistance for implementation support for components (a)
through (g) above, and for coordination between the project and
other projects in the area supporting increased agricultural
production, and NGO activities to organize and support community
participation in afforestation and maintenance of embankments;
(i) training of staff of implementing agencies and participating NGOs,
and for community participants; and
(j) vehicles and minor equipment required for GOB supervision of
proiect implementation, and for afforestation.
In addition the EC grant supporting this project includes a Community
Development Fund to enable NGOs to implement such poverty alleviation
activities complementary to the Project as may be agreed between GOB and EC.
The proposed project would be implemented over a seven year period beginning
in late 1995 or early 1996.
2.5       A community participation approach would be used for dealing with
the issues of afforestation, routine embankment maintenance, and resettlement
of families displaced by project works (predominantly squatters on the
sections of the embankment rehabilitated under the project). NGOs would be
employed to assist in mobilizing the community, provide training of
participants and facilitate community implementation of these project
activities. The project design, including embankment parameters, use of
afforestation and community participation in maintenance, reflects the results
of studies to determine a cost-effective design with reduced maintenance
costs.



- 14 -
D. Proiect Area
2.6       The polders (Annex 2) covered in the project are spread over the
coastal belt surrounding the Bay of Bengal, from Teknaf on the southeast tip
of Bangladesh to Sharankhola at the southeast border of Bagerhat District. Of
the 21 polders covered in the project, 18 are in the southeastern part of the
country and 3 are in the southwest. The number of inhabitants in the project
area is about 1.2 million or about 200,000 households. About 70% are farmers.
The gross area is about 240,000 ha of which about 80% is under cultivation.
Agricultural productivity is low due to salinity and threat of cyclones.
Industrial activity is concentrated in the Chittagong area (included in the
PWP).
E. Detailed Features
Rehabilitation and ImDrovement Works
2.7       Maior Civil Works (base cost US$35.1 million).  The civil works
program would include: (a) major resectioning and/or retirement of embankments
(including resectioning of about 78 km of embankments and about 73 km of new
retired embankments) in areas where protection of embankments at the existing
locations is technically or economically not feasible; (b) about 7 km of new
or repaired protection works in the form of block revetments to protect
embankment slopes against damage due to cyclonic storms; (c) replacement or
repair of existing drainage structures (regulators or drainage sluices); and
(d) new drainage structures. The above program includes about US$3.4 million
of works to complete the PWP embankments. It also includes about US$2 million
of works, to be designed during the first year of project implementation, to
deal with recent erosion in a 6 km portion of one of the polders (Sandwip).
All works under this category would be carried out on contracts awarded
following ICB procedures.
2.8       Armored embankments for protection of agricultural land and the
population living in the protected area are not economically feasible or
justifiable. Therefore, a cost-effective design with lower maintenance cost
is adopted in the project. The sea-facing embankments are designed as
compacted earthfill dams with a protective layer of a meter of clay cover
along the outer slopes and crest, slopes of 1 on 7 on the sea-facing side and
1 on 3 on the country side, a 50 meter to 200 meter wide strip of foreshore
afforestation and a crest level established according to the following
criteria: for normal monsoons and cyclones of the intensity expected once in
five years, no significant overtopping would occur; for more severe cyclonic
storms expected once in 20 years, wave overtopping should not result in an
average water depth in the polder exceeding 1 meter; and for storms of the
intensity expected once in 40 years, crest level should not be lower than the
still water level. (For the Chittagong industrial areas financed under the
PWP, the design criteria used provide for no significant overtopping, even for
storms expected only once in 40 years). With these design criteria and
particularly the clay layer, the flatter slopes and the protection afforded by
afforestation and forest cover of the slopes, annual erosion of earthfill
would be limited to about 900 m3 per km. A very limited quantity of armored



- 15 -
protection is provided in places where retirement is not possible and no
foreshore area is available for afforestation. In such areas, revetment
blocks of sufficient weight and thickness and placed on geotextile filters are
provided. The regulators and surface sluices are designed according to BWDB
design criteria.
2.9       Minor Civil Works (base cost US$9.5 million).  The civil works
program would include: (a) minor embankment repairs mainly on the non-coastal
sections including any minor repairs to the sea-facing sections;3 (b) re-
excavation of the drainage network within the protected area and the outfall
canals; (c) minor repairs to existing revetment works; (d) repair or
replacement of drainage regulators in areas not included in the program of
coastal embankment repairs; (e) new surface sluices to drain isolated drainage
congested pockets within the protected area; and (f) surveying and
investigations limited to minor civil works. The slopes and crest width of
interior and marginal embankments of the minor works program would conform to
the Coastal Embankment Project design criteria, prepared by Leedshill-DeLeuw
Engineers and approved by BWDB. Crest levels would conform to the design
criteria of the major civil works. Works other than re-excavation of drainage
canals would be carried out on contracts awarded following NCB procedures.
Re-excavation of khals (base cost US$3.1 million) are expected to be carried
out under the Food For Work (FFW) program.
2.10      BWDB Engineering and Administration (base cost US$2.7 million).
Project costs include provision for BWDB engineering and administrative costs
directly related to the implementation of rehabilitation and improvement
works. The provision is estimated at 5% and 10% of the investment costs of
major and minor civil works respectively.
Afforestation (base cost US$5.3 million, plus US$1.8 million for leasing
private foreshore land)
2.11      The afforestation program includes: the development of forestry
models, nursery development and planting of appropriate species of trees and
shrubs on the embankment slopes and a 50 to 200 meter wide strip of forest on
the foreshore. This program forms an integral part of the embankment design.
The afforestation program covers about 1,900 ha of embankment and about 4,700
ha of foreshore development. The component would be implemented on a
community participation basis. FD would be directly responsible for the
foreshore afforestation component and would provide assistance to BWDB for the
embankmnent afforestation component. An agreement has been signed between BWDB
and FD, satisfactory to IDA, setting forth specific responsibilities and
arrangements for coordination. It was agreed at negotiations that maintenance
of such an agreement, satisfactory to IDA, would continue until Proiect
completion. NGOs active in the respective project areas would be employed to
mobilize the local people to participate in the project and provide training
in planting and maintenance of trees. FD would provide necessary technical
training to NGO staff, and possibly directly to community participants, and
3.    For one polder (Sonagazi) where only 2 km of sea-facing embankment
requires repair, this work is included in the minor works program.



- 16 -
technical supervision of forestry activities. In areas where private sector
produced seedlings of non-mangrove species are available and of suitable
quality, advantage would be taken of such availability. This is estimated to
cover about 30% of non-mangrove species. For the remainder, FD would have
overall responsibility for nursery operation and provision of seedlings. FD
would directly operate the nurseries for mangrove species and provide
technical supervision and funding support for establishment of NGO-operated
nurseries for the non-mangrove species. FD staff would also provide technical
assistance, if requested, for the private sector nurseries.
2.12      Squatters and those made landless by land acquisition and other
landless people (to the extent of available space) would be resettled at the
toe of the embankment on the countryside and allocated a homestead plot of
10 m by 20 m and an area of the embankment of about 1 ha.4 for each family.
Such settlers would be given long-term contracts (of the order of 15 to 30
years) allowing them to reside on this allotment and obtain the produce of
appropriate tree species planted in return for providing routine maintenance
of their section of the embankment and carrying out and maintaining an
afforestation program for their part of the embankment. NGOs would be
employed to help organize this process, while FD would provide technical
guidance and quality control for the embankment afforestation operations.
Such families would be paid a subsistence income for about four years until
the trees on the embankment produce sufficient income, but the payments would
decrease as the income from the trees increases. Participants would be paid
on a periodic schedule, based upon NGO certification that the embankment
maintenance and afforestation activities were adequately performed in
accordance with project requirements. NGOs would also supply participants
with fertilizer and pesticides for the first three years. The declining scale
of payments to be specified in the settlers' lease agreements has been set to
ensure that such payments, when added to the increasing income from the
homestead and the afforested embankment, would produce an adequate incentive
to cover both routine embankment maintenance and afforestation activities.
NGOs would monitor actual earnings from embankment afforestation and homestead
cultivation. In case of major disruptions in a polder from the assumed
afforestation program, which may occur due to significant storm damage or a
disease outbreak, NGOs would recommend appropriate adjustments in the agreed
4.    For two polders (out of the 21 in the project) there are too many
squatter families for the normal pattern to work. In portions of these
polders a variation of the arrangements described above for squatter
resettlement and embankment afforestation and maintenance would have to
be used. Groups would be organized to take responsibility for
embankment afforestation and maintenance, with each family responsible
for the maintenance and receiving the benefit of the produce of the
trees for a much smaller section of the embankment than in the standard
model (perhaps 1/4 to 1/8 ha). This would not be expected to provide
subsistence income but (together with the produce from the homestead
plot) would supplement whatever sources of income had been maintaining
the families up until now. In portions of the two polders, a
continuous berm would be constructed at the countryside toe of the
embankment for squatter resettlement.



- 17 -
scale of payments to the settlers. FD and BWDB would provide periodic quality
control checking, on a sample basis, of afforestation and embankment
maintenance activities respectively. The contracts with the settlers would
provide for an increasing scale of penalties for families who do not
adequately perform these duties, ranging from non-payment of cash income
through revoking the right to the produce from embankment afforestation, with
the possibility of eviction as a last resort if all other sanctions fail.
NGOs would recommend to BWDB appropriate sanctions, when necessary. (For
additional details see Annex 3). Model lease agreements with settlers were
agreed at negotiations.
2.13      Community groups organized by NGOs under FD supervision would be
responsible for the foreshore afforestation on publicly owned land. They
would be paid for their planting activities. Thereafter Landless Contracting
Societies (LCS) would be granted contracts under which they would share 2/3 of
the income from the trees in return for their handling of minimal maintenance
activities, guarding of the trees against poachers, harvesting, and replanting
of harvested areas. The remaining 1/3 of the income would go to the Union
Parishad for financing of local investments. Models of such agreements were
agreed at negotiations. An order has been issued allocating appropriate
publicly owned land for foreshore afforestation purposes. In areas where the
foreshore is privately owned, FD would hire community groups, organized and
supervised by NGOs, to plant the seedlings at no charge to the landowners, in
return for the landowners' agreement to maintain the area under trees. The
agreement with private owners of foreshore land would also provide that
landowners would receive in the case of any land not yet too saline for crop
production, the estimated value of the net income from foregone crop
production until income from the trees is available (about 8 years). The
agreement would permit landowners to use forest products according to sound
forestry practices, with the landowner obligated to replant trees in areas of
harvesting. Models of such agreements were agreed at negotiations. Foreshore
afforestation development is based on the premise that land would not require
acquisition. This is a realistic assumption as most of the foreshore is
public land and where the foreshore is privately owned, areas can be selected
which are relatively unproductive due to high salinity levels. (In only about
1,000 ha out of about 4,700 ha planned for foreshore afforestation are crops
currently grown.) In addition, after the recent cyclones, communities now
appreciate the importance of the coastal embankments in saving their lives and
property. The locally elected officials of the Union Parishad and influential
members of the community and the community at large should be able to settle
any problem of non-cooperation without being forced to resort to land
acquisition.
2.14      Models for embankment slope afforestation and foreshore development
have been prepared. Models for the embankment take account of the need for
species which are resistant to cyclonic winds and (on the outer slope)
salinity, have root structures which will strengthen the embankment, and which
would produce adequate income. Within these constraints, those allotted
sections of the embankment would be permitted some choice of species in



- 18 -
response to personal preferences and local market opportunities.5 Options
for suitable species for foreshore development take into consideration
variations in soils and tidal conditions. It is estimated that, due to loss
of trees, an average of two plantings would be required on the foreshore.
Based on this, it is estimated that about Tk 16,800 per ha would be required
for afforestation of embankment slopes, Tk 10,700 per ha for foreshore
afforestation with mangroves and Tk 30,200 per ha for foreshore afforestation
with upland species. An additional Tk 56.5 million is provided for
establishment and operation of nurseries. (For details see Annex 4). These
figures exclude the costs of technical assistance, FD staff and vehicles. The
subsistence payments to settlers until the trees provide adequate income are
budgeted under embankment O&M costs. (Annex 4).
Improved Operation and Maintenance (base cost US$5.4 million)
2.15      The project would support an improved O&M program for the 21
polders included under the project. All polder infrastructure, including the
sea-facing and non-coastal reaches of the embankment, drainage regulators,
surface sluices and the drainage network would be included in the program. In
the past, O&M activities were not clearly defined, allocations under the
recurrent budget were inadequate, BWDB field staff were not sufficiently
experienced, and the benefiting community was not involved in maintenance
activities. The severe damage caused by cyclonic storms and river erosion
aggravated the situation which forced the displaced families whose land had
been eroded to resettle on the embankment. Cuts on the embankment to
accommodate houses and cultivation of the slopes with annual crops weakened
the embankment. In these conditions, no effective system of O&M could be
carried out. The improved O&M program has been designed taking into
consideration these issues. The major change is in the maintenance system and
the involvement of the community in the simple maintenance tasks. Operational
activities are adequately spelled out and BWDB staff are sufficiently
experienced to carry out these tasks once the works are rehabilitated and the
community has been mobilized to handle routine embankment maintenance. The
improved O&M program would include: (a) routine or preventive maintenance;
(b) periodic maintenance; and (c) repairs caused by cyclonic storms, monsoon
floods, and scours to embankment slopes caused by wave action. The project
provides funds for these activities, including the costs required for
involvement of the community in the maintenance program. Further details are
provided in Annex 5.
2.16      Community involvement is crucial to the sustainability of the
proposed system. The families resettled on the toe of the embankment (as
described in para 2.12 above) would be responsible for routine maintenance of
their allotted section of the embankment. NGOs involved with the
5.    Hedge rows of vetiver grass would be planted just below the crest of
the embankment in a small pilot area. Depending upon the results,
vetiver or other hedge row species would be used in the general model
along the crest of the embankment. Longer term experiments will
determine whether the tree canopies allow sufficient light to penetrate
to permit vetiver to grow on other portions of the embankment.



- 19 -
afforestation component would also help organize the community participation
in routine embankment maintenance. BWDB would provide technical guidance and
quality control for the embankment maintenance operations. The income
payments to the participants have been set on a declining scale over four
years (taking account of anticipated increases in income from the embankment
and homestead over this period) to provide adequate incentive (see para 2.12),
and would cover the routine embankment maintenance responsibilities as well as
the work in the initial years of planting trees on the embankment. This would
be budgeted as embankment O&M expenditure (which is financed on a declining
percentage basis under the proposed credit). However, payment to participants
would be contingent on NGO certification that both embankment maintenance and
afforestation responsibilities were being carried out adequately. Routine
earthwork maintenance on portions of embankments not being rehabilitated under
the project would be carried out under labor contracts by the community in
groups of about 25 persons on average, organized by NGOs. Periodic
maintenance of all earthworks, which would be carried out annually or
biannually, would be undertaken under labor contracts by the community or by
small scale contracts awarded following NCB procedures. Controlling
activities at the structures, presently the responsibility of Khalashis, would
gradually be transferred to the community. Committees in each Union Parishad
would be formed to assist in supervising maintenance activities and preventing
future squatters. BWDB would continue to provide technical supervision and
financial control of all maintenance activities.
2.17      Project costs include the routine and periodic maintenance
activities for polders included in the project. The project would also
provide for repairs to damages caused by cyclonic storms occurring during the
project period. (This would include allowance for payments for routine
maintenance to resume temporarily if the cyclones damaged trees on the
embankment to the extent that they could no longer provide adequate
subsistence income.) Repairs to damages due to monsoon floods and embankment
slope scours would also be included. (Repairs of damages to embankment slopes
caused by river bank erosion is not included in the Project.) Disbursements
by IDA for maintenance activities would be on a declining percentage basis.
The Government agreed to include in its budget annual allocations for
operation and maintenance of proiect facilities in accordance with a timetable
satisfactory to IDA. Tentative estimates of annual budgetary requirements for
O&M were agreed at negotiations, subject to further review based upon
experience in maintaining these embankments. These estimates cover routine
and periodic maintenance activities, and repairs following "normal" floods and
cyclones of an intensity occurring with a frequency of once in five years.
The O&M budgeting and monitoring procedures being developed in four pilot
subprojects under the SRP project would be introduced in CERP polders to
assure adequate provision for routine and periodic O&M.
Land Acauisition and Resettlement (base cost US$3.3 million for Land
Acquisition, US$0.4 million for Resettlement)
2.18      A total of about 675 ha of land would be required for providing
project facilities. For reconstruction work, about 270 ha are required for
retirements, about 175 ha are required for widening of existing embankments
(including paying for land under one existing embankment where the land had



- 20 -
been previously made available on a voluntary basis, without transfer of
ownership), about 55 ha are required for structures, and about 35 ha for minor
works (excluding Khal excavation). For resettlement of embankment squatters
and other landless people who will participate in embankment O&M and
afforestation, about 35 ha would be required. For the temporary acquisition
of spoil dump areas needed for the re-excavation of khals, about 105 ha would
be required. (Cost of temporary acquisition is estimated at about a third of
the land value). Acquisition is kept to a minimum by limiting areas to only
those actually required for the embankment sections being constructed and for
homestead allotments. Payment of royalty for the fill materials would be the
responsibility of contractors. According to procedures adopted for the FFW
program, no provision is made for land acquisition for re-excavation of khals
except for the spoil dump areas. Takeover of acquired land could be timed in
most cases after the aman harvest to avoid damage to standing crops.
2.19      A Resettlement Action Plan acceptable to IDA has been adopted by
the Government. Agreement was reached during negotiations that resettlement
and rehabilitation of persons adversely affected by the prolect would be
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Resettlement Action Plan.
About 700 families who are presently squatting on embankment sections to be
rehabilitated, and about 1300 other landless families would be resettled under
the project on new homestead plots at the toe of the embankment. The
embankment squatters on sections being rehabilitated would have to move prior
to the start of construction. It is expected that most would opt to move
immediately to new homes at the back of the homestead plots, which would still
allow contractors enough room on the berm for construction activities.6
Alternatively, they would be given the option of a rental allowance for about
a year to cover the costs of temporarily renting a plot or a house for a year
during construction. During the construction period, such settlers would be
given priority by FD for employment in the afforestation of the foreshore, to
the extent that they are not absorbed in project construction activities. The
above arrangements allow people displaced by the project to remain in their
communities, a short distance from their previous homes, and to earn income,
following project construction activities, from the produce of the trees to be
planted on the embankment. Landowners losing a portion of their property due
to land acquisition for the project (about 1,800 families) would be given cash
compensation sufficient to purchase replacement land of similar earning
capacity, including the value of trees, fish ponds, and other assets. All
families being resettled (the squatters and about 200 families who would have
to move their houses to other parts of their property plus the four families
losing all their property) would receive funds equivalent to the replacement
costs of the houses being demolished, taking into account the costs for moving
their homes and household belongings and the cost of new materials for
rebuilding their homes (deducting the value of salvagable materials). Similar
compensation for relocation of shops or factories would be provided for about
22 families. Any landowner receiving compensation less than three months
6.    About 80 squatter families who will have to relocate during the first
year of the project will be paid a rental allowance for about a year to
allow time for acquisition of land for their new homestead plots, plus
moving costs.



- 21 -
prior to eviction would be paid additional compensation to cover estimated
loss of income until new land or other assets can be purchased. Any farmer
using non-owned land under arrangements of duration greater than a year would
also receive compensation for loss of income and any advance payment he had
made for the land. The timing of takeover of land would be set to minimize
loss of standing crops. However, anyone losing a standing crop would be
compensated for the estimated value at harvest. Project costs include the
cost of relocation of the squatters and those losing their homes due to land
acquisition as resettlement costs and the costs of other compensation as land
acquisition costs. Consultants (including NGOs) and vehicles for land
acquisition purposes are included within the technical assistance and vehicles
categories. Further details are provided in Annex 9.
Surveys. Investigations and Studies (base cost US$0.5 million)
2.20      This category would include (a) surveys required prior to minor
civil works construction; and (b) studies to investigate the possibility of
cost-effective town protection works for Sandwip. The surveys under (a) above
would be carried out by BWDB. The major part of the work under (b) would be
carried out by the Ministry of Water Resources' River Research Institute, with
some input from BWDB and the project consultants described in para. 2.21
below.
Technical Assistance (base cost US$10.6 million)
2.21      Technical assistance would be provided for Project support
(including implementation supervision and assistance) and training. A
substantial amount is required for project support to ensure effective
contract management and supervision of civil works, taking account of the
scattered nature of the construction sites. Prior projects directly
supervised by BWDB have had problems with construction quality due in part to
inadequate site supervision staff and lack of proper training in these
aspects. Proiect support (base cost US$9.6 million) would include:
(a) contract management and supervision of all major civil works, including
any inputs for additional designs required during the construction period;
(b) review of designs of all minor civil works, including making amendments as
required, and assistance in preparing tender documents, evaluation of bids and
supervision of construction of such works; (c) technical advice and assistance
for afforestation development (including pilot operations testing use of
vetiver on embankments); (d) assistance in planning and introducing effective
systems for operating and maintaining the completed polders; (e) assistance in
involving the community in planting of trees under the afforestation program
and routine embankment maintenance activities; (f) assistance in periodically
monitoring the physical and social impact of the project, including
identifying adverse environmental effects and proposing mitigating measures to
minimize or eliminate these effects; (g) coordination between this project and
on-going efforts under other GOB and NGO projects in the project area
(particularly the IDA/ODA supported Agriculture Support Services Project) to
assist farmers in the project area to take advantage of the opportunities for
increased production resulting from the project; (h) assistance in
implementation and monitoring of land acquisition/resettlement; (i) assistance
to the Sandwip town protection studies referred to in para 2.20(b); and



- 22 -
(j) assistance to BWDB during 1995 for pre-construction activities. Item
(e) above would be carried out largely by NGOs active in the project area.
Item (h) is likely to be carried out by the local firm which prepared the
resettlement plan, using NGOs active in individual polders as subcontractors.
Services for item (j) are being carried out by the PWP consultants and the
local resettlement plan consultants. The remaining items above (as well as
provision of some assistance to NGOs involved in item (e) above) would be
provided by a firm of consultants with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
Consultancy inputs by the main project consultants are estimated at 326 staff
months of internationally recruited senior specialists, 736 staff months of
locally recruited senior specialists, 568 staff months of locally recruited
junior professionals, and 1172 staff months of locally recruited technical
assistants. In addition, there would be about 140 incremental NGO staff
participating under the project. Further details of the consultancy and NGO
arrangements are given in Annexes 6 and 3 respectively, with item (h) above
covered in Annex 9.  Agreement was reached during negotiations that
consultants, with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, would be appointed
prior to siqnature of civil work contracts.  The framework for contracts
between BWDB and NGOs was agreed during negotiations and agreement reached
that the BWDB would enter into such contracts with NGOs satisfactory to IDA by
February 15, 1996.
2.22      Training (base cost US$1.0 million) would be directed specifically
at: (a) improving the skills of BWDB subdivisional office staff in
construction supervision and O&M and in the social aspects of community
involvement and dealing with displaced people; (b) improving the awareness of
environmental issues within BWDB (which is intended to have impact on project
planning and implementation beyond the present project); (c) providing
training to FD and NGO staff in community development activities, nursery
development and forestry planting and maintenance, NGO staff in routine
embankment maintenance, and community participants in afforestation and
routine embankment maintenance. In addition, the project would include
continuation of a program initiated under the PWP for training of senior and
mid-level BWDB staff in all aspects of contract management and supervision.
The same consulting firm providing implementation support assistance, as
described in para. 2.21 above, would also be responsible for designing and
coordinating the training programs and recruiting a team of appropriate local
trainers. Requirements have been estimated at about 12 consultant months of
an internationally recruited specialist and 228 consultant months of locally
recruited senior trainers. Further details on requirements and activities to
be performed for all project components are given in Annex 7.
Vehicles and Eciuipment (base cost of procurement US$0.9 million, operating
costs US$0.4 million)
2.23      The project would provide vehicles and minor equipment for the use
of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (see para 3.1), BWDB field divisions,
and forestry field staff. Miscellaneous minor equipment such as off-ce and
drafting equipment, environmental monitoring equipment, and a limited number
of computers are also provided. It was agreed at negotiations that all
vehicles and eauipment. other than replacement motorcycles or bicycles for
field staff, would be Procured by December 31, 2000. The estimated costs for



- 23 -
the running of such vehicles and equipment are included as part of the
Government's contribution to the project. Vehicles and equipment to be used
by the consultants and NGOs are included in the cost estimates for technical
assistance services.
Community Development Fund (base cost of US$0.4 million)
2.24      This Fund is not part of the IDA-financed project but is expected
to be included in the EC grant and would finance poverty allieviation
activities complementary to the project. The proposed Community Development
Fund would provide resources for NGOs to implement poverty alleviation
activities aimed at strengthening project operations and group cohesion. This
could involve, for example, water supplies and sanitary facilities for
embankment settlers, community training and education programs, and income
generating activities. The latter could in particular aim at processing and
marketing of project outputs such as coconuts. The fund might also be used to
provide credit for the purchase of hand tools by community groups engaged in
embankment maintenance. The fund would be administered by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) described in para 3.1. NGOs would submit proposals
to the PIU for activities to be funded under eligibility criteria agreed
between GOB and EC. Implementation of approved activities would be the
responsibility of NGOs contracted for project implementation. The PIU would
closely monitor activities funded to ensure that they directly support key
project objectives, and do not divert NGO staff time from the support and
implementation of afforestation and embankment O&M.
F. Status of Preparation and Implementation Schedule
2.25      Preparation.  Detailed designs and tender documents have been
prepared for the major reconstruction works of the project (other than one
small contract for completion of a PWP polder and a second to deal with a six
km section of another polder affected by recent erosion). Prequalified
contractors were invited in August 1995 to bid for these major works. Review
of tenders and award of contracts is expected to be completed by January 1996.
The preliminary designs and estimates for all minor works have been prepared
by BWDB. It is estimated that by the end of FY96, the project consultants
could prepare detailed designs and tender documents for all the minor works.
Proposals and estimates for embankment afforestation and improved O&M
components have been prepared. Given the pioneering nature of the community
participation approach for embankment afforestation and a portion of the O&M
work, provision is being made for two mid-term reviews (see para 3.9) to
permit adjustments based on experience.
2.26      Implementation Schedule (Annex 1). The total project
implementation period would be seven years (FY96-FY02). However,
implementation after December 31, 2000 would be limited to the afforestation
and improved O&M components, together with limited inputs for associated
project support and training, and activities supported by the Community
Development Fund. Contracts for reconstruction work for most of the sea-
facing embankments would be awarded following ICB procedures in time to permit
construction to start in March 1996. Work would be completed in three



- 24 -
construction seasons (ending June 1998). The contracts for completion of the
sea-facing embankment in one of the PWP polders, major structures in another
PWP polder and works in the section affected by erosion would be tendered a
year later. Minor civil works would commence in FY97 and be completed within
a period of five years. The longer implementation period is required due to
implementation of portions through the FFW program, limited number of local
contractors able to produce quality work, and utilization of community groups
for earthworks. It was agreed at neqotiations that the Proposed credit would
only finance civil works expenditures incurred throucrh December 31. 2000. As
soon as construction conditions permit, sections of the ermibankment and the
foreshore would be afforested. It is estimated that the planting of trees
would commence in FY97 for the PWP embankments and the foreshore, and in FY99
for the other major work embankments. Initial planting would be substantially
completed by FY00. (Replanting where required and planting on minor works
embankments would continue through the end of the project.) Forestry trials
and pilot schemes on about 40 ha of embankment and 120 ha of foreshore would
be taken up in FY96. These would produce data useful for successful
implementation of the afforestation program and the program for community
participation in embankment maintenance. The embankment maintenance program
would commence for sections of embankment when contractor's one year defects
liability period is completed. The schedule for the reconstruction program
indicates that the maintenance program would start for some embankment
sections (particularly sections completed under the PWP) by FY96, and that all
works would be included in the maintenance program during FY01 and FY02.
Project support and training would commence in FY96 and continue throughout
the project period, with limited inputs during the last two years.
G. Environmental Aspects
2.27      The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening
Category B. Most physical works consist of rehabilitation and improvements of
existing infrastructure in the polders. The project would improve the
environmental conditions by providing additional security against cyclone and
monsoon damage, ensuring that salinity intrusion is controlled, increasing
forested areas and reducing or eliminating drainage congestion with consequent
reductions in health hazards. The rehabilitation program would not have
adverse effects on fisheries, since the polders of the Mid-Term Program have
no permanent water bodies (beels or haors), and since the embankments do not
close up major or medium rivers or shoot channels of these rivers which are
the main routes for migration of fish to the spawning grounds in flood plains.
Regulator operations on the khals would be designed to facilitate fishing.
Shrimp inlets have been included where necessary. Freshwater pond fish
cultivation (dominated by carp) would be benefited by protection from cyclone
surges and saline intrusion into ponds. The borrow pits inside the
embankments could also be used to increase pond fish cultivation. There would
be some increase in the use of fertilizer and pesticide in the project area,
since the project would enable farmers to switch from local to high yielding
varieties. However, over-use of fertilizer and pesticides is not generally a
problem in Bangladesh. Farmer training in proper fertilizer and pesticide use
is included under the ongoing IDA/ODA financed Agricultural Support Services
Project (Cr. 2233-BD). The proposed project provides for the resettlement of



- 25 -
squatters and others who may become landless as a result of land acquisition
(see paras 2.12 and 2.19). The technical assistance component includes funds
for monitoring the effects of project works during the implementation period
and training to increase environmental awareness within BWDB. Financing for
mitigating measures required to remedy adverse effects would be available
under the rehabilitation and improvement component. Further details on
environmental aspects are in Annex 10.
H. Project Cost
2.28      The total project cost is estimated at US$87.8 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$26.2 million or about 30% of the total
cost (Table 2.1). The civil works cost estimates are based on prices obtained
in 1992 in the tenders for the major civil works under the PWP, adjusted for
inflation and differences between the proposed Coastal Embankment
Rehabilitation Project (CERP) and PWP, and results of tenders under other
ongoing IDA projects. The rates for recent NCB tenders are used for cost
estimates for the minor civil works. Estimates for quantities are taken from
the preliminary designs prepared by the PWP consultant and BWDB. The
estimates for the afforestation program are based on the PWP consultant's
proposals, FD estimates and an assessment carried out by the appraisal team.
For O&M, estimates are based on the PWP consultant's proposals with
adjustments made based on estimates of length of project embankment affected
by cyclonic storms (to take account of the fact that the non-coastal
embankments would require less maintenance), and for the cost of declining
scale payments to families engaged in embankment maintenance and afforestation
until the income of the produce from trees planted on the embankment is
sufficient to maintain the family (see para 2.12).
2.29      The project cost includes US$7.0 million in taxes and duties.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 15% for major civil works and range
between 10% and 15% for the minor civil works, depending on the nature of the
works. Allowance for physical contingencies is not provided for afforestation
or other goods and services. Price contingencies and foreign exchange rates
are estimated on the basis of expected rates of local and foreign inflation.
Local inflation is estimated at rates ranging from 4% to 5% per annum during
the project period while foreign inflation is estimated at 2.2% per annum.
I. Prolect Financinq
2.30      The project would be financed by IDA, EC and GOB.  The IDA Credit
SDR 34.1 million (US$53.0 million equivalent) would cover about 65% of the
project cost excluding taxes. IDA would assist in financing investment costs
for: embankment rehabilitation and improvement works; vehicles and equipment
for GOB agencies; BWDB engineering and administration costs; surveys and
studies carried out by GOB staff; and the recurrent costs for improved O&M (at
a declining percentage). An EC grant of ECU 15 million (US$20.1 million
equivalent at June 1995 exchange rates) would cover about 25% of the project
cost excluding taxes, plus the Community Development Fund. EC financing for
the project would be used to finance afforestation, private foreshore leasing,



- 26 -
Table 2.1: Project Cost Estimates
Local  Foreign   Total          Local  Foreign  Total     Foreign
l|-T1  nm----   |                -----US$ m--             Exchange
Rehabilitation and Improvement
Major Civil Works             706.9      706.8    1,413.7      17.6    17.5      35.1    50
Minor Civil Works              358.5      22.8      381.3       8.9     0.6      9.5      6
Sub-total                  1,065.4     729.6    1,795.0      26.5    18.1     44.6    40
Afforestation                 212.2        -        212.2      5.3       -       5.3      0
Private Foreshore Leasing       74.4       -        74.4        1.8      -       1.8      0
Surveys and Studies            16.6       4.0       20.6       0.4      0.1      0.5      19
Land Acquisition               132.0       -        132.0      3.3       -       3.3      0
Resettlement                   17.2        -         17.2      0.4       -       0.4      0
BWDB Engineering and           107.6       -        107.6      2.7       -       2.7      0
Administration
Technical Assistance
Project Support               245.8      139.9      385.7      6.1      3.5      9.6     35
Training                       29.1       11.7      40.8       0.7      0.3      1.0     30
Sub-total                   274.9      151.6      426.5      6.8      3,8      10.6    34
Improved O&M                    217.6        -       217.6      5.4       -        5.4     0
Vehicles and Equipment
Procurement                    16.2       20.1      36.3       0.4      0.5      0.9     56
Operating Costs                10.4       4.5        14.9      0.3      0.1      0.4     30
Total Baseline Cost        2,144.5     909.8    3,054.3      53.3    22.6     75.9    29
Physical Contingencies          164.2      108.6     272.8       4.0     2.7       6.7     39
Price Contingencies             258.0      48.0      306.0       4.3     0.9       5.2     17
Total                      2,566.7    1,066.4   3,633.1      61.6    26.2     87.8    29
resettlement costs, project support, and training.   The EC grant would include
"bridge financing" of pre-construction consultant services and pilot forestry
operations during 1995. Effectiveness of the cofinancinca acqreement between
GOB and EC would be a condition of credit effectiveness for the IDA Credit.
GOB would finance the remaining project costs, estimated at US$15.1 million
equivalent. This includes about US$3.6 million equivalent expected to be
contributed in the form of foodgrains by WFP to support earthworks for
bringing the drainage network to the design profile and bed level. The



- 27 -
balance of GOB's contribution, US$11.5 million equivalent, including US$7.0
million in taxes and duties, would be made available through
annual budget appropriations in conformance with the project implementation
schedule. Aproval of the Project Proforma7 would be a condition of
effectiveness. Table 2.2 summarizes the project financing plan by component.
Table 2.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA       EC8      GOB    Total
Civil Works (excluding FFW)    45.0                   5.0     50.0
Earthworks FFW                    -                   3.6      3.6
Improved O&M                     3.9         -        2.1      6.0
Afforestation                      -        5.8        -       5.8
Private Foreshore Leasing         -         2.1        -       2.1
Surveys and Studies              0.4         -        0.1      0.5
Land Acquisition                  -          -        3.5      3.5
Resettlement                      -         0.4        -       0.4
BWDB Engineering and             3.2         -                 3.2
Administration
Project Support                   -        10.3               10.3
Training                           -        1.1        -       1.1
Vehicles and Equipment -         0.5         -        0.4      0.9
Procurement
Vehicles and Equipment -           -         -        0.4      0.4
Operating Costs
Total Financing Required       53.0      19.7       15.1     87.8
J. Procurement
2.31      The arrangements for procurement are summarized in Table 2.3, followed by
more detailed descriptions of the procurement arrangements. ICB would be used for
about 72% of IDA financed contracts. About 83% of IDA financed contracts would be
subject to prior review.
7.    A GOB document required for obtaining budgetary authorization for
investment projects.
8.    Figures are based on value of European Currency Unit as of June 1995.



- 28 -
Table 2.3: Methods of Procurement
(US$ million) 9
Not Bank
ICB      NCB     Other      Financed    Total
Civil Works (excluding FFW)'0     43.6      6.4                    -         50.0
l ______________________________   (39.2)   (5.8)                           (45.0)
Earthworks through FFW'0           -         -         -         3.6         3.6
Improved O&M Maintenance"          -        2.8        3.2         -         6.0
l ________________________________________   (1.8)    (2.1)                  (3.9)
Surveys and Studies'2              -                   0.5        -          0.5
(0.4)                 (0.4)
Afforestation'3                              -                   5.8         5.8
Private Foreshore Leasing'3        -                             2.1         2.1
Land Acquisition                                                 3.5         3.5
Resettlement Costs'3               -         -         -         0.4         0.4
BWDB Engineering and               -         -         3.2        -          3.2
Administration'2                                      (3.2)                 (3.2)
Project Support"                   -         -                   10.3       10.3
Training3                          -         -         -          1.1        1.1
Vehicles & Equipment               -        0.7        0.2        -          0.9
Procurement                                (0.4)      (0.1)                 (0.5)
Vehicles & Equipment               -         -         -         0.4         0.4
Operating Costs
Total                         43.6       9.9       7.1       27.2        87.8
_______________________________   (39.2)    (8.0)     (5.8)                 (53.0)
9.     Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IDA.
10.    Canal excavation is to be implemented under Food For Work (FFW) programs.
Cost of expected WFP foodgrains are counted as a GOB contribution.
11.    Other procurement includes routine maintenance work carried out by individual
families (see para 2.16), maintenance work carried out through community
participation, and up to US$500,000 for emergency repairs by force account.
12.    Surveys, studies, engineering and administration by BWDB or River Research
Institute (see paras 2.10 and 2.20).
13.    Financed by the EC and procured following EC guidelines. The costs of Project
support include the cost of vehicles and equipment for the use of
consultants.



- 29 -
2.32      All major works on the sea-facing embankments, estimated to cost
$42.0 million equivalent, (involving retired or resectioned embankments or
block revetment protection works, and repairs or replacements of drainage
structures in areas of embankment improvement) would be carried out under
contracts awarded following ICB procedures. In bid evaluations under ICB
procedures, eligible domestic contractors would receive a preference of 7.5'.
All of the above works in a polder would be offered as a package. Where such
a package would be too small to interest international bidding, works in two
polders would be combined in one package. One large minor works contract for
3 relatively large structures for Chakoria polder, estimated to cost about
$1.6 million equivalent, would also be procured through ICB. The other minor
civil works, estimated to cost $6.4 million equivalent and to average about
$0.2 million per contract, are relatively small, scattered and located in
places of difficult access and in addition most are labor-intensive. Such
works would therefore be carried out under contracts let through standard
National competitive bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. For drainage
structures included in the minor works program, a separate tender would be
invited for all structures in a polder. The packages would include new and
replacement structures, and structures requiring repairs. Such packages would
include the supply and installation of gates and lifting mechanisms. For NCB
contracts for minor works. it was agreed at neQotiations that particivation
would be limited to bidders of Class A registration (or foreicrn firms meetinci
eauivalent standards).  In addition Pre-aualification of bidders in a manner
satisfactory to IDA would be recauired for contracts for structures.
Earthworks would be aroused to provide a minimum contract size of US$150,000
eauivalent.
2.33      For civil works estimated to cost more than US$150,000, bid
documents would be submitted to IDA for prior review, and IDA's concurrence
would be obtained before contracts are awarded. This would cover all
investment costs on civil works. It is estimated that the prior review
exercise would involve about 40 contract packages (9 for major works and 30
for minor works). Contracts less than US$150,000 would be limited to the
maintenance works for the embankments and structures. Periodic maintenance
works would either be awarded to community maintenance groups at the
engineer's estimated prices or implemented through contracts awarded following
NCB procedures to small local contractors. For contracts estimated to cost
US$150,000 or less, bid documents and evaluations would be retained by BWDB
and made available to IDA representatives upon request. Force account work in
respect of earthworks would be carried out only in exceptional circumstances,
such as an emergency operation, and would be restricted to amounts under
US$10,000 for each case up to a aggregate of US$500,000. Maintenance work
following a cyclone, monsoon storms or floods, for which partial financing is
available under the project, would be carried out generally in packages
costing less than US$150,000, through contracts awarded following NCB
procedures. In addition community groups could be awarded some of these
works. The procedure for contracting and reviewing of bid documents would be
similar to that described above for periodic maintenance. Routine maintenance
would be carried out by individual families (see para 2.16).
2.34      Earthworks included in the investment costs for re-excavation of
khals, valued at US$3.6 million equivalent (including contingencies), are



- 30 -
expected to be executed under FFW programs according to procedures agreed
between GOB and WFP. Procurement of vehicles and equipment valued at US$0.7
million would be through NCB procedures. Contracts of US$100,000 or more
would be subject to prior review. The procurement in this category is spread
over seven different types of vehicles (4 wheel drive vehicles, motorcycles,
bicycles, boats, rickshaw vans, etc.) Foreign firms with appropriate vehicle
maintenance facilities to be eligible to bid would have local agents in
Bangladesh. Small items and a small quantity of vehicles required for
facilitating an early start to implementation would be procured on a prudent
shopping basis and limited to US$50,000 for a package, up to an aggregate of
US$200,000. Consultants, training, the services of NGOs, and resettlement
costs would be financed by the European Community and would be procured
following EC guidelines. The contracts for consultants and NGO services would
include the costs of vehicles and equipment for their use. BWDB/FD would
select NGOs based on criteria acceptable to IDA/EC which would include the
NGOs' experience in the respective project areas, demonstrated leadership and
staff capabilities, and ability to work with target groups, local government
representatives and implementing agencies. NGO contracts would be subject to
IDA and EC a2roval.
K. Disbursements
2.35      Disbursements of the IDA Credit would extend over the period 1995-
2002. However, disbursements after December 31, 2000 would be limited to
improved O&M activities and replacement motorcycles or bicycles for field
staff supervising O&M and afforestation. IDA disbursements would cover:
(a) 90% of civil works expenditures, including construction materials
but excluding khal excavation;
(b) 100% of BWDB estimated expenditure on administration and
engineering of project works, based on 5% and 10% of the cost of
major and minor civil works;
(c) 90% of costs of surveys, investigations and studies carried out by
GOB agencies;
(d) an average of about 65% of expenditures on improved O&M activities,
to be disbursed at 85% of expenditures through FY99, 65% for FY00
and FY01, and 45% thereafter; and
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures on directly imported vehicles and
equipment, 100% of the ex-factory price of such goods manufactured
in Bangladesh, and 70% of expenditures for off the shelf locally
procured goods.
2.36      Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications, except for items (b), (c), and (d) above, small civil work
contracts costing less than the equivalent of US$150,000 each, and contracts
for vehicles or equipment costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 each.
For these items, applications for the BWDB components would be supported by



- 31 -
statements of expenditure certified by the Project Director of the PIU. The
relevant documentation would be retained at the PIU office and should be
available for review by IDA representatives on request. This documentation
would also be subject to audit.  It was acFreed during ne-cotiations that
sumportinq documentation for withdrawal avplications for civil works would be
certified by the consultant resDonsible for imDlementation suiDort. confirming
the auantitv of work Derformed and that work has conformed to the technical
specifications of the contract acrreements. All documents sent to IDA in
support of withdrawal applications, including statements of expenditure, would
have been checked and certified by the implementation support consultant.
2.37      The disbursement schedule (Annex 1) reflects the anticipated
sequence of activities in implementation and has been based on the assumption
that disbursement for works in one quarter would be completed within the next
two quarters. The average disbursement period for water development projects
in Bangladesh has been nine years. However, a five-year implementation period
for civil works construction is considered feasible in view of the intended
tendering for the major works and commencement of land acquisition procedures
before Board presentation, use of consultants and ICB procurement for the
major works, and community pressure for expeditious action based upon the
experience of the 1991 cyclone.
2.38      Timely settlement of progress payments to contractors is crucial to
the speedy implementation of project works. To facilitate payments, ensure
the availability of funds, and reduce the number of withdrawal applications
submitted to IDA, GOB would open and thereafter maintain a special account in
U.S. dollars with the Bangladesh Bank in Dhaka.  The authorized allocation for
the special account would be US$4.0 million equivalent. This allocation
represents an estimated four months of IDA-financed expenditure during the
peak construction period. The special account would be replenished through
reimbursements on a monthly basis and would be used exclusively for IDA's
share of financing.
L. Accounts and Audits
2.39      BWDB and FD would maintain adequate records, in line with
guidelines on financial reporting and auditing of World Bank projects, to
identify physical progress and financial transactions relating to the project.
Individually identifiable accounts would also be kept for: (a) all
expenditure for which credit withdrawals are made on the basis of statements
of expenditure (para 2.36); and (b) the flow of funds from the Special
Account. Separate project accounts would be kept by BWDB and FD. Auditors
acceptable to IDA would audit these accounts, including statements of
expenditure and operation of the Special Account. Audited accounts, together
with auditors' comments, would be sent to IDA within six months of the close
of the fiscal year. At present, accounts of BWDB and the FD are audited by
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Bangladesh. BWDB accounts are also
audited by its Internal Directorate of Audits. These arrangements are
satisfactory to IDA.  Agreement on the above arrangements was confirmed during
negotiations.



- 32 -
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEIHNT
3.1       A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be established in
Chittagong, under the Member implementation, with a Project Director of the
rank of a Chief or Additional Chief Engineer responsible for the overall
management for all BWDB components of the project and preparing and submitting
quarterly progress reports (including sections to be submitted by FD on
afforestation activities). The Project Director would be assisted by two
Superintending Engineers, who would be Deputy Project Directors for
Implementation and O&M, a Deputy Director Resettlement who would head the
Project Resettlement Unit, and the project consultants. FD would appoint a
full-time Project Director Afforestation (para 3.4), based in Chittagong, who
would head a small separate Forestry Project Implementation Unit (FPIU) and
would, inter alia, liaise with the PIU to ensure coordination between the
activities of the civil works and afforestation components and the respective
maintenance activities. A Project Coordinator, based in Dhaka, at the
Superintending Engineer level, will assist the Project Director in monitoring
and coordination. The PIU would be responsible, inter alia for:
(a) planning the implementation of the project, in cooperation with the
field divisions, including reviewing and consolidating annual
budget requests prepared by the field divisions, monitoring
progress of project implementation and taking action required to
eliminate bottlenecks, and keeping track of implementation
schedules to facilitate coordination among construction,
afforestation, land acquisition and resettlement, and O&M
activities;
(b) coordinating the activities of the main project consultants and
contracting with and coordinating the work of the resettlement
consultants and NGOs assisting in implementation of the embankment
maintenance/afforestation components;
(c) overseeing the preparation and processing of tender documents for
minor civil works by field divisions and award of contracts;
(d) preparing and processing of tender documents and the award of
contracts for procurement of BWDB equipment and vehicles, and for
completion of portions of major civil works not completed under
PWP, and additional works to cope with recent erosion at the
southern end of Sandwip;
(e) monitoring project environmental and social impact and organizing
implementation of appropriate mitigating measures;
(f) overseeing project accounts and ensuring timely submission of
disbursement requests to IDA;
(g) assisting the Training Directorate in preparing and executing O&M
training programs for the CERP polders;



- 33 -
(h) coordinating preparation of proposals for utilization of the
Community Development Fund and implementation of approved
activities under this Fund by NGOs; and
(i) preparing six-monthly reports on the progress of the project.
A PIU, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, has been established and
the Project Director and the two Deputy Project Directors and the Deputy
Director Resettlement have been appointed. The maintenance of the PIU until
prolect completion was acqreed at negotiations.
3.2       Field operations for the rehabilitation and improvement components
would be carried out through: (i) two new and one existing implementation
circles, located at Cox's Bazaar, Noahkhali and Barisal respectively, headed
by Superintending Engineers; (ii) an implementation unit for the works in
Chittagong area, directly controlled by PIU, and headed by the Deputy Project
Director, Implementation; (iii) seven implementation divisions, headed by
Executive Engineers, two located at Cox's Bazaar, one each at Chittagong,
Sonapur, Ramgati, Barguna, and Sharankhola; and (iv) thirteen implementation
subdivisions one for each polder with ICB works. By adjustments to the areas
of jurisdiction of the existing O&M divisions and the transfer of some of the
O&M divisions to implementation, it is proposed that the divisional set up
would consist of three new divisions and four divisions transferred from the
existing O&M set up. Project Consultants would provide substantial assistance
(described in more detail in Annex 6). Responsibilities of the implementation
divisions, in association with the divisional and site staff of the
consultant, would include: the construction supervision and quality control
of civil works; preparation of tender documents and selection of contractors
for minor works; accounting and financial control of construction contracts;
coordinating with the Project Resettlement Units to ensure that land
acquisition is accomplished as required by the contract schedules; and
coordination with the O&M divisions to ensure that maintenance work starts as
soon as appropriate sections of construction work have been completed.
3.3       Six existing divisions, located at Cox's Bazaar, Chittagong,
Noahkhali, Lokhipur, Barguna, and Bagerhat, would function under the direction
of the existing O&M Zonal Chief Engineers and Circle Superintending Engineers
and would carry out all operations and maintenance activities in the PWP and
CERP polders. The Superintending Engineer of the O&M Circle at Chittagong
would, in addition to his other duties, serve as Deputy Project Director O&M,
and would assist the Project Director in coordinating project O&M activities.
O&M works would be carried out under five existing O&M circles located at
Cox's Bazaar, Chittagong, Feni, Faridpur and Khulna, which would continue to
be responsible for their current work in addition to the work under the
project. Eighteen subdivisions would be set up covering one or two polders.
This would be achieved through a combination of changing the jurisdiction of
some existing subdivisions and creating new subdivisions where necessary.
Responsibilities of the O&M wing would include: (a) operation of regulators
and sluices; (b) preparation of tender documents and award and supervision of
contracts for periodic maintenance of embankments and drainage canals, and
routine maintenance by Contractors; (c) assistance tc NGOs and quality control
of routine maintenance by embankment settlers; and (d) accounting and



- 34 -
financial control of O&M activities, including payments to embankment settlers
and NGOs for activities concerning embankment maintenance and afforestation.
3.4       Forest Department (FD) activities would be coordinated by a FPIU in
Chittagong, under the direction of a senior officer (of Division Forest
Officer or higher rank) who would be designated Project Director
Afforestation. The project responsibilities of BWDB and FD and the
implementation arrangements for afforestation has been set out in an agreement
between the two organizations. FD would be responsible for foreshore
afforestation (including mangrove nurseries), technical assistance and funding
support for NGO establishment of nurseries for non-mangrove species (for both
embankment slopes and foreshore), and providing assistance to BWDB for
embankment afforestation activities (mainly providing advice and training to
NGOs organizing these activities). The agreement includes provision for close
coordination between the PIU and the FPIU in the implementation of the
project. Work would be carried out by three units headed by Assistant
Conservators of Forests assigned to the project by FD. These three units
would be established at Chittagong, Noahkhali, and Patuakhali respectively.
Nursery operations for the mangroves and assistance to NGOs in nursery
operations for other species would be carried out by regular staff of the
divisions participating in the project. The extension wing would contract
services with local NGOs to organize and train community participants to
engage in the afforestation components of the project (as described in paras
2.12 and 2.13), and supervise their work. FD would be responsible for the
procurement of the vehicles included in the project for this component. FD
would keep separate accounts for foreshore afforestation, its own nursery
activities, and advances to NGOs for nursery establishment. The FPIU would
maintain adequate accounting staff for this purpose. The FPIU would also
supply information to the PIU for inclusion in consolidated quarterly progress
reports. The FPIU has been established with terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA, and the Project Director Afforestation has been appointed. The
maintenance of FPIU until proliect completion was agreed at negotiations.
3.5       Land acauisition and resettlement activities would be carried out
by the Project Resettlement Unit of the PIU, headed by a Deputy Director
Resettlement located in Chittagong, and work would be carried out by four
subunits established at Cox's Bazaar, Chittagong, Noahkhali, and Barguna.
Each subunit would have a Regional Project Resettlement Officer, a Revenue
Officer, an Accountant, and a Surveyor. The consultants who prepared the
draft resettlement plan with regard to land to be acquired for embankment
retirement would be contracted to use their data base from their survey to
assist the Deputy Commissioners and the Project Resettlement Unit to establish
entitlements for land required for the first year of construction.14
Entitlements specified under the law would be paid by the Deputy
Commissioners, while additional entitlements agreed under the project (Annex
9) would be paid by the Project Resettlement Unit. Special Land Acquisition
Officers deputed to the Deputy Commissioners would be appointed at Cox's
Bazaar, Chittagong, and Laxmipur to assist the Deputy Commissioners in dealing
14.   The resettlement consultants are a separate firm, independent from the
general project consultants.



- 35 -
with polders with large numbers of affected people. The resettlement
consultants would subcontract with NGOs active in the project areas to work
with people affected by land acquisition, verify payments, and participate in
grievance committees. Consultants have been hired for acquisition of land
required for the first year's construction program, the Resettlement Units
have been established and staffed and the joint verification of appropriate
compensation for land required for the first year's construction has been
initiated, using the services of NGOs acceptable to IDA. Following credit
signature, it is expected that the contracts of the resettlement consultants
would be extended to cover land required for subsequent construction years.
This would also include carrying out new surveys of land required for
embankment widening (about 175 ha), land required for homesteads for
embankment settlers (about 35 ha), and areas where the alignment has changed
from the original survey, as well as updating survey information on embankment
squatters. The arrangements for resettling of these squatters are described
in para 2.12.
3.6       As described in para 2.21 above, the project consultants would play
a major role in assisting BWDB and FD in execution of the Project. The
consultants would have their headquarters in Chittagong with a Team Leader and
design staff, three regional field units headed by Chief construction
Engineers, four divisional field units (probably at Cox's Bazaar, Sandwip
Sonapur, and Barguna) headed by Resident Construction Engineers, and field
site offices at each polder headed by Assistant Resident Engineers. The site
offices would be adequately staffed with technical staff to ensure the
required construction standards.
3.7       It is envisaged that between 10 to 20 NGOs would be involved in the
community participation aspects of the project. Provision is included in the
estimated costs of NGO services for financing by the participating NGOs of one
full-time representative, elected by the participating NGOs, who would be
responsible for presenting NGO views to the Government, identifying training
needs, and coordinating the sharing of experience of NGOs. This
representative would work closely with the PIU and contribute to progress
reports. NGOs would be represented on the project's regional and local level
coordinating committees described below. Each participating NGO would appoint
a senior officer as its project director, responsible for contractual matters
and overall supervision of its project-related activities.
Coordinating Committees
3.8       A Project Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Project Director,
would meet at a minimum of every three months to review progress and problems
and issue necessary policy decisions and directives. This committee would
include as members the Project Director Afforestation, the Deputy Project
Directors for Implementation and O&M, the Deputy Director Resettlement,
Director Field Services Division, Department of Agriculture and Extension
(DAE), Ministry of Agriculture, and an elected representative of the
participating NGOs. A representative of the project consultants would attend
as an observer. In each participating district a District Project
Coordinating Committee would be established to review progress and ensure
coordination at the regional level. These committees would be headed by a



- 36 -
Deputy Commissioner and would include as members two Executive Engineers
(implementation and O&M), the District Forestry Officer, an elected district
NGO representative, and a district level representative of DAE, and a
consultants representative as an observer. At the Thana level, a committee
would be set up in each Thana in the Project Area, headed by the Thana Nirbani
Officer and including as members the Union Parishad chairmen for all Unions in
the Thana included in the Project Area, the BWDB Subdivisional Engineer, the
FD Range Officer, and representatives of the participating NGO and DAE,15
and a consultants representative as an observer. The committee would
disseminate information on the project activities in the Thana, seek
beneficiary comments and suggestions, assist in land acquisition and
resettlement, encourage community participation in the afforestation and O&M
activities, supervise the adequacy of the embankment O&M and afforestation
activities (organizing community pressure in case of problems), and provide
community support in preventing encroachment on the embankment by squatters.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that the committees, as described
above, would be established by November 15. 1995 and that such committees
would be maintained throughout the prolect implementation period.
Mid-Term Reviews
3.9       To examine project progress, GOB would carry out two mid-term
reviews, at the end of the second and fourth project year. PIU and FD would
organize the reviews and prepare terms of reference in consultation with IDA.
The reviews would focus on resolving any remaining bottlenecks in the civil
work programs and adjusting the project in response to lessons drawn from
experience under the O&M and afforestation components. The first of the two
reviews would benefit from the initial experience in applying the O&M and
afforestation components in the PWP polders, while the second review would
provide opportunities for mid-term corrections based upon the experience with
the polders with major civil works financed under this project. The reviews
would provide a detailed examination of problems encountered and make
recommendations for improving project implementation and modifying the
project, if found appropriate. The project consultants and participating NGOs
would participate in these reviews. AQreement was reached with GOB durinQ
neaotiations that it would undertake these reviews, discuss the findings with
IDA. and revise the Project Proforma. as necessary, to oromptlv reflect
proiect revisions agreed with IDA.
IV.   PRODUCTION. MARKETING. AND FARM INCOMES
A. Agricultural Production
4.1       Estimation of the project's expected impact on agricultural
production and farm incomes has been based on a detailed analysis of farming
practices and agro-ecological conditions in each of the 11 polders with major
works financed under the project. The methodology, major assumptions, and
15.   Other members could be added if GOB so wishes.



- 37 -
detailed results are presented in Annex 8. The project is expected to lead to
increased agricultural production due to three major factors: (a) prevention
of salinity intrusions and storm surges during normal monsoons and cyclones;
(b) adoption of high yielding varieties (HYVs) because the increased security
provided against periodic devastation during severe cyclones would encourage
the required investment for HYV production; and (c) improvement of drainage
conditions in the polders. These factors would lead to increased agricultural
output through higher crop yields per ha, increased cropping intensity,
shifting cropping patterns from local to HYVs, and accelerated crop
diversification.
4.2       It is anticipated that yield per ha per cropping season would
increase by 10-15% for the same crop variety due to protection against
intrusion of saline water, improved drainage conditions in the kharif
season16, and protection against flooding caused by cyclones and storm
surges or heavy rainfall during the monsoon. It is also expected that in the
absence of the project, increased salinity due to existing or imminent
breaches in the embankments, poor drainage and flooding would, over time,
reduce yields to the level observed outside the embankments. All current HYV
production would switch to local varieties within two years and the average
yield of local varieties of rice would be reduced over a period of five years
to about one ton per ha, which is the average yield of T. Aman under saline
conditions.
4.3       Cropping intensity in the project area ranges from 108% (Polder
35/1) to 174% (Polder 72), the average being 136%. The national average is
about 171%. Saline soil conditions limit crop cultivation during the dry
season.   Cropping intensity in the "with project" situation is expected to
increase by about 20%. The area under kharif crops would increase due to
protection from floods as well as improved drainage and the area under rabi
crops17 would increase as a result of soil salinity reduction. With the
project, the cropping intensity is expected to range from about 130% (Polder
73/1A&B) to 210% (Polder 66/1), the average being 155%.
4.4        Adoption of HYVs of rice is limited in these areas due to high
soil and water salinity, as these varieties have little or no tolerance to
salinity. With protection against saline water and improvement of drainage
conditions, increased cultivation of HYVs of rice is expected to occur.
Depending upon the degree of sharecropping in each polder, between 20 and 40%
of T. Aman area is expected to shift to HYV in the kharif season. During the
rabi season, HYV boro cultivation is expected to increase only in Polder 66/1
where fresh underground water is available for irrigation. Cultivation of
HYVs of other rabi crops such as watermelon and betel leaf will also increase
in the "with project" situation, especially in the polders in Cox's Bazaar
district.
16.   Summer cropping season (May through November).
17.    Crops grown during the winter cropping season (November through May).



- 38 -
4.5       More land would come under diversified crops such as pulses,
oilseeds, cowpeas, chillies, winter vegetables, and sweet potatoes in the rabi
season due to reduced soil salinity. The changes in cropping pattern
resulting from the project are expected to occur in a period of seven years.
4.6       Projected annual incremental crop production is summarized in
Table 4.1. Total annual production, at full development, with the project is
expected to increase by about 87,700 m tons (or 56%) on average over the
"without project" situation. This consists of the sum of 70,400 m tons of
additional production over the present situation plus avoidance of an
anticipated 17,300 m tons decrease in production without the project, due to
increasing salinity. This production estimate is based on the net cultivable
land of about 49,900 ha in 11 of the 12 polders under the project16 and
excludes the cultivable land protected under the PWP. It is expected that the
target production would be achieved in seven years' time when the projected
changes in cropping pattern would be completed. The expected increase in
production would be higher if not for the constraints that the farmers will
still have to face. These constraints include limited fresh water for
irrigation during the dry season, unfavorable tenancy agreements19 that
discourage the tenant farmers from investing in land improvement and intensive
cultivation, existence of absentee/large landowners who do not pay much
attention to crop intensification, and poor quality of draft animals and
shortage of mechanical cultivators for land preparation. These constraints
have been taken into account when projecting increase in production.
B. Marketing and Prices
4.7       Farmers in the project area sell their surplus crop production
largely through the traditional marketing system in which prices are
determined by market forces. The system seems to work fairly efficiently.
Many farmers sell some portion of the output immediately after harvest to meet
their cash requirements, and then buy some of the same products later in the
season to meet their consumption needs. The increased crop production is not
expected to create any major marketing difficulty despite the record
performance in rice production at the national level in recent years. Rice
shortages exist in the areas covered by the project. The expected increase in
production is not likely to have a substantial impact on the national level.
Bangladesh still imports some of the foodgrains required for domestic
consumption, especially in years of bad weather. Actual foodgrain imports
declined from 2.9 million metric tons in FY88 to 0.8 million metric tons (food
18.   Polder 60, where project civil works include only 2 km of embankment
strengthening plus khal excavation, is excluded from the analysis.
More time is required to test the effectiveness of recently completed
anti-erosion works before firm estimates can be justified.
19.   Thirty to forty percent of rural households operate land under
different tenancy arrangements, the most widespread being sharecropping
under which the tenant agrees to bear all costs and pays 50* of gross
output to the landlord. The agreement is usually for one crop season.



- 39 -
aid plus commercial imports) in FY93. Imports increased in FY95 due to a 7%
reduction in foodgrain production resulting from drought and fertilizer
distribution problems. While continued growth of rice production could create
surpluses on a national level (in years of good weather), Bangladesh has the
option of either reducing wheat imports or taking measures to encourage crop
diversification. Farmers have the choice of selling their surplus foodgrains
under GOB's procurement program, but they are most likely to sell in the local
markets since local market prices tend to be higher than GOB procurement
prices. No downward pressure on market prices is expected.
Table 4.1: Estimated Annual Incremental Crop Production
(Metric tons)
Reduction   Increase
Production a/        Without       With      Total      Percentage
Polder     P        Wo       W       Prolect      Prolect  Increment   Change b/
35/1    12,600   11,400   23,100       1,200      10,500     11,700          103
40/2     4,500    4,100    8,700         400       4,200      4,600          112
48       7,000    6,300   10,000         700       3,000      3,700           59
59/2     8,900    8,000   18,800         900       1,900      2,800           35
59/3B   33,500   30,200   42,400       3,300       8,900     12,200           40
59/3C   26,400   23,700   30,500       2,700       4,100      6,800           29
66/1     5,600    5,000    9,200         600       3,600      4,200           84
68       9,100    8,200   14,700         900       5,600      6,500           79
70       8,400    7,600    9,100         800         700      1,500           20
72      43,500   39,200   65,000       4,300     21,500      25,800           66
73/1A&B 15.200   13,700   21,600       1,500       6.400      7.900           58
Total  174,700  157,400  245,100    17,300        70,400     87,700           56
a/  P = Present; Wo = Without Project; W = With Project
b/ Total Increment as a Percent of Without Project Production
4.8       GOB has taken actions in recent years to minimize distortions in
agricultural input prices and the distribution system in order to promote an
improved allocation of resources and maximize access to a wide range of inputs
to give farmers the flexibility to respond quickly to changing incentives. In
particular, the distribution of fertilizers and pesticides is now
predominantly handled by the private sector and restrictions on importation
and distribution of power tillers and minor irrigation equipment have been
removed. Private sector participation is also being allowed in seed
marketing. Consequently, farmers are not expected to face serious
difficulties with respect to availability of these inputs. However, limited
access to agricultural credit may constrain production. There has also been
backtracking on some of the fertilizer pricing and distribution reforms during
the 1994/95 season. Unusually high world market prices for urea led to higher
than normal exports. This happened at a time when domestic demand was higher,
resulting from higher price of rice. The additional exports created scarcity



- 40 -
in urea and the government's response was an array of distribution controls,
including a maximum retail price, quotas on lifting from the factories, and
intervention of district administrators. It is understood that the
backtracking on distribution liberalization was only a temporary reaction to
this situation.
C. Farm Incomes
4.9       Farm budget analysis shows that reduction of salinity intrusions
and storm surges and improvement of the drainage system would have a
significant impact on farm incomes. The effect of the project on annual farm
incomes is analyzed on the basis of a farm budget model for the "present" and
"with project" situation for each polder. The budget is presented on a one ha
farm since most households in the area operate farms of about that size. The
analysis is done separately for each polder because of differences such as
soil quality and cropping patterns between polders. Cost of production, gross
income, and net income per ha are estimated for each crop under the "present"
and "with project" assumptions using constant 1991 farmgate prices (see Annex
11, Table 1 for the computation of input and output prices). A summary of the
farm income is presented in Table 4.2 while detailed farm budgets for each
polder are presented in Annex 8.
4.10      The analysis shows that the investment in the project would have a
significant impact on the incomes of the farm families in the area (Table
4.2). The average net increase in income from one ha farms would vary from
about 20% (Polder 59/2) to 1151 (Polder 35/1). In value terms, the range
would be from about Tk 2,100 (Polder 73/lA&B) to Tk 11,300 (Polder 66/1). The
average increase in net income from a one-ha farm for all the polders would be
about Tk 5,200 or 47%. The increase in average farm income is expected to be
higher in the polders in Cox's Bazaar district, where intensive cropping is
practiced, than in the polders in Burguna or Bagerhat districts.
4.11      The additional farm incomes would also benefit tenants and landless
laborers, in addition to benefiting owner-operators. The percentage share of
the benefits is not expected to differ substantially from the present
arrangements. Everybody would gain in proportion to present income levels.
Thus, most of the people in the project area are expected to have strong
incentives to support the project.



- 41 -
Table 4.2: Summary of Annual Farm Incomes of One-Ha Farms a/
(Taka/ha)
Increment
Polder          Present           With Project           Taka           e
35/1             4,200                9,000              4,800         114
40/2             11,100             17,100               6,000          54
48                7,700             12,700               5,000          65
59/2              8,800             10,400               1,600          18
59/3B           13,200              18,600               5,400          41
59/3C           10,200              12,700               2,500          25
66/1            15,600              26,900              11,300          72
68               18,300             26,600               8,300          45
70              11,700              15,700               4,000          34
72              13,200              18,400               5,200          39
73/1A&B           8,500             10.600               2.100          25
Average          11.100              16.300               5.200         47
a/ Gross production value minus production cost.
D. Afforestation: Production. Incomes and Marketing
4.12      Forestry models and farm budgets are discussed in detail in
Annex 4.  Estimated annual production from the proposed afforestation
component is summarized in Annex 4, Table 7. The main outputs that would come
from afforestation are fruits, vegetables, timber, and fuelwood. About
227,600 m tons of fruits and vegetables and 224 million cubic feet of timber
and fuelwood are projected to be produced over the project life of 30 years.
While about 90% of the output of fruits and vegetables is projected to come
from the embankment slope and the rest from the homesteads, about 95% of the
timber output is projected to come from the foreshore.
4.13      Fruits and timber would be the two major products expected from the
afforestation on embankment slopes and foreshore. The incremental output as a
result of the project is not likely to create marketing problems. Fruits are
in short supply in the coastal belt as well as in the rest of the country for
most of the year. Timber and fuelwood are also in short supply. The timber
is used in constructing houses and building boats. There is a large fishing
community in the project area. Given access to other coastal areas by water
and, to some extent, by road, any surplus output in a given area would be
transported to deficit areas without much difficulty.
4.14      Estimated net incomes from afforestation on the embankment slope,
foreshore, and homestead land are summarized in Annex 4, Tables 8, 9, and 10,
respectively. Projected net financial benefits from the afforestation over a
30-year period is Tk 5,000 million of which about 20%, 75*, and 2% would come
from the embankment slope, foreshore, and homestead plantation, respectively.
Net positive incomes from the afforestation, if all inputs including family
labor were valued at market prices, would begin to be realized from the first,



- 42 -
fourth, and ninth year of afforestation on the homestead land, embankment
slope, and foreshore, respectively. However, given that the Government would
provide the seedlings and the first three years' requirements of fertilizer
and pesticides, and that embankment settlers would be using their own family
labor, settlers on the embankment would be receiving a positive income from
the embankment and homestead from year one. The payments the families receive
for routine embankment maintenance would be set to provide sufficient
supplementary income to produce an annual income of Tk 9,000 per family2O.
Such payments would decrease progressively as production from the embankment
and homestead increase, with settlers expected to achieve an annual income of
about Tk 9,000 per family without further Government payment in the fifth
year. (For safety sake, the project cost estimates include an allowance for
the possibility of delays or other problems resulting in some families
requiring a continued payment in Year five). Similarly for the foreshore
plantation, the costs of seedlings, fertilizer, and pesticides for three years
is a Government cost covered under the project. For the foreshore, the
Government would also cover the cost of labor for planting. Thus the only
costs prior to production through year eight are small costs for guarding
against poachers. (These costs are assumed to be met by family labor in the
case of community management on Government land.)
V. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.1       The main project benefits would be fewer human lives lost and less
property destroyed during cyclones, and prevention of salinity intrusions and
storm surges during normal monsoons, leading to increased agricultural
production and employment. Complementary works under the project would
improve drainage, further increasing agricultural production. Social forestry
for cyclone protection and embankment maintenance would have ancillary
benefits in poverty alleviation, environmental improvement, and increased
output of wood and other forestry products.
5.2       The operation would directly benefit about 1.2 million people
living in the project area. This includes about 600,000 people living where
the sea-facing embankments would be rehabilitated and another 600,000 people
benefitting from improved embankment O&M, afforestation, and minor embankment
improvements for polders for which the rehabilitation of the sea-facing
embankments was financed under PWP.
20.   There would be an exception for two polders as discussed in the
footnote to para 2.12.



- 43 -
Protection of Human Lives
5.3       Benefits in human lives saved are impossible to quantify and are
not included in the economic analysis. However, it is estimated that about
140,000 people were killed in the project area during the 1991 cyclone. The
embankments would help save lives during future cyclones. Although
overtopping could still occur after the construction of the new embankments,
the flooding of the polders would be slowed and reduced. The massive sudden
flooding of 1991, which happened due to breaches in the embankments or missing
sections, would not happen in a "with project" situation. Delayed flooding
would give more time for the people to escape to safer areas or cyclone
shelters.
Production Benefits
5.4       Most of the quantifiable benefits would come from increased crop
production in normal years. The embankments would protect a gross area of
about 191,000 ha (excluding the area protected by sea-facing embankments
financed under PWP). The project would directly benefit about 66,500 ha of
net cultivable land21 through protection from saline inundation and through
improved drainage. This would increase annual crop production at full
development from about 157,400 m tons in the "without project" scenario to
245,100 m tons in the "with project" scenario (an increase of about 40W and
56W over the present and "without project" situation, respectively).
5.5       Beyond the benefits afforded during monsoons and normal cyclones,
the embankments would provide additional benefits from protecting crops and
livestock during major cyclones. It is conservatively estimated that about
50* and 40% of the crops would be saved in the case of cyclonic surges with a
return period of 10 and 20 years, respectively. Over 50,000 head of cattle
were lost during the 1991 cyclone; many would have been saved had the
embankments not breached. Improved embankments and sluices would also
preserve shrimp farms, culture fisheries and salt production.
Protection of Property and Infrastructure
5.6       The project would protect houses, schools and administrative and
commercial buildings. About 864,000 houses were destroyed and another 774,000
were damaged during the 1991 cyclone. Protection would also be provided to
public infrastructure such as roads, bridges and culverts. Regulators and
other infrastructure in shrimp farms would also be saved, especially from
cyclones with a return period of 10 and 20 years.
Afforestation Benefits
5.7       Afforestation of embankment slopes and a belt on the foreshore
would reduce cyclone damage and embankment O&M costs (Annex 4, para 1).
Afforestation would provide fruits, timber, fuelwood, and fodder to workers in
embankment maintenance, to community groups in foreshore maintenance, and to
21.   Excluding Polder 60 and the PWP polders.



- 44 -
landowners on the foreshore whose land would be planted with trees (para
4.12). The use of mangrove areas as a fish and shrimp nursery is another
unquantified but substantial benefit.
Emplovment Benefits
5.8       The project would generate additional employment during
construction and through increased agricultural production made possible by
the embankments. It is estimated that demand for agricultural labor would
increase from about 190 days/ha per year to about 280 days/ha at full
development, for a total increase in agricultural employment of about 26,700
years. The additional demand for labor would come from greater area under
crops, adoption of HYVs, higher cropping intensity and extra labor needs for
harvesting. Additional labor would also be engaged in the routine maintenance
of the embankments and in the afforestation belt on the foreshore.
Other Benefits
5.9       The project would give other, unquantified, benefits in:
(i) savings on emergency relief. While the embankments would afford little
protection from high winds, they would provide protection against cyclonic
surge and would reduce post-cyclone relief costs for those affected by the
surge22; and (ii) environmental benefits: afforestation would also provide
environmental benefits as reducing salinity and lessened soil erosion
Distribution of Benefits and Poverty Alleviation
5.10      The project's benefits would be widely distributed and have a
positive impact on poverty. Estimated annual per capita income from a one-ha
farm in the project area is now about US$50 per annum. The project is
projected to raise this to about US$70 per annum at full development, an
increase of about 40%. The distribution of direct agricultural benefits would
be determined largely by landownership and tenurial arrangements. Women and
landless laborers would gain employment in land preparation, planting, weeding
and harvesting resulting from increased agricultural activities in the area.
Those groups would also get income from maintenance of the embankments (wage
income during the early years and the products of the trees on the embankments
and the afforestation belt during the later years) and wage income from
periodic maintenance jobs. While the project is not specifically poverty
focused, the loss of life and property during cyclones affects
disproportionately the poor, with weakly constructed houses and least ability
to recuperate.
22.   Such benefits are difficult to quantify and are not included in the
economic analysis of the project due to scarcity of data.



- 45 -
B. Economic Analysis
5.11            Economic analysis was done for each of 11 polders23 having
major works financed under this project. The overall economic rate of return
(ERR) for the project, excluding the value for human lives saved, is estimated
at 19.2%. The net present value (NPV) of net incremental benefits is
estimated at US$27.0 million, at an opportunity cost of capital of 12%.
Individual polder ERRs range from 6.6* (Polder 70, Matherbari) to 28.1%
(Polder 35/1, Sharankhola and Polder 59/3B, Sudharam) and all but three
polders have ERRs greater than 121.
5.12      Kuakata (Polder 48), Ramgati (Polder 59/2), and Matherbari (Polder
70) have ERRs less than 12% (7.9%, 6.9% and 6.6%, respectively). Even though
Polders 48, 59/2, and 70 cannot be justified on the ERR criterion, they are
fully justified taking account of the additional benefit of the savings in
human lives. For example, during the 1991 cyclone about 10,000 people were
killed in Polder 70 in a population of 23,000.
5.13            No calculations have been done on the PWP polders for which
this project is providing only ancillary investments in improved O&M,
afforestation, and minor embankment improvements. Given that the major cost
of the polder improvements are for the sea-facing embankments, the
complementary investments to improve embankment life and remove minor
embankment deficiencies are inherently attractive.
C. Risks
5.14      The project confronts several important risks.
(a)  Insufficient community participation. A major risk is the possible
failure to engender sufficient community participation for
afforestation and routine embankment maintenance. Community
participation merges pieces of other programs, but is untried in
its proposed form. The cost of routine embankment maintenance
would increase substantially if the afforestation component failed
and future rehabilitation costs would also rise. The proposed
component has, nevertheless, a better probability of success than
traditional means of embankment maintenance precisely because it
involves beneficiary participation.
(b) Poor inter-institutional coordination. The community participation
component requires coordination between BWDB and FD. Poor
coordination could delay implementation and cause benefits to be
23.    Annex 11 presents the methodology and assumptions of the analysis.  A
twelfth polder (Polder 60: Sonagazi) was excluded from the economic
analysis because the project finances only minor works there. About $2
million of remaining work to complete PWP embankments in Anowara
(Polder 63/1A) has also been excluded from the analysis (See para 1.4).



- 46 -
foregone during the waiting period. The agreement between BWDB and
FD (para 2.11) is intended to reduce such delays. Two mid-term
reviews would help to adjust the operation if necessary, in light
of project experience.
(c) Inadecauate Government funding. The investment and O&M costs of
this project can be met within available budgetary resources,
without distorting priorities. Nevertheless, inadequate Government
funding remains a risk, despite recent improvements. Inadequate
funding, like poor inter-institutional coordination, could delay
implementation and postpone benefits. However, the devastation
caused by the April 1991 cyclone is expected to lead to political
pressure to overcome problems which would delay the proposed
project. Inadequate financing of O&M would reduce the life of the
investments requiring premature rehabilitation. The project, by
replacing existing deteriorated embankments, does not add to the
costs of adequate embankment maintenance. In fact the planting of
trees on the embankment and the use of settlers on the toe of the
embankment for routine maintenance (in return for the produce of
the trees) should reduce maintenance costs. Indicative budget
requirements for O&M were agreed at negotiations. Finally, the
project has been designed to elicit greater community participation
and this is expected to bring additional pressure on the Government
to provide adequate funding.
(d)  ManaQement and institutional weaknesses. IDA experience in
Bangladesh shows that there is a risk of implementation delays, and
resulting cost increases, due to management/institutional
weaknesses. The risk of implementation delays and poor quality
construction is being addressed through the use of internationally
recruited consultants for supervision of construction, using
contractors for the sea-facing embankments selected through ICB,
after prequalification, and initiating tendering for the major
works and land acquisition for the first year's construction
program prior to Board presentation.
(e)  Overestimation of yields or farmer response.  The estimated yields
and rate of conversion to HYV are based on experience from other
areas in Bangladesh, adjusted to take account of limited
availability of dry season water supply and other constraints (para
4.6). While the resulting estimates are believed to be realistic,
all such estimates are subject to a margin of error.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
5.15            The economic analysis was supplemented with a sensitivity
analysis based on the identified risks. The sensitivity of the ERRs was
measured in each polder with respect to adverse changes in key variables (para
5.14 and Annex 11, para. 15). Those variables are: (i) a failure of community
participation in embankment maintenance, causing O&M cost to increase above
projected levels; (ii) implementation delays (due to institutional weaknesses,



- 47 -
inadequate counterpart funds, and land acquisition problems) leading to
escalation in investment costs and deferral of benefits; and (iii) less than
expected increases in agricultural production. Adverse changes in the
sensitivity variables needed to reduce the project ERR to 12%, are larger than
considered likely.
5.16      Effect of insufficient community participation. The potential
adverse effects of insufficient community participation would be to lower
benefits and to raise both OM and investment costs. If the embankments are
not maintained properly and there is intrusion of saline water, then
agriculture benefits would fall, the life of the embankments would be shorter
and benefits from infrastructure protection would be less. If the life of the
embankments is reduced due to inadequate maintenance, major additional
expenditure on embankment rehabilitation would be incurred in year 10 and
again in year 27 after project completion. Major expenditure on embankment
rehabilitation in year 10 and 27 after project completion (a proxy for the
cost effects of inadequate maintenance) would reduce the average ERR for the
11 polders from 19.2% to 17.1%.
5.17      Effect of implementation delays or overestimation of production
increases: Implementation delays would defer benefits. Overestimation of
yields or of the rate of farmer conversion to HYV would also reduce benefits.
A reduction in the major benefits has been included in the sensitivity
analysis. Switching values have been calculated at a discount rate of 12% for
individual benefit items in the NPV/ERR calculations to show the potential
effect of the risks for each of the 8 polders having estimated ERR on
quantifiable benefits above 12%. The variables that have been tested in the
risk and sensitivity analysis include delays in completion of construction and
decrease in major quantifiable project benefits (agricultural, afforestation,
and non-agricultural benefits).
5.18      Table 5.1 shows that to bring the ERR on quantifiable benefits
below 12% would require a combination of a two year delay in project
completion and a decrease in project benefits exceeding 30%, or a three year
delay in project completion and a decrease in project benefits of about 20%.
Other combinations which would reduce the ERR to 12% would include a two year
delay in project completion and an increase in O&M costs of over 30%, or a
three year delay and an increase in O&M costs of about 15%. Such combinations
of unfavorable developments are considered unlikely. Even then, the
additional non-quantifyable benefits of saving human lives would still make
the project worth doing.



- 48 -
Table 5.1: Sensitivity Analysis
Combination of unfavorable factors
mR
Decrease in Benefits        Increase in O&M Costs
Years delay    10%        20%      30%       10%       25%       50s
1          15.8     14.7      13.7     15.5      13.9      11.8
2          14.1     13.2      12.2     13.9      12.5      10.6
3          12.7     11.9      11.0     12.5      11.2       9.5
VI. AGREEMENTS REACEED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, agreements were reached with GOB on
the following points:
(a)  maintenance of an agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between
BWDB and FD, governing implementation of the Project until
completion of the Project (para 2.11);
(b)  model agreement with embankment settlers, foreshore
afforestation groups, and private owners of foreshore land
(paras 2.12, 2.13);
(c)  provision of adequate funds for O&M of project facilities
(para 2.17);
(d)  resettlement and rehabilitation of persons adversely
affected by the project would be carried out in accordance
with a Resettlement Action Plan, which is considered
acceptable to IDA (para 2.19);
(e)  appointment of consultants, with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, prior to signature of civil work
contracts (para 2.21);
(f)  contract framework and schedule for BWDB and Forest
Department entering into contracts, satisfactory to IDA,
with participating NGOs (paras 2.21, 2.34);
(g)  all vehicles and equipment, other than field staff
replacement motorcycles or bicycles to be procured by
December 31, 2000 (para 2.23);
(h)  only civil works expenditures incurred through December
31, 2000 would be financed (para 2.26);



- 49 -
(i) participiation of contractors under NCB tenders for minor
works to be limited to prequalified class A contractors
(or the equivalent), and minimum contract sizes for
earthworks (para 2.32);
(j) withdrawals for civil works to be supported by
certification by implementation support consultants (para
2.36);
(k)  arrangements with respect to project accounting and
auditing (para 2.39);
(1) maintenance of the PIU and FPIU (paras 3.1, 3.4) until
project completion;
(m)  establishment and maintenance of the project coordinating
committees (para 3.8); and
(n) arrangements and schedules for mid-term reviews (para
3.9).
6.2       Conditions of effectiveness would be as follows:
(a) effectiveness of the cofinancing agreement between GOB and
EC (para 2.30); and
(b) approval of the Project Proforma (para 2.30).
6.3       With the above conditions and agreements, the project
would be suitable for an IDA Credit to the Peoples Republic of
Bangladesh of SDR 34.1 (US$53.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms with a maturity of 40 years.



ANNEX 1 (a)
- SO -                     Page I of 4
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
9_W97    97/f j  91/99    99/U         Wei      U/92
1. Shmaldl_.p5/_
or j  I Sk
jLta k                                ____ ___ ____ ___
NhIrInan Os2et * -i     .                                                    m m........
so E        Slpe"s           II 
3. Patliouatha -P-I -
C. EI    tl.X            I             _0
glmatm oni m
giie2nS2 61o'                         -. m    u.    m i m
-~                            -      
Ju=t s t.o
|1~uo~. I'wN @                     _t  _- u|_
4. Patigl ton
pieannEt Slops                                          - 
co nierlvio                 I     _      =__I
*}m&04S Clot I         I         ______                                  _____
h"@tU@   I                      - I         -                           _     
S.  * _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1       i                      -         -         -.1. 1.
otff  ofl( or       | .                           =
b on -tAt                    I              l        U  -    I -     I  - 
CIS
OMhAIwSoe
aor~~~~~~~~~ 
4 k~- 
At t~I~~                  __________2__5k_ mI
r                             -I                  ll  



- 51-                           ANNEX  1  (a)
Page 2 of 4
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION  PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
*&Ce=l f~aJ FIMC 
g ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 9                  969         97/9        gv          99A_     I  9"|        I  /8
Aft
or  Y'll I_ I                                                .
frRtr$tetn I                                                If
'- -
* es snafI"s                              _
"I  r   VIto
oft to$fn  . I Iwo   km)
or       Mok                                                                           . ......
,tio
S _tkuj                              I     _                 I           t            I
Ott    t"                                         -_ 
},e:tht lo"2 }
ifti                                           f_ 
la s';                              U    -
ftsXain  -lte               '                                            m               
lb tionttI.r                                                                  



ANNEX 1 (a)
- 52 -                         Page 3 of 4
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
95/16       96/17      97/98      nmU/        g91/        3/1        81/2
1m. Cu mu                                              m m4uC
at    lrn                                           m
m~
f nite Clopn
14.*An    1 P6/1
So t on      mWmmUmm                                                    im
or y I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dnrmmm onm_
lleutsl   lonts_ _                                   *-
15. WI xs Snuur P66/                          ll 
16. TeImad 61
    qR Ir n    k
17. *Nbs.ehkal i P69
Cor styll works                                       ||               .--|   
Qnrt   en                                                                                 _
U   et                                  _I.        I                I          I                Ii
p. sng-                                           -I                                 I
PA     i4                                                                          _



- 53-                                ANNEX  1  (a)
Page 4 of 4
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
9__ _   995,6               S7           9',99         99A           WU
is. N&th*bai nIg
*'tiRn,pii                   ___             ___            _    _ _        ___                           _
*f__-  -t i                                  ___
co     m~~                                                                             m
att;gej"fr  Slop.                                m                                                        u
nrClyl lek                                             uumum        .unm.u        .                    Ihi| ...  uEuE
oaIf     1                               m                             m          mm
of  on E-                            -                        I             I            I
It CO?9-
-l-
L h5s.,'i w..              m|                                              m        ____ j____t                 ____
1      l. Xaluia   Sut1tr          .
-                                                 -o4ttt        -      m     =Il           -
Om~m u
Ja f  ftottSlop. -"enitSosF   tn  Ern  ^   hot   u
22    * ow amuxs                                    1             1
ltwI ItI                                                            I      
.Mtai                                  m u                   u m. m u
2. formentatir On    kt n   opovo untln Nt      nll N   noS   WIUI
vN GIi~nh1rov  Plntn M tr IIntrh snroUIn tu& V e IN  oov**r t    orn?O I
pooezour ~     ~        vxay!  .*,n 3                  11.        r



L2V1&NO) 055M S
ve1  OL SNOI&WININNO)Xlt *v"v gmv   40NWI      I 0 LWIVnUSU Li sOE 
_    _n2)  U101 -I L)" aNN3&O
 ml0 IlO        MI.      sel21 NIdO S
1IdMO, _NOZ      NQS)                                                    Va _  ___ _ _____ B _ _ _ l AS  SNO6)t B SO NOIV  BLStINt Z a
.14N)`TvIlVW%1NO 1) J iO GOH IIHII311341 1                                                                  SNOZ&IV41    MIAMIf I~
*E  EUEEUE  *IkJmim  IEEE  mumumu       mmminmu  ...u           im      .uam 
]- - -- -  - -1- - - - -  --  -                            - -i N r- -1--- -
-  --    -    --    -    --  --     --  --          - - -    ---                                             T  
R i  Ims"a's"a .1ION ,  I     I        I          '"      B         ;I ON    V
-  --  --    -      -     --  -  -  -  -~ -  - -  -~ -_-_-_-
1iE  ..uiinu.                      * *   ~         ~     
at *    B ~li   t                               BENW 
l l l l l l ~~~~~~~~~~~1  2 is%   iX  84  6 of  2: ;t0Z
a           '6 62   s *1  a  I           131      licam txu opAoI 
I              ___________ I__
II~IT _   _  _l II_   II  II_ B    .ISO tzlrS0tNnur
K m     ~~set    g~~     BISON SIDW
...I.  ..  ..   I.  ...                  ..  ....      ....    ..  ..  .....  ...,. , .....  ,.....I. L i......   ..............
S__E t t tt                 t  A IE I   Ia 
I5[o     I I       I         u I I     I  iI                          NI
t tI 4 S  lb I        j      j                    BISONNtoW
(l    Or                   so q )  I                                             ION -7
l6O~~~         B*Sb    B~~~1  BI"SON  IsOW
111151~~~ SITAS 6                                                                            NsNWm ONt m
-    - ~~-             I        t                    BBSV toS
10210lddN0iJv1iq9VHS            INEmi-rnIN    rI                           MISt S
HSECITIUm                                  11        ISONVEW
1932   TE            369T  a6                   STLiT96                                BS Bd   f~S
W T   XHNNV                   '7~~~~~~~~~~~.53  OSI   _______



1OS VININNX"oMs   AO  11)"VIVI) yet &
WI!    01  1M0       1141W6 M0231   IUWMW    N 6M  AIN05   MOI&VIWflIW    &Iwsmvv& 0
SNAO))W  13250   -WA                                                                                                                            1126  Nato I
SKUlKS                 113dN0   51 sellMNOI         WIMO) S1                                                         off 05  NOI&IWIAMI  Snost G
RIfLl&1d0) 1v)O`-1ta1               U113114M03 U        M NOM Al& SMO2  1S UI"I"n3all oiS  6MW  SNOII&W2I                             3S1  so I)MWswII v WI 6
SMUIK1I  NAMSKI                  3s&s31oM       Si    MI     MSfl S     ot 0               V1         SAM311l201  all INV 101M@*1&Wl 145 LIINSWIA  a
.ZINO) 19WNoM SLMUM-432                 1SIANO) ga    HOMONfSl Mo)                                               M                   AO *o GI                MAM 3ZIIMI  I
HI3430fl0d  Ao  aOH3M M                                                                                                                   SNO!        lu3m3vnf)OMd
-'l -S   *  i    m                                    in *                                                                                                        d $   |    @  1 ol +    \  0- 1   1  'LC   l>1  s rnsI
....    ........... ........... ........... ........... ........... ............ ......    ..  .....    ... . ......... ..
.  l  l      t      sw: |S2 *:          i              Li %   |    *i~ii~          tI    I   I        1 |   | l l         I -     )'    SJOIN V    . 
.............. ..._._._.____.          .._____..    ........... ........... .._...                              _ .._    ...... ......__.... ___ ___-__.__
00111011111110              *191        831       $MISS   IS M
as   1t  *  | *z6 C               I 'iI g*      lI I I               I                           a       sssns
... . . . . ....... ........ ........... .. .. ...........   ....  ........ ... ......... ..... .... ....... ................ ......  .... ...    ........ ... .....
Gel . -1              IIsoM  I0PW
l  l   l   l  l   l   l  l   l   l       I t1   1    t1  I  l       V-,   of        |       l l                                 $11 m mL    'anznz
. . . . ..... ........... ........... ................ ...... ....... .. ......... .......... ........ .................. ........ ..-
I   111   111  1. .a 1    I                            *   w           Is  111    11111  nsso?2fs&1
~~~~~~~~~~~~. .... ........    .. .... .. .... .. .... .. .... .. .... ..........    ....    .. .. .......
l l l l l l l l l i I r          I  *    *   1  s *XIa  I                                                 sx om sot;"
St  i 1   1-'  l   l   l    '   lsxfoo ON                                           .1         VA.1T
a,  I  .   I_   I_              _-
_ _  Ill          III                 U; St_....... ..   .._._-
______ ~      ~t                     1      t __        Il                 III          sI      L    LL                             -     '-t1 &sjsl"lN
_           I             21         iso  NS__
I I I*                                              I.
..... ....                . ...... ..... . ..... ........... ........... ........... ......... ...... .. ...... .........
I  I   I I     I   I I          |IZl   1t  s  I             "          I      o   s  rm           I   I   I       SI         521     S snMIUWI
.. .........    .............. ...........    ......... ....   ......... .... .............  ....... .... ...........    ........  ...... . .........
SxIOM IFAFs 10; alnpaqDs SuswalnDo31GM SOMd
III~~~L E OEd NO ILIL                                                                         nin qiG   1                            115HGM L5ODW MHEqVLSR
----  -              - -   - -                    - -- - -    -        - -                   - -     -____   -   -   -                         _________
Z:xa   .M  I IM
_ _T             _         a ?  _ _66T_ _                           I                              JL10t       'i   _T
Ill      III             I                 Ii.TTAT  Iai                                       I Tnp          565s21uawMIanooMd
10afOEd NOIIVIIqISVHad LNaWXNVE1Wa rIV,_LS15fl12i5&1 *
HSEGYMNVE~~~~~~I   5!10GSOW
c    Jo    z     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bud~~~~~~IfIflI EUM
(q) T xsMv7 ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ *** inli    21SUOMUW 



- 56 -                                       ANNEX 1 (b)
Page 3 of 3
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Schedule for Civil Works
-uFt""I       mIt"os  -SIM111                    lf                                 1a*                                1997
tCU- ?7 71000            I        t                                               1   4                                 4
%|||$ tot 115W?"                          -       a        t    7 a               I
LCD      0.300 oi**m    ui Lfi,
IIMI"5            33        310                                 1. 1        ,_  
FUOCUREMENT ACTIONS
I IN lW?tal?   P2ipAR*21OWw OF SPSIICAMIONS AND 1DD DocuWZWis                           ICI-INYIRN*130MAI  COtITEWIIVI 333DIN3
3       1SSU1   S,CICAIW  o*11  323s  to ?                10                             LC3.LOCA.    COW13IZlVI 31333113
I   :1 2~CIARACE8 I ZCIICA1     ?IO ND     *11  31   OIJ4NS                             S1U31!SWtI
a    o^      Il9s
4  ISSUE      le INJ ?OW 70Cb,tt' DID**l   tt"g^10$0I
S  DNSIT IVALUA"I"ON 33103?T AINM  "AID3 SZCOWNIN3*IoNS To IDA
?ID  CLS*3Aa"CaI @3R3C016"MIJ*?@
*AWARD C8N?DAc?
F INAL PILuIVRI  Al  MI7



- 57 -
ANNEX 1 (c)
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Prolect
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated
IDA Fiscal Year      Semester        Disbursements   Disbursements
-------   US$ million--------
1996                   II             9.01               9.0
1997                    I             5.4               14.4
II            13.9              28.3
1998                    I            12.9               41.2
II             3.8              45.0
1999                    I             3.3               48.3
II             1.1              49.4
2000                     I             1.1              50.5
II             0.6              51.1
2001                    I             0.6               51.7
II             0.4              52.1
2002                    I             0.4               52.5
II             0.3              52.8
2003                    I             0.2               53.0
1. Includes contractor mobilization advances and initial deposit
in the special account.
File: ANX1SAR.T1C



BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect
List of Civil Works to be Financed
Polder                          Maior Civil Works                                               Minor Civil Works
Embankment            Structures         Protect.Wks         Embankment           Structures             Protect.Wks         Khal Exc
(Kmn)                 (Nos)              (Kmn)               (Km)                 (Nos)                 (Km)                (Kmn)
Resec       New         Rep     Repl       Rep      New      Resec      New         Rep        New       Rep        New
1. Sharankhola P35/1     5.3        3.1          -         I                3.1       17.0                   13          1                   -          28.0
2. Pathergatha P40/2      -         4.5          -         2                            -    -                3         12                   -          30.0
3. Kuakata P48           8.0        2.3                    -        -         -                   2.0         -         10         -         -          30.0
4. Ramgati P59/2         3.9        9.8          -         4       3.9                                                   -         -         -          42.0
Ln
5. Sudharam P59/3B       22.5              -               6                                  -                                    -         -          45.0          co
6. Companiganj P59/3C    2.6        13.9         -         5                                                 -                     -         -          40.0
7. Sonagazi P60           -          -           -         -                                      2.0                              -         -          17.0
8. Sitakundu P61/1                                                                                -
9. Patenga P62            -          -                                                                                                                  2.0
lO.Anowara P63/lA        6.9        3.0                                                                                                                 15.0
I I.Bashkhali P64/1A      -          -
12.Chanua P64/IC
13.Chakoria P64/2B                                 -                                  50.0                   12        37                              35.0
14.Kurushkul P66/1       5.0                                                          13.7                    -         -                               5.0
15.Cox's Bazaar P66/3
16.Teknaf P68            7.7        8.0                    I
.                           .                                 .          _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)



2
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect
List of Civil Works to be Financed
Polder                          Maiopr Civil Works                                              Minor Civil Works
Embankment            Structures         Protect.Wks         Embankment           Structures            Protect.Wks         Khal Exc
(Km)                  (Nos)              (Km)                (Krn)                (Nos)                 (Km)                (Krn)
Resec       New         Rep     Repi       Rep      New      Resec      New        Rep         New       Rep       New
17.Moheskhali P69         -                                                                                                                             1 3.1  -  -  -  I  -  -  I  --___I__0.0
18.Matherbari P70        8.4        3.1                    2       0.4                 8.0                   3                                          5.0
19.Kutubdia                                                                                                  .                                                     |    
P'71~~       ~ ~~~ I                                                                                                      I Ein
20.Sandwip P72           7.7        19.3                   2                                                 28                 1         1             41.0
21.Hatiya P73/IA& IB      -       75.8                 |         |                     38.0              |6          s18                                 36.0
:         |  ~~~~Total             |78.0    |72.8                   |23    !4.3    |3.1    |126.7   |4.0              |65        |78 .                             381.0       |
Abbreviations and Notes
1. Resec: Resection; Rep: Repair; Repi: Replacement or New.
2. Under major civil works, embankments are sea-facing or river embankments
3. Under minor civil works, embankments are interior or marginal.
File: ANX2SAR.T2A (formerly CWFIN.APP Revised on 3/13 and 9/27/95
I ,=



- 60 -
ANNEX 2 (b)
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Prolect
List of Vehicles and Equipment
Unit       BWD       For. Dept. Consultants  Total
PUn    Field
Cars 1400cc       No     3       -        -           4           7
4WD Vehicles      No     2      10        4           8
Land Cruisers    No      1       -        -           -1
Speed Boats &
4OHP Engines    No      -        8       3           6           15
Motor Cycles      No     -       36      21           10           67
Bicycles          No     -        -      17            -           17
Rickshaw Vans    No      -        -      17                       17
Computers incl.
of Printers       No     -        4       -            1            6
Facsimile Equip. No      -       4        -                        4
Photocopiers     No      -       4        -                        4
Environmental
Mon. Equip.       Lot    -        -       -            1           1
Minor Equip.      Lot    11       -       _            22           3
1. For the use of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and
BWDB Field Divisions.
2. Includes besides other minor equipment, 1 lot each computer
and office equipment for Project Support and Training.



- 61 -
BANGLADESH                                        ANNEX 2(c)
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect
Land Acguisition Requirements - ha
_______________  M aior Civil Works             Minor Civil Works                Resettlement   Total
Resect.    New      Struct     Total     Resect&    Khal       Total
New        excav.
1. Shbmnkhola P35/1                 8.8       1.7       10.5       6.0        7.0       13.0          1.0           24.5
2. Pathergatha P40/2       -       16.4        -        16.4        -         10.0       10.0         0.8           27.2
3. Kuakata P48           4.1       11.1        -        15.2       3.0        5.0        8.0          1.1           24.3
4. Ramgat P59/2          8.2       25.7       6.0       39.9                  14.0       14.0         1.1           55.0
5. Sudharam P59/3B      80.7        -         20.6     101.3                   -          -           2.7          104.0
6. Companiganj P59/3C    7.2       51.7       23.7      82 6                  13.0       13.0         1.4           97.0
7. Sonagazi P60                     -          -                   2.0        6.0        8.0          0.6            8.6
8. Sitakundu P61/-                  -                         -                -          -           1.1            1.1
9. Patenga P62                 -          -                   -                1.0       1.0          1.5           2.5
10. Anowam P63/IA       36.0       16.0                52.0                   5.0        5.0          1.5           58.5
11. Bshkbali P64/lA                 -               -                          -          -          2.1            2.1
12. Chami P64/1C                                                               -          -           1.4           9.4
13. Chakoria P64/2B       -                    =         =        10.0        9.0       19.0         3.4           22.4
.14. Kunushkul P66/1      5.0                            5.0        -          1.0       1.0          1.0            7.0
15. Cox's Bazaar P66/3              -          -                              3.0        3.0         0.9            3.9
16. TeknafP68                      27.4       1.3      28.7                    -         -           1.7            30.4
17. Moheskhali P69        -         -          -                   -          2.6        2.6          1.2           3.8
18. Mathexbari P70        7.3      14.9       0.4      22.6       4.0         2.0        6.0         1.1            29.7
19. Kutubdia P71               -          -         -              -          3.0        3.0         2.7            5.7
20. SndwipP72            27.0      73.0                 100.0      -          13.0      13.0         6.3           119.3
21. Hauiya P73/lA&IB               24.6        -        24.6      10.0        12.0      22.0         2.3            48.9
Total                  175.5    269.6       53.7     498.8      35.0       106.6      141.6        36.9          677.3
Nowe
1. For major and minor works, estimates are by BWDB.
2. Area for khal re-excavation is limited to a spoil dump width of 10 meters on each bank, and acquisition is based
on aease of 3 years. A third of the required area is allowed and die cost is based on the ruling rte for an ba.
3. The ara required for resettlernent at polders with the exception of Ramgati and Sandwip is based on accommodating 4
fmilies per km with a honestead area of 200 sq meters. At Ramgati, to accommodate all the squaters in the portion
to be resectioned, acquisition of 10 meter wide berm is provided for the full length of the portion. The area
rquired to accommodate maintenance familes in the new embankment is estimated at 4 farilies per km. In Sandwip all
squaters located in the first 3.7 km of the embankment to be resectioned (i.e 106 families) would be accommodated
along the toe of this portion. whilst squaters living on the remaining 3.7 km distant from the town would be located
in the portions completed under PWP on the basis of 4 families per km.
File: ANX2SAR.T2(c) (formerly LAREV95.F20 Revised March 7, 1995) (New annex to be included in the SAR)



-62-                              ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 11
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Community Participation and Role of NGOs
General
1.        Objectives.  A community participation approach to afforestation
and embankment maintenance would be adopted in order to maximize the benefits
of the project for local disadvantaged groups and in order to provide long
term low cost O&M of coastal flood control and drainage systems.
2.        The approach requires the involvement of NGOs who would assist in
training and supervising landless people in O&M, construction and
afforestation activities. Specifically, the NGOs would (a) facilitate the
resettlement of families displaced by project works to the toe of the
embankment where they would be responsible for routine maintenance and
afforestation of their allotted sections of embankment, (b) involve landless,
and particularly female headed households, in routine embankment maintenance
for the entire length of the selected coastal embankments, irrespective of
whether rehabilitation works have been carried out, (c) carry out protective
afforestation of the foreshore, and (d) mobilize local people to take
advantage of other employment opportunities arising from the project
(construction works, periodic maintenance, forestry nurseries, agricultural
and non-farm activities). In addition NGOs would be involved in monitoring
the land acquisition process and in ensuring the Project Affected Persons
receive fair and timely compensation. This aspect of NGO activities is
described in Annex 9 - Resettlement.
3.        NGO Capabilities and Experience.  There are over 12,000 NGOs
operating in Bangladesh of which some 150 have been identified by the IDA as
having development programs for the poor. Their size, capacity and areas of
expertise diverge greatly. Many NGOs are members of the umbrella
organization, the Association of Development Agencies in Bangladesh (ADAB),
which is mandated to improve NGO coordination. ADAB also provides
secretariats for fora or sub-groups of NGOs working in specific fields. One
such group is the Forum on Forestry and Environment (the forum), which has
some 95 members working in the area of community or social forestry.
4.        The experience of community forestry has been mainly limited to
arrangements on government-owned lands with bodies such as the railways and
roads authorities and the BWDB for inland embankments. These lands are leased
for short periods to the NGOs, who organize and pay groups to plant trees and
receive a share of the produce upon harvesting. A caretaker from the group is
paid for by the NGO. The trees are often slow yielding timber species and the
land remains the property of the government agency, which generally also
receives part of the harvested produce. An exception to this model occurs in
the coastal areas where small groups are involved in planting of palms on land
around cyclone shelter sites, often donated by the community. There has been
no experience to date of the private lease-type arrangements proposed for this
project.



-63-                             ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 11
5.        The NGOs with the most experience in the forestry sector include
Proshika (which has worked with winrock International in developing community
forestry training modules), Dinajpur and Rangpur Development Scheme (who have
a well established and successful social forestry programme in north-western
Bangladesh), and BRAC (who have experience in the planting of mulberry trees
for sericulture on road and river embankments). In addition, POUSH, CARITAS,
MCC (Mennonite Central Committee), CARE and CONCERN have been involved in
social forestry along roads and railways lines.
6.        At least 40 NGOs are working in the 21 polders covered by this
project. They are largely involved in emergency relief, building and
maintenance of cyclone protection shelters and land reform. There is a
growing experience through programs such as the SRP, and through NGOs' own
Land Reform Programs, in working with landless women to form Earthworks
Maintenance Groups (EMGs) to carry out routine embankment maintenance for
BWDB, and in forming Landless Contracting Societies (LCSs) for road building
and maintenance. Many NGOs are also involved in social forestry programs,
although these do not appear to involve afforestation of coastal embankments.
One NGO (Oiskar International) is believed to be active in community planting
of mangroves.
7.        Interest of NGOs.  Based on discussions between the mission, ADAB
and individual NGOs at the national and the local level, there appears to be
general support for the approach of the project. In particular many NGOs
welcomed the opportunity to transform a major infrastructure project into an
opportunity to use a scarce land resource for resettlement of vulnerable
landless groups and to treat embankments as income earning assets. All of the
NGOs consulted expressed an interest in participating in activities ranging
from project design to implementation and monitoring. NGOs wish to be
considered as partners, rather than simply contractors, in the project,
actively involved from the outset of project implementation in discussions on
the preparation of proforma contracts and consideration of proposals for
implementation of the project. NGOs stressed that they would prefer to work
in areas where they are already established, which highlights the need to
identify locally active NGOs to be included on the shortlist of NGOs to be
invited to provide services.
Activities for Community Participation
8.        Areas in which community participation would occur are:
(a) Routine embankment maintenance;
(b)  Foreshore afforestation;
(c) Embankment afforestation; and
(d) Periodic embankment maintenance.
9.        Routine Earthwork Maintenance would be carried out on the total
length of embankments rehabilitated and improved under CERP and PWP and
limited sections of non-rehabilitated embankments unimpeded by human
settlements and plantations (see para 13 (b)). Routine O&M and planting and
management of trees on the rehabilitated embankments would be carried out on
about 530 km of embankment by squatter and other selected landless households,
with priority given to those affected by the project. The selected landless
families would be resettled at the toe of the embankment and would be



-64 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 11
responsible for the maintenance of a specific strip corresponding to the
length of embankment on which they would have the usufructuary rights for the
trees. This is expected to be about one hectare (approximately 250m-300m
depending on the height and width specifications of the embankment). In
portions of Sandwip and Ramgati, due to the high density of squatters on
embankments, they would be organized in groups of about 5-10 families, with
each group being allotted a 1 ha section of embankment. Families would have a
contract with BWDB and receive direct payment for the first 4 years of
operation (from the first year of settlement) at a declining rate as the
produce of the trees on the embankment increases.1 Failure to meet their O&M
and afforestation responsibilities would lead to sanctions, including in the
worst cases, eviction and resettlement of new families on the homestead plot.
After a period of 4 years the families would continue to carry out routine O&M
but would no longer receive payment (except that if the embankment trees are
destroyed in a future cyclone, payment would resume until sufficient
subsistence income could be obtained from the trees.) It has been calculated
that about 1,800 families, plus about 30 groups of 5-10 families each in
Sandwip and Ramgati, would be resettled in this way.
10.       Foreshore Afforestation.  Afforestation would be carried out on
some 4,700 ha of the foreshore by groups of local people trained and
supervised by NGOs. Mangroves would be planted on low lying foreshore areas,
while other species (see Annex 4) have been identified for higher foreshore
areas. Foreshore afforestation would be phased and would be carried out from
year 1 of the project, before the completion of construction works. Planting
would be carried out in the months of June to August, with mangroves also
being planted in December to February. It is expected that groups would have
an average of about 15 members who would plant some 12 ha (equivalent to an
0.8 km strip of 100 m or a 1.6 km strip of 50 m)2 However different NGOs
would be permitted to use larger or smaller group sizes based on their
experience and preferences. Replacement of failed seedling would be carried
out in the subsequent 2 years. This implies that NGOs and FD would need to
mobilize some 400 groups for foreshore afforestation over the whole project
area. Average earnings of group members, on the basis of a Tk 60 day rate,
are estimated at Tk 3,600 per season, equivalent to earnings from agricultural
labor. For the publicly owned areas to be afforested (expected to be most of
the foreshore afforestation program) protection of foreshore forests would be
the responsibility of the community. Distribution of benefits from
harvesting, carried out from year 8 onwards, under the supervision of the FD,
would be the responsibility of the community.
11.       Embankment Afforestation would be carried out by resettled
households. A combination of timber, fuelwood, fruit and other species, such
as grasses, would be provided gratis to families from nurseries established in
collaboration with the FD. Such families would also be supplied with
fertilizer and pesticides during the first three years of afforestation.
Trained field officers of the NGOs would assist beneficiaries in preparing a
1.    Details of payment rates are in Annex 5, para 17.
2.    Based on the assumption of 3,000 seedlings per hectare, with an average
labor input of 75 person-days per hectare, for a five day week over a
three month season.



- 65 -                            ANNX 3
Page 4 of 11
planting strategy which is appropriate to embankment protection, provide a
steady subsistence income from year 5 onwards and meet fuelwood, fodder and
survival needs. Training in planting, maintenance, harvesting and marketing
would be provided to groups of households. Protection of tree crops would be
individual household's responsibility with the support of the local project
coordination committee.
12.       Periodic Embankment Maintenance. Re-excavation of Khals and the
Periodic Maintenance of Khals. Periodic embankment maintenance would consist
of earthwork in resectioning to bring the embankment to design profile,
repairs of earth slips, grassing of slopes, etc. The re-excavation of khals,
which is included as a rehabilitation and improvement work, would consist of
removal of water hyacinth, clearing debris and man made obstructions, and
earthwork excavation in bringing the khal to its designed profile and bed
level. The periodic maintenance of khals, which is estimated to be carried
out once every two years, would consist of removal of water hyacinth, clearing
of debris and man-made obstructions, and desilting to the designed bed level
and bed width. The periodic maintenance activities on embankments would be
carried out on about 770 km. About 390 km of khals are to be re-excavated
under the rehabilitation and improvement program, and the work is expected to
be carried out under the Food For Work Program. These khals are also included
under the routine and periodic maintenance program. Whilst the routine
maintenance of embankments being rehabilitated and improved under the project
are provided for, the project does not expect routine maintenance of
embankments to be carried out in most of the 230 km of embankments where no
rehabilitation and improvement works are proposed under the project.
Conditions prevailing in these embankments (extensive human settlements and
plantations) do not permit an organized and effective method to carry out
routine maintenance. However, the periodic maintenance program would ensure
the safety and security of the embankment. In addition, where conditions
permit, funds from the periodic maintenance program could be utilized to carry
out routine maintenance. During the project period, BWDB and project
consultants would identify sections of khals requiring routine maintenance,
and also the sections of embankment where no rehabilitation and improvement
works are included in CERP and PWP where routine maintenance is possible.
These sections would be contracted out to Earthwork Maintenance Groups as
detailed in para 13(b). Wherever possible periodic maintenance work would be
awarded to Landless Contracting Societies (LCSs) for a guaranteed minimum wage
rate, comparable with Food For Work rates for a fixed amount of work.
Alternatively, such work could be awarded through NCB procedures.
13.       Minimum contract size for major construction works would preclude
Landless Contracting Societies from being awarded contracts directly by BWDB,
but it is anticipated that international and local contractors would budget
some 10% of overall contracts for local manual labor, implying an average
local labor demand of at least 100 labor-days per km over a 3 month
construction period. It is anticipated that a total of about 60 LCS would be
formed for periodic maintenance work.
Models for Community Participation. Three basic models for community
participation are proposed.
(a) Resettled Households would have individual contracts which allow
settlement on a 10 m by 20 m homestead plot on the toe of the



-66 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 11
embankment and the usufructuary rights of the trees that they plant
on the embankment. Resettlers would receive a cash payment for
relocation expenses and payment in kind of materials for building
of a katcha house on the homestead plot. The length of the
contract for settlement at the homestead should be based on the
lifetime of the embankment which, with the exception of river
sections prone to erosion which may require future realignment, is
expected to be at least 30 years. In the event of retirement, the
lease holders would be resettled on the toe of the new embankment
and would receive a similar package of assistance to the original.
The contract would be between the household and the BWDB and it
must be clearly understood that rights of abode would be tied to
the performance of O&M services. In order to reduce risk of
seasonal migration of males and non-performance of O&M duties and
evictions, it may be appropriate to assign the contract to the
female head of the family.
(b)  Earthwork Maintenance Groups (EMGs) for embankments and khals would
have direct annual contracts with the BWDB for: (i) sections of
embankments (limited to sections unimpeded by human settlement and
plantations and identified by BWDB and project consultants) where
no rehabilitation and improvement works have been carried out; and
(b) sections of khals requiring regular clearing operations to
facilitate rapid drainage. Preference for membership to these
groups would be given to landless households, and particularly
female headed households, living close to the embankment. EMGs
would typically have about 25 members with an elected chairperson
and secretary. Maintenance responsibilities would be throughout
the year based on a renewable annual contract (estimated value of
Tk 15,600 per km/pa) paid directly to the group's bank account.
Two signatories would be required for withdrawals. BWDB would
continue to pay for such routine maintenance services after IDA has
withdrawn from the project. Currently EMGs established for the SRP
and Early Implementation Project do not have legal entity but are
organized and certified by NGOs.
Some of the existing EMGs have a compulsory group savings scheme
whereby 10W (Tk 3 per day) of the wages is saved for group or
individual projects. NGOs should discuss this approach with
members in order to generate savings for other income generating
projects such as livestock, horticulture, cottage industries,
nurseries and afforestation contracts on unsettled sections of the
embankment.
(c)  Landless Contracting Societies (LCSs) would be established by the
NGOs in order to carry out foreshore afforestation, some earthworks
during resectioning and appropriate periodic maintenance work.
During the construction period preference would be given to
households resettled on the toe of the embankment, who would not
yet be able to plant on the embankment or their homesteads.
Landless Contracting Societies would be registered by NGOs who
would assist in the necessary paperwork for the contracting process
with the BWDB. Since the groups do not have their own legal
entity, it is suggested that, if they wish, NGOs assist both EMGs



-67-                             ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 11
and LCSs to register formally under the Society's Act in order to
ensure sustainability after the expiry of the contract between BWDB
and the NGOs.
Collaborative Framework
14.       Scope of NGO activities.  Terms of Reference for the NGOs would be
prepared by BWDB and FD in agreement with IDA and EU missions and in close
collaboration with the ADAB forum on forestry and environment. The main
activities are expected to include the following:
(a)      Planning of embankment afforestation and maintenance and foreshore
afforestation. NGO staff would visit project polders to explain
the project concept, mobilize support for the project, assess the
interest and attitudes of local people towards participating in the
programme, and identify suitable participants. Together with
forestry experts and local people, an appropriate mix of trees
species would be identified, taking account of the requirements of
BWDB for trees suitable for planting on an embankment. The NGOs
would assist FD in delineating areas of foreshore suitable for
planting. Based on this preliminary work, NGOs would formulate a
plp-n for discus,.on and approval in the PIU and FPIU.  Following
approval, NGOs would mobilize project participants and initiate
forestry activities.
(b)      I=mlementation of embankment forestrv.  Assist embankment settlers
(ES) to occupy homestead plots allocated in the Resettlement Action
Plan, and in negotiating contracts with BWDB. In conjunction with
the FD, provide appropriate advice on planting schemes and methods.
Supply each settler with tree seedlings, hedge seeds, fertilizers,
stakes and pesticides. Together with local FD staff, provide
advice and any training required on planting methods, and ensure
trees are correctly planted. After planting, monitor survival and
growth of trees, and provide any advice required. Continue to
provide fertilizer and pesticides, and replace any seedlings that
die, for a three year period.
(c)      SuPDlV of tree seedlings.  At the start of the project, in
conjunction with the FD, identify existing supplies of tree
seedlings and calculate what additional supplies, if any, would be
needed for both the embankment and the foreshore. In conjunction
with the FD, formulate a plan to expand seedling production, with
FD taking the lead in mangrove seedlings, and the NGO organizing
production of other species, preferably by supporting nurseries run
by landless and poor people.
(d)      ImDlementation of foreshore forestry.  Organize people (with
preference for the landless/poor) into Foreshore Forestry Groups
(FFG). If group members wish, assist them in registering as a LCS.
Supply seedlings and other input materials and, together with the
FD, provide technical advice and training. Monitor the survival
rate of seedling and organize replacement planting as well as
weeding and other maintenance activities. Pay foreshore groups
(from funds provided by FD) at agreed rates for planting.



-68 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 11
(e)      Forest protection.  Motivate and organize communities to protect
both newly planted and existing areas of foreshore forest. Assist
groups in negotiating a share of firewood and poles produced in
these forests.
(f)      Routine maintenance of rehabilitated embankments.  Provide advice
to ES on the routine maintenance of embankments and assist them in
maintaining exclusive occupation of their leased sections. Certify
to BWDB the quality of the work carried out as the basis for
payments to ES from BWDB. Monitor these payments and level of
income from tree crops and homestead plots. Recommend appropriate
sanctions for inadequate performance of responsibilities, including
eviction as a last resort.
(g)      Routine maintenance of sections of existincq embankments and khals.
Organize groups of landless people in EMGs to contract with BWDB to
provide routine maintenance of khals and identified sections of
embankment that are not rehabilitated or afforested by the project.
Give training to group leaders in earthwork methods, group
organization, basic accounting and tendering procedures. Assist in
negotiations with BWDB, and monitor payments to the group from
BWDB. Assist in setting up a group bank account. Provide, on a
credit basis, any hand tools the group may require.
(h)      Periodic embankment and khal maintenance.  Organize groups of
landless people as LCS to carry out contracts given by BWDB for
periodic maintenance work on embankments. Give training to group
leaders in earthwork methods, group organization, basic accounting
and tendering procedures. Assist in negotiations with BWDB, and
monitor payments to the group from BWDB. Assist in setting up a
group bank account. Provide, on a credit basis, any hand tools the
group may require.
(i)      Homestead Dlots.  Provide assistance to ES in making productive use
of homestead plots, and in developing other sources of income that
are compatible with the good maintenance of the embankment and
trees.
(j)      Submit proposals to the PIU for use of a Community Development Fund
provided by the project and implement approved activities. The
Community Development Fund would provide resources to implement
supporting poverty alleviation activities aimed at strengthening
project operation and group cohesion. This may involve water
supplies and sanitary facilities for embankment settlers, training
and education programmes, and income generating activities. The
latter could in particular aim at processing and marketing of
project outputs such as coconuts. The fund may also be used to
provide credit for the purchase of hand tools by EMG/LCS.
(j)      Participate in Prolect Coordinating Committees at the polder level
and elect representatives to participate at district and national
levels.



-69-                              ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 11
*(k)     Community suDDort.  Hold discussions with the Union Parishad and
other members of the community to build wide support for the
project, and to establish the importance of embankment maintenance,
sustained embankment and foreshore forestry, and prevention of
encroachment onto embankments by housing and cultivation. Build
community respect for the importance of protection of embankment
and foreshore forestry, and ensure that forest products accrue to
ES and members of foreshore forestry groups.
Contracts with NGOs for embankment maintenance and afforestation would be
signed by BWDB, while contracts for foreshore afforestation and organizing
production of non-mangrove seedlings would be signed by FD. BWDB and FD would
make maximum efforts to select the same NGOs in each polder.
15.       Discussions between implementing agencies, prospective NGOs, the
forestry and environment forum of ADAB, IDA/EU resident missions and the
consultants may result in some adjustments in the plan for the work, such as
changes in the appropriate size of groups. Further adjustments could take
place following the mid-term reviews.
16.       An attempt is being made to arrange to carry out pilot projects in
afforestation in four trial areas from 1995. Given the time constraints
involved it is likely that NGOs for the pilot activities would be employed as
sub-contractors to the project consultants.
selection. Coordination and Monitoring of NGOs
17.       Selection of NGOs.  Given the diversity of activities in which NGOs
would be involved (mobilization, organization of groups and individuals for
O&M, afforestation and tree maintenance) and the diversity of coastal areas
and conditions, it is anticipated a separate contract would be required for
each polder. It would be highly advantageous for BWDB and FD to select the
same NGO in a particular polder. Given the large number of NGOs involved,
standardization of contracts and coordination would be required to guarantee
quality and continuity of services provided.
18.       Surveys for the resettlement plan have furnished a list of active
NGOs by polders. From this, and other information that ADAB may provide, and
consultation with the polder level coordinating committees headed by the Union
Parishad Chairmen, a short list would be compiled and NGOs would be invited to
submit proposals for providing services for specific polders. The proposed
selections would be made by a joint BWDB/FD Committee subject to approval by
the PIU and the FPIU, and whatever higher level approvals may be required.
Selection would be made on the basis of the following criteria:
(a)      several years of experience of working in the coastal area,
especially in the specific project polders;
(b)      proven management and implementation ability, particularly for
field staff in remote areas;
(c)      experience in mobilization, group formation and organization of the
landless;



- 70 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 11
(d)      experience in implementation of social forestry projects;
(e)      experience in organization of EWG or LCS for public works
activities; and
(f)      pragmatic approach shown through a willingness to work with local
government representatives (Union Parishad), local elites, and
government implementing agencies;
19.       Ideally the polder level coordinating committees headed by the
Union Parishad Chairmen would review the NGO proposals and send their
recommendations to the PIU and FPIU, who would review them to ensure that they
were appropriately based on the selection criteria and that the total
selections of a particular NGO by the various Union's did not exceed that
NGO's implementation capacity. In making the selection, a cross section of
local representatives including members of the target group, Union Parishad
members, and staff of other development agencies should also be consulted to
verify the record and suitability of the NGO for the specific area. The
proposed selections would be subject to IDA/EU review and a statement of no
objection.
Staff Requirements
20.       NGOs would utilize full time field workers and supervisors to work
exclusively on the project. For calculation purposes it is assumed that there
would be one field worker per 8 EMGs/LCS, one worker per 10 foreshore forestry
groups, and one field worker per 30 ES during the period of embankment
afforestation, reducing to one per 50 ES once trees are established.
Individual NGOs may choose to vary group size and number of groups covered by
a field worker based, on their experience and preferences. ES may be
organized into groups of 10 to 15 for mutual support, and to facilitate
supervision and training. There would be an average of about one supervisor
per five field workers. Attachment 1 shows the anticipated NGO staff
requirements relative to project embankment maintenance and forestry
activities, on these assumptions. NGO staff numbers for all polders would
total about 140. In addition each NGO would appoint a Project Director from
amongst its senior staff at a regional or national headquarters level. The
NGO's Project Director would be responsible, on a part time basis, for the
overall direction of the NGO's activities, and for contractual matters.
21.       Management and Coordination.  Within each polder the NGO's senior
field supervisor would be responsible for NGO activities, and would coordinate
with local BWDB and FD staff. The NGO supervisors would report to the BWDB
zonal XEN (O&M) and to the CERP ACF in the FD who would be responsible for O&M
and forestry activities for a group of polders. NGOs would draw up, for
approval by the PIU/FPIU, a detailed work plan for a three year period,
together with cost budgets. The plan would be updated annually. The project
consultants would recruit four Community Development Officers, who would be
based at a zonal level, together with a Community Development Advisor based in
the PIU. They would assist NGOs in their relations with BWDB and FD, arrange
for NGO staff training, and provide overall communication and coordination
between project NGOs.



- 71 -ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 11
22.       RePresentation.  NGOs would be represented on committees with the
implementing agencies and consultants at a number of levels.  A senior member
of the NGO community, elected by the NGOs involved in the project, would sit
on the Project Coordinating Committee. An elected representative of the NGOs
operating in the polders would sit on each of the District Project
Coordinating Committees. At the local level the senior field supervisor of
the NGO at the polder level would be a member of the Local Coordinating
Committee.
23.       MonitorinQ and Evaluation.  The PIU/FPIU and consultants would
carry out routine monitoring of NGO activities. A simple monthly reporting
system for each polder would feed into a computerized MIS. In addition a
separate firm of consultants would be contracted to carry out annual sample
surveys of beneficiaries. If an NGO fails to meet the terms of its contract
then the contract would be terminated and another organization would be
sought.
Timing and CoveraQe of Pronosed Actions
24.       Solicitation of NGO participation should be initiated in June 1995,
on the basis of an agreed terms of reference prepared by BWDB and FD, with
advice and assistance from the World Bank resident mission, EU Consultants of
the PWP and the ADAB forum. Contracts should be negotiated and signed for NGO
participation in all 21 polders covered by the project by December 1995.
25.       Improved O&M would be introduced on a gradual basis from the first
project year in about 300 km of CERP embankment where no rehabilitation works
are proposed, and on completed PWP embankments. Full coverage would be
reached by year four, after rehabilitation has been completed and the one-year
maintenance period by contractors has expired. Foreshore afforestation may
also start on 4700 ha of foreshore and PWP embankments from project year one.
Afforestation of CERP embankments can take place from project year two or
three and would be completed by year four.
26.       An attempt is being made to organize a pilot afforestation
programme in 1995 in four selected polders where priority works have already
been completed. Each pilot area would consist of a 2.5 km strip and would
involve the following activities:
(a) selection of a different NGO in each area for mobilization and
organization of project participants;
(b) resettlement of 10 squatter or displaced households per trial area
in order to give each a 1 ha plot of embankment;
(c) selection of tree species in collaboration with consultants, FD,
BWDB and beneficiaries based on agro-ecological conditions and
economic needs;
(d) seedlings for pilot planting would be purchased from existing FD,
NGO and private nurseries. In addition two nurseries (one
mangrove, one for upland trees) would be established in each area
to produce seedlings for planting in subsequent years;



-72 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 11
(e)  training of participants in routine O&M by BWDB based on
development of a one day training module in the field;
(f)  mobilization of three or four groups of about 10 members for
foreshore afforestation of a 30 ha strip in front of the embankment
with training and seedlings provided by FD.
27.       Continual monitoring of the pilot areas would be carried out by the
PIU and consultant Community Development Adviser and the model for community
participation would be adapted according to the lessons learned. In addition
small strips would be selected in each of the trial areas in order to test the
suitability of vetiver grass for embankment stabilization in different
conditions.
28.       Funding: Services provided by the NGOs for community mobilization
and participation would be financed by the EU for the seven years of the
project. Payments for routine and periodic O&M would be financed by the BWDB
with reimbursement on a declining scale under the IDA credit. Full costs
would be covered under the GOB budget after credit completion. Provision of
seedlings for afforestation on the foreshore and embankments, together with
fertilizer and pesticides for the first three years of afforestation and
payments for foreshore planting work would be covered by the EU grant.



-73 -                           ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Number of NGO Field Workers reauired1
Field Workers
Reauired
Embankment Afforestation and Maintenance
1790 individual families, at an average of 30 families
per worker, requires 60 field workers.                          60
31 groups of families, at 8 groups per worker, requires
4 workers.                                                       4
Foreshore Afforestation
4700 ha at 12 ha per group requires 392 groups.
At 10 groups per worker, 39 field workers are required.         39
EMGs/LCSs
About 90 groups at 8 groups per worker requires 11 field
workers.                                                        11
Total field workers required:                                             114
Field Supervisors
At one supervisor for 5 workers about 23 supervisors are
required.                                                       23
Total NGO Staff (excluding part-time contract administrators)             137
1. Figures are for estimation purposes only. Individual NGOs may choose to
use smaller or larger groups and to adjust number of groups per field
staff member, based upon their experience and preferences. They may also
choose to have individual field workers cover several types of groups over
a smaller geographical area.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 11
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Forestry Models
A. Introduction
1.          Afforestation of embankment slopes and a belt on the foreshore
would reduce cyclone damage and embankment operation and maintenance (O&M)
costs. The coastal embankments are submerged up to a fair depth during normal
tides, with greater submersion occurring during spring tides and cyclones.
The eroding actions by the sea waves and cyclone surges cause constant
scouring of the embankment base and slopes resulting in damage or, at times,
breaches in the embankment. However, it has been observed that wherever
groves of standing trees exist on the foreshore, such damage is minimal. The
trees, acting as a physical barrier, directly intercept the waves and storm
surges and reduce their speed and erosive action. A belt of standing trees of
appreciable width along the coastline functions as a wall absorbing and
dissipating the first onslaught of storm surges and provides protection of the
embankment as well as lives and property of the people living in the area.
Also, trees of appropriate species planted on the embankment help hold the
embankment soil firmly through their root network. Finally, as a last resort,
many people in the affected area survived cyclones clinging to the top of
appropriate tree species (without thorns and able to bend in the wind). In
addition to reducing cyclone damage and embankment O&M costs, the trees would
provide direct economic benefits in terms of their produce and would produce
environmental benefits. The foreshore afforestation would also accelerate
accretion of new land.
2.          The proposed area for afforestation consists of embankment slopes
and a 50 to 200 meter wide strip of foreshore (depending on land suitability
and availability) of the 21 polders included in the project. Total length of
embankment available for afforestation is about 575 km, covering an area of
about 1900 hectares on the slopes. On the foreshore, a length of about 440
km, covering an area of approximately 4,700 hectares, would be available for
afforestation. (Details of length and area by polder for the embankment slope
and the foreshore are given in Tables 1 and 2 respectively.) In addition, an
area of 30 hectares out of about 35 hectares provided as homestead land for
the participants in embankment maintenance would be available for planting
trees or growing crops. Foreshore land, according to a BWDB survey (which
covered 20 out of the 21 CERP polders), includes 1,090 ha in the inter-tidal
zone and almost 11,000 ha of raised foreshore between the high tide mark and
embankment alignment. About half of the raised foreshore is privately owned
and used for cropping. There are limited areas of trees, homesteads, shrimp
pond and salt pans, but most of the remaining raised foreshore is
uncultivated. It is assumed that all the inter-tidal zone would be planted to
mangrove.   The area of raised foreshore available for planting has been
assumed to be 80% of publicly owned, non-used land, and 20% of private and
cropped land. The Forest Department (FD) has a very successful afforestation
project on an island near Polder 48 which shows that afforestation is possible
in the coastal areas as long as appropriate tree species (especially those



-75-                            ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 11
with some tolerance of salt) are selected. Planned phasing of embankment and
foreshore afforestation is given in Tables 3 and 4 respectively.
B. Imvlementation Concept
3.          A community participation approach is proposed for dealing with
the issues of afforestation and routine embankment maintenance. Families, now
squatting on embankments to be resectioned by the project, and other landless
families would be settled (to the extent of available area) on the toe of the
embankment on the inland side. They would be given contracts allowing them to
reside on this allotment and the rights to the produce of the trees on a given
section of the embankment (of about 1 ha.) in return for providing routine
maintenance and care of trees on this section. They would be paid for their
embankment maintenance activities by Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB)
until the trees had grown sufficiently to provide adequate income, but the
payments would be gradually reduced and eventually eliminated as the income
from the trees increased. They would also be provided seedlings, technical
assistance in planting and maintaining approved species, and fertilizer and
pesticides for the first three years after planting. In areas where
sufficient land in the foreshore is Government owned, groups of landless
people would be paid to plant appropriate species over a period of four years.
Thereafter community groups would provide the small amounts of labor required
to maintain and protect these forests, motivated both by the protection
provided by these forests to the community as well as the rights to the
produce of these forests. NGOs active in the respective project areas would
be employed to mobilize and organize local people to participate in the
project and to provide training in tree planting and maintenance and routine
embankment maintenance. BWDB and FD would provide necessary technical
training to NGO staff and possibly directly to community participants. In
areas where the foreshore is privately owned, owners would be encouraged to
grow trees on 50-200 m strips along the shoreline (which are in most cases
unsuitable for other crops). The project would plant the seedlings at no
charge to the landowners, in return for the landowners' agreement to maintain
the area under trees. The agreement would also provide that the landowners
would receive in the case of any land now used for crop production, the value
of the income foregone from crop production until income from the trees is
available (about 8 years). The agreement would permit landowners to use
forest products according to sound forestry practices, with landowner
obligated to replant trees in areas of harvesting. The community
participation effort would be supervised and encouraged by local committees
headed by the Union Parishad Chairman anu including representatives of the
local NGOs, and BWDB and FD local staff and a representative of the
consultants.
C. Plantation Models
(i) Selection of Tree Species
4.          Plantation models have been developed for the embankment slopes,
foreshore, and homestead. Figure 1 shows the model for the slopes and
foreshore while Figure 2 shows the model for the homestead. These models



-76-                            ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 11
include a wide range of species to allow flexibility in selecting species to
be grown in a given area. Guidelines for spacings and planting arrangements
are given in the following sections.
5.          Models for embankment slope afforestation take account of the need
for species which are resistant to cyclonic winds and (on the outer slope)
salinity, have root structures that will strengthen the embankment, and which
would produce adequate income. Within these constraints, those allotted
sections of the embankment would be allowed some choice of species in response
to personal preferences and local market opportunities. Since the target
group to be involved in routine embankment maintenance are mostly poor people,
the selection of trees to be planted on the embankment slopes has been
designed to generate quick returns from the plantation for the people's
subsistence. A combination of fruit trees that yield in the short term and
those that yield in the long term as well as timber trees have been selected.
Quick growing fuelwood species have also been included in the models since the
supply of firewood is inadequate in the area. Arhar or vetiver grass 1 hedge
rows would be planted along the crest of the embankment due to their advantage
as soil binders. Arhar also produces an edible pulse. The models take
account of the need for spacing of the trees to permit sunlight to reach the
embankment slopes, so that grass or other undergrowth is maintained. Planting
of annual crops that require tilling the slopes would be prohibited because
such action would loosen the soils and contribute to erosion. Growing of
bananas and papaya would also be prohibited because on harvest or natural
death of the plant, the rotting of the herbaceous stem and roots create holes
and subsequent breaches in the embankment that take place from hollowing.
options for suitable species for the foreshore take into consideration
variations in soils and tidal conditions.
(ii) Model I: Embankment SloDes
6.          A typical height of the embankment would be about four meters 2
and the inner slope (country side) would have a gradient of 1:3. The inner
slope available for tree planting would thus be about 12 meters. Two rows of
palms would be planted on the inner slope, the first row running 1 m below the
crest of the embankment and the second row running along the foot of the
embankment. In the top row date palms would be spaced at lOm with a betelnut
palm planted between the dates. In the bottom row coconuts would be spaced at
lOm with two betelnuts between each pair of coconuts. Between the two rows of
palms one row of fruit trees would be planted, that would bear fruit in two to
three years (such as guava, lemon, kul, and sharifa). The spacing between the
fruit trees should be such that sunlight reaches the ground to allow growth of
grass. A few calms of bamboo may be planted along the toe of the embankment,
in the outmost periphery. Since the height of the embankment is variable, the
1.    Vetiver will be grown on an experimental basis initially in five areas,
one km. rows on both sides of the crest.   Depending on the results,
vetiver or other hedge row species would be used in the general model.
2.    Designed crest level less distance of the base above sea level.



-77-                            ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 11
row to row distance of the palm and fruit trees would vary at different
locations.
7.          A typical outer slope (sea facing) would have a gradient of 1:7.
Given the typical embankment height of 4m, the slope would have an width of
28.8m available for afforestation. The outer slope would have four rows of
palms with, between the palm rows, four rows of timber trees. The first row
of palms would be im below the crest width with a lOm space to the second row
of palms. These two rows would comprise of alternate coconut and date palm at
a Sm spacing. The third row of palms would be positioned at 8m from the
second row of palms, with the last palm row a further 8m distant. The third
and forth palm rows would be planted with alternate date and palmyra palms at
a spacing of 5 m. The intervening space between the palm rows would be
planted with timber species with a plant to plant distance of 2 m. Timber
species would include koroi, shisoo, babul, khair, khoya babla, mahogany, etc.
As embankment height is variable, the number of rows of plants will also vary
at different locations.
8.          In order to prevent scouring of the embankment berm by sea waves,
a 2m wide strip (lm along the slope and lm flat berm) should be planted with
dholkolmi, shada akand, keya, golpata, and other suitable species. The
planting would be done by cuttings, either directly planted into the ground or
grown in polypots, at a spacing of lm x lm.
9.           Two rows each of arhar and ipil-ipil would be grown in dense
line, along the embankment length, to function as protective hedges. The
arhar rows would run O.5m below the crest width, on both sides, and the ipil-
ipil rows would run along the toe of the embankment, above the submersion
level, on the outer slope. Ipil-ipil is likely to reach a considerable height
in one growing season and so may blow over. Therefore it would need to be
regularly cut to a height of l.5m, producing a substantial quantity of
fuelwood and fodder. Arhar will produce an edible pulse and fuelwood.
Depending on the results of experiments, vetiver may replace arhar in some
locations.
(iii) Model II: Foreshore
10.         Raised foreshore areas with clay soils would be planted with
species such as raintree, koroi, khoya babla, simul, and kadam, grown in
polypots. Sandy soil and sand dune areas would be primarily planted with
jhaw, but other species like eucalyptus camaldulensis and khoya babla would be
tried in areas where some proportion of clay is observed. The plant spacing
would be 2 m x 2 m. The low lying inter-tidal areas (mud flats) would be
planted with mangrove species at a spacing of 1.5 m x 1.5 m. The choice of
species would depend on the maturity of the formations and physical
characteristics of the topsoil. While new formations would be planted with
keora, the comparatively harder soils would be planted with baen, kankra, and
gewa.



-78 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 11
(iv) Model III: Homestead
11.         Settlers would build a house at the edge of the homestead plot
furthest from the embankment facing north or east. The rest of the homestead
area would be a kitchen garden growing seasonal vegetables and fruits (banana,
papaya, mango). Fuelwood trees and betelnut could also be grown around the
plot. It is not envisaged that the project would provide any formal
assistance in the cultivation of homestead plots, but NGOs may provide advice
and other support on an ad hoc basis.
D. Estimation of PlantinQ Stock Reauirements
12.         Seedling requirements per km of embankment and foreshore are
estimated as follows:
(i) Embankment
Inner slope:
Top and bottom rows of palms (coconut, betelnut, and date palm)
- row to row distance: 10 m
- plant to plant distance: 10m coconut, 5m date; 2.5m betelnut
- number of seedlings required per km: coconut 100, date palm 200,
betelnut 400)
Middle row of fruit trees: guava, lemon (kaguji and jambura), kul,
sharifa, and jack fruit.
- row positioned at 5m from each row of palms.
- fruit trees would be grown in the following proportions: 25% guava,
20% kul, 25% lemon/kaguji, 10% lemon/jambura, 10% sharifa, and
10% jack fruit)
- plant to plant distance: 10m for kul; Sm for guava and
lemon; 20 m for jack fruit and jambura
- number of seedlings required per km: guava 50; kul 20; lemon/kaguji
50; lemon/jambura 5; and jack fruit 5.
One calm of bamboo per loom: 10 per km
Outer slope:
Two rows of coconut and date palm
- 10m between rows, 5m between plants
- number of seedlings required per km: coconut 200; date palm 200
Two rows of palmyra palm and date palm
- row to row distance: Bm
- plant to plant distance 5m
- number of seedlings required per km: date 200; palmyra 200.
Timber trees (in between rows of palms)
- Four rows at a spacing of 2m plant to plant
- number of seedlings required per km: 2,000.



- 79                           ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 11
HedQe Row
Top hedge row of arhar (one row on either side of the crest width)
- seed requirement for line sowing - 12 kg
Bottom hedge row of ipil-ipil (along the toe of both slopes)
- number of seedlings required per km at a spacing of 1 m - 2,000
Tidal wave protection hedge row of dholkolmi, sada akand, and keya (2m
wide strip)
- area to be covered per km = 1,000 m x 2m =2,000 sq m
- planting would be done at a spacing of 1 m x 1 m
- number of seedlings/cuttings required per km = 2,000.
(ii) Foreshore
Foreshore high land
The foreshore high land to be planted with mainland timber species and
jahu
- number of seedlings required at a spacing of 2m x 2m = 2,500 per ha
Foreshore low/mud flats
Mangrove plantation (keora 50% and other species 50%)
- number of seedlings per ha at a spacing of 1.5 m x 1.5 m - 4,444
E. Nursery Practice and Cost of Establishment
13.         The project would aim to support the development of private sector
nurseries, both by procuring as many seedlings as possible from existing
sources of supply, and by funding the establishment of additional nurseries by
NGOs and individuals. A number of nurseries are already established in
project polders by the FD, NGOs and private individuals. Channels have also
been developed to bring seedlings in for other areas such as Bola island and
Barisal. Although it will not be possible to precisely define nursery
requirements until detailed site specific planting plans are drawn up and the
capacity of local nurseries assessed, for the purposes of overall project
planning it has been assumed that 30% of fruit and timber trees and palms will
be procured from outside sources together with 10% of hedging plants. It is
assumed that all mangrove seedlings will be produced by project nurseries.
Only the production of mangrove seedlings, which require specialist
techniques, would remain the exclusive preserve of the forestry department.
Project nurseries for other seedlings will be established by channelling funds
via NGOs who will either establish nurseries themselves or support the
establishment of nurseries by individuals or groups.
14.         One year old seedlings, especially in the case of fruit trees and
mainland timber species, have a higher rate of survival when transplanted.
The general nursery technique would be polypot raised seedlings in 25 cm x 15
cm x 0.08 mm size polypots, except coconut, betelnut, and mangroves, that
would be bare rooted, and ipil-ipil that would be raised in 15 cm x 10 cm x



- 80 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 11
0.06 mm size polypots. Seedlings of dholkolmi and sada akand may be grown in
polypots or the hedge rows may be established by direct planting or cuttings.
15.         The area required for nurseries on each polder has been calculated
from forecast seedling requirements and the nursery area required by seedlings
of different species (allowing for half the nursery area to be taken by paths
and storage areas). Allowances have been made for bought in seedlings, and a
failure rate (requiring replanting) of 40% for embankment planting and 100t
for foreshore planting. Planting is assumed to be spread over one to four
years for embankment species (depending on the embankment construction
schedule) and five years (including one year of replacement planting) for
foreshore seedlings. On this basis the numbers of nurseries required in each
polder.has been calculated in Table 5. The maximum size of a nursery is
assumed to be lha, and if the required area exceeds this, additional nurseries
will be required. A total of 29 non-mangrove nurseries (average size 0.65ha)
and 17 mangrove nurseries (average 0.15ha) would be established. In practice
NGO supported nurseries may be considerably smaller, but to split a nursery
into a number of sub-nurseries would have minimal impact on project cost
projections. Although it has been assumed that it will not be possible to
ship seedlings between nurseries on different polders, transport within a
polder should not be too much of a problem along the newly constructed
embankments.
16.         Each nursery would have a supervisors and an average of 14 workers
and guards for non-mangrove species, and 7 workers/guards for mangrove
nurseries. Each nursery would have sheds for workers' accommodation and
storage, together with fencing and tools. Non-mangrove nurseries would need a
supply of water (surface tank or tubewells), while mangrove nurseries need a
small embankment and simple sluice to control the level of tidal water.   The
cost of nurseries is estimated as follows:
CaDital cost                         Taka
Mangrove          Upland
Mali shed                 24000              24000
Store                         0              12000
Fencing                    4000              15000
Tools                      3000              10000
Water supply                  0              40000
Bunds and sluice          16000                  0
Land rent (4 years)           0              72000 (0.6haxTk 30,000x4)
Miscellaneous              8000              15000
Total               55000            188000
Annual overhead cost
Maintenance               32000              32000
Supervisor               101400             101400
Workers and guard        105000              21000
Total              238400            343400
Cost calculations for seedling production (excluding nursery establishment,
overheads and labor) and embankment and foreshore planting are shown in
Table 6. Costs excluding nursery establishment, overheads and labor amount to
Tk 16,832 per ha for embankment afforestation, Tk 30,205 per ha for raised



-81-                           ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 11
foreshores, and Tk 10,689 per ha for mangroves. Nursery establishment,
overheads and labor would add about Tk 9,400 per ha to these costs.
17.         Project cost allowances also include a van rickshaw (Tk 5,000
each) and bicycle (Tk 3,500 each) for each nursery. In addition FD
supervision and management costs to be funded by the project include
allowances for four ACFs responsible for each of the zones (Tk 12,000 each per
year) and 21 foresters posted to the polders (Tk 5,000 each per year),
together with four 4-wheel drive vehicles (Tk 1,000,000 each), 21 motorcycles
(Tk 100,000 each) and two speed boats (Tk 600,000 each), and vehicle running
costs and country boat rental (Tk 17,500,000 over 7 years). The above costs
exclude the costs of NGOs organizing and supervising community participation
in carrying out the afforestation program.
F. Production. Incomes and Marketing
18.         Estimated annual production from the proposed afforestation
component is summarized in Table 7. The major types of output that would come
from afforestation are fruits, vegetables, timber, and fuelwood. About
227,600 tons of fruits and vegetables and 224 million cubic feet of timber and
fuelwood are expected to be produced over the project life of 30 years. While
93% of the production of fruits and vegetables is expected to come from the
embankment slope and the rest from the homesteads, 96% of the timber
production is expected to come from the foreshore.
19.         Farm budgets for a one-hectare model farm on the embankment
slopes, a 15-hectare model farm on the foreshore, and a 200 m2 homestead farm
on the country side toe of the embankment are summarized in Tables 8, 9, and
10, respectively. The beneficiaries would begin to realize net positive
incomes from the afforestation, if all inputs including family labor were
valued at market prices,3 from the first, fourth, and ninth year of
afforestation on the homestead land, embankment slope, and foreshore,
respectively. In light of the fact that the Government would provide the
seedlings and the first three years requirements of fertilizer and pesticides,
and that embankment settlers would be using unpaid family labor, these
settlers would be receiving net positive cash incomes from the embankment
slope and homestead land from year one and the foreshore from year nine (see
Tables 5, 6, and 7). About 30% of the trees in the foreshore would be ready
for felling in the ninth year from planting. In the case of the homestead
plantation, all fruit trees would be producing and 30% of fuelwood trees would
be ready for felling in the sixth year.
3.    The seedling costs in the financial models are at market prices, which
contain an element of subsidy in that Government prices for seedlings do
not cover nursery establishment costs. These additional costs of about
Tk 7,800 per ha for nursery establishment and personnel plus the costs of
FD vehicles and vehicle operating expenditures and NGO services costs have
been added back in for the purposes of economic analysis and project cost
estimates.



-82 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 11
20.         Fruits and timber would be the two major products expected from
the afforestation on embankment slopes and foreshore. There would be adequate
demand for these products. Fruits are in short supply in the coastal belt as
well as in the rest of the country for most of the year. Hence the farmers
are not expected to face difficulties in marketing the increased production of
fruits. Fuelwood and timber are also in short supply. The timber is used in
constructing houses and building fishing boats. There is a large fishing
community in the project area. The coastal areas are well connected by rivers
and, to some extent, by roads. Surplus output of fruits, timber or fuelwood
in a given area would thus be transported to deficit areas without much
difficulty.



FIGURE -I
MODEL - I                                                                                 MOOEL- 11
EMBANKMENT  PLANTATION                                                                       FORESIIORE  PLANILTIOIJ
N(Q.0  NOV I AAI4 I
COUNTRY  SIDE                                                             i wo  fORE9ItRE   -PAlhA   PAIl
:  1.1 stop[            IAg}                                              I SLOP0    sOIIi
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I P - *1 ,_thi I IAA lkllAA I aw 
t I A ^[ hOA A tAAN    S r
EMIBNKMEN1                                                                             m      --        '                        .       ._
L   ml oGit RO
0"Ot SIOhi
UIYA AKOIF1
n A Y 0OPAIA
TYPICAL   DESIGN   OF  AFFORESW ION   I NORMAL  CONDIIION;
&(At                                                                                                                                          ,
'p



-84-                  _             ANNX 4
Page 11 of 11
.
U                                                                           
cc
-.    _     w_ _ u?z                *I
0
_                       i                    .-         ol Z
0>            zs
9--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
-,            w
4-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- :- I
-  9-  o-    -  9-  0-  *-  1-9-
I             I    I  
r c t .,v,, T ' ul



- 85 -
Table 1
BANGLADES
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect
Afforestation - Embankment Slop
Maior Works                  Minor Works
Sea and River                Int.& Marg.
Polder                  EnmbankMent                   Embanklment            Total
Ch .     L(km)       A(ha)     Llanl)       A(ha)      L(km)   A(ha)
1. Sharankhola P35/1    0- 10      10          24.0       17         24.0        27       48.0
2. Pathergatha P40/2    10- 23     13          40.5        -          -           13      40.5
3. Kuakata P48          26- 36     10          40.0        3          6.5         13      46.5
4. Ramgati P5912       121-138     17          48.5        -          -           17      48.5
5. Sudharam P5913B      19- 42     22          92.5        -          -           22      92.5
6. Compaaiganj P59/3C    10- 26    16          68.0        -          -           16      68.0
7. Sonagazi P60         gaps       8           30.0        -          -           8       30.0
8. Sitakundu P61/1      0- 21     21           80.0        -         -            21      80.0
9. Patenga P62          5- 22      16          68.0        -          -           16      68.0
1O.Anowara P63/1A       22- 43     21          82.0                              21       82.0
ll.Bashkhali P64/1A     61-117    56          213.0        -                     56      213.0
12.Chanua P64/iC        0- 22      22          86.0       13         27.0         35     113.0
13.Chakoria P64/2B      6- 24      18          70.0       50        102.5        68      172.5
14.Kurushkul P6611      0- 5       5           19.0       14         28.0        19       47.0
15.Cox's Baz. P66/3     45- 55     10          38.0       13         27.0        23       65.0
16.Teknaf P68           10- 23     13          54.0       6          12.0        19       66.0
17.Moheskhali P69       0- 13     13           57.5       -           -           13      57.5
18.Matherbari P70       0- 7       7           23.0       8          18.0        20       54.0
0- 5*      5          13.0
19.Kutubdia P71         0- 29     39          132.0       -           -          39      132.0
41- 51
20.Sandwip P72          0- 60      60         263.0       -           -           60     263.0
21.Hatiya P73/1A&1B    49- 55      6           26.0       38         88.5         44     114.5
Total                            408.0      1,568.0    162         333.5        570    1901.5
Abbreviations and Notes
1.     L: Length in kilometers. Area is in hectares and is the area between the seaside and country side toes less the area
occupied by the crest.                                                         -
2.     Afforestation is limited to the reaches of embankment where rehabilitation works are proposed under the PWP, CERP
and in sections of sealriver embankments where no rehabilitation is proposed but require protection to ensure the
security of the polder.
*      denotes compartmental embankment



- 86 -
AZNNEX 4
Table 2
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project
Afforestation - Embankment Sloocs. Phasine of Plantin2 in hectares
Polder                95/96     96/97     97/98    98/-9     99/00     00-01   01/02    Total
1. Sharankhola P35/1      0          0         12.0     29.0       7.0       0        0       48.0
2. Pathergatha P40/2       0         0         20.0     20.5        0        0        0        40.5
3. Kuakata P48             0         0          0       20.0      26.5       0        0        46.5
4. Ramgati P59/2           0         0         15.0     20.0      13.5       0        0        48.5
5. Sudharam P59/3B         0         0         30.0     30.0      32.5       0        0        92.5
6. Companiganj P59/3C      0         0         18.0     25.0      25.0       0        0        68.0
7. SonagaziP60             0         0          0       30.0        0        0        0        30.0
8. Sitakundu P61/1         0         0         40.0     40.0        0        0        0        80.0
9. Patenga P62            10.0      20.0       38.0       0         0        0        0        68.0
lO.Anowara P63/1A         0          0         10.0     20.0      52.0       0        0       82.0
1 1.Bashkali P64/1A       10.0      50.0      153.0       0        0         0        0       213.0
12.Chanua P64/1C          0         20.0       50.0     43.0       0         0        0       113.0
13.Chakoria P64/2B        10.0      30.0       40.0     40.0      52.5       0        0       172.5
14.Kurushkhul P66/1       0          0          0       19.0      28.0       0        0       47.0
15.Cox's Baz. P66/3       0         20.0       18.0     10.0      17.0       0        0       65.0
16.Teknaf P68             0          0          0       54.0      12.0       0        0       66.0
17.Moheskhali P69         0         20.0       37.5      0         0         0        0       57.5
18.Matherbari P70         0          0         23.0     13.0      18.0       0        0       54.0
19.Kutubdia P71           0         30.0      102.0       0        0         0        0       132.0
20.Sandwip P72            10.0      60.0       70.0     100.0     23.0       0        0       263.0
21.Hatiya P73/lA&B         0         0          0       36.0      78.5       0        0       114.5
Total                   40.0     250.0      676.5    549.5    385.5        0        0      1901.5
Notes
1.     The pilot schemes and the year 2 planting would be carried out by selected families whose physical resettlemcnt would
be completed by the end of year 2. Maintenance funds would be provided during years 1 and 2 for the areas to be
planted in years I and 2.
2.      The sea/river facing embankments of PWP would be planted commencing with the 10 ha pilot schemes and completed
by the end of year 3. Planting of the interior and marginal embankments for which designs would be completed in
year 2 and construction would be completed by Year 5. Planting of the sea/river facing embankments of CERP would
commence after completion of the maintenance liability period. Planting of the interior and marginal embankments
would be completed by the end of year 5.
3.     In Anowara, a PWP polder, planting would be completed by year 5, as this polder would be included for CERP
financing.



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect (CERP)
Afforestation Embankment - Foreshore
Interior or Marainal
Polder           Sea or River Emmbankments       Embankment             Total
Chainaam  Lenath  Wilth  Are   Lenath  Width  Area  Lenath   Area
1. Sharankhola    0 - 29     29      28     81     5       28     14    34        95
P35/1
2. Pathergatha    10 - 15    10      37     37     5       37      18    15       55
P40/2          18 - 23
3. Kalapara       26 - 36    10      86     86      5      86     43    15        129
P48
4. Ramgati       120 - 138   18      43     77     -        -      -     18       77
P5912
5. Sudharam       34 - 70    36      82     114    -        -      -     36       114
P59/3B
6. Companiganj    4 - 27     23      42     96     -        -      -     23       96
P59/3C
7. Sonagazi       8- 17    15       103    160    -         -      -     15       160
P60            25 - 31
8. Sitakundu      0- 9       9       60     54     -        -      -      9       54
P61/1
9. Patenga        5 - 22     17     200    240    -         -      -     17       240
P62
10. Anowara       34 - 43    9      165    149    5        50     25    14        174
P63/1 A
11. Bashkhali     86 - 108    22    129    285    -         -      -     22       285
P64/1 A
12. Chanua        10- 18     8      200    160    -         -      -      8       160
P64/1 C
13. Chakoria     104 - 107   14     158    218    -         -      -     14       218
P64/2B        116 - 127
14. Ramu          0 - 5      9       67     60     5       67     34    14        94
P66/1         10- 14
15. Cox's Baz.   45 - 55    10      130    130    5        130    65    15        195
P66/3



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
Interior or Marainal
Polder           Sea or River Emmbankments         Embankment             Total
16. Teknaf        11 - 30    19      193    367    -          -      -      19      367
P68
17. Mosheskhali    5- 14      9      200    180    -          -      -      9        180
P69
18. Matherbari     0- 19      19      53     101     -        -      -      19       101
P70
19. Kutubdia       0- 29      39     153    597    -          -      -      39      597
P71           41- 51
20. Sandwip        0 - 60     60     200    1200    -         -      -      60      1200
P72
21. Hatiya        44 - 56     18      20      36    5        20      10     23       46
P73/1 A&1 B    51 - 57
ig2ta                     403             4428   35              209   438    4,637
Abbreviations and Notes
1. L: Length in kilometers.
2. W: Width of foreshore in meters proposed to be planted.
3. Area is in hectares
4. Chainage is as indicated in the polder maps and is in kilometers.
5. For interior and marginal embankments a nominal length of 5Km is allowed.



BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project
Afforestation - Foreshorr, Phasine of Planting in hectares
Polder                  95/96               96/97              97/98           98/99             99/00             Total for Proicet
M       0         M        0         M        0       M        0        M        0         M        0      Total
1. Sharankhola P35/1       10        0        40        0        8        37       0        0       0        0         5        37       95
2. Pathergatha P40/2        0         0        0        0        25        0       0        30      0        0         25       30       55
3. Kuakata P48              0        10        7       53        0        59       0        0       0        0          7      122       129
4. Ramgati P59/2            0         0        0        0        0        30       0        47      0        0          0       77       77
5. Sudharam P59/3B          0         0       24       26        0        40       0       24       0        0         24       90       114
6. Companiganj P59/3C       0        20        0       36        0        40       0        0       0        0          0       96       96
7. Sonagazi P60             0         0       15       15        15       50       10      55       0        0         40      120       160
8. Sitakundu P61/1          0         0       27        0        9        18       0        0       0        0         36       18       54
9. Patenga P62             20         0       40       60        23       97       0       100      0        0         83      257      340
10. Anowara P63/lA          0        0        50        0       64        0       17       43       0        0        131       43      174
11. BashkaliP64/lA         10        0        10       60        0        60      0        80       0       65         20      265      285
12. Chanua P64/IC           0        0        40       40       50        30      0         0       0        0         90       70      160
13. Chakoria P64/2B         0        0         25      25       75        25     46        22       0        0        146       72      218
14. Kurushkhul P66/1        0        0         17      30        0        47      0         0       0        0         17       77       94
15. Cox's Baz. P66/3       10        0        40       20       40        20      16       49       0        0        106       89      195
16. Teknaf P68             10        0         20      50        0       100      0        100      0       87         30      337      367
17. Mohcskhali P69          0        0         0       40       .0        60      0        80       0        0         0       180      180            _    
18. Matherbari P70          0        0         0        0       25        25     28        23      0         0        53       48       101            0 I^ A
i-o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  



Polder                 95/96             96/97              97/98          98/99            99/00            Total for Poiecct
19. Kutubdia P71          0       10        30      70       52       98      0       200     0       137       82      515      597
20. Sandwip P72           20       0        107    193        0      300      0       300      0      280       127    1073    1200
21. Hatiya P73/lA&B        0       0         0       0        0       46      0        0       0       0         0       46       46
Total                   80      40       492    718       386       1182    117   1153      0      569      1075    3662    4737
Notes
1.      The pilot schemes totallying 120 ha (comprising 80 of mangrove and 40 of other trees), arc located according to the manpower resources of the forestry sub units
and also to provide protection to critical areas.
File:ANX4SAR.T2 (formerly FRM&OP.PHS Prepared March 12 1995)
D0
0
lb



BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect
Project nursery requirement
Nursery operations (years)       Nursery area (ha)              Number of nurseries
embank. foreshore*             palm/tree mangrove             palm/tree rnangrove
Sharankola 35/1          2         3                  0.40      0.17                    1          1
Pathergatha 40/2         2         3                  0.22      0.08                    1          1
Kalapara   48            2         3                  0.81      0.02                    1          1
Ramgati   59/2           3         3                  0.50      0.00                    1          0
Sudaran    59/3B         3         4                  0.60      0.05                    1          1
Companigj 59/3C          3         3                  0.65      0.00                    1          0
Sonagazi   60            1         4                  0.69      0.09                    1          1
Sitakundu   6i/i         2         3                  0.15      0.10                    1          1
Patenga    62            2         4                  1.26      0.18                    2          1
Ariowara   63/lA         3         4                  0.40      0.42                    1          1
Bashkali   64/1A         2         5                  1.60      0.03                    2          1
Chanua    64/1C          3         3                  0.64      0.27                    1          1
Chakoria   64/2B         4         5                  0.53      0.26                    1
Rarnu      66/1          2         3                  0.57      0.05                    1
Cox's Baz.  66/3         4         4                  0.47      0.24                    1
Teknaf     68            2         5                  1.30      0.05                    2          1
Moeskhali  69            2         4                  0.98      0.00                    1          0
Matherbari  70           2         3                  0.40      0.16                    1          1
Kutubdia   71            2         5                  2.10      0.15                    3          1
Sandwip   72             4         5                  3.88      0.23                    4          1
Hatiya     73/t          2         2                  0.76      0.00                    1          0
total                                    18.91       2.54                  29         17
average        ha       0.65      0.15
^ period of nursery operation for foreshores  acres   1.61      0.37
includes one year post-- planting for repltcenment    trees/yr    159283    149623
*eedlings.
LI-



- 92 -
SAtGLAOESH
Coartal Embankment Rhabilitatlon Prol-ct                ANNEX  4
A-   stabon   a                               Table  6
A. So-dling costc (pr thouand)
? airryra    Oat      B--ede   Coconut       ree    1Iedge Mangrove
inouts & prices
prep. 3eed bed          4         2         2         10                              2 3
water & mairan          4         2         5         10                   2 
Seeds      no.        1400      1t00      1250      1400       15Cc       t500     1250
Tk.          2      0.25          '         9      0.05       0.03      0.04
Chlemical   gins      400        200       200      5000        100       11, '00
7k.        0.5       0.5        0.5       0.4       0.5        0.5       0 5
Spray      It            2         1         t        0.1         0         0         0
Tk.         50        50        50       2000         0         0         0
Mnnuer    kg            0          0         0       250         75        45        20
.rtliser    kg          0          0         0         0          5         5         5
Soil       cut.         0          0         0         0         60        40
Polypotc   kg           0          0         0         0       5.26      3.34
S-ee       Tk.          0          0         0         0          0                   0
Coet       price
Labour     60       460       240        420      1200       780        300       180
Seed                2800       375      1250      12600        75        45        50
Chernical            300       150        150      2200        !0        50        50
Manure       2         0         0         0        S00 z      S         90        40
Fertiliser    10       0         0         0          0        50        -0         50
Soil       4.5         0         0         0          0       270       180         0
Polypots   s0          0         0         0          0       421       267         0
Stakes                 0         0         0          0         0         0         0
total    3580        765      1820      16500      1796       982       370
Cost per plant
inclucing labor      3.58      0.77      1.82      16. 0      1 8c      0.98      C.37
excluoing labor      3.10      0.53      1.40      15.30      1.02      0 68      0.19
8. Total cost ot planting
Ernbankmernt per ha     Hedge per ha'   Foreshore trees oer ha    Mangrove per ha.
unit   price   quantity  value Tk.  quantity  value Tk.  quantity  vaiue Tk.  quantrty  value Tk.
Mannire        kg        2      1300      2600        250       500      2500      5000
,,riliaer      kg       to       600      6000        100      1000       625      6250
Stakes         no.       1      1300      1300          0         0         0         0
Insectcide      It.    500        0.6      300        0.2       100         5      2500
Labour         day      60       100         0         20         0       140      8400        150      9000
SecIlings*                      1287      3725       1418      1154      5000      8055       8888      1689
Ahar seed2     kg       25         0         0          3        75         0         0
13925                2829               30205                10689
*A:,.-j-.ry er  Zo                        '22m Fi^,^s ;3 r-z  a!. -    S
To ji cost of *rnbakrnert wrth    Tk/hma    16754
hedges         Tk/km      66180
Total cost if all seedlings purchased Tkiha  20307                  total Tk/ha    37150               26776
(for bridging period)         Tkikrn    80212



- 93 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Atforestation Production
Embankment         Foreshore           Homestead                Total
Year      Fruit &             Fruit &             Fruit &              Fruit &
Others      Timber  Others   Timber    Others    Timber    Others        Timber
Mt         M.cft    Mt       M.ctt     Mt        M.ctt       Mt        M.cft a/
1          430.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     520.00     0.00       950.00      0.00
2          886.30      0.00    0.00      0.00     520.00     0.00      1406.30       0.00
3         2160.00      0.00    0.00      0.c0     520.00     0.00      2680.00       0.00
4         3519.00      0.00    0.00       oco     520.00     0.00      4039.00       0.00
s         2945.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     543.80     0.00      3488.80       0.00
6         2945.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     543.80     0.02      3488.80       0.00
7         2945.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     543.80     0.00      3488.80       0.00
8         1629.80      0.00    0.00      0.00     543.80     0.00      2173.60       0.00
9         8815.00       1.00    0.00    27.00     543.80     0.02      9358.80      28.00
10        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
11        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
12        8815.00       1.00    0.00    27.00     543.80     0.02       9358.80     28.00
13        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
14        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
15        8815.00       1.00    0.00    27.00     543.80     0.02       9358.80     28.00
16        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
17        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
18        8815.00       1.00    0.00    27.00     543.80     0.02       9358.80     28.00
19        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
20        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
21        8815.00       1.00    0.00    27.00     543.80     0.02       9358.80     28.00
22        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
23        8815.00       0.00    0.00    0o00      543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
24        8815.00       1.00    0.00    27.00     543.80     0.02       9358.80     28.00
25        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
26        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
27        8815.00       1.00    0.00    27.00     543.80     0.02       9358.80     28.00
28        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0.00     543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
29        8815.00       0.00    0.00     0. 00    543.80     0.00       9358.80      0.00
30        8815.00       1.00    0.00    27.00     543.80     0.02       9358.80     28.00
-----____ ------ -------  --------_ --------_ --------  ---__------__ ____---    -______-----___ ___-----
Total    211390.10       8.00    0.00    216.00   16218.80    0.18     227608.90    224.00
a/ M.cft - Million cubic feet



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farm Budget (Embankment Slope)
(1 ha model farm) al
Year            I       25-7                                    9    10,11,13,14.  12.15.18.21.
16.17.19.20.   24.27&30
22.23.25.26.
28 &29
Production Cost (Tk)
Labor                   4559    912      446     446    446      446    926           421          901
Seeds                   3294    647        0       0       0       0       0            0            0
Fertilizer              3467   1734    1734    1734   1734    1734   1914            1584         1764
Pesticides               128    128      128     128    128      128    128           128          128
Irrigation                56       0       0       0       0       0       0            0            0
Misc.                   7134   1427      708     708    708      708    1908          708         1908
Total                  18638   4848    3016   3016   3016   3016   4876              2841         4701
Production Value (Tk)   2500   2630   2510   4585   8704   14045  26045             27205        39205
Net Family Income
(excl. payment for
embankment O&M) b/    2500   2630   2510   2723   6842   12183  24003              25493        37313
a/ Assumes 37.2 % of area coconut palm, 18.6% date palm, 3.1% betel nut.
3.1% guava, 2.5% kul, 6.2% lemon. 1.6% sorifa, 2.0% jack fruit, 6.2%
palmyra palm, 14.9% timber, 1.2% arhar. 3.2% other.
b/ Assuming GOB provides seedlings, fertilizer and pesticides for 3 years, that labor
is unpaid family labor and that 40% of misc. costs In year I and 2 and 100% of misc.
costs thereafter are unpaid family labor for guarding the plants, with the remainder
being costs of transport of seedlings and Inputs (which Is borne by GOB).



-95 -ANNEX4
Table 9
SANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECr
Farm Budget (Forestiore)
(15 ha mooel farm) ai
yar     t            _           ~    ~ ~~~~2 4-8,10,11,13,     9,12,t5,18.
14,16,17.19.       21.24.27&30
20,22.23.25.
26 28f&29
Production CoSt (Tk)
Labor                       62718        34631        16815                6272              84375
Saws                        65218        35381        15815                   0              19565
Fertilizer                  20000            0            0                   0               6000
Pesticides                   SCO5         1500            O                   a               1500
Irrfgatlon                      0            0            0                   0                  0
Misc.                       *5000        25200        12300                   0              13500
Total                      197936        96712        44930                6272             124940
Production Value (Tkh           0            0            0                   0            1528004
Net Income to
Private Farmer O/              0            0            0               -6272            1403064
Net Income tO
Coooeratlves C/                0            0            0                   0            1500939
z/ Aasume 13.3% of ar  tibr specie, 34.7% S Kew, 52.0% othe mangrove specie.
k/ A       _mming 00B flume plantg of sedlinp and futlier and peicides reired for thr  yar,
that prvae  ad owners a  th fshor ar kag scale farme  who us hired labor. Miscllaneouw
cos ao pmarily for _trmspolo of eoeog and inputs (bore by GOB for yem 1 through 3)
and tmsporaion of proce.
Il Sia asumpios                              r foe prvas f sraw  xce  that ^   rthrd year, abor fbr guarding bre  and
aveting produ  aome  to be unaid ezd included in sharing fom  profits of production. This
incomes ausumed to be shad 23 to coope votiv mombers, 1/3 to Union Perishad.



- 96 -
ANNEX 4
Table 10
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farm Budget (Homestead)
(200 m2 model larm) a/
Yoar            1              3-4      5       6.9.12.15,18.      7,8.10,11.13.14,15.
212427 &30         16,17.19.20.22.23.
25 26 28 & 29
Production Cost (Tik)
Labor                    163     135    126    140                 188                      140
Seds                     104      50      28      28                28                      28
Fertilizer                33      25      25      23                23                      23
Pesticides                 3       3       3       3                 3                       3
Irrigation                 S       S       S       S                 5                       5
Misc.                     11      11      11      13                15                       15
Total                    319    229    198    212                  262                     214
Production Value (Tk)    900    900    900   1764                 2052                    1764
Net Family Income b/     745     807    829   1691                1977                    1689
a/ Assumes 21.7 % of area summer vegetables, 21.7% winter vegetables, 20.8% betel nut,
7.0% banana, 3.9% papaya. 3.9% other Iruits 20.9% luelwood.
b/ Assuming that labof is unpaid lamily labor.



- 97 -
ANNEX 4
ATTACHMN
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Recommended Species for Plantation in the Afforestation Programme
MODEL - 1: EMBANKMENT SLOPES
i. Location Inner SloDes (Country SLide Slope)
Coconut (Cocos nucifera)
Date palm (Pheonix dactylifera)
Betelnut (Areca catchu)
KYul boroi (Zizv,Dhus iuiuba)
Jack fruit tree ArotcArxus integrifolia)
Sharifa (Artocarmus sos.)
Guava (Psidium euaXava)
Lemon (Citrus sRs.)
Kat Badam (Terminalia &acaiga)
Tetul (Terminalia indica)
Babla (Acacia arabica)
Khaya Babla (Pithecellabium  ulce)
Shisham (2e1bergia sisso)
Sil Koroi (Albvizzia Rrocera)
lfahogany (Swietenia micrQphvlla)
Madar (Erythrina indica)
Ipil Ipil (Leucaena Leucocephala)
Madar (Erythrina ,indica)
Ipil Ipil (Leuc: w.a Leucocepha a)



- 98 -
ANNEX 4
ATTACHMENT
Page 2 of 5
Simul tula (Salmalia malabaricu)
Kadam (Anthocephor cadamba)
Bamboo (Banbusa vulzaris)
Eucalyptus (Eucalvytus camaldulensis)
ii. Location: Outer Slope (Sea Facinz)
Coconut (Cocos nucifera)
Date palm (Phoenix datvlifera)
Palmyra Palm (Borassus flabellifer)
Tetul (Tamarindus indica)
Khaya Babla (Pithecellobium dulce)
Shisham (Delberzia sisso)
Sil Koroi (Albvizzia orocera)
Madar (Erythrina indica)
Ipil Ipil (Leucaena Lgucocephala)
Simul tula (Salmalia malbaricu)
Kadam (Anthocephorlus cadamba)
Eucalyptus (Eucalvotus camaldulensis)
iii. Location: Brems (Foreshore Side)
Babla (Acacia arabica)
Khaya Babla (Pithecellobium dulce)
Shisham  (Delbereia sisso)
Sil Koroi (Albvizzia procera)
Madar (Erythrina indica)



- 99 -
ANNEX 4
ATTCHENT
Page 3 of 5
Kadam (Anghocephorlus cadamba)
Rain tree (Samanea saman)
iv. Location: Embankment Heel (Sea ward)
Dhal Kalmi (Ioomoea fistulosa)
Shada Akanda (CatolroDisDrocera)
Keya (Pandanus Odortissimus)
Hogla pata (Tvpha angustata)
v. Location: Hedge Row
Arhar (Caianus cajan)
Vativa (Vetiveria zizaniodes)
vi. Location: Others
a. Borrow Pit
Hogla pata (Tvpha angustata)
Culpata (Nypa fruiticans)
b. Embankment Surface: Soil cover (Grass)
Dubra grass (Cynodon dactylon)
Utuchan (Imperata cylinderica)
Siratro (Macroptillium atroDuroureum)
Centrosema (Centrocema pubescens)
Kudezu (Pueraria haseoloides)
Vetiver (Vetiveria zizaniodes)



- 100 -
ANNEX 4
ATTACHHMENT
Page 4 of 5
MODEL - II. FORESHORE PLANTATION
i. Location: Raised Clavev Foreshore
Babla (Acacia arabica)
Khaya Babla (Pithecellobium dulce)
Shisham (Delbergia sisso)
Sil Koroi (Albvizzia irocera)
Madar (Erythrina indica)
Simul tula (Salmalia malabaricu)
Kadam (AnthoceDhorlus cadamba)
Rain tree (Samanea saman)
ii. LocaSion: M,ud Flates (Lowlying clayey foreshor, Mangrove)
Keora (Sonneratia apatala)
Baen (Avicinea officiualis)
Kankra (Brueinera evmnorbiza)
Gulpata (Nvpa fruiticans)
Goran (Cereops decandra)
Gewa (Exoecaria ggallocha)
Sundari (Heritiera fomes)
iii. Location: High Sandy Land/Sand Dunes
Jhua (Casuarina eouisetifolia)
Tamarix (Tamarix gallicha)



- 101 -
ANNEX 4
ATTACHMENT
Page 5 of 5
MODEL - llI. HOMESTEAD PLANTATIOt:
Winter Vegetables
Summer Vegetables
Banana (Musa aradisiaca)
Papaya (Carica pazAva)
Betelnut (Areca catchu)
Kul boroi (ZizvMhus iujuba)
Jack fruit tree (ArotcarDus incegrifolia)
Sharifa (Artocarvus SDS.)
Guava (Psidium zuavava)
Lemon (Citrus sps.)
Chilli (CapSiCUm sgs.)
Country Bean (Dolicos lablab)
Kat Badam (Terminalia catay2s)
Jack fruit tree (Arotcarous integrifolia)
Eucalyptus (Eucalyptus camaldulansis)
Ipil Ipil (Leucaena LeucoceDphala)
Bamboo (Bambus  vulzris)
Mango (Mangifera indica)



- 102 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 10
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Improved Operation and Maintenance
Introduction
1.          The project provides for improved operation and maintenance for
twenty one polders located mainly in the south eastern part of the country.
Improved O&M would cover: operational activities which need to be carried out
to ensure the safety of embankments, to check that drainage canals (khals) are
effective, and for the safety and proper operation of drainage structures; and
maintenance activities on: (a) about 505 Km of sea facing embankments, and
about 260 Km of interior and marginal embankments on the non-coastal side
(Table 1); (b) all drainage regulators and surface sluices; (c) the drainage
network within the protected area and the outfall canals; and (d) the
afforested sections of the embankment slopes. These polders provide
protection to agricultural land with the exception of Polder 62, Patenga which
protects major public and private properties including the airport, naval
academy and export processing zone. The implementing agencies, BWDB and
Forest Department assisted by consultants, NGOs and the elected members of the
Union Parishad, would carry out O&M utilizing the community particularly
landless persons, squatters on embankment, and destitute women.
Present Condition
Organization and Management.
2.          The BWDB Headquarter's Technical Unit under the overall control of
the Member O&M assisted by the Chief Engineer O&M is responsible for
rehabilitation and improvement of operational projects and the O&M of these
projects. The unit comprises an O&M Directorate and a Rehabilitation
Directorate headed by Project Directors (level of Superintendent Engineers).
The unit is required to: (a) review and consolidate the annual budget requests
prepared by field divisions covering operation, maintenance and rehabilitation
and establish priorities under budget constraints; (b) develop long term (five
years) rolling budget requirements for O&M covering operational projects and
projects expected to be completed during the plan period; (c) guide the field
divisions in preparing and updating O&M manuals; (d) participate in
maintenance reviews, monitor progress and evaluate performance; (e) assist O&M
field staff in solving new and difficult problems pertaining to O&M and
rehabilitation; and (f) assist the BWDB Training Directorate in preparing and
executing O&M training programs.
3.          At the field level, there are on average, three subdivisions
within a division and each is supervised by a Sub-divisional Engineer (SDE),
supported by three Section Officers (SOs)and a variable number of Works
Assistants (WAs). Embankment and Sluice Operators (Khalashis) are located at
each polder to carry out the operational activities and to assist in ensuring
the security of infrastructure. Job responsibilities of all field staff are
specified in the basic O&M manual prepared in 1967.for the Coastal Embankment
Project.



- 103-                          ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 10
Annual Budciets
4.          Budgetary requirements for O&M, which includes: operations,
routine and periodic maintenance, maintenance during the implementation period
of on-going projects, and flood and cyclone damage repairs are provided for
under four categories: the revenue budget, development budget, food for work
program (FFW) and the foreign exchange budget. The main sources of funding
for operations, routine and periodic maintenance are from the revenue budget
and the FFW program. The annual divisional O&M budget is based on the
following categories: (a) building repairs and construction; (b) protective
works; (c) resectioning works; (d) construction and repair of sluices;
(e) establishment; (f) transport and equipment; and (g) supply of fall boards
and gates. There is no facility for further breakdown of categories into
routine and periodic maintenance or secondary categories to enable monitoring
of physical and financial progress and establishment of realistic costs for
routine and periodic maintenance. BWDB uses up to 90% of its FFW allocations
for maintenance activities comprising: resectioning of embankments; breach
filling; and re-excavation of drainage channels. A major part (estimated at
about 67*) of the revenue budget was utilized to meet the high establishment
costs. It has been established by previous studies and as discussed in the
SAR for Systems Rehabilitation Project, Cr. 2099-BD (SRP) that the allocation
from the revenue budget for actual O&M costs was about 40% short of the actual
requirement with the main shortfall recorded in the maintenance category where
in FY89 there was an estimated shortfall of about 75%. Under SRP, the
Government agreed to increase allocations for O&M by at least 10* a year in
real terms. This agreement has been adhered to. The budget for maintenance
items (electricity, fuel and maintenance works) in FY94 was about US$12.6
million equivalent, close to double the US$6.5 million allocation in FY89.
Problems and Actions Directed to Imvrove OhM
5.          Problems could be categorized under two headings:  (1) Budgetary:
As earlier stated, activities which broadly fit into O&M are financed from
four sources. The four budgets are prepared separately and at present there
is no system to extract and develop an overall O&M work program. An overall
budget with realistic and identifiable items of work: (a) would prove and
justify annual requirements based on need; (b) adjust work programs in a
logical manner to match the allocation of scarce funds; and (c) assist in the
introduction of an effective monitoring system, identify issues and introduce
changes in a timely manner; and (2) Maintenance Activities: The present
absence of clear definitions of O&M (particularly maintenance) and its
objectives provides a severe restraint on the current annual and long term
planning of O&M activities. Planning of annual maintenance and the drawing up
of a rolling long term plan require:
(a)   the work activities such as routine and periodic maintenance, and
repairs to damages caused by floods and cyclone storms;
(b)   updating of the inventory of all BWDB facilities;
(c)   estimating rehabilitation and improvement requirements to bring
projects into a condition that routine and periodic maintenance
could commence and ensure the project's sustainability;



-104 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 10
(d)   work standards and outputs;
(e)   community participation in routine and periodic maintenance;
(f)   an assessment of resources (manpower, materials and equipment);
and
(g)   annual work programs and schedules.
6.          Operational activities in polders in the coastal belt and flood
control projects in the mainland of the country are well defined and could be
carried out satisfactorily if all the infrastructure of the polders are
completed to the required design and are in an operational condition. In
irrigation projects several issues which are constraints to effective
operations have been identified and these are being addressed adequately under
the IDA financed Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation
Project, Cr.1870-BD (SSFCDI) and the SRP. Maintenance activities are effected
adversely due to several issues which need to be addressed before an effective
and sustainable system could be introduced. The issues include: (a) squatters
on the embankments and cuts in the embankment slopes to accommodate their
homesteads; (b) cultivation of perennial cash crops on embankment slopes;
(c) unauthorized planting of trees on the embankment slopes; (d) deep runnels
on embankment slopes; (e) earth slips at structures; (f) breaches caused by
floods and cyclonic storms, being left in a state of disrepair to face the
monsoons; (g) repairs of collapsed protection works not being done in a timely
manner; (h) settlement of the embankments due to poor compaction and slopes
not done to the designed profile; (i) flap gates at structures in a state of
disrepair or in most cases missing; (j) protection works, structural aprons
and wing walls of structures, damaged due to erosion; (k) silting up of
drainage network particularly in outfall canals affected by tidal conditions.
7.          In order to establish a rationale and sustainable plan for O&M and
particularly for maintenance, the issues listed above are being addressed
under several donor assisted on-going projects such as the IDA financed SRP
(Cr.2099-BD) and the SSFCDI Project (Cr.1870-BD); the Dutch financed Land
Reclamation Project (LRP), Delta Development Project (DDP), and the Early
Implementation Project (EIP); the ADB financed Ganges-Kobadak Rehabilitation
Project (GKRP); and the IDA and CIDA financed Operation and Maintenance Cost
Cell (O&MCC) under the SSFCDI Project. The Headquarters O&M Technical unit
with the separation of rehabilitation and O&M functions and training directed
to O&M activities has already been established. The unit is presently
addressing aspects of routine and periodic maintenance including costs and the
O&MCC is as a first step establishing standards and creating a computer based
program for a country wide schedule of rates for construction works. The CKRP
Project would establish a system to provide for floods and cyclone repairs in
the O&M program. Under the SRP, models are being experimented on for
determining the effectiveness of carrying out periodic and routine maintenance
by groups of landless persons and destitute women. The CERP Project would
address the issue of squatters and cultivation of embankment slopes and direct
its effort to involve the community in carrying out all routine maintenance
and a major part of periodic maintenance.



- 105 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 10
ODeration and Maintenance Activities
8.          Operation.  Activities to be executed continuously include:
(a) patrolling of the embankment to detect weak sections, slips, signs of
squatter settlements, cultivation of perennial cash crops, cuts in the
embankment to accommodate homesteads, embankment subsidence and erosion and/or
settlement of protection works; (b) regular checks of structures to detect
slips at abutments, erosion of aprons, protection works and wing walls, and
periodic damage to flap gates and fall boards; (c) regulation of gates if
applicable (d) supervision of routine maintenance work. In addition at the
beginning of the monsoon, a condition survey (if needed an engineering survey)
of the embankment would be needed for estimating the periodic, cyclonic and
flood damage repairs to be carried out during the dry season. During the
monsoon operational activities would be stepped up to ensure timely action to
prevent damage. At the end of the monsoon, operational activities would
include: the condition survey of the embankment, and structures and an
engineering survey of the drainage network. These surveys would be required
to prepare details for carrying out periodic maintenance.
9.          Routine or Preventive Maintenance.  Activities to be executed
continuously include: (a) filling of runnels in embankment slopes and road;
(b) filling of minor slips in embankment slopes and abutments and wing walls
of structures; (c) repairing of rat holes; (d) preventive measures to stop
leaks and piping through the embankment; (e) maintaining recently planted
approved type of trees and replacement of trees, turf or grass bush;
(f) arresting settlement/erosion in aprons and protection works at structures;
(g) arresting collapse of protection works provided for prevention of river
bank erosion and wave action on embankment slopes; (h) clearing of debris and
water hyacinth in structure intake and outfall canals; (i) greasing of lifting
mechanism of regulators and surface sluices; (j) preventing cattle damage by
erecting and maintaining fences; (k) maintaining reservations along
embankments; (1) preventing new settlements on the embankment and reservations
or making of cuts in embankment slopes to accommodate homesteads; and
(m) clearing of debris and man-made obstacles, such as fish fences, in the
drainage canals.
10.         Periodic Maintenance.  Activities to be executed during the dry
season include: (a) maintaining the design profile of the embankment and
drainage canals; (b) repair of breaches and major slips caused by normal
annual monsoon and cyclonic storms; (c) repair of protection works provided
for arresting river bank erosion and damage due to wave action and providing
preventive works to minimize such damage; (d) permanent repairs to arrest
piping through the embankment; (e) permanent repairs to arrest damage to
aprons, wing walls and revetments at structures; (f) repairs or replacement of
flap gates and lifting mechanism of vertical lifting gates and replacement of
gate and sill rubber seals; (g) repairs or replacement of trashracks of
structures; (h) repairs to eroded concrete at structures; and (i) desilting of
drainage canals (frequency to be decided after a study of silting condition).
Earthworks would include compaction. Frequency of these activities would
depend on hydrological, and tidal conditions of the polder, and the soils used
in earthfill of embankments. Generally with effective routine maintenance the
frequency would be once every two years.



-106 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 10
11.         Repairs to damages caused by floods and cyclonic storms.  These
repairs are assessed after each storm and are financed under the development
budget which is funded by GOB and donor assisted emergency programs. (The
IDA, EU, Japan and Saudi funded PWP, and the several IDA and ADB assisted
Flood Rehabilitation Projects are a few examples of such works). Repairs
include: (a) filling of major breaches including retirements; (b) major
repairs to protection works or provision of new works; (c) major resectioning
of embankments; (d) repair or replacement of structures; and (e) replacement
of trees on embankment slopes.
12.         Afforestation.  With the exception of the recent introduction of
afforestation of embankment slopes on a very limited scale, afforestation has
not been introduced as a protection measure. Foreshore afforestation
development has not been systematically introduced to be effective as a
protection measure to embankments. It has now been established that embankment
and foreshore afforestation are the most economical and effective type of
protection work to ensure the security of the embankment during cyclonic
storms. Maintenance activities include: (a) upkeep of paths to facilitate
inspection of trees; (b) clearing around trees; (c) application of
fertilizers; (d) harvesting of produce from fruit trees; (e) controlled
harvesting of fuel woods and leaves; and (f) replanting according to set
guidelines and replacement of diseased or dead trees.
Proposals for Improving Operation and Maintenance
13.         The sustainability of a rehabilitated and improved polder would
depend primarily on effective routine and periodic maintenance. It could only
be ensured if the community which is safeguarded by the infrastructure
participates fully in these maintenance activities. The chairman and members
of the Union Parishad together with NGOs located in the area need to act as
facilitators to organize those participating in maintenance, particularly
routine maintenance, and help BWDB supervise the adequacy of their work. The
Project, while ensuring that technical standards are not sacrificed, provides
for a package of incentives to achieve the objective of maximum community
participation.
14          BWDB and the Forest Department would be the implementing agencies
for the embankment O&M and afforestation and the foreshore afforestation
components respectively. All operational activities would be carried out by
the staff of BWDB. Routine maintenance of the rehabilitated embankments
including the plantations on embankment slopes would be handled by individual
families who would be granted contractual rights to the produce of trees in
return for their maintenance activities. Until such time as sufficient income
is obtained from the produce of the trees, these families would be paid an
allowance sufficient to sustain them (para 16 below and Annex 4). The
planting of foreshore afforestation would be carried out by community groups
and would be financed under the project. Maintenance, harvesting, and
replacement planting of harvested trees on public foreshore land would be
carried out by community groups, who would receive 75% of the produce.
Maintenance, harvesting, and replacement planting of foreshore afforestation
on private land would be carried out by the landowners on terms and conditions
described in Annex 4. Routine and periodic maintenance of embankments not
rehabilitated under the project, including the sections with existing heavy
plantations, and the periodic maintenance of embankment sections rehabilitated



-107 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 10
under the project would be carried out either by community groups or, in the
absence of such viable groups, by contracts awarded following LCB procedures.
Funds for carrying out repairs to damages caused by floods and cyclonic storms
during the implementation period are provided for by the project. The
provision is adequate to cover storms which occur on average once every 5
years. Damage repairs would be contracted out to local contractors under
awards made following LCB procedures.
15.         The consultant responsible for implementation support would
provide advice and guidance to the implementing agencies in all technical and
social aspects of the improved O&M program. In particular, the consultant
would establish standards for all O&M activities, carry out work studies on
routine and periodic maintenance and khal re-excavation, update project rates
and work tasks, and monitor progress and evaluate the impact of the program.
During the project perod the consultant would at regular intervals update work
tasks, rates and costs. The project cost estimates include funds for seven
categories of improved O&M expenditures. These include: (i) operational
activities; (ii) routine maintenance of rehabilitated embankments inclusive of
maintenance of trees on embankment for a specified period which would be from
the end of contractual commitment of the rehabilitation work until the produce
of trees on the embankment would provide adequate income; (iii) routine and
periodic maintenance of the embankments not rehabilitated and periodic
maintenance of the embankments rehabilitated under the project; (iv) routine
and periodic maintenance of the drainage network; (v) routine and periodic
maintenance of protection works; (vi) routine and periodic maintenance of
structures; and (vii) damage repairs to earthworks, protection works and
structures, caused by floods and cyclonic storms. IDA financing of
operation/maintenance and flood and cyclone damage repairs would be at a
declining scale (85% of O&M expenditures through FY99, 65% in FYOO and FY01
and 45% in FY02. Organizational and financing aspects for the O&M activities
are given below.
16.         Operation.  BWDB's existing field divisions and sub-divisions are
adequately staffed to carry out effectively all operational activities.
However, the field staff lack a proper understanding of these activities and
their importance for proper maintenance. Training provided under the project
would improve the situation. The project would include the required costs for
activities to ensure effective operation of the polders and the work would be
executed by the existing field staff of BWDB. Operational costs are estimated
on the basis of utilizing one patrol laborer (khalashi) for 6 Km of embankment
and one gate khalashi for three structures. Provision is also made for
engineering surveys to be carried out annually and an overhead cost of 10% for
services rendered by the SO and the SDE. No separate provision is made for
patrolling drainage canals as the gate khalashi can perform this task. It is
estimated that about Tk 5,000 would be required for 1 Km;
17.         Routine or Preventive Maintenance.  The responsibility for
maintenance would be on the community. BWDB would provide the technical
advice and NGOs would be responsible for supervision. BWDB, to ensure that
standards are met, would regularly check the work and advise NGOs on measures
needed to correct any substandard work (see para 22 below). Squatters and
those made landless by land acquisition under the project (and other landless
families to the extent of available area) would be settled at the toe of the
embankment on the country side and would be given contracts allowing them to



- 108 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 10
reside on this allotment and obtain the produce of the trees on a given
section of the embankment. It is estimated that an embankment section of 250
meters (four families per Km) would produce adequate benefits to maintain a
family (Annex 4). In return, the family would provide routine maintenance of
their section of the embankment and the maintenance of trees in this reach.
They would be paid for their embankment maintenance activities by BWDB until
the trees had grown sufficiently to provide an adequate income. If hired
labor is employed, the cost of routine maintenance to ensure that the designed
profile and crest level are maintained throughout the year, and in addition
reduce periodic maintenance costs, is estimated at Tk 18,000 per Km or about
Tk 4,500 per ha of embankment for the life of the embankment. In addition to
plant and maintain trees on the embankment using hired labor would cost about
Tk 2,000 per ha on average for the first three years after embankment
completion. The arrangements under the proposed project would involve
somewhat higher costs during the initial years to sustain families until the
trees had reached sufficient maturity but would eliminate the need to pay for
routine embankment maintenance thereafter. To sustain families during the
period of maturity of trees, each family would receive Tk 9,000 in YR1,
Tk 8,000 in YR2, Tk 7,000 in YR3, Tk 6,500 in YR4. The produce of the trees
and the homestead plots should be sufficient to provide subsistence from YR5.
However, as a contingency to deal with possible delays, cost estimates provide
funds in YR5 to cover half the families receiving Tk 4,500 each. The NGOs
would monitor the actual earnings from embankment afforestation and homestead
cultivation. In case of major disruptions in a polder from the assumed
afforestation program, such as might occur due to significant storms or a
disease outbreak, the NGOs would recommend appropriate modifications to the
declining payment scale. Participating families would also be provided
seedlings and technical advice in planting approved species on the embankment
and would be reimbursed for their expenditure for fertilizer and pesticides
for the first three years. Provision would be made to remove families who do
not adequately perform their duties. Modified arrangements would apply in
Sandwip (Polder 72) and Ramgati (Polder 59/2) due to the high intensity of
squatter settlement. Groups would be organized to take responsibility for
embankment afforestation and maintenance, with each family responsible for the
maintenance and receiving the benefit of the produce of the trees for a much
smaller section of the embankment than in the standard model (perhaps 1/4 to
1/8 ha). This would not be expected to provide subsistence income but
(together with the produce from the homestead plot) would supplement whatever
sources of income had been maintaining the families up until now.
18.         Periodic Maintenance.  BWDB, assisted by consultants, would
estimate at the end of the monsoon season the requirements for the periodic
maintenance of the embankment, drainage regulators and sluices, protection
works, and the drainage network. Work plans and procurement methods would be
agreed upon and implementation would commence at the start of the dry season
and completed before the onset of the monsoons. Efforts would be made to
allocate earthwork's contracts to landless groups and destitute women groups.
In areas where such groups could not be organized, the work would be on
contracts awarded following LCB procedures. The role of NGOs is described in
para 22. Earthwork costs have been estimated based on about 800 cubic meters
of earthwork performed by labor intensive groups (Tk 30,000 per Km for
embankments, Tk 17,000 per Km for khals), protection works repairs based on
about 60 cubic meter per Km (Tk 60,000 per Km) and structure repairs at a lump
sum of Tk 10,000 per structure.  It is estimated that about 90 groups each



-109-                            ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 10
with 25 persons would be required to carry out periodic maintenance (29 groups
for areas where no rehabilitation and improvement works have been carried out
and about 60 for areas where rehabilitation and improvement has taken place).
19.         Flood or Cyclone Damacce Repairs.  Provision is made in the project
for flood and cyclone damage repairs on an annual basis. Costs estimated for
a disaster occurrence once every 5 years are calculated on a damage section of
about 3 Km (a realistic assumption as the effects of such storms would be
limited to about a reach of 3 Km). For storms occurring once every 20 and 40
years, special arrangements would be needed to fund damage repairs. It is
expected that if such storms occur after full maturity of the afforested area,
damages would be drastically reduced and GOB with its own resources would be
able to finance the works. Sections that would be affected by such cyclones
are estimated on the basis historical records and not on the full length of
the sea-facing embankments. The annual lump sums provided in the cost
estimates for damage repairs to the sections are estimated on the basis of
rates varying from a maximum of Tk 1,000,000/Km for earthwork, Tk 560,000/Km
for protection works and Tk 25,000/No for structures respectively in the first
year after completion of rehabilitation work to a minimum of Tk 60,000/Km,
Tk 460,000/Km and Tk 10,000/No in the fourth year after completion. The
reduced cost is due to the protection afforded by afforestation.
Community Participation
20.         The concept of community participation in O&M is predicated on
past experience which has shown that the maintenance of embankment,
particularly routine activities has been minimal if not non-existent. BWDB's
record in embankment maintenance is bleak and suggests that this has never
been a priority for the Board. Consequently, it is hypothesized that local
communities who stand to gain most from well maintained embankments, can be
co-opted to undertake routine maintenance on sections of the embankment
abutting or lying in close proximity to their lands. The most affected in the
local community are the squatter population living on the embankment, the
landless (people who have lost their land through erosion during cyclonic
storms and river bank erosion and people whose lands are being acquired), and
destitute women. These people would benefit most from a scheme which would
ensure a subsistence living initially and in due course an adequate income to
maintain themselves and their families. The scheme would also open the
possibility of income generating opportunities. The project also includes an
afforestation program which would be an integral part of the embankment, being
the primary source of protection against damage by cyclonic storms. It would
be difficult for the Forest Department to manage and maintain a tree planting
program on a departmental basis. This points to the desirability of community
participation in the afforestation component.
21.         Role of Locally Elected Officials and NGOs.  It is proposed to
establish locally constituted committees at each Union in the project area to
coordinate project activities in the Union. Such committees would be headed
by the Union Parishad Chairman, and would include the BWDB Subdivisional
Engineer, a Forest Department Range Officer, and representatives of the
participating NGO and DAE. This committee, particularly the Chairman of the
Union Parishad and the NGO, would be responsible, inter alia, for motivation
and organizing the individuals and their families to undertake routine
maintenance. The committee would also assist in controlling future squatter



- 110-                           ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 10
settlements on the embankment. See Annex 3 for details on the role of locally
elected officials and NGOs.
22.         The main responsibility of the NGOs for embankment maintenance
would be to organize the resettled families to carry out effectively the
routine maintenance of the embankments rehabilitated under the project.
Responsibilities would include: (a) assistance to the implementation agencies
and consultants in the resettlement of families; (b) finalizing agreements
between BWDB and the families; (c) direction and supervision of routine
maintenance activities; (d) certification of interim payments (probably
monthly), joint inspections with BWDB to check on the quality of work; and
(e) assist in disbursing monies to families. To perform their duties
effectively, particularly in the technical aspects, NGOs would receive
training in routine maintenance activities. (NGO responsibilities for
afforestation are detailed an Annex 3). For periodic maintenance, since
supervision and payments require special skills which cannot be achieved
without going through a detailed engineering course (e.g topographical
surveys, setting out etc.), NGOs would assist in the formation of groups
including the appointment of the group leader and in administration and
financial aspects of contract management such as maintaining accounting
documents and disbursement of monies to the group members. BWDB would be
responsible for awarding contracts, setting out and supervision, measurements
and payments to the group leader who would be the signatory in the contract
document.
23.         Role of the ImDlementation Support Consultant.  The scope of the
consultant services on social development activities which is directed mainly
on assistance to form effective community participation is described in detail
in Annex 6.
Imlementation Schedule
24.         Under project financing, operational activities and maintenance on
embankment sections completed under the PWP would commence in the first year
of the project (FY96), maintenance activities on the embankments rehabilitated
under the project would commence after the contractual commitments of the
civil work's contracts are fulfilled, generally in project year 3 or 4 (FY98
or FY99). Community participation in maintenance activities is described in
detail in Annex 3.
Estimated Cost
25.         The total cost over a period of seven years is estimated at
Tk 262.6 million (US$6.0 million) inclusive of price contingencies (no
allowance is made for physical contingencies) or about Tk 340,000 per Km for a
length of about 770 Km falling under the maintenance program of the project
for the project period of seven years. The annual cost of O&M based on YR4 of
the post project period would be about Tk 46 million (US$1.1 million) or
Tk 59,000 per Km (US$1,500 per Km) excluding the cost of routine maintenance
which would be carried out by families. The O&M requirements for the polders
during project implementation (yearwise) and after the project period are
given in Table 3 of this annex. (The above cost estimates exclude a total
during the project period of about $0.3 million equivalent for reimbursing
embankment settlers for fertilizer and pesticides for the first three years of



- 111 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 10
afforestation. For ease of administration these costs would be met through
the O&M budget. The fertilizer and pesticides would be financed under the
forestry component of the project.)
26.   Of the total project cost for O&M, GOB would finance about
US$2.1 million and IDA about US$3.9 million. The cost of routine maintenance
of most of the rehabilitated embankments would continue to be financed by IDA
and GOB during the project period as it is estimated that families responsible
for this maintenance activity would continue to be dependent on the
subsistence allowance until the fifth year of planting (with a contingency
provision for some families still needing continued subsistence payments in
the fifth year). However, families on PWP financed embankments would be
expected to become independent of such subsistence payments during the project
period, while families to be settled on the embankments financed under the
minor works program would require continued subsistence payments for a few
years after the project period. During the first and second post project
year, the estimated annual cost of O&M to be borne by GOB would be about Tk 53
million and Tk 49 million respectively in (FY95 prices) and when remaining
families take over the full responsibility (physical and financial) in the
third post-project year, the cost would reduce to Tk 46 million.
Acqreements to be obtained from GOB
27.         At negotiations, agreement would be reached that adequate annual
budgetary allocations would be provided for O&M, both during the project and
thereafter, including the forecast cost of repairs of damage caused by floods
and cyclonic storms of severity occurring up to once in five years, based upon
the O&M budgeting and monitoring procedures being developed by the O&M costing
and budgeting cell (under the SRP project). Current indicative estimates of
budgetary requirements are given in Table 3 of this Annex. In addition, BWDB
would be expected by June 30, 1997 to update the present O&M manual and
operational plan for the project polders to include details of community
participation in embankment routine maintenance and the concept of
afforestation as a protective measure.
File: CERPO&M.ANS



Annex 5
Table 1
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect
Routine 1/ and Periodic 5/ Maintenance and Numbers of Families and GrouDs
No
Minor      Rehabilitation/ImDrovements
Polder          Maior PWP & CERP               CERP                ProDosed 2/                     Total
Interior/                      Inter./
Sea/River               Marginal        Sea/River      Marginal
Lqth    Fms     Fms        Lqth    Fms    Lath   Grps   Lqth    Grps   Lqth        Fms   Fms      Grps
Grps     3/                 3./             4/              4/                   Grps      4/
(Km)    (No)    (No)       (Km)   (No)    (Km)   (No)   (Km)    (No)    (Km)   (No)   (No)         (No)
1. Shara5 khola    10.0       _       24      17.0     24    20.6      2     18.0       2    65.6     48       _        4 ~
P35/1
2. Pathergatha     13.0       _       41         -     -      7.5      1     22.5       2    43.0     41       _        3
P40/2__ _ _                                      __  _ _
3. Kuakata P48     10.0       -       40       2.0      6     6.7      2     15.7       2    34.4     46       -       4
4. Ramgati         17.0      16       39         -     -         -     -        -       -    17.0     39      16        -
P59/2 6/                 (81)                                                                             (81)
5. Sudharam        22.0               93         -     -     28.5      5     19.5       2    70.0     93       -       7
P59/3B
6. Companiganj     16.0       _       68         -     -     16.0      3     11.3       1    43.3     68               4 4
P59/3C         ____
7. Sonagazi         8.0       _       30         -     -     18.5      2     13.5       1    40.0     30               3 3
P60
B. Sitakundu       21.0       -80-                     --              --               -    210      8--
P61/ 1



Annex 5
Table 1
Page 2 of 4
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect
Routine 1/ and Periodic 5/ Maintenance and Numbers of Families and GrouPs
No
Minor      Rehabilitation/Improvements
Polder          Major PWP & CERP             CERP                Proposed 2/                    Total
Interior/                     Inter./
Sea/River              Marginal       Sea/River      Marginal
L th    Fms     Fms       Lqth    Fms    Lath  Grps   Lath    GrPs   Lqth       Fms   Fms     Grps
Grps     3/                3/             4/              4/                  Grps      4/
(Km)    (No)    (No)      (Km)   (No)    (Km)   (No)   (Km)    (No)    (Km)   (No)   (No)      (No)
9. Patenga         16.0      _       68        _    _          -    _         -      -    16.0    68       -        _
P62
0./Anowara          21.0      _       82         _     _        _     _        _      -    21.0    82        _       _
P63/1A
11. Bashkhali       56.0      _      213        _-                                    -    56.0    213
P64/1 IA
12. Chanua          22.0      _       86        -     -         _     _    13.0       1    35.0     86       _       1
P64 /1C                                         __ _ _ ____
13. Chakoria        18.0              70     50.0   103         _-                    -   68.0   173                 _
P64/2B
14. Kurushkul        5.0      _       19     13.7     28        _-                    -   18.7    47        _        _
P66/1                                                                               I
15. Cox's Bazaar   10.0 |             38  |          _ |                    13.0      1    23.0     38               1
P66/3        1 13.    _           51- 1                                             1 15         4 1    - ___
16. Teknafj 13.0                      54        -        I      -            5.5      1    18.5     54 
P 6 8                                          I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _     _ _ _ 1 _ _ _ _ 1 _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Annex 5
Table 1
Page 3 of 4
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect
Routine 1/ and Periodic 5/ Maintenance and Numbers of Families and Groups
No
Minor      Rehabilitation/ImDrovements
Polder          Maior PWP & CERP               CERP                Proposed 2/                      Total
Interior/                      Inter./
Sea/River               Marginal        Sea/River      Marginal
Ith    Fims      Fmis      Lth    Fms    Lqth   Grs   Lqth    Grps   Lath          Fms   Fms      Grs
Grps     3/                 3/              4/              4/                   Grps       4/
(Km)    (No)    (No)       (Km)   (No)    (Km)   (No)   (Km)    (No)    (Km)   (No)   (No)         (No)
17. Moheskhali      13.0       _       58         _     _         _     _         _      -    13.0      58      _        _
P69
18. Matherbari      12.0       -       36       8.0     18      =       =      2.0       1    22.0      54               1
P70I
19. Kutubdia        39.0       -      132         _-                              -      -    39.0    132       _      _
P71
20. Sandwip         60.0      15      225         _-                 -                   -    60.0    225      15        _
P72 7/                  (106)                                                                    _       (106)
21. Hatiya           6.0       -       26      38.0     89        _-              -      -    44.0    115       -        -
P73/lA&IB
Total         408.0      31     1,522   128.7    268    97.8    15    134.0        14   768.5   1790      31      29
B/ (187)
(187)                                                                              8/-



Annex 5
TableT1
Notes                                                                                          Page 4 of 4
1/    Routine maintenance include the area covered by the slopes and crest.
2/    The lengths specified under the column Interior/Marginal Embankments where no works are proposed are limited to
the sections to be maintained under the project. The remaining sections are in a stable condition or covered with
intensive plantations
3/    Number of families is estimated on the basis of an hectare for routine maintenance with the exception of Ramgati
and Sandwip.
4/    Groups of 25 persons would carry out the routine and periodic maintenance of the embankment reaches where no
rehabilitation and improvements works are proposed under PWP and CERP. Twenty nine groups are estimated to be
required for this purpose. Similar groups would carry out the periodic maintenance of the sections where routine
maintenance is carried out by individual families. For this work about 60 groups would be required annually.
Members of the families responsible for routine maintenance could also participate in the periodic maintenance.
5/    Periodic maintenance is estimated to be carried out on a portion of the embankment at a frequency of two years.
6/    At Ramgati 81 squatter families on the portion to be resectioned would be accommodated within this portion.  Each
family would be responsible to maintain about 0.2 of an ha. The income of the male members are reported to be
mainly from fishing. The female members would be mainly used for maintenance.
7/    At Sandwip, the project would provide for the resettlement of all squatters in the 3.7 km portion of the
resectioned embankment from ch 46.0 to 49.7, 106 families in the same reach of the embankment.  This is due to the
possible refusal of these squatters to resettle far away from the town. The squatters living in the remaining
portion of the resectioned embankment would be resettled in the completed PWP embankments. The resettlement for
the maintenance of the resectioned embankment between ch 49.7 to 53.4, and 57.77 to 58.33, the new embankment
under CERP and the PWP embankments would be on the basis of 4 per km, with each family maintaining an ha.  The
families resttled between ch 46.0 to 49.7 would maintain about 0.14 of an ha.
8/    Total number of families inclusive of members of family groups carrying out routine maintenance is 1,977.
File: ANX5SAR.T1 (formerly ANSTlROU.APP, and initially Roumn.APP revised March 7, 1995)



- 116 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT (CERP)
Annual O&M Costs Inclusive of Price Contingencies
Financial Year       FY96   FY97   FY998   FY99   FYOO    FYO1   FY02  Total
---------------------Tk million----------------------
Operations            0.5    1.6    2.7    3.9    4.1       4.2    4.5   21.5
Rehab. Embankment
Routine              0.4    3.6    8.6   13.9   16.8    14.7   10.7    68.7
Embankment
Periodic 1/          0.4    3.8    7.7   13.3   14.8    15.2   16.7    71.9
Khals Routine
& Periodic             -    0.2    0.2    1.5    3.3       4.1    4.3    13.6
Protection Wks.
Rout. & Periodic       -    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.5       0.5    0.6      2.0
Structures Rout.
& Periodic             -    0.1    0.2    1.1    1.6       1.7    1.9     6.6
Floods & Cyclone
Damage Repairs         -      -     0.2   21.1   20.3    19.0   17.7    78.3
Total               1.3    9.4   19.7  55.0   61.4    59.4   56.4  262.6
File: ANX50&M.T2 (formerly ANST20&M.APP)
Cost of routine maintenance of embankment sections not being
rehabilitated under the project is included.



- 117 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 1 or 2
BANGLADESH
Coaal Embanint Reoabilitation Project
0 & M Budget Requirmets - Project and Post Project Penod
Project Period              -Post Project-
Division    Polder             FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY00  FY01  FY02  FY03  FY04  FY05  FY06
TX mn
Bagerhat    Sharankhola (P35/1)    -   -    1.70   4.60   4.90   4.70   4.90   4.70   4.50   4.30   4.30
-     -    0.26   0.69   1.72   1.65   2.70   4.70   4.50   4.30   4.30
Barguna    Patergatha (P40/2)   0.20   0.20   1.10   3.00   3.50   3.60   3.40   3.30   3.20   3.10   3.10
0.03   0.03   0.17   0.45   1.23   1.26   1.87  3.30   3.20   3.10   3.10
Kuakata (P48)        -     -      -    2.50   3.20   2.50   3.70   3.60   3.40   3.30   3.30
-     -      -    0.38   1.12   0.83   2.04   3.60   3.40   3.30   3.30
Sub-Total           0.20   0.20   2.80  10.10  11.60  10.80  12.00  11.60  11.10  10.70  10.70
0.03   0.03   0.42   1.52   4.06   3.78   6.60  11.60  1.10  10.70  10.70
Lokhipur   Ragati (P59/2)        -     -    0.10   1.50   3.10   3.90   3.80   3.70   3.50   3.30   3.30
-     -    0.02   0.23   L09   1.37   2.09   3.70   3.50   3.30   3.30
Hfatiya (P73/IA&IB)    -   -    0.60   2.30   3.40   3.30   3.30   3.00   2.70   2.20   2.20
-    0.09   0.35   1.19   1.16   1.82   3.00   2.70   2.20   2.20
Sub-Total            -     -    0.70   3.80   6.50   7.20   7.10  6.70   6.20   5.50   5.50
-    0.11   0.57   2.28   2.52   3.91   6.70  6.20   5.50   5.50
Noahkhali  Sudharam (P59/3B)     -     -    0.40   2.30   3.60   3.20   3.00   2.80   2.60   2.30   2.30
-     -    0.06   0.35   1.26   1.12   1.65   2.80   2.60   2.30   2.30
Companiganj (P59/3C   -    -    1.30   1.60   2.90   2.90   2.20   2.10   1.90   1.80   1.80
-     -    0.20   0.24   1.02   1.02   1.21  2.10   1.90   1.80   1.30
Songazi (P60)        -     -    0.10   3.00   1.90   2.40   2.50   2.40   2.30   2.20   2.20
-     -    0.02   0.45   0.67   0.84   1.38   2.40   2.30   2.20   2.20
Sub-Total            -           1.80   6.90   8.40   8.50   7.70   7.30   6.80   6.30   6.30
-     -    0.27   1.04   2.94   2.98   4.24   7.30   6.80   6.30   6.30
Chittagong  Sitakundu (P61/1)    -     -    1.00   2.80   2.50   2.30   2.10   2.00   1.80   1.60   1.60
-     -    0.15   0.42   0.88   0.81   1.16  2.00   1.30   1.60   1.60
Anowara (P63/1A)     -    0.20   0.10   1.70   2.70   3.10   3.10  2.90   2.60   2.40   2.40
-    0.03   0.02   0.26   0.95   1.09   1.71   2.90   2.60   2.40   2.40
Bashkhali (P64/lA)    0.70   1.40   2.80   4.10   3.60   3.00   2.10   1.90   1.70   1.60   1.60
0.11  0.21   0.42   0.62   1.26   1.05   1.16  1.90   1.70   1.60   1.60
Chanua (P64/IC)      -    0.70   1.40   1.50   1.90   1.90   1.70   1.50   1.30   1.20   1.20
-    0.11   0.21   0.23   0.67   0.67   0.94   1.50   1.30   1.20   1.20



- 118 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 2 or 2
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project
0 & M Budget Requirements - Project and Post Project Period
Project Period                        Post Project
Division    Polder             FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY00  FY01  FY02  FY03  FY04  FYOS  FY06
TK million
Sandwip (P72)       0.10   2.00   2.70   6.30   5.80   5.60   5.10   4.80   4.50   3.90   3.90
0.02   0.30   0.41   0.95   2.03   1.96   2.81   4.80   4.50   3.90   3.90
Patenga (P62)       0.20   0.80   1.10   2.10   2.40   2.70   2.60   2.50   2.50   2.50   2.50
0.03   0.12   0.17   0.32   0.84   0.95   1.43   2.50   2.50   2.50   2.50
Sub-Total           1.00   5.10   9.10  18.50  18.90  18.60  16.70  15.60  14.40  13.20  13.20
0.15   0.77   1.37   2.78   6.62   6.51   9.19  15.60  14.40  13.20  13.20
Cox's Bazaar Kurushkul (P66/1)   -      -      -     1.70   1.60   1.40   1.40   1.30   1.10   1.00   1.00
0.26   0.56   0.49   0.77   1.30   1.10   1.00   1.00
Teknaf(P68)                 -           2.00   2.00   1.90   1.80   1.60   1.40   1.20   1.20
* -  -    0.30   0.70   0.67   0.99   1.60   1.40   1.20   1.20
Chakoria (P64/2B)   0.10   1.60   1.60   3.30   3.90   3.60   3.30   3.00   2.70   2.30   2.30
0.02   0.24   0.24   0.50   1.37   1.26   1.82   3.00   2.70   2.30   2.30
Cox'x Baaar (P66/3)   -    0.80   0.30   1.20   1.20   1.30   1.20   1.10   1.00   0.90   0.90
-    0.12   0.05   0.18   0.42   0.46   0.66   1.10   1.00   0.90   0.90
Moheshkhbli (P69)    -    0.20   1.10   1.80   1.60   1.40   1.10   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
-    0.03   0.17   0.27   0.56   0.49   0.61   1.00   1.00   1.00   1.00
Matherbari (P70)     -      -    0.30   1.90   1.90   1.70   1.60   1.40   1.20   1.10   1.10
-     -    0.05   0.29   0.67   0.60   0.88   1.40   1.20   1.10   1.10
Kutubdia (P71)       -     1.50   2.00   3.80   3.80   3.00   2.50   2.50   2.50   2.50   2.50
-    0.23   0.30   0.57   1.33   1.05   1.38   2.50   2.50   2.50   2.50
Sub-Total           0.10   4.10   5.30  15.70  16.00  14.30  12.90  11.90  10.90  10 00  10 00
0.02   0.62   0.80   2.36   5.60   5.01   7.10  11.90  10.90  10.00  10.00
Grand Total                     1.30   9.40  19.70  55.00  61.40  59.40  56.40  53.10  49.40  45.70  45.70
0.20   1.41   2.96   8.25  21.49  20.79  31.02  53.10  49.40  45.70  45.70
NOTES:    1. Costs are for all the activities detailed in table 2 of Annex 5.
2. For the project period, the bold figures denote expenditures to be finenced by GOB, with the balance amounts to
be disbursed by IDA
3. The bold figures during the post project period are expenditures to be fully financed by GOB. During FY03 and
FY04 a part of the family labor cost on routine maintenance is excluded and from FY05 up to the full life of the
project families would bear the full cost of routine maintenance and is not included in the costing.
4. The FY06 cost would be the annual cost thereafter and includes all items of O&M with the exception of routine
maintenance.



- 119 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 26
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Project Implementation and Evaluation
1.         This Annex provides draft Terms of Reference for consultant's
services to assist the implementing agencies in: (a) construction planning and
supervision of civil works in the rehabilitation and improvement component;
(b) the afforestation program; (c) the operation and maintenance of
infrastructure of the polders; (d) the maintenance of the foreshore
afforestation development; (e) organizing with the assistance of the NGOs for
communities to effectively carry out routine maintenance and afforestation of
the embankment and foreshore afforestation; and (f) monitoring and impact
assessment.
Background
2.         The severe cyclone, which hit the south eastern part of the country
on April 29, 1991 caused extensive damages to the coastal embankment and left
large areas virtually unprotected against tidal flooding and cyclone surges.
The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) through a Priority Works Program (PWP)
commencing in FY93 is near to completion of a program of reconstruction and
improvement works of the sea facing embankments in ten polders included in the
Mid-Term Plan which were the worst affected by the cyclone. Work includes
about 190 km of embankment resectioning, 60 km of retired embankments (new),
allied protection works and repair or replacement of drainage structures.
Under the on-going technical assistance financed by the European Community
(EC) consultants provide the project support which includes: (a) the
preparation of engineering documentation; (b) assistance in the evaluation of
bids following ICB procedures; (c) contract management and supervision of all
contracts awarded following ICB procedures; (d) training of staff in
preparation of tender documents, supervision organization, quality control,
site administration, and contractual and legal aspects of contract management;
and (e) monitoring and evaluation of the social impacts, and planning social
development programs including a system for the future Operation and
Maintenance (O&M) of the completed polders mainly directed towards the
participation of the community. In addition, consultants are responsible for
the preparation of engineering documentation inclusive of tender documents for
the eleven polders of the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project (CERP)
with new major works. The social development team are also assisting in
developing programs for community participation in CERP.
3.         Project support for CERP, whilst continuing the emphasis on
supervision and contract management of major civil works contracts to be
awarded following ICB procedures, would include: (a) review, updating and, as
appropriate, revision of detailed engineering documentation of minor civil
works prepared by Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) and the Systems



- 120 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 26
Rehabilitation Project (SRP); (b) assistance in field supervision and quality
control of minor civil works; and (c) assistance to the effective
implementation of the afforestation component and the improved O&M component.
The program of civil works would cover: (i) major reconstruction for about 78
km of embankment resectioning, 73 km of new embankments, protection works and
allied drainage structures of the twelve polders (including work remaining in
one PWP polder); and (ii) in seventeen polders, minor works comprising about
130 km of embankment resectioning, 4 km of new interior embankments,
repairs/replacement of about 145 allied drainage structures, and about 390 km
re-excavation of drainage canals (khals). The programs of afforestation and
improved O&M would be undertaken in twenty-one polders.
Scope of Consultant Services
4.        The consultant's services would cover the following:
(a) contract management and supervision of all major civil works under
the direction of the BWDB inclusive of monitoring of progress and
quality control;
(b) assistance to BWDB in the tendering and award of two ICB contracts
(one major works and one minor works) for completion of PWP works
and one ICB major works contract of additional works (tentatively
estimated to require 6 km of retirement) to cope with recent
erosion.
(c) checking of preconstruction documentation of all minor civil works
prepared by BWDB and the SRP consultants and in association with
BWDB, making changes as required;
(d) assistance to BWDB in the field supervision and monitoring of
quality control of minor civil works;
(e) assistance to the Forest Department and BWDB, in conjunction with
NGOs, in implementing the afforestation program in all technical
and financial aspects inclusive of monitoring of progress and
quality. In addition assistance would include pilot operations
testing use of vetiver grass on project embankments.
(f) assistance to BWDB in implementing the improved O&M component;
(g) in association with NGOs, assistance in planning social development
programs, including a system for the involvement of the community
in the maintenance of completed works;
(h) undertaking monitoring of physical and financial progress and the
economic and social impact in twenty one polders of the Mid-Term
Program;



- 121 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 26
(i) assistance in monitoring to identify any adverse environmental
effects and proposing appropriate mitigating measures;
(j) providing coordination between this project and programs under
other projects, including in particular, the on-going IDA assisted
Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP), to improve
agricultural productivity in the project area; and
(k) providing specialist inputs to the training program and for studies
to identify the possibility of cost-effective town protection works
for Sandwip.
Responsibilities of the Consultant
5.        Preconstruction Activities.  The consultants supervising
implementation of the PWP project would also be responsible for preparation of
the engineering documents for the major civil works in the eleven new CERP
polders and assisting BWDB in the tendering process. These activities are
expected to be completed before the appointment of the consultants financed
under this project. The project consultants will however be responsible for
preparing new ICB tender documents for about $3 million of work for completion
of PWP works. In addition, the consultants would review alternatives and
prepare a proposed design for cost-effective works to cope with recent erosion
in one of the polders and, after review and approval of the proposal, prepare
ICB tender documents. (About $2 million has been tentatively allocated for
these works.) BWDB field divisions provided the data needed for costing the
minor works.  In addition the SRP consultant carried out feasibility studies
for most of the polders under CERP and PWP, and completed engineering
documentation suitable for tendering. However, some of the feasibility
studies and engineering designs dealt inadequately with environmental and
social conditions and cost effectiveness and do not provide a practical guide
to finalize the engineering documentation for implementation of the minor
works program. The CERP consultant, in association with BWDB field divisions,
would review the proposals, revise the feasibility studies and finalize a cost
effective and practical implementation program. Particular attention would be
paid to minimizing resettlement. After approval of the program, the
consultant would prepare the bidding documents following LCB procedures for
embankment repairs, minor retirements, and repairs/replacement of structures.
Quantities for khal re-excavation and documents suitable for carrying out the
work under the FFW program would also be prepared. Additional surveys
required would be carried by BWDB.
6.        Contract ManaQement and Supervision.  All major civil works in a
polder would be awarded as one contract package following ICB procedures. The
package shall include earthworks, protection works and allied drainage
structures. In most cases, there would be one contract for each polder, but
in a few cases two polders would be included in one package. All minor works
with the exception of Khal re-excavation would be carried out on contracts
awarded following LCB procedures or by landless or destitute women groups



- 122 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 26
contracted on the basis of the engineer's estimatell. Re-excavation of khals
would be carried out on the FFW program. The consultant's field staff
(specifically recruited for the work) would assist BWDB field divisions in the
supervision of all minor works carried out by local contractors, the community
groups and the FFW program. Particularly, consultants would monitor the
quality of work and ensure that early remedial action is taken by BWDB to
rectify any substandard work.
7.        For works awarded on ICB procedures, the consultant would
responsible for the overall and on-site supervision of the contractors
undertaking construction, including supplementary designs, where needed.
Specifically the consultant would be required to:
(a) initially on receipt of the program of execution from contractors
under the terms of the works contract, prepare a program for the
mobilization of his resident site staff and submit this to BWDB for
approval, prior to the actual mobilization;
(b) set up suitable site supervision teams, with adequate staff who
shall reside at each polder, to supervise in association with BWDB
divisional and subdivisional staff and report on the works under
the contract in accordance with the works contract document. The
consultant shall ensure that field supervision are present
continuously at site throughout construction activities. Paras 17
and 18 specify guidelines to assist the consultant in setting up an
effective organization;
(c) ensure that the pre-work surveys are carried out by the contractor
during the mobilization period and plans submitted to the
consultant within two weeks of the commencement of such work. The
consultant should ensure that no work is done by the contractor
without approval of the pre-work survey plans and quantities.
(d) approve the contractor's superintendence and key personnel;
(e) approve the contractor's plant and equipment;
(f) order the removal and replacement of improper materials and work;
(g) check and approve the necessary measurements and calculations for
the contractor's interim running bills and certifying such bills;
(h) examine at site the measurement of any work which is about to be
covered up or put out of view before permanent work is placed
thereon and/or examine and attend the measuring of the completed
work;
1.        Landless  and destitute women groups  would be  limited  to minor
embankment repairs, and minor slips at structures.



- 123 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 26
(i) call and keep minutes of routine site meetings between the parties
of the contract;
(j) complete supplementary details of hydraulic structures required by
the contractors. Required topographical and soil surveys would be
carried out by the contractors under the direction of the
consultant;
(k) provide the required information for the contractor to set out the
works and check the accuracy of the setting out, specifically the
setting up of reference points inclusive of establishment of bench
marks with datum levels set to the required degree of accuracy;
(1) review the contractor's work proposal, working drawings etc. in
accordance with the requirements of the works contract document,
advise modifications as necessary and recommend these proposals for
approval;
(m)  review the contractor's work program, and where necessary request
revisions to account for the current status of the works;
(n) through the chief construction engineers, resident engineers,
technical officers and other on-site field staff, supervise the day
to day operations of the contractor to ensure compliance with the
contract;
(o) supervise tests on materials to be used in the works prior to
incorporation, approve type, quality and source of materials and in
addition tests to be carried by the contractor on completed works
required for ensuring that works meet the standards specified in
the works contract. All labor, materials and equipment required
for tests would be at contractor's expense.
B.        In addition the consultant would be required to:
(a) make recommendations to BWDB on the contractor's claims for
additional payment, extensions of time and other contractual
matters, the relevant site conditions and the contractor's detailed
submissions;
(b) in the event of variations to the works being required, prepare the
necessary documents, negotiate with the contractor and submit the
variation order to BWDB for approval;
(c)  maintain detailed diaries of relevant events and activities;
(d) set up and maintain a correspondence and document storage and
retrieval system to record all relevant communications between the
parties to the contract, all measurement and quality control
details and variations to the work as they occur;



- 124 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 26
(e) maintain as built drawings and documents;
(f) prepare monthly progress reports for each contract in a form
acceptable to BWDB and IDA. These reports will include as a
minimum, details of the physical and financial status of each
contract, details of delays and the budgetary effect of these and
particular problems with suggested solutions;
(g) carry out final inspections of the works and recommend the issue of
the final certificates;
(h) check and certify the contractor's progress payments and after the
final inspection, the final accounts and certify them correct for
payment;
(i) check and certify reimbursement claims to be forwarded to IDA. In
a separate correspondence and document storage and retrieval
system, record all relevant correspondence related to reimbursement
claims;
(j) prepare completion reports in a form acceptable to BWDB and IDA;
(k) during the 12 month contractor maintenance period, the consultant
would periodically check the completed work. Shortly before the
end of the maintenance period, the consultant would carry out the
necessary inspections, specify the rectification work to be done,
supervise this as required, and recommend to BWDB the issuance of
the maintenance certificate.
(1) to ensure the early resettlement of families for the afforestation
of embankment slopes and for routine maintenance the consultants
shall take over the completed section of embankment (new and
resection) and the contractor's work program shall be proposed
accordingly to meet the targets set for afforestation and
resettlement.
9.        For minor civil works such as resectioning or new embankments,
repair or replacement of structures and minor revetments, the consultant would
design records to be maintained at the consultant's site office and monitor
the keeping of such records, including all data for preparing reimbursement
claims. Consultant's would specifically be required to:
(a) finalize the detailed designs, considering both issues of the
stability of embankments and resettlement of displaced families;
(b) establish sufficient reference points set by BWDB for control of
alignment and levels to the required degree of accuracy;
(c) enforce construction procedures, and check at critical stages of
construction such as: for hydraulic structures, excavation of
foundations, fabrication and erection of formwork, reinforcement



- 125 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 26
placement, concrete pours, and fabrication and erection of gates
and lifting mechanism; and for earthfill, compaction in embankment
fill and backfill at structures. In addition assist BWDB in
supervision by posting sufficient numbers of site supervisors of
the level of Works Assistants;
(d) assist BWDB in processing contractor's claims for additional
payments, extensions of time and variation orders;
(e) maintain a detailed diary of relevant events for each polder. The
diary would contain records of field observations given by
consultants staff, discussions with staff of the zonal, circle and
field divisions and subdivisions of the implementation organization
BWDB, comments on quality and progress, actions taken by BWDB and
contractors, and any relevant information that would ensure the
required construction standards and progress;
(f) prepare monthly progress reports for each polder. These reports
would include as a minimum, details of physical and financial
progress, the preconstruction activities, status of reimbursement
claims;
(g) check and certify progress payment claims and the final payment and
certifying reimbursement claims; and
(h) check work during the maintenance period and recommendation to BWDB
on the issue of the maintenance certificate and refund of the
security deposit.
10.       During the pre-construction phase of the minor civil works program,
the consultants staff of the unit in headquarters, and the field offices of
the chief construction engineer, the regional resident engineers, and the site
would, in addition to their responsibilities for the major civil works, carry
out the required pre-construction activities. During the construction period
the consultants staff at the site level (particularly the grade of technical
officers) would be increased sufficiently to ensure effective supervision,
The consultant would also during the pre-construction phase prepare a proposal
for the mobilization of his site staff, detailing the grades of staff, their
qualifications and experience and their responsibilities. This program would
be submitted to BWDB for review and discussion at least 6 months prior to the
start of construction. The agreed proposal would be implemented with staff
posted to the sites at least one month prior to the commencement of
construction.
11.       Imvroved O&M.  Past experience indicates that progressive
deterioration of embankments due to poor maintenance aggravated the collapse
of embankments during cyclonic and monsoon storms. Although BWDB has adequate
staff to carry out operational activities, they are not capable at present of
identifying and supervising maintenance activities which are critical to a
sustainable system. It is reported that in addition to budgetary constraints,
the lack of motivation and training in maintenance activities are the main



- 126 -
ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 26
reasons for the present unsatisfactory situation. The project's main focus
would be to introduce a system that would include routine or preventive
maintenance carried out throughout the year and periodic maintenance
(proposed once every two years) carried out during the dry season. In
addition, during the project period, funds are provided for repairs to damages
caused by floods and cyclonic storms of a scale expected to occur on average
up to once every five years. The Government's contribution to the repair of
such damage could be provided when a disaster occurs. It is expected that
with afforestation as the main protection measure, once the trees have grown
sufficiently, damage due to disasters would be minimized and for normal annual
cyclonic and monsoon storms, maintenance costs would be drastically reduced
and eliminated if routine maintenance is carried out effectively. Activities
for an effective program for improved O&M are described in detail in Annex 5.
Consultant's role would be to assist the staff of the implementing agencies,
and, with major input from participating NGOs, to motivate and guide the
elected members of the Union Parishad and the benefitted community, in
carrying out maintenance activities. Consultant would be required to;
(a) prepare a simplified manual for the operational staff of BWDB.
This would include activities to be performed and responsibilities;
(b) review estimates of O&M quantities and costs for each polder and
update as required. This may require a work study to determine
reaches that could be effectively carried out by a patrol laborer
for operational activities and by a laborer for routine
maintenance.  Consultant would also monitor short reaches of the
drainage canals to determine the quantity of silt and the frequency
of desilting operations;
(c) assist the implementing agencies in effectively running the routine
maintenance program, using settlers as described elsewhere in this
report. During implementation consultant would identify problems
in running the proposed program, specifically the performance of
families, their capacity to effectively maintain the allocated
sections, and requirements for additional training or supervision
and suggest changes as needed;
(d) assist BWDB and NGOs in supervision of periodic maintenance of
rehabilitated embankments, periodic and routine maintenance of
embankments not rehabilitated under the project and periodic and
routine maintenance of structures and the drainage network, which
would be carried out by community groups or on small scale
contracts awarded under LCB procedures. Consultant would identify
and cost separately routine and periodic maintenance activities and
the frequency of such operations. The proposed program for such
works should be completed before the end of FY98, and changes as
needed and updating would be carried out during the maintenance
period;



- 127 -
ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 26
(e) assist in the training of NGOs to supervise routine maintenance
activities and associate with NGOs in the certification process
proposed for payments to families by BWDB; and
(f) assist in damage assessment after flood and cyclonic storm
disasters, and prepare programs with detail engineering
documentation for implementation;
(g) prepare annual work programs for each polder and a composite
program for all polders in the Mid-Term Plan;
(h) establish a management information system (MIS) at each regional
office of the consultant and the Project Management Unit at
headquarters which would also be the headquarters's office of the
consultant. The purpose of the MIS is for monitoring of physical
and financial progress, and recording of relevant data needed for
carrying out the evaluation study; and
(i) give the necessary support to ensure that community participation
in O&M is ensured and effective. This would involve working
closely with NGOs and the elected members of the local government.
Particularly the consultant would be involved in the formation of
landless and destitute groups to undertake maintenance activities.
12.       Afforestation Development is critical to the security of the
embankment. It is cost effective and replaces the high cost option of block
revetment works which in the past have not been effective. Afforestation of
the embankment and foreshore is included in the program. The planting of
selected species of trees on the slopes of the embankment would commence after
the completion of earthworks in resectioned and new embankments. Efforts are
being made to organize on a pilot basis planting on embankments in a few PWP
polders (40 ha) and on the foreshores (80 ha). Forestry models have been
prepared. Initial nursery development would be carried out in FY96. It is
hoped that the consultant for PWP, with sub-contracted NGOs, would implement
the pilot schemes and nursery development in the second half of 1995. This
would provide an opportunity to ascertain the communities interest in the
afforestation component within a social forestry concept. The specialist
forestry team of the consultant would review the forestry models and, if
possible, in the context of experience gained from the pilot schemes and their
site experience, recommend changes to ensure effective development of
afforestation. Specifically the forestry team of the consultant would be
required to carry out the following responsibilities:
(a)  For the embankment afforestation, the forestry team would:
(i) review proposals for afforestation in the context of technical
and organizational feasibility and recommend changes as needed to
the proposed plan; (ii) make a firm schedule for afforestation of
the ten PWP polders; and (iii) review the construction schedule for
resectioning and new embankment construction and recommend changes
as needed to the afforestation schedule (Annex 4 of the Staff
Appraisal Report), updating this as construction work progresses.



- 128 -
ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 26
As embankment afforestation is to be carried out by families
(Annexes 3, 4, and 5 of the Staff Appraisal Report), the schedule
for planting would depend on the resettlement program. Given the
need to forest the slopes at the earliest opportunity to protect
the embankment from erosion, and to generate income for resettled
families prior to the physical resettlement, the selected families
should be mobilized as soon as possible to carry out planting;
(b) It is proposed to plant vetiver grass along the edges of the crest
of the embankment in a pilot area, and depending upon the results
to select vetiver or other hedge row species for use in the general
model. Longer term experiments would determine whether the canopy
would allow sufficient sunlight to penetrate to permit use of
vetiver on other portions of the embankment. The forestry team
would supervise these experiments and develop appropriate programs
based on the results of these experiments;
(c) for the foreshore afforestation, the forestry team would, using the
foreshore topographical, tidal and forestry polder maps prepared by
BWDB and Forest Department (FD) and, after site visits, review the
foreshore afforestation proposals in association with the FD and
NGOs. Changes as needed would be proposed in the implementation
schedule. During the maintenance phase, the consultants would also
observe conditions and make recommendations as appropriate;
(d) in order to prepare detailed plans for the planting of individual
embankment and foreshore sites, NGOs would undertake a
participative rural appraisal (PRA) exercise in each polder. The
consultants would assist in planning and coordinating this PRA and
will actively participate in the field work. The consultants would
review the PRA reports for each polder and assist NGOs, FD and BWDB
in formulation of detailed afforestation plans;
(e) The consultants would assess the seedling requirements for each
polder and identify existing sources of seedling supply. Together
with the FD and NGOs, they would plan the development of any
additional nurseries that are required with, as far as possible,
responsibility for nursery operation (other than for mangroves)
being given to NGOs who would assist landless people to establish
nursery operations. The consultants would also advise on
appropriate nursery methods and identify sources of improved tree
seed.
(f) The consultant's forestry team would identify training needs in
forestry for NGO staff and project participants. Together with the
consultant's training coordinator, they would specify the content
of training courses and help select appropriate training personnel.
(g) The consultants would review applications for disbursement for
afforestation and certify the quantity and quality of work
performed.



- 129 -
ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 26
13.       Community Involvement.  The main facilitator in involving the
community in afforestation and improved O&M would be NGOs operating at the
polder level. Given the diversity of activities in which NGOs will be
involved (mobilization, organization of groups and individuals for O&M,
afforestation and tree maintenance) and the diversity of coastal areas and
conditions, it is anticipated that BWDB and FD would each sign a separate
contract for each polder for BWDB's responsibilities for embankment
maintenance and afforestation and FD's responsibilities for foreshore
afforestation and assistance in nursery establishment. This implies that up
to 42 different NGOs could be involved, although FD and BWDB would attempt to
the extent possible to select the same NGO in a particular polder.
Standardization of contracts and coordination will be required to guarantee
quality and continuity of services provided. The consultant's rural
development team, with inputs from the engineering team, would provide close
support for these NGOs, as well as assisting the implementing agencies in
community development efforts. Specifically, the consultant would be required
to:
(a) assist in the selection and contracting of NGOs to participate in
project implementation. In discussion with BWDB, FD and
prospective NGOs, refine the scope of activities and
responsibilities. Review and make recommendations on applications
from NGOs, and on the criteria used to select NGOs.
(b) coordinate and assist NGOs in planning and carrying out a
participative rural appraisal (PRA) exercise in each polder to plan
in detail the implementation of the afforestation component.
Advise on the methodology for PRA, and on how social and cultural
factors can be assessed and incorporated into the afforestation
plan. Participate in as many PRA teams as manpower allows.
(c) review the results of the PRA, and assist NGOs in developing a
programme to support afforestation, O&M and other activities.
Together with NGOs draw up a detailed work plan covering all
aspects of NGOs' activities on individual polders, and including
cost budgets. Assist in establishing community groups to carry out
periodic maintenance activities and foreshore afforestation.
(d) help NGOs prepare proposals for activities to be financed from a
Community Development Fund (CDF) to be established in association
with the project, monitor the impact of the fund and make
recommendations concerning future disbursements. This fund is
intended to provide resources to implement supporting poverty
alleviation programs aimed at strengthening project activities and
group cohesion. This may involve water supplies and sanitary
facilities for embankment settlers, training and education
programmes, and income generating activities. The latter could in
particular aim at processing and marketing of project outputs such
as coconuts.



- 130 -
ANNEX 6
Page 12 of 26
(e) monitor the progress of: (i) land acquisition and the payment of
compensation to project affected persons; and (ii) the resettlement
of embankment squatters at the toe of the embankment.
(f) identify training requirements for NGO staff, and assist in the
training of NGOs in project planning, community mobilization and
group formation activities;
(g) monitor and coordinate NGO activities and assist in their relations
with BWDB and FD. The consultant will establish a monitoring
system involving a simple monthly reporting form for individual
polders linked to a computerized MIS at the zonal or headquarters
level. This will record NGO activities, measure progress against
agreed workplans, and identify constraints and bottlenecks. If an
NGO fails to perform satisfactorily, then the consultant will
recommend remedial measures which may include termination of its
contract.
14.       Agricultural Development. The consultants would aim to facilitate
changes in farming practice to take advantages of the improved conditions
created by the construction of project embankments. They would liaise with
the Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) and other programs in the
area working on improving agricultural production. In the first year of
implementation an in depth study of the project area would be carried out and,
in consultation with the specialists in the ASSP unit, a detailed proposal for
assisting farmers in the area to take advantage of new opportunities resulting
from the project would be prepared. The program would include the work to be
done during project years two to four, and may include adaptive research
trials and changes to extension messages. The consultants would supervise
implementation of the programme during this period.
15.       Monitoring and Impact Assessment.  Engineering, agricultural,
socio-economic and environmental aspects would be investigated with a view to
assessing the project's impact, identifying any issues and introducing any
changes (specifically for community involvement in O&M and afforestation)
during the implementation phase. This would also be useful in the design of
future projects. Specifically, the consultant would be required to carry out
the following responsibilities:
(a) Environmental assessment: the consultant would work with those
carrying out environmental monitoring activities under the ASSP and
the National Minor Irrigation Development Project to ensure that
their activities are appropriate to meet the needs of this project.
The consultants will review the findings of these and other
environmental monitoring activities and recommend any further
monitoring or mitigation measures that may be appropriate.
(b) Civil works: the monitoring of the civil works program and all
aspects of O&M are adequately covered under contract management and
supervision and improved O&M (paras 6 through 9 & para 12).



- 131 -
ANNEX 6
Page 13 of 26
(c) Impact assessment: The bench mark studies of seventeen polders
under the CERP and PWP have been completed under the on going
System Rehabilitation Project. The conditions in the studied
polders are similar to conditions in three polders where no studies
have been done. No study was done for Patenga (polder 62) where
the conditions are not similar to the other polders. The
consultants shall review the completed studies, and collect any
additional information needed from other secondary sources and from
direct field investigations. Given the importance of the impact of
Patenga in protecting public and private properties, it would be
necessary for the consultants to carry out a bench mark survey. In
addition, consultants would liaise with the resettlement
consultants to ensure adequate monitoring of the socio-economic
status of people losing property, housing, business or employment
as a result of the project.
(d) The consultant would then undertake sample surveys in order to
assess the effectiveness of project activities and their impact on:
(i) agriculture, farm incomes, farm level employment for different
categories of people (land owners, share croppers, landless,
destitute women); (ii) income of people involved in embankment
maintenance activities, and in embankment and foreshore
afforestation; and (iii) beneficiaries of activities funded by the
Community Development Fund. Surveys will also aim to get an
insight into: (i) any problems of squatters and unauthorized
cultivation of embankment slopes; and (ii) access by all sections
of the community (particularly women) to the participative
decision-making process within project groups and local
organizations.
(e) Questionnaire surveys would cover about 60 to 100 respondents per
polder, with the objective of making statistically valid
comparisons between polders or between groups of beneficiaries
(such as settlers, farmers, and earthwork laborers). If about 10
to 12 polders were covered by a survey (i.e. all PWP or all CERP
polders), then a survey would involve about 1000 respondents. It
is suggested that four such surveys are done during the project
period, with possibly three or four smaller ones (with 200 to 400
respondents) focusing more narrowly on key issues.
16.       SDecialists InDuts for SandwiD Town Protection Studies.  In
Sandwip, Polder 72, the proposed alignment for the retired embankment will not
provide protection for the town. This reflects substantial erosion which
threatens to destroy not only the existing embankment but also much of the
current area of the town. In view of this, provision is made for carrying out
studies to identify possible cost effective town protection methods. These
studies would be carried out by BWDB with assistance from the project
consultants. The consultant's responsibilities would include:
(i) preparation of a terms of reference which would involve site
investigations and surveys, modelling at the river research institute, and
estimates of the specialist staff months required and the duration and cost of



- 132 -
ANNEX 6
Page 14 of 26
the study; (ii) specialist inputs for supervision, and technical guidance
during the study; and (iii) assistance to BWDB in preparing detailed proposals
(engineering designs and cost estimates) for implementation of the study's
recommendations.
Orcaanizational Set Up. Composition of Team and Period of Service
17.       The Headquarters's consultant team would be located in the Project
Implementation Unit's office in Chittagong, with three regional offices, four
divisional offices, and site offices at each polder. The consultant's
engineering team would be headed by the team leader, the zonal offices by
chief construction engineers, the regional offices by resident engineers and
the site offices by assistant resident engineers. The site offices would be
staffed by technical officers, with technicians to supervise construction work
and work in the field laboratories. The field laboratories would be fully
equipped with testing equipment with funds provided under the project. Where
major civil works are being executed on contracts awarded following ICB
procedures, the site offices at each polder, field laboratories, and quarters
for consultant's field staff would be provided by the contractor. The
contractor shall also provide residential buildings for the use of the
regional chief construction engineer. In polders where only minor civil works
are being executed, office space would be provided by BWDB in their existing
buildings.
18.       The team would include specialists in construction and contract
management, sociology, forestry, environmental science and agriculture. There
would be mix of internationally recruited and locally recruited personnel in
the senior management positions. All positions at the divisional and site
offices would be limited to local recruitment. It is estimated that 326 staff
months of internationally recruited and 736 staff months of locally recruited
senior specialists, 568 staff months of locally recruited junior specialists
and 1172 staff months of locally recruited technical staff would be required.
The consultant would also: (i) recruit the required field and support staff;
(ii) procure vehicles (including those for use by NGOs), boats, computers and
office equipment; and (iii) provide for incidentals such as running costs of
vehicles, maintenance of office and field equipment, office rental including
space at Headquarters for the PIU, local travelling, subsistence allowances
whilst on field visits, and consumables required in running the office.
Consultancy services are estimated to commence in early 1996 and continue June
30, 2002. Total requirements of senior and mid level staff are estimated as
follows:



- 133 -ANNEX 6
Page 15 of 26
Category                                           Staff months
Internationally Recruited Soecialists
Engineering:
Initial Team Leader                                        57
Chief Resident Engineer (3 nos.)                          102
O&M Specialist                                             39
Sub Total                                                   198
Social/Forestry
Community Development Adviser/Stage II Team Leader         72
Social Forester                                            36
Environmental specialist                                   12
Monitoring and evaluation specialist                       8
Sub Total                                                   128
Total Internationally Recruited Senior Specialists           326
Locally Recruited Senior Snecialists
Engineering:
Senior Design Engineer                                    36
Design Engineers (2 nos)                                  48
Resident Engineers (4 nos.)                               162
Senior Materials Engineer                                 48
Short Term Specialists                                     20
Senior O&M Specialist                                      66
Sub Total                                                   380
Social/Forestry
Social Institutional Adviser                              72
Environmentalist                                           12
Forester                                                   72
Agriculturalist                                           48
MIS/computer specialist                                    54
Financial controller                                       78
Short Term Specialists                                    20
Sub Total                                                   356
Total Locally Recruited Senior Specialists                  736
Locallv Recruited Junior Specialists
Engineering:
Assistant Resident Engineers (8 nos)                      288
Social/Forestry:
Community Development Officers (4 nos)                    280
Total Junior Specialists                                    568
Locally Recruited Technical Staff
Technical Officers (Engineering)                          900
Material Testing Staff                                    272
Total Technical Staff                                      1,172



- 134 -
ANNEX 6
Page 16 of 26
19.       The consultancy team estimates above do not include manpower for
the proposed impact evaluation sample surveys. Additional locally recruited
personnel (a socio-economic/M&E specialist, survey supervisors, computer
programmers, data entry operators and enumerators would be needed), but the
consultant may wish to subcontract this work to a local consultancy company or
academic institute, while retaining overall responsibility for directing the
work.
Reporting Reauirements
20.       The consultant would submit the following reports:
(a)  an inception report within two months after the start of the
services. The report shall include (i) comments on the terms of
reference and any proposed changes; (ii) proposals and work plans
for each activity, including inputs to the training program; (iii)
any issues that have been identified during the reconstruction
works of the PWP and suggestions for any changes in the approach to
similar works in CERP; (iv) comments on the benchmark studies of
the polders of the Medium Term Plan carried out under the SRP; and
(v) the program for deployment of staff;
(b)  brief monthly progress reports and detailed quarterly reports
including separate annex for each major civil work's contract
awarded following ICB procedures;
(c)  a completion report for each polder including as built plans;
(d)  annual reports on the impact assessment study and a final report,
two months prior to completion of the assignment;
(e)  annual reports on social and agriculture development inclusive of
the progress of community participation in O&M activities; and
(f)  reports as appropriate on the environmental impact of the project
and a final report at the end of the assignment.
21.       The inception reports and all final reports shall be produced in
draft and final forms (20 copies of draft and 50 copies of final).  The
completion report of polders could be summarized in a main report with
annexure for each polder giving the polder data and the as built plans (20
copies).
22.       Specialists Inputs to the TraininQ Proaram.  The services of the
internationally recruited specialists particularly the services of the senior
engineering professionals, the community development adviser, and the forester
would be used for the design of training programs including curriculum and
classroom training etc. The approach is considered as the least cost option
whilst ensuring a practical approach to training. The training coordinator
would work under the direction of consultant's team leader, which would ensure



- 135 -
ANNEX 6
Page 17 of 26
that the services of specialists of the implementation unit are available for
the agreed schedule of the training program. Aside from the consultants'
working on both project support and training, the staff months for the
training program are costed separately. (See Annex 7).



- 136 -
ANNEX 6
Page 18 of 26
Attachment: Individual Terms of Reference for Internationally Recruited
Consultants.
A. Encineerinc
Initial Team Leader (57 months)
1.        The Initial Team Leader should have a civil engineering degree with
a chartership in at least one internationally recognized civil engineering
institute. As the project is multi-disciplinary, besides having extensive
experience in contract management of major civil engineering works involving a
mix of labor and mechanical equipment, he should have a minimum of 20 years
experience with at least a five year period as the Team Leader of a project
involving major construction, O&M particularly where community participation
was heavily involved, and social forestry. He should have proven experience
in leading a multi-disciplinary team of specialists, including guidance and
advice in training activities similar to that proposed under the project.
Works proposed under the project are widely scattered and extensive sea and
road traveling would be involved. The candidate selected for the post should
have worked for a minimum of three years in a country with similar conditions
as Bangladesh. Whilst it is preferred that candidates for the post would be
between 40 and 60 years of age. Highly qualified candidates over the age of
60 years would be accepted if the application is accompanied by physical and
medical clearance certificate including certification of fitness to undertake
extensive traveling. Specifically his responsibilities would include:
(a) under the direction of the Project Director (PIU), the overall
control of all engineering aspects of the project, and provision of
assistance as required to the Project Director and Project Director
Afforestation in all activities related to social forestry,
community participation in O&M, and NGO participation in all
project activities. He would also be responsible for coordinating
the activities of all the internationally and locally recruited
senior specialists;
(b) overall control of consultant staff in all administrative and
financial aspects in the PIU, the region, division, and polder;
(c) preparation of tender documents for the remaining works for 2 PWP
polders to be awarded following ICB procedures and provision of
assistance in the tendering and award of these contracts;
(d) the preparation of guidelines for use by consultant staff including
checking its implementation, to ensure effective contract
supervision particularly in respect of adherence to engineering
specifications and general condition of the major civil works
contracts;
(e) assisted by the regional consultant staff, organizing a practical
and workable field supervision set up involving staff of the BWDB



- 137 -
ANNEX 6
Page 19 of 26
divisions and subdivisions and the consultant staff at these
levels, and provide all assistance needed to the Project Director
and the BWDB circle staff to ensure that the set up operates
effectively both in quality control and training of BWDB field
staff;
(f) Head the design team in finalizing the engineering documentation
for the minor civil works. For the completion of the engineering
documentation, the specific responsibilities of the Team Leader
would be to direct and supervise the locally recruited Design
Engineers: (i) in the review of available feasibility reports and
in addition the BWDB proposals for the polders (project costs are
based on BWDB proposals); (ii) during the extensive field visits
required for updating the feasibility reports and engineering
documentation; (iii) in the collection of additional data on
environmental and social aspects; (iv) in the determination of the
viability of the proposals taking into consideration, the
environmental and social conditions, stability of existing
embankments and cost effectiveness, and update and amend as
appropriate. In addition, with the assistance of his design team
finalize the tender documents to conform to local competitive
bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to IDA, and assist BWDB in
evaluation of bids and contract award;
(g) preparation of guidelines for quality control of minor works,
deployment consultant site staff to assist in supervising the minor
works program and guidance in setting up of an effective
supervision team involving BWDB and consultant field staff;
(h) check and certify the contractor's progress payments, and after the
final inspection, the final accounts and certify them to be correct
for payment. Check and certify reimbursement claims to be
forwarded to IDA;
(i) to ensure the early resettlement of families for the afforestation
of embankment slopes and for routine maintenance, in association
with the Chief Construction Engineer, give the necessary
instructions to the contractor to prepare the work program to
include completion of sections of embankment to meet the targets
set for afforestation and resettlement. Direct the Chief Resident
Engineer and his field staff to ensure that completed sections are
taken over as per schedule;
(j) guidance and direction to the consultant social development and
forestry teams and to NGOs in implementation the afforestation
program in all technical and financial aspects inclusive of
monitoring of progress and quality;
(k) in association with specialists responsible for monitoring and
evaluation and computer specialist set up the management



- 138 -
ANNEX 6
Page 20 of 26
information system at the PIU, and the regional offices of the
consultant;
(1) direct the design engineers, in the completion of the supplementary
details of hydraulic structures required by the contractors; and
(m)  preparation of the terms of reference for the Sandwip Town
Protection Studies.
Chief Resident Engineers (3 nos for a total of 102 months)
2.        The Chief Resident Engineer should possess a degree in civil
engineering with a minimum of 15 years construction experience of which five
years should be as the contract manager of a major civil engineering project.
He should also possess a chartership in at least one of the recognized civil
engineering institutes. Under the direction of the Team Leader, his specific
responsibilities would include;
(a) the setting up of adequate and suitable site supervision staff and
monitoring the effectiveness of the set up in ensuring that the
works are done to the required specifications;
(b) follow-up on the responsibilities of the contractor on the pre-work
surveys, and ensure that the plans are submitted in a timely manner
and that no work commences without prior authorization by him;
(c) review the contractor's superintendence and key personnel, plant
and equipment, work proposal, program, working drawings and in
consultation with the Team leader approve or suggest modifications,
and amend as required. During construction request the contractor
to revise the program to account for the current status of the
work;
(d) order the removal and replacement of improper materials and work,
and check and approve the necessary measurements and calculations
for the contractor's interim running bills and make recommendations
to the Team Leaser on the certifications of these bills;
(e) examine at site the measurement of any work which is about to be
covered up or put out of view, before permanent work is place
thereon and/or examine and attend the measuring of the completed
work;
(f) guide the consultant field staff in the provision of the required
information for the contractor to set out the works and carry out
spot checks to establish the accuracy of the setting out whilst the
consultant's site staff supervise fully the contractor's setting
out. Establish in consultation with the Team Leader, a roster for
the site supervisors and ensure that supervisors are present at
site during construction;



- 139 -
ANNEX 6
Page 21 of 26
(g) through the consultant's field staff, supervise the field tests on
materials to be incorporated in the works and approve type, quality
and source of materials, and in addition the field tests on
completed works;
(h) make recommendations to the Team Leader on the contractor's claims
for additional payment, extension of time and other contractual
matters, the relevant site conditions and the contractor's detailed
submissions;
(i) submit the relevant information to the Team Leader for the
preparation of variation orders;
(j) call and keep minutes of routine site meetings between the parties
of the contract, maintain detail diaries of relevant events and
activities, and maintain and update the as built drawings, and
submit the relevant information to enable the preparation of
monthly progress reports for each contract;
(k) check the running bills of the contractor and make recommendations
on the settlement of claims. Assist the Team Leader in carrying
out final inspections of the work; and
(1) submit to the Team Leader the relevant information for the
preparation of completion reports, and during the maintenance
liability period, carry out periodic checks, and specify
rectifications as required. At the end of the liability period
assist the Team Leader in carrying out the final inspections,
specify rectifications required, supervise the work as required and
make recommendations for the issuance of the maintenance
certificate.
Operation & Maintenance (O&M) SRecialists (39 months)
3.        The O&M Specialists should have a degree in civil engineering from
a recognized university, with a minimum of 20 years experience in planning,
design, construction of civil engineering works of water resource projects of
which a minimum of 5 years should be on projects under maintenance where labor
intensive methods were used and communities participated in maintenance
aspects. He should also possess a chartership in at least one of the
recognized engineering institute. An added qualification would be the
involvement in a social forestry project involving preferably local NGOs,
where works similar to that in the project were carried out. Although the
position would be located at headquarters, the candidate would have to
undertake extensive



- 140 -
ANNEX 6
Page 22 of 26
travel and be out of headquarters for long periods of time. Under the
direction of the Team Leader, his specific responsibilities would include:
(a) a review of the O&M quantities and costs for each polder and update
or amend as required. In carrying out the work, he would review
the guidelines prepared for the System Rehabilitation Project,
adopt what is suitable for the project to conform to the approach
of the project for carrying out routine maintenance. He would also
carry out work studies for all maintenance activities and amend the
costs accordingly;
(b) design and implement a monitoring program to ensure that routine
maintenance is carried out effectively by the settlers and resolve
in consultation with NGOs, any issues that may affect the quality
of work;
(c) assist BWDB in the supervision of operational and other maintenance
activities;
(d) assist in the training of NGOs to supervise routine maintenance
activities; and associate with NGOs in the certification process
proposed for payments to the settlers by BWDB;
(e) assist in damage assessment after floods and cyclonic storms, and
prepare in association with the design specialists, detail
engineering documentation for implementation;
(f) prepare annual work programs for each polder and composite program
for the polders in the mid-term plan;
(g) assist in the preparation of the management information system
(MIS) to be established at each regional center and PIU
headquarters and prepare TOR for the evaluation study, and
supervise the study to be carried out during the project period;
(h) work closely with NGOs and elected local government officials to
ensure community participation, particularly in routine
maintenance. The O&M team would also be involved with the NGOs in
the formation of groups of landless and destitute people to
undertake periodic maintenance works and re-excavation of khals;
and
(i) provide a major input in the training program (class room and on
site), to be carried out for BWDB O&M staff, NGOs staff, community
groups, etc.)



- 141 -
ANNEX 6
Page 23 of 26
B. Rural Development
Community DeveloDment Advisor/Staae II Team Leader (72 months)
4.        The Community Development Advisor should have wide experience of
participatory rural development projects, and of working with NGOs as well as
government departments. The Advisor would be expected to learn Bangali within
the six months of arriving in Bangladesh. Specific tasks include:
(a) under the overall direction of the consultant's team leader, act as
leader of the non-engineering rural development section of the
consultant's team. Organize and supervise the work of other team
members.
(b) assist in the selection and contracting of NGOs to participate in
project implementation. In discussion with BWDB, FD and
prospective NGOs, refine the scope of activities and the extent of
NGOs responsibilities for project implementation. Review and make
recommendations on applications from NGOs, and on the criteria used
to select NGOs. Assist in drafting contracts for between NGOs,
BWDB and FD. - note: much of this activity may take Dlace in 1995
before the arrival of the mobilization of the consultants. and
therefore would be carried out by the existing PWP consultants.
(c) coordinate and assist NGOs in planning and carrying out a
participative rural appraisal (PRA) exercise in each polder to plan
in detail the implementation of the afforestation component.
Advise on the methodology for PRA, and on how social and cultural
factors can be assessed and incorporated into the afforestation
plan (this could involve a training workshop). Organize as much
active participation in PRA teams by members of the consultancy
team as is possible within manpower constraints.
(d) review the results of the PRA, and assist NGOs in developing a
programme to support afforestation, O&M and other activities.
Together with NGOs draw up a detailed work plan covering all
aspects of NGOs' activities on individual polders, and including
cost budgets. Advise on establishing community groups to carry out
periodic maintenance activities and foreshore afforestation.
(e) draw up guidelines for use of the Community Development Fund, and
develop a procedure for NGOs to apply for funding for activities to
be financed from this fund. Monitor the impact of the fund and
make recommendations concerning future disbursements.
(f) monitor the progress of the land acquisition and resettlement
programmes, and make recommendations to remedy any deficiencies in
procedures or policies.



- 142 -
ANNEX 6
Page 24 of 26
(g) identify training requirements for NGO staff, and assist in the
training of NGOs in project planning, community mobilization and
group formation activities;
(h) coordinate NGO activities and assist in their relations with BWDB
and FD (this particularly involves managing the work of the four
zonal Social Development Officers). The consultant will, in
conjunction with the M&E Specialist, establish a monitoring system
involving a simple monthly reporting form for individual polders
linked to a computerized MIS at the zonal or headquarters level.
(i) evaluate the performance of contracted NGOs. If an NGO fails to
perform satisfactorily, recommend remedial measures which may
include termination of its contract.
(j) Take over Team Leader Responsibilities after departure of the
Initial Team Leader.
Social Forester (36 months)
5.        The Social Forester will have extensive experience in community
forestry in tropical (and preferably coastal) zones. He will make regular
short term visits to the project to assist with implementation of the forestry
component of the project. The Forester will work closely with the locally
recruited Forester who would supervise the Social forestry Officers based at
zonal officers (if recruited). Specific tasks for the internationally
recruited Social Forester:
(a) for the embankment afforestation: (i) review proposals for
afforestation in the context of technical and organizational
feasibility and recommend changes as needed to the proposed plan;
(ii) make a firm schedule for afforestation of the ten PWP polders;
and (iii) review the construction schedule for resectioning and new
embankment construction and make changes as needed to the
afforestation schedule , updating this as construction work
progresses.
(b) draw up plans for, and analyze the outcome of, pilot planting of
vetiver grass and other hedge species along the edges of the crest
of embankments;
(c) review the foreshore afforestation proposals, and recommend any
changes needed in the implementation schedule. Monitor progress of
planting and make recommendations as appropriate;
(d) draw up guidelines to assist NGOs in participative rural appraisal
(PRA) planning of details for afforestation in each polder, and
give NGOs as much assistance as time permits. Review PRA reports
for each polder and assist NGOs, FD and BWDB in formulation of
detailed afforestation plans;



- 143 -
ANNEX 6
Page 25 of 26
(e) together with the consultant Forester, assess the seedling
requirements for each polder and identify existing sources of
seedling supply. Help in planning the development any additional
nurseries that are required. Advise on appropriate nursery methods
and identify sources of improved tree seed.
(f) identify training needs in forestry for NGO staff and project
participants. Together with the training coordinator, specify the
content of training courses and help select appropriate training
personnel.
Note: Consultants may wish to propose a different combination of activities
and inputs for the Community Development Advisor and the Social Forester. For
instance if a Social Forester is proposed who has considerable experience of
participatory rural development projects and of working with NGOs, then much
of the Community Development and Social Forestry tasks could be merged, and
the second, short term position, filled by either a more technically qualified
Forester, or a Social Institutions Specialist.
Environmental Specialist (12 months)
6.        The Environmental Specialist would make two to four short visits to
the project in project years one and two. Specifically, the consultant would
be required to evaluate existing environmental monitoring activities carried
out by the ASSP and the National Minor Irrigation Development Project. The
consultants will review the findings of these and other environmental
monitoring activities to see if their activities are appropriate to meet the
needs of environmental monitoring of this project. The consultant will
recommend any further monitoring or mitigation measures that may be
appropriate. Any further monitoring that is required will be carried out by
the locally recruited Environmentalist who is scheduled to make short inputs
over a six year period.
MonitorinQ and Evaluation SRecialist (8 months)
7.        The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Specialist will have two main
roles: (i) work with other team members to set up an operational MIS; and (ii)
provide overall guidance and supervision for sample surveys aimed at
evaluating the impact of the project on beneficiaries. In addition, the
Specialist would liaise with the resettlement consultants to ensure adequate
monitoring of the socio-economic status of people losing property, housing,
business or employment as a result of the project. Specific activities
include:
(a) The MIS will compile data on the progress of engineering works, O&M
activities, afforestation and social organization. It will provide
project management with rapid information on the status of the
project in any polder. The M&E Specialist will define the
requirements for the MIS and produce a system design upon which the



- 144 -
ANNEX 6
Page 26 of 26
locally recruited Programmer/MIS specialist can build the system
using proprietary data-base software. The M&E Specialist will
recommend if data entry should be carried out at the zonal or
headquarters level, and help design appropriate reporting forms for
the capture of data at a field level.
(b) Review benchmark studies carried out by the consultant responsible
for carrying out of feasibility studies financed under the SRP, and
arrange for the collection of any additional information needed
from other secondary sources and from direct field investigations.
(c) Organize sample surveys in order to assess the effectiveness and
impact of: (i) the embankments on agriculture; (ii) O&M and
afforestation activities; and (iii) activities funded by the
Community Development Fund. Surveys will also aim to get an
insight into: (i) any problems of squatters and unauthorized
cultivation of embankment slopes; and (ii) access by all sections
of the community (particularly women) to the participative
decision-making process within project groups and local
organizations.
(d) The M&E Specialist will draw up plans for individual surveys
including: (i) define man-power and logistical requirements;
(ii) draw up an appropriate sample design; (iii) design and test
questionnaires; and (iv) specify computer data-base design and data
analysis formats. Train and provide guidance for survey teams.
(e) Depending on the needs identified during project implementation by
the PIU, together with IDA and EC, it is proposed that about four
large surveys (involve about 1000 respondents), and three or four
smaller surveys (with 200 to 400 respondents) are carried out.
Surveys carried in the latter stages of the project will be the
sole responsibility of the locally recruited survey team as the M&E
Specialist is expected to complete his inputs by project year four.



- 145 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 7
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect
Technical Assistance for
Training of Staff and Communities in O&M and Staff Development
Background
1.          Over the last decade, BWDB has undertaken a program of training to
upgrade and prepare its staff for the different jobs in the organization. The
main thrust has been on the engineering skills of the higher and middle level
staff to effectively carry out investigations, planning, design and
construction of flood control, drainage and irrigation schemes. During this
period separate training programs funded under aided projects were carried out
without any co-ordination and directed to specific needs of the project.
Several issues were identified during the preparation of the Systems
Rehabilitation Project (SRP). The critical issue were a weak training unit at
BWDB headquarters, emphasis on class room lectures, lesser importance given to
on-site training, omission of O&M in the curriculum of training programs and
no efforts made to educate beneficiaries in the importance of effective
maintenance and the need for community participation in maintenance to ensure
sustainability of the project. Under the SRP Project (SRP), the headquarters
unit was strengthened with the appointment of the Director General Training
and Staff Development, a Deputy Director Staff Development, and a Deputy
Director Training Evaluation. In addition under the project, an O&M training
program, directed towards the middle-and lower-staff of BWDB, and
beneficiaries, has been initiated recently. The training proposal prepared by
consultants has been approved by BWDB and the training of trainers has
commenced.
2.          The proposal for financing under CERP includes the following:
Training
(a)   identifications of training needs;
(b)   training of staff trainers;
(c)   designing training courses: (i) for BWDB staff; and (ii) for
beneficiaries and maintenance groups;
(d)   producing training materials and manuals;
(e)   implementing and evaluating training courses including cost
benefit analysis;
(f)   planning and supervision of training facility improvement;



- 146 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 7
Staff Develolment
(g)   preparing an inventory of present staff resources;
(h)   determining staff utilization and job descriptions;
(i)   developing comprehensive staffing plans;
(j)   designing measures for staff deployment;
3.          The training and staff development program under SRP is believed
to have provided a sufficient number of trainers in BWDB to undertake the
training of field staff of BWDB and beneficiaries. Staff development in BWDB,
with the exception of training in involving community participation during the
planning, construction and operational phases of projects, is comprehensively
covered under the SRP, and efforts in community participation training are
beginning. The training program proposed for CERP would build on the
activities of SRP with emphasis on the training of NGOs and beneficiaries and
improving the skills of BWDB staff to use the resources of the community to
effectively carry out maintenance activities. It would also include some of
the programs of staff training initiated under SRP, as adopted to the specific
needs of CERP.
Objectives
4.          The objectives of the training component are to:
(a)   improve the skills of BWDB staff in contract management and
supervision of construction work, O&M activities, and the
effective use of community resources in maintenance activities;
works;
(b)   improve the skills of Forest Department staff in coastal and
embankment afforestation;
(c)   improve the skills of NGOs in community development activities and
train them to be able to supervise routine maintenance of
embankments and in the technical aspects of afforestation
inclusive of propagation of nurseries;
(d)   train beneficiaries in maintenance activities of embankments and
afforestation; and



- 147 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 7
Program
5.          The program would be mainly limited to in-country training and
would include:
(a)   a series of three regional workshops (Barisal/Khulna, Chittagong,
and Noakhali) to provide orientation and motivation for BWDB staff
to be involved in project implementation;
(b)   classroom based training of trainers in BWDB and the Forest
Department, and NGOs;
(c)   production of learning materials including O&M, community forestry
field manuals and environmental guidelines;
(d)   on-site training of project participants and beneficiaries; and
(e)   local study tours for BWDB, Forest Department, NGOs and community
group representatives participating in maintenance and
afforestation activities.
(f)   possible short study tour to Indonesia (or other Asian country)
where NGOs have been pioneering a community approach to coastal
afforestation.
Execution
6.          Training of Trainers.  BWDB staff trained under the SRP training
program would form the nucleus of the trainers to be responsible for
conducting courses, They would initially undergo a refresher course conducted
by specialist of the implementation support and training teams of CERP. With
their inputs and the inputs of specialists as required, additional BWDB staff
and selected NGO group organizers would be trained as trainers. Course
curriculum would be similar to that used for the SRP program with emphasis
directed towards preventive activities required to ensure sustainability of
the polders. Specifically training would be: directed towards ensuring the
correct approach in imparting knowledge; subject matter-oriented, need to have
on-site courses with minimum classroom courses; on the use and effectiveness
of audio-visual methods; on designing training materials; and methods for
evaluating the on-going and new training programs. The selected trainers
during the training program would assist the training coordinator in preparing
the target groups and the number of participants in each group, number of
courses, locations and duration of training. They would also assist in the
preparation of guidelines for the methodology to be adopted in evaluating the
program.
7.          Construction, Operation and Maintenance Training.  Construction
and operation training would be limited to BWDB staff. Staff of BWDB, NGOs,
and the beneficiary communities (representatives of families, and maintenance
groups) would be trained in routine and periodic maintenance activities.
Training activities would include:



1 148 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 7
8.          Construction.  An intensive training program on contract
management, setting out, quality control and supervision currently in the
training program of SRP would continue to be conducted under the CERP. Upper-
and middle-level field staff of BWDB (SEs, Exens. and SDEs) would receive on-
site training in all aspects of construction, whilst SOs and Work Assistants
(WAs) would be trained in supervision, measurements and preparation of running
bills of contractors. Classroom courses would be very limited. All BWDB
staff involved in the administrative and financial management of major civil
works would be trained in this program. The specialists consultants of the
implementation support team would direct and conduct the training.
9.          Operation.  The upper-and middle-level staff of BWDB are well
experienced in operational activities. Training would be limited to SOs, WAs
and Khalashis. The responsibilities of these staff are described in great
detail in the current O&M manual. Refresher courses would be conducted under
the program. Class room lectures would be conducted in each polder followed
by instructions and demonstrations at site. The main thrust would be to
educate these staff on the need for early detection of weak sections of the
embankment, signs of deterioration in structures, the importance of the post
monsoon and pre-monsoon inspection and engineering surveys and the need for
timely repairs to ensure the security of the project works; Training would be
conducted by the program trainers and inputs by upper-and middle-level staff
of BWDB.
10.         Motivation and Orientation Workshops.  A series of one day
workshops in each of three regions would be conducted by the consultant's
community development adviser in collaboration with members of the forum of
participating NGOs to provide BWDB staff with an introduction to the concept
of community participation and working with NGOs. Senior engineers of BWDB
who have acquired some experience in community participation, working with
NGOs and landless groups for embankment maintenance, would take a key role in
these workshops.
11.         Maintenance.  BWDB, NGOS and resettled families would be involved
in routine maintenance of embankments. Periodic maintenance of embankments,
structures and the drainage network is carried out during the dry season
(frequency: annually,once every two years, etc.) and the preparation of
engineering documents, measurements for preparation of bills etc. require
special engineering skills. In view of this BWDB would be responsible for
all aspects of contract management. NGOs' responsibility for periodic
maintenance would be limited to: (i) group formation; (ii) assistance to the
group to elect a group representative to sign contracts, and contract
management including administrative and financial matters. BWDB trainers
would train groups of twenty five comprising SOs, WAs and Khalashis at three
central locations in the project area. Several such courses would be
conducted during FY96 and FY97 to cover all the SOs, WAs, and Khalshis of the
twenty one polders included in the Mid Term Plan. Separate courses would be
conducted for routine and periodic maintenance. Participating NGOs would be
included in the courses for routine maintenance. Classroom followed by on-
site training at polders in each central location would be included in the



- 149 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 7
course. Curriculum would include all the routine and periodic activities
described in annex 5 and the job responsibilities described in the O&M manual.
12.         Training of families to carry out routine maintenance of
embankments would be conducted by NGO group organizers (trained under the
training of trainers program). Groups of about ten resettled families would
receive on-the-job training at a time. Training will consist of 2 days on-
site work, for which participants would receive payment as part of the
standard contract with BWDB.
13.         Forestry TraininQ Module.  The social forestry training module
would be based on training of NGO and Forest Department trainers and would
emphasize practical hands-on experience, with development of graphic materials
which are suitable for working with illiterate trainees. The training module
would include the following elements:
(a)   A review of existing soeial forestry trainincr Droqrams being
developed by the Association of Development Agencies of Bangladesh
(ADAB) forum on forestry and environment (covering approach,
motivation, and mobilization) and the technical training module
developed by BARC, Winrock and Proshika which covers choice of
species and technical aspects of planting and management for
community forestry.
(b)   Development of a trainir course for NGO staff and the Forest
Rangers based on a four week course with weeks one and two in the
classroom, week three in the field working out the forestry model
for the embankment with beneficiaries and support of the Forest
Department ranger, week four back in the classroom.
(c)   Preparation and vroduction of a field manual for NGO field staff
which would provide pictures of the species, notes and symbols
suitable for use with illiterate trainees indicating appropriate
species for different locations, planting instructions,
maintenance, yield data and generalized market information.
(d)   Implementation of traininq course for two NGO staff per polder and
one forest ranger per polder initially. In collaboration with
groups of beneficiaries and the forest ranger, the trainees would
draw up an afforestation plan for a one ha plot suitable for their
own polder (guidelines given in annex 4). This would be reviewed
by the class in the final class room session.
14.         Back up support to trained group organizers, during implementation
would be provided by Forest Department rangers and the Agro-forestry team of
the implementation support consultant.
15.         Environmental Trainin .  The training module on environmental
aspects is intended to introduce the importance of environmental awareness
amongst BWDB staff and would consist of specialized courses for upper-level
staff and seminars for junior staff.



- 150 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 7
16.         Short term sDecialized courses (2-3 weeks) in environmental and
water resources management for upper-level staff of BWDB are provided in the
program. This course will be provided by specialist trainers in Bangladesh
based on a course curriculum prepared by the environmentalist of the
implementation support team. The course should include inter alia modules on:
(a) Bangladesh natural environment; (b) hydrology and flood hydraulics in
Bangladesh; (c) aquatic environments (particularly wetlands); (d) basic
fisheries ecology (including migration and habitat requirements); (e) national
conservation issues; (f) environmental impacts of FCDI projects; and (g) the
principles of environmental impact assessment, management and monitoring. It
is expected that trainees would also become familiar with the institutional
framework for environmental management of the country.
17.         The course would also include a component on socio-economic
aspects of FCDI projects which will increase awareness amongst BWDB staff of
the socio-economic implications of such projects. The course would provide
information on socio-economic survey techniques, the socio-economic impacts of
FCDI projects and the management of resettlement and compensation issues.
18.         The principal aim of these courses will be develop within senior
staff a wider awareness of water resources issues so that environmental and
social issues can be considered at all stages of FCDI projects (planning to
implementation and O&M). It is expected that this will minimize the potential
for adverse impacts to arise in future FCDI projects.
19.         A series of seminars for the junior staff of BWDB would also be
provided to build on and deepen the environmental awareness raising which
would be completed under the SRP training module. The seminars will contain
information of a similar nature to the short term courses listed above. The
environmentalist should discuss the detailed course content with appropriate
SRP and BWDB staff.
Technical Assistance Recuirements
20.         In addition  to the inputs to be provided by the specialist team
of the implementation support component and financing required to carry out
the training activities, a consultancy unit under the direction of the team
leader of the implementation support team, would carry out specific tasks in
the training program. An internationally recruited training coordinator (12
staff months) to be employed up to the third year, would be responsible for:
(a) reviewing the existing training programs; (b) a detailed assessment of the
training needs of the project and the existing resources; (c) design and
implementation of training courses for trainers; (d) specialist advice and
supervision of training courses inclusive of production of training materials;
(e) development of indicators for monitoring the success of the programs.
During the fourth to sixth years, the team leader would direct all activities
of the training program. In addition to the internationally recruited
engineering specialists, the community development adviser, the environmental
scientist, the forester and the O&M specialist would assist him in these
activities.



- 151 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 7
21.         A team of locally recruited consultant trainers (228 staff months)
would: (a) carry out the motivational workshops; (b) assist in development and
production of training materials and a manual for community forestry; and
(c) implement the forestry training module.
Reporting
22.         The consultant would prepare and submit the following reports:
(a) an inception report after three months, detailing the proposed work
program of the specialists recruited for the program and the specialists of
the implementation support team, the training needs and existing resources
available for utilization in the program, the additional numbers to be trained
as trainers, equipment and logistical support, and a tentative program of
courses to be conducted and the categories of trainee; (b) a report in early
FY97 (the second project year), detailed plans for the production of training
materials, their verification and field test, and a firm program for
implementation, scheduled for commencement in FY98. The program should be an
update of the initial proposal giving the various training courses including
the selection of trainees; (c) a guide after two years (FY98) for methods and
applications of training and performance evaluation; (d) evaluation reports at
the end of the fourth, fifth and seventh years; and (e) brief monthly reports
and detailed quarterly reports.



- 152 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT (CERP)
Crop Production and Incomes
A. General
1.          Estimation of the project's expected impact on agricultural
production and farm incomes has been based on a detailed analysis of farming
practices and agro-ecological conditions in each of the 11 polders with major
works financed under the project. Each of the polders has been considered as
a sub-project. The analysis, based on a one hectare farm model, has been done
separately for each polder because of differences such as management
practices, intensity of input use, soil quality, yields and cropping patterns
between polders in the area covered by the project. Prevention of salinity
intrusions and storm surges and improved drainage conditions in the polders
during normal monsoons and cyclones would lead to increased agricultural
production. Higher output would come from changes in cropping patterns and
intensity and improved crop yields. In projecting the impact of the project
on agricultural production, account is taken of the small amount of land lost
to production due to project related land acquisition in areas where
embankment retirement is necessary. Account is also taken of further
retirement of sections of the embankments in Polders 59/2 (Ramgati) and 72
(Sandwip) expected to be required in year 15 due to erosion.
B. Cropping Patterns and Intensity
3.          The predominant crop in the area covered by the project is the low
yielding local variety (Lv) of T. Aman. B. Aus (LV) is the second major crop
in the area. B. Aman is also important in some of the polders. A range of
other crops such as pulses, oilseeds, millet, cowpea, chilli, sweet potatoes,
jute, and vegetables are grown during the rabi (winter) season. Adoption of
high yielding varieties (HYVs) of rice is limited in these polders because of
high soil and water salinity as these varieties have little or no tolerance to
salinity. All current HYV production is expected to switch to local varieties
within two years in the absence of the project given the present condition of
the embankments. Rehabilitation of the embankments would prevent salinity
intrusions and storm surges and thus bring about changes in the cropping
pattern. The present and expected cropping patterns in the "with project" and
"without project" scenarios are detailed polder by polder in Tables 1-11.
With protection against saline water and improvement of drainage conditions,
increased cultivation of HYVs of rice is expected to occur. The increased
security to be provided by the rehabilitated embankments would encourage the
investment in higher input levels required for HYV production. With the
project, between 20 and 40% of T. Aman area is expected to shift to HYV in the
kharif season 1, depending upon the degree of sharecropping in each polder,
since the incentives to sharecroppers to shift to HYV are much diminished.
1.    Summer cropping season (May through November).



- 153 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
During the rabi season 2, HYV boro cultivation is expected to increase only
in Polder 66/1 where fresh underground water is available for irrigation.
Cultivation of HYVs of other rabi crops such as water melon and betel leaf
would also increase in the "with project" situation, especially in the polders
in Cox's Bazar area such as Polder 66/1 and Polder 68. It is also expected
that more land would come under diversified crops (pulses, oilseeds, chillies,
winter vegetables, and sweet potatoes) in the rabi season due to reduced soil
salinity. Changes in the cropping pattern are expected to be realized over a
period of seven years.
4.          Cropping intensity in the project area under the present
conditions ranges from 108% (Polder 35/1) to 174% (Polder 72), the average
being 136t. The national average is about 150%. Saline soil conditions limit
crop cultivation during the dry season. The project is expected to increase
cropping intensity in the area to the national average because of increased
area under both kharif and rabi crops. The area under kharif crops would
increase due to protection from flooding as well as improved drainage while
the area under rabi crops would increase as a result of soil salinity
reduction. Cropping intensity is expected to range from about 130% (Polder
73/1A&B) to 210% (Polder 66/1), the average being 155%, in the "with project"
scenario.
5.          Aside from the yield gains from switching to HYV and increased
cropping intensity, yield per season for the same crops would also increase,
due to reduction in salinity, improvement in drainage conditions during the
kharif season, and protection against flooding caused by heavy rainfall during
normal monsoons or cyclone surges. An increase of 10-15% in yield is
expected, the level depending on crop varieties and specific conditions in a
given polder. In the absence of the project, yields for most crops would
remain low or decline to the levels observed outside the embankments. Due to
the effects of salinity intrusions through existing breaches in the
embankments or areas where breaches are imminent, and poor drainage and
flooding, it is anticipated that in the "without project" situation the
average yield of local varieties of rice would be reduced over a period of
five years to about one ton per hectare, which is the average yield of T. Aman
under saline conditions. Anticipated changes in crop yields under "with
project" and "without project" compared with the present conditions are also
detailed in Tables 1-12.
C. Crop Production
6.          Expected annual crop production under present, "without project"
and "with project" situations are also detailed in Tables 1-11 by polder.
Estimated annual incremental crop production is expected to range from about
20% (Polder 70) to 110% (Polder 40/2), the average being about 55%. Annual
production, at full development, with the project is expected to increase by
about 87,700 metric tons on average over the "without project" situation.
This production estimate is based on a net cultivable land of about 49,900
hectares in the polders protected by the 11 embankments included under the
major works program and excludes the cultivable land protected under the
2.    Winter cropping season (November through May).



-154-                            ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
Priority Works Project or by the two Km of embankment improvements provided
for polder 60.3 The expected increase in production would be higher if not
for the constraints that the farmers will still face. These constraints
include limited fresh water for irrigation during the dry season, unfavorable
tenancy agreements4 that discourage tenant farmers from investing in land
improvement and intensive cultivation, existence of absentee/large land owners
who do not pay much attention to crop intensification, and poor quality of
draught animals and shortage of mechanical cultivators for land preparation.
These constraints have been taken into account when projecting the increase in
crop production. The target production is expected to be achieved in seven
years' time when the projected changes in cropping pattern and intensity will
have been realized.
D. Farm Incomes
7.          The project's effect on annual farm incomes in the area has been
analyzed through the use of one hectare farm models prepared for each of the
11 polders. Prices of all inputs and outputs are based on constant 1994
farmgate prices (see Annex 11, Tables 1 and 2). Details on these prices are
discussed in Annex 11, para 1 (c). The cash flows are in constant 1991 taka.
Farm budgets detailing input use, costs of production, gross value of
production, and net income per hectare for each polder are shown in Tables 12-
23. The results show that investment in the project would increase incomes of
farm families in the area substantially. The average net increase in income
from one hectare farms would range from about 20% (Polder 59/2) to 110l
(Polder 35/1). In value terms, the range would be from about Taka 2,100
(Polder 73/lA&B) to Taka 11,300 (Polder 66/1). The average increase in net
income from a one hectare farm for all the polders would be about Taka 5,200
or 47%. The increase is expected to be higher in polders in Cox's Bazar
district, where intensive cropping is practiced, than in polders in Burguna or
Bagerhat districts. The additional farm incomes would also benefit tenants
and landless laborers, in addition to benefiting owner-operators. The
percentage share of the benefits is not expected to differ substantially from
the present arrangements. Everybody would gain in proportion to present
income levels.
3.    Polder 60, where project civil works include only 2 Km of embankment
strengthening plus khal excavation, is excluded from the analysis. More
time is required to test the effectiveness of recently completed anti-
erosion works before firm estimates can be justified.
4.    Thirty to forty percent of rural households operate land under different
tenancy arrangements, the most widespread being sharecropping under which
the tenant agrees to bear all costs and pays 50% of gross output to the
landlord. The agreement is usually for one crop season.



- 155 -
ANNEX 8
Table 1
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Areas la, Yields, and Production lb
Subproject: Polder 3511
Area,    ha          Yield, M. Tlha     Production, M.T.
Crop          P    W    W        P    W    W         P    W/c  W
S.AusLV      170  170 1038       0.9  0.8  1.1      153  138  1142
T.Aman LV   4050 4050 3453       1.2  1.1  1.5    4860 4374  5180
T.Aman HYV     0    0  264       0.0  0.0 2.07         0    0   546
Pulses        95   95  319       0.5  0.4  0.5       45   40   160
Oilseeds       9    9   64       0.5  0.5 0.55         5    4    35
Potato        23   23   24      10.2  9.2  12.7     235  211   305
S. Potato     54   54  145       6.3  5.7  6.8      340  306   986
Vegetable     46   46  262       9.2  8.2  10.2     421  379  2686
Cowpea        64   64  203       0.5  0.5 0.53       32   29   108
Chilli (green)   50   50   87    2.0  1.8  2.1      100   90   183
Total       4561 4561 5859                         6190 5571 11329
Note: P - Present; W bar * Without Project; W - With Project
la Cropping intensity increase from 108% without project to 139% with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
/b Without the project it is expected that, due to the effect of increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 10% starting the fifth year.
Ic Crop production without the project in the fifth year.



- 156 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Crop Areas la, Yields, and Production /b
Subproject: Polder 4012
Area,      ha          Yield, M. Tlha      Production, M.T.
Crop          P     W     W        P      W    W        P     Wic   W
B. Aus LV     317   317   170      1.10 0.99  1.25      349   314   213
T.Aus HYV     174   174   188      1.88 1.69  2.70      327   294   508
T.Aman LV    2161  2161  1204      1.60 1.44  1.80    3458  3112  2167
T.Aman HYV    121   121  1140      2.25 2.03   2.80     272   245  3192
.Amnan          7     7    22      1.48 1.33  1.60       10      9    35
Pulses         57    57   175      0.52 0.47  0.65       30    27   114
Ollseeds        9     9    35      0.55 0.50  0.65        5      4    23
S. Potato       0     0   104      0.00 0.00  6.80        0      0   707
Vegetable       0     0   154      0.00 0.00  10.30       0      0  1586
Cowpea         28    28   155      0.55 0.50  0.60       15    14    93
Chilli (green)    19    19    41   2.10 1.89  2.30       40    36    94
Millet          3     3      7     0.55 0.50  0.60        2      1     4
Total        2896  2896  3395                          4508  4057  8736
Note: P - Present; W bar , Without Project; W * With Project
/a Cropping intensity increase from 120% without project to 1419% with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
/b Without the project it Is expected that, due to the effect of increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 10% starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.



- 157 -
ANNEX 8
Table 3
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Areas /a, Yields, and Production /b
Subproject: Polder 48
Area,    ha         Yield, M. TIha     Production, M.T.
Crop          P    W    W       P    W    W          P    W/c  W
B. Aus LV    491  491  243    1.05 0.95   1.25    516  464   304
T.Aus HYV    269  269  260    1.88  1.69   2.70    506  455   702
T.Aman LV   3297 3297 2697    1.60  1.44   1.75   5275 4748  4720
T.Aman HYV   187  187  934    2.25 2.03   2.80    421  379  2615
B.Aman        1 1   1 1   34    1.48  1.33   1.35    16   15    46
Pulses       108  108  285    0.52 0.47   0.55       56   51   157
Oilseeds      36   36   52    0.55 0.50   0.60       20   18    31
S. Potato      0    0   92    0.00 0.00   6.80        0    0   626
Vegetable      0    0   23    0.00 0.00  10.25        0    0   236
Cowpea        44   44  233    0.55  0.50   0.60      24   22   140
Chilli (green)    36   36  162    2.10  1.89   2.25  76   68   365
Millet        14   14   18    0.55  0.50   0.60       8    7    11
Jute          40   40   40    1.40  1.26   1.75      56   50    70
Total       4533 4533 5073           0.00          6973 6276 10021
Note: P - Present; W bar , Without Project; W , With Project
/a Cropping intensity increase from 122% without project to 137% with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
lb Without the project it Is expected that, due to the effect of Increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 1 0% starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.



- 15 -
-ANNEX I
Table 4
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Areas /a, Yields, and Production /b
Subproject: Polder 5912
Area,    ha        Yield, M. Tlha      Production, M.T.
Crop          P    W    W       P    W    W         P     WIc   W
B.AusLV      520  520  690    1.10 0.99   1.15      572   515   794
T.Aus HYV    528  528  585    1.98 1.78   2.30      1045   941  1346
T.Aman LV   4186 4186 4056    1.75 1.58   1.80    7326  6593  7301
T.Arnan HYV    37   37  213    2.50 2.25  3.00        93    83   639
B.Arnan      291  291  442    1.20 1.08   1.40      349   314   619
Pulses       291  291  340    0.50 0.45   0.55      146   131   187
Ollseeds      46   46  106    0.50 0.45   0.55       23    21    58
S. Potato    122  122  120    6.90 6.21  7.50       842   758   900
Vegetable    158  158  219    9.00 8.10  10.30    1422  1280  2256
Cowpea        66   66  170    0.55 0.50   0.60        36    33   102
ChUli (green)   102  102  170    1.80 1.62  2.10    184   165   357
Total       6347 6347 7111                        12037 10833 14558
Note: P - Present; W bar * Without Project; W - With Project
la Cropping intensity increase from 153% without project to 171% with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification Is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
/b Without the project It Is expected that, due to the effect of Increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 86 the fourth year and 1 0% starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.



- 159 -
ANNEX 8
Table 5
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Areas /a, Yields, and Production lb
Subproject: Polder 5913B
Area,      ha          Yield, M. T/ha     Production, M.T.
Crop           P     W      W        P    W    W         P     W/c   W
B.AusLV       1839  1839  2379    1.22 1.10   1.30    2244  2019  3093
T.Aus HYV     1338  1338  1338    2.25 2.03   2.50    3011  2709  3345
T.Aman LV     8758  8758  7330    1.95 1.76   2.20    17078 15370 16126
T.Aman HYV       0      0  2443    0.00 0.00   3.10        0      0  7573
B.Aman        1011  1011  1011    1.20 1.08   1.40      1213  1092  1415
Pulses        1050  1050   898    0.55 0.50  0.60        578   520   539
Oilseeds       166   166   281    0.50 0.45  0.60         83    75   169
S. Potato      442   442   319    6.90 6.21   8.00    3050  2745  2552
Vegetable      591   591   580    9.00 8.10  10.70      5319  4787  6206
Cowpea         240   240   449    0.55 0.50   0.60       132   119   269
Chilli (green)    368   368   449    2.20 1.98  2.40     810   729  1078
Total        15803 15803 17477                         33516 3016S 42365
Note: P = Present; W bar , Without Project; W = With Project
/a Cropping intensity increase from 143% without project to 158% with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
/b Without the project it is expected that, due to the effect of increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 10% starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.



- 160 -
ANNEX 8
Table 6
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Areas /a, Yields, and Production lb
Subproject: Polder 5913C
Area.      ha          Yield, M. TIha     Production, M.T.
Crop           P     W     W        P    W    W         P     Wlc   W
B. Aus LV     1389  1389  1537    1.10 0.99  1.15    1528  1375  1768
T.Aus HYV     1063  1063  1177    1.98 1.78  2.30    2105  1894  2707
T.Aman LV     7708  7708  6629    1.75  1.58  1.80   13489 12140 11932
T.Aman HYV       0     0  1657    0.00 0.00  2.80         0      0  4640
B.Aman        1002  1002  1082    1.20 1.08  1.40    1202  1082  1515
Putses         880   880   672    0.50 0.45  0.55       440   396   370
Oilseeds       139   139   350    0.50 0.45  0.55        70    63   193
S. Potato      371   371   238    6.90 6.21  7.70    2560  2304  1833
Vegetable      479   479   434    9.00 8.10 10.30    4311  3880  4470
Cowpea         202   202   543    0.55 0.50  0.60       111   100   326
Chilli (green)    309   309   336    1.80 1.62  2.10    556   501   706
Total        13542 13542 14655                        26372 23735 30458
Note: P - Present; W bar * Without Project; W - With Project
/a Cropping intensity increase from 136% without project to 147% with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
/b Without the project it is expected that, due to the effect of increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 10% starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.



- 161 -
ANNEX 8
Table 7
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Areas /a, Yields, and Production lb
Subproject: Polder 60
Area,      ha          Yield, M. Tlha     Production, M.T.
Crop           P     W      W       P    W    W         P     Wlc   W
B. Aus LV      595   595   648    1.10 0.99   1.15       655   589   745
T.Aus HYV      496   496   550    1.98  1.78   2.30      982   884  1265
T.Aman LV     3569  3569  2810    1.75  1.58   1.90    6246  5621  5339
T.Aman HYV      188   188  1204    2.50 2.25   3.00      470   423  3612
B.Aman         362   362   415    1.20 1.08   1.40       434   391   581
Pulses         353   353   194    0.52 0.47  0.60        184   165   116
Ollseeds        58    58    61    0.55 0.50   0.60        32    29    37
S. Potato      148   148    69    6.90 6.21   6.90    1021   919   476
Vegetable      191   191   126    9.00 8.10  10.90    1719  1547  1373
Cowpea          80    80    98    0.55 0.50   0.60        44    40    59
Chilli (green)  123   123    97    2.10  1.89   2.30    258   232   223
Total         6163  6163  6272                         12045 10840 13827
Note: P - Present: W bar - Without Project; W a With Project
la Cropping intensity increase from 126% without project to 129% with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
/b Without the project it Is expected that, due to the effect of Increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 10% staring the fifth year.
Ic Crop production without the project in the fifth year.



- 162 -
ANNEX 8
Table 8
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Areas /a, Yields, and Production lb
Subproject: Polder 66/1
Area,      ha          Yield, M. T/ha      Production, M.T.
Crop          P     W      W       P      W    W         P     W/c   W
B.AusLV        95    95   275      1.22  1.10   1.30     116   104   358
T.Aus HYV     143   143    77      2.25 2.03   2.50      322   290   193
T.Aman LV     330   330   482      1.95  1.76   2.20     64    579  1060
T.Aman HYV     51    51    77      2.80 2.52   3.10      143   129   239
Boro HYV       22    22    44      3.20 2.88   3.50       70    63   154
Pulses         73    73    66      0.55 0.50   0.60       40    36    40
Oilseeds        0      0     0     0.50 0.45   0.60        0      0     0
S. Potato       0      0     0     6.90 6.21   8.00        0     0      0
Vegtable       33    33    39      9.00 8.10  10.70      297   267   417
Cowpea         55    55    77      0.55 0.50   0.60       30    27    46
Chili (green)  11    11    34      2.10  1.89   2.40      23    21    82
Potato         10    10    34    10.50 9.45  12.00       105    95   408
Water Melon    22    22    31        11 9.90   12.5      242   218   388
Betel Leat     18    18    35       1.2 1.08    1.5       22    19    53
Salt           44    44    66       9.3 8.37    9.3      409   368   614
Shrimp         44    44    66       0.1 0.09   0.12        4     4      8
Total         951   951  1403                           2467  2220  4058
Note: P . Present: W bar - Without Project; W , With Project
/a Cropping intensity increase from 143% without project to 211 % with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification Is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
/b Without the project it Is expected that, due to the effect of increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 10% starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.



- 163 -
ANNEX 8
Table 9
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Areas /a, Yields, and Production /b
Subproject: Polder 68
Area,      ha         Yield, M. T/ha       Production, M.T.
Crop         P      W     W        P     W    W         P     W/c   W
B.AusLV       240   240   743      1.22 1.10  1.30      293   264   966
T.Aus HYV     192   192   282      2.25 2.03  2.50      432   389   705
T.Aman LV    1005  1005   879      1.95 1.76  2.20    1960  1764  1934
T.Aman HYV    370   370   495      2.80 2.52  3.10    1036   932  1535
Boro HYV      250   250    88      3.20 2.88  3.50      800   720   308
Pulses         40    40    80      0.55 0.50  0.60       22    20    48
Oilseeds        4     4    52      0.50 0.45  0.60        2     2    31
S. Potato       0     0      0     6.90 6.21   8.00       0     0      0
Vegetable      11    11   100      9.00 8.10 10.70       99    89  1070
Cowpea         37    37    59      0.55 0.50  0.60       20    18    35
Chilli (green)    14    14    43   2.10 1.89  2.40       29    26   103
Potato         24    24    48    10.50 9.45 12.00       252   227   576
WaterMelon     12    12    36    11.00 9.90  12.5       132   119   450
BetelLeaf      29    29    53      1.20 1.08    1.5      35    31    80
Salt           31    31    91      9.30 8.37   9.3      288   259   846
Shrimp         31    31    91      0.10 0.09  0.12        3     3    11
Total        2290  2290  3140                          5404  4863  8698
Note: P - Present; W bar , Without Project; W . With Project
/a Cropping Intensity increase from 153% without project to 209% with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
/b Without the project it is expected that, due to the effect of increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 100% starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.



- 164 -
ANNEX 8
Table 10
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILiTATION PROJECT
Crop Areas /a, Yields, and Production lb
Subproject: Polder 70
Area,      ha         Yield, M. T/ha       Production, M.T.
Crop          P     W     W        P      W    W        P     W/c   W
B. Aus LV      45    45   140      1.22 1.10  1.30       55    49   182
T.Aus HYV     108   108    90      2.25 2.03  2.50      243   219   225
T.Aman LV     122   122   206      1.95  1.76  2.20     238   214   453
T.Aman HYV    128   128   190      2.80 2.52  3.10      358   323   589
Boro HYV       89    89   100      3.20 2.88   3.50     285   256   350
Pulses         16    16    22      0.55 0.50   0.60       9      8    13
Oilseeds        2      2     2     0.50 0.45  0.60         1     1      1
S. Potato       3      3     5     6.90 6.21   8.00      21    19    40
Vegetable       5      5     2     9.00 8.10  10.70      45    41    21
Cowpea         18    18    10      0.55 0.50  0.60       10      9     6
Chilli (green)  6      6     7     2.10 1.89  2.40        13    11    17
Potato          3     3      4    10.50 9.45  12.00      32    28    48
Water Melon     2     2      2    11.00 9.90  12.5       22    20    25
Betel Leaf     14    14    17      1.20 1.08   1.5       17    15    26
Salt          750   750   750      9.30 8.37   9.3    6975  6278  6975
Shrimp        750   750   750      0.10 0.09  0.12       75    68    90
Total        2061  2061  2297                          8397  7558  9061
Note: P - Present; W bar - Without Project; W - With Project
/a Cropping intensity increase from 162% without project to 181 % with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
/b Without the project It Is expected that, due to the effect of Increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 10% starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project In the fifth year.



- 165 -
ANNEX 8
Table t 1
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Areas la, Yields, and Production /b
Subproject: Polder 72
Area,      ha          Yield, M. T/ha     Production, M.T.
Crop           P     W     W        P    W    W         P     WIc   W
B.AusLV        814   814  1124    1.10 0.99   1.25       896   806  1405
T.Aus HYV      957   957  1032    1.95 1.76   2.25    1868  1680  2322
T.Aman LV     4735  4735  3456    1.70 1.53   1.80    8050  7245  6221
T.Aman HYV     511   511  1681    2.90 2.61   3.25    1482  1334  5463
B.Aman          26    26   150    1.35  1.22   1.40       35    32   210
Pulses         731   731   822    0.60 0.54   0.65       439   395   534
Ollseeds       359   359   488    0.50 0.45   0.60       180   162   292
S. Potato      173   173   303    7.50 6.75   7.70    1298  1168  2333
Vegetable        0      0   287    9.00 8.10  10.50        0     0  3014
Cowpea         433   433   330    0.50 0.45   0.60       217   195   198
Chilli (green)  216   216   303    2.10  1.89   2.25     454   408   682
Wheat          121   121   122    1.40 1.26   1.65       169   152   201
Jute           136   136      0    1.58 1.42      0      215   193      0
Total         9212  9212 10096                         15298 13768 22875
Note: P - Present; W bar a Without Project; W - With Project
/a Cropping Intensity increase from 174% without project to 190% with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
/b Without the project it is expected that, due to the effect of increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 10% starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.



- 166 -
ANNEX8
Table 12
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crop Areas la, Yields, and Production lb
Subproject: Polder 7311 A&B
Area,      ha          Yield. M. T/ha     Production, M.T.
Crop           P     W     W        P    W    W         P     Wlc   W
B.AusLV       1335  1335  2132    1.04 0.94   1.10    1388  1250  2345
T.Aus HYV        0      0     0    0.00 0.00   0.00        0     0     0
T.Aman LV     6561  6561  4837    1.70 1.53   1.90   11154 10038  9190
T.Aman HYV       0      0  1209    2.50 2.25   3.00        0     0  3627
B.Aman         441   441   441    1.20 1.08   1.35      529   476   595
Pulses         352   352   616    0.45 0.41   0.55       158   143   339
Oilseeds        74    74    94    0.48 0.43   0.55       36    32    52
S. Potato      103   103   261    7.50 6.75   8.00      773   695  2088
Vegetable      120   120   292    8.05 7.25   9.00       966   889  2628
Cowpea         119   119   178    0.42 0.38   0.60       S0    45   107
Chilli (green)  93    93   209    1.70 1.53   2.10      158   142   439
Millet          37    37   156    0.90 0.81   0.90       33    30   140
Total         9235  9235 10425                        15245 13721 21550
Note: P - Present; W bar * Without Proiect; W * With Prolect
/a Cropping intensity increase from 130% without project to 147% with project and
change from rice local varieties to rice HYV and crop diversification Is estimated to
occur over a seven year period.
lb Without the project it Is expected that, due to the effect of Increasing salinity, yields
per ha and total production would decrease 2% the first year, 4% the second year,
6% the third year, 8% the fourth year and 10% starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project In the fifth year.



- 167 -
BANGLADESH                                                   ANNEX8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                         Table 13
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm la
Subproject: Polder 35/1
.-        ,    ._      -_.   -- ._ ._  . .   .             _
B.Aus T.Aman T.Aman Pulses Oilseeds Cowpea  Sweet   Chilli  Vegetables  Potato   Total
LV     LV     HYV                           Potato  (green)
Percentage P        3.70   88.81    0.00   2.13    0.19    1.39    1.20    1.11        1.02    0.46      100
W            17.71   58.89    4.54   5.47    1.08    3.46    2.45    1.51       4.46    0.43      100
Area, ha  P         0.04    0.96       0 0.023   0.002   0.015   0.013   0.012        0.011   0.005     1.08
W            0.246   0.818   0.063  0.076   0.015   0.048   0.034   0.021      0.062   0.006      1.39
Production Cost, Tklb
Labour   P           170   5760        0    63        6      41      98      93         105      50    6385
W            1169   5317      457   247       49     156     255     173         667      63    8552
Bullock   P           36   1152        0    17        2      11      16      15          15       7     1271
W             295    982       85    57       11      36      43      26          84       8     1627
Seed     P            32    346        0    15        1      10       2       2           4      16      428
W             199    294       25    50        9      29      15       3          23      19      668
Urea    P              0    288        0      0       0       0       0       3           3       4      297
W               0    147       43    18        0       0       4       7          30       5      255
TSP      P             0       0       0      0       0       0       0       1           2       2        6
W               0      74      21      9       0       0       2       4          15       3      127
MP      P              0       0       0      0       0       0       0       1           1       1        2
W               0      41       9      5       0       0       1       2           6       1       65
Pesticides P           5    240        0      6       1       2       2       3           6       3      266
W              37    205       32    11        4      12       7       5          31       3      346
Irrigation P           0       0       0      0       0       0       0       6          23       6       35
W               0       0       0      0       0       0       0      16         127      11      154
Misc     P            10    442        0    21        0       3       5       5           7       4      496
W              94    391       43    31        4      13      11      13          41       5      645
Total    P           258   8467        0   128       10      69     125     132         170      94     9454
W            1831   7655      747   440       81    258      344     254        1054    121    12785
Production Value
Production P          36   1152        0    11        1       8      82      24         101      51     1465
(Kg)  W            271    1227     170    38        8      25     231      44         636      76     2726
Gross Value/c  P     370  12035        0   159       16    136      165     379         299     139    13698
(Tk)  W           2764  12826    1765   567    125    459         479     693        1909    181    21768
Net Farm Income, Tk/d
P             112   3568        0    31        6      67      40     247         129      45    4244
W             933   5171    1018   127        44    201      135     439         855      60     8983
la   P - Present; W * With Project; Hired labour and bullock 30% of total cost.
/b   Labour, bullock, seeds, fertilizers. pesticides, and output prices are in Annex 11, Table 2.
/c  Including by-products.
/d   Gross Value - Total Cost



- 168 -
BANGLADESH                                                         ANNEX 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                   Table 14
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm la
Subproject: Polder 4012
~~~~~~... ..          .   . 0.0.    a.. ....    W..... .....  ......=...=..... .. ................. . ........................ .am_.....
B.Aue  T.Aue T.Amn T.Aman B.Aman  Pulses Oilseed  Cowpe   Sweet  ChilU  Vegetables  Millet   Totel
LV     HYV     LV     HYV                                     Potato  (green)
Percentage P    10.90    5.98   74.67    4.15    0.25    1.99    0.33    0.91    0.00    0.60        0.00    0.01     100
W          5.03    5.52   35.48   33.57    0.64    5.17    1.06    4.53    3.05    1.20        4.53    0.21    100
Area. ha  P      0.132   0.072   0.899    0.05   0.003   0.024   0.004   0.011       0   0.00          0   0.001    1.20
w         0.071   0.07o   0.501   0.474   0.009   0.073   0.015   0.064   0.043   0.017       0.004   0.003    1.41
Prodtn. Cost. Tkhb
Labour   P        52S     576   6068    3S8        14      66      11      30        0      62          0       5   7748
W           320     644   3382   3792        43    201       41     176     333     140        640       14   9725
Bullock   P        119     91   1133       69       3      19       3       9        0      10          0       1   1456
W            8S      98    601      640       8      55      11      48      54      21         86        3   1712
Seed    P         107      29    324       20       2      14       2       7        0       1          0       0    507
W            5S      31    180    190         7      44       9      38      19       3         24        1    604
Urea    P           0      22    270       27       0       0       0       0        0       0          0       0    318
W             0      23      90    327        0      18       0       0       5       6         31       0    500
TSP     P           0       11      0      14       0       0       0       0        0       1          0       0      25
W             0      12      45    156        0       9       0       0       3       3         16       0    243
MP      P           0        S      0       5       0       0       0       0       0        0          0       0      11
W             0       6      25      71       0       4       0       0       1       1          6       0     115
Poeddcd   P         0       13    225      13       0       6       1        1       0       2          0       0    201
w            11      14    125    237         0      11       4      16       9       4         32       0    462
rrigaolon P         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0        4          0       1       5
W             0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      13        131       0     144
Mias    p          23      34    414       25       1       5       1       2        0       4          0       0    500
W            27      37    239    327         0      29       4      17      15      10         43        1    750
0
Totel   P          m7     780   a433      S00      21     110     1       49        0      84          0       7  103o
W           500     865   4688   5740        58    370       69     290     439    202        1008       18  14254
Production Value
Production P      145    135   1431       113       4      12       2       a       0       17          0       1   1874
(Kg  W           80    211    902    758         14      47      10      38     292       39        65        2   3062
Gros Vaducic P   1411    1421  17324   1075        45    185       31      96       0    265            0      11  21034
(Tk)  W         903   2206  10850  12600        153    709      142     580    588       627       1979      28  31383
Net Incoms.Tk1d
P           704    841   t891       516     24      75       13      47       0     181          0       4 11096
W           403   1341   6171    6809        95    339      73      284     140     425        971       10  17129
is   P - Present: W a WAth Project; Hired lbour and bullock 30% of oto  cost
lb  Labour. bullock, mods. hertilizersc pestcides and output prices are In Annex 11, Table 2.
/c  Including by-products.
Id   Gron Value - Total Cod



- 169 -
BANGLADESH                                                            ANNEX 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                      Table 15
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm la
Subproject: Polder 48
ne..                                   . n . .                     .                                  .. .... ....  .....  .....  .....  ....... .....  .....
B.Auc   T AuB  T Aman T.Aman B.Aman  Jute  Pulses   Oil-   Cowpe  Sweet  Chilli  Vegetable  Millet   Total
LV     HYV      LV      HYV                             seeds            Potato  (green)
Percentage P         10 82    5 90   72.70    4 10    0.25   0. 90    2.3a    0 82    0 98    0 00    08 2         0.00   0o33       100
W              4.76    5.12   53.15   18.37    0 6e   0.81    5.64       1 02    4 61    1 83    3.22       0.37    0.44      100
Area, ha  P          0.132   0 072   0.887    0 05   0.003 0.011   0.029    0.01   0.012           0    0.01          0   0.004    1.22
W             0.065    0 07  0o726   0 251   0.009 0.011   o.077   0.014   0.063   0.025   0.044           0.005   0.006    1.37
Production Cost. Tkhb
Labour   p            594      576    6431      400      1 7    91       37      30       36       0       85         0      24   8371
W               358     613    544S    2134        54   102      250       46     205      188     363        56      27    9839
Bullock   P            119      91    1064       68       3    13        22        8       9        0      13         0       5    1414
W                78      aa      871     339       10    15       81       11      47       32      55         7        a    1641
Seed     P             107      29     355       15       2      2       11        4       5       0        2         0       1    533
W                61      28     261      loo        a     2       30        5      28       1t       7         2        1    546
Urea     P               0      26     266       27       0      0        0        0       0       0        3         0       0     322
W                 0      32      240     173        0      6      1a        0       0        3      15         2        1    489
TSP      P               0      13     133       14       0      0        0        0       0       0        2         0       0      161
W                 0      1s      131      83        0      3       9        0       0        2       8         1        0     251
MP      P                0       5      44        5       0      0        0        0       0       0        1         0       0       56
W                 0       7       54      38        0      0       5        0       0        1       3         1        0     108
Pesticides P            17      la     224       25       0      8        7       3        2       0        3         0       0     303
W                10      26      182     126        1      6      12        4      16        0      11         3        2     396
lrfrgation P             0     11a       0        0       0      0        0       0        0       0        5         0       0      123
W                 0     115        0       0        0      0       0        0       0        0      33        10        0     158
Misc    P               49      38     408       23       1      5        a        2       3       0        4         0       2     541
W                25      39      347     173        4     7       31        4      17        9      26         3        3     687
Total    P            902      932    9149      601      25   122       141      49       56       0      119         0      32   12127
W               541     988    7712    3291       78   145       444       72     329     244      533        as      42   14511
Production Value
Production  P          139     135    1419      113       4    15        15       a        7       0       21         0       2    1876
(Kg)  W              81      189    1271      703      14    19        42       8       38     170       99        51       4    2889
Gross Value/c P      1450    1391   14839    1157        46   159       227      80      117       0     326          0      33   19825
(Tk)  W             8s4    1930   13276    7191       129   199      633      128      677     345    1570        190      47  27167
Net Farm Income. Tkid
p               548     459    5690      556      21    37        86       31      6t       0      207         0        1   7698
W               313     942    5564    3900       51     54      185       54     348      101    1037       102        5  12656
/a   P * Present W - With Project; Hired labour and bullock 30% of totui cort.
lb   Labour, bullock. seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and output prices are in Annex 11. Table 2.
/c  Including by-products.
/d   Gross Value - Total Cost



- 170 -
BANGLADESH                                                                    ANNEX 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                               Table 16
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm /a
Subproject: Polder 5912
...     ...............................................a.......................a........
B.Aus   T.Aus  T.Aman T.Aman B.Aman  Jute  Pulses   Oil-  Cowpea  Sweet  Chilli  Vegetable Mlilht   Total
LV     HYV       LV      HYV                            seeds             Potato  lgfeon)
Percontage P          8.18     8.31   65.84    0.59    4 25   0.00    4 58    0.72       1 05    2.29    1.64        2.55    0.00      100
W              9.71     8.25   57.02    2.98    6.20   0.00    4.80       146    2.40      1.70    2.40       3.10    0.00      100
Area, ha  P          0.125   0.127   1.006   0.009   0.065        0    0.07   0.011   0.016   0.035   0.025         0.039       0    1.53
W             0.186   0.141   0.975   0.051   0 106        0   0.082   0.025   0.041   0.029   0.041         0.053       0    1.71
Production Cost. Tk/b
Labour   P             563     921    6539        70     309      0      193      30       44      271     200       419        0     5ssu
W               789    1093    7313       421     504      0      234       71     113      239     338        596       0   11709
Bullock   P            150      160    1207       12      72      0       53        a      12       46      32        108       0    1860
W               199      178    1170       69      118     0       59       18      30       38       52        72       0    2001
Seed     P             118 a     s      362        4      59      0       28        4       7       l       4         14       0     667
W               157      s5      351       20      95      0       a9        9      18       13        7        20       0     835
Urea     P               0       48     302        5       0      0        0       0        0        0       a         1a       0     376
W                 0       63     322       35        0     0       20        0       0        6       14        25       0      485
TSP      P               0       23     241        2        0     0        0        0       0        0        0         a       0     275
W                 0       30     176       17        0     0       10        0       0        3        7        13       0      255
MP       P               0       10      S0        I       0      0        0       0        0        0        1         4       0       es
W                 0       14      73        8        0     0        5        0       0        2        3         5       0      110
Peaticide  P            16       32     254        2       8      0        9        1       0        0       6        20        0     347
W                25       53     244       26       13     0       12        a       5        6       1o        27       0     427
Irrigation P             0     208        0        0       0      0        0       0        0        0      10        80        0     29S
W                 0      231       0        0       0      0        0        0       0        0      31        109       0     371
Misc     P              46       67     463        5      .6      0       15       2        3       15      11        25        0     679
W                63       78     466       35      42      0       33        7      11       a6      25        35        0     811
Total    P             908    1549    9672       103     482      0     306       48       66     348      278       714        0   14473
W              1258    1850   10357       6s5     785      0      473     118      182      329     490       928        0   17433
Production Value
Production  P          138     251    1761        23      78      0      35        6        9     242       45       351        0    2937
(Kg)  W              191     324    1755       153     148      0      45       14       25     218       8s       546        0    3501
Gross Value/c P       1437    2567   18402      227      817      0     525       83      131     405      706      1025        0   26325
(Tk)  W             l993    3304   18340    1569    1554        0     674      210      368     433    1373       1627        0  31445
Net Farm Income, TkId
P               529    1ol8    8730       124     335      0     219       35       65       57     428       311        0   11852
W               735    1454    7983       913     769      0     201       93      la      104     877       699        0   14012
/a     P - Present ; W  = With project; Hired labour and bullock 30%  of total cost.
/b     Labour, bullock, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and output prices are in Annex 11, Table 2.
Ic     Including by-products.
/d     Gross Value - Total Cost



- 171 -
BANGLADESH                                                                ANNEX 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                           Table 17
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm la
Subproject: Polder 59/3B
...     .                a..  .....  ..    a  ....   .....  .... .     .....  ....  ... .....  .....
B.Aus   T        .Au   TAman T.Aman B.Aman  Pulses   Oil-  Cowpea  Sweet   ChilIl  Vegetables  Millet   Total
LV     HYV      LV      HYV                      seeds             Potato  (green)
Percentage P      11.62    8 47   55.49    0.00    6          665      1 05    1t54    2.80    2.31          3.64    0.00      100
W          13.58    7 64   41 95   13.96    5s81    5.12    1 sa    2.59         1 83    2.s9         3.35    0.00      100
Atea. ha  P       0.168   0.121   0 793         0   0.092   0.095   0.016   0.022    0.04   0.033           0.052       0    1.43
W          0.215   0 121   0 684   0.221   0.092   0.081   0.025   0 041   0.029   0.041             0.053       0    1 58
Prodtn. Cost, Tklb
Labour   P          747     968    5742         0     483      261      41       61      290     281         520        0    9401
W           1075    1029    4980    1879       506      263      a1      133      225     338         557        0   11065
Bullock   P         149     152      952        0     102       71      11       17       so       42         68        0    1612
W            258      152     797     278      102       as      19       31       37      52           72       0    1882
Seed     P          134      48      317        0      75       38       6       10       18        5          19       0     671
W            203       48     239      88       83       87       9       18       13        7         20        0     815
Urea     P            0      44      238        0       0        0       0        0        6       10         22        0     319
W              0      64      256     159        0       23       0        0        4       16          30       0     550
TSP      P            0       22     119        0       0        0       0        0        3        5          11       0      159
W              0      30      139      60        0       11       0        0        2        9          1s       0     268
MP       P            0        9      40        0       0        0       0        0        1        2           5       0       ss
W              0       17      70      28        0        7       0        0        1        4           7       0      134
Pesticides P         21      30      198       0       12       24       4        3        8        8          13       0     320
W             32      45      166      55       12       12       6       10        8       10          27       0     382
IrrigationP           0        0       0       0        0        0       0        0        0       13        107        0      120
W              0     198        0       0        0        0       0        0        0      31         109        0     338
Misc     P           61      64      365       0       37       21       3        4       14       1s         35        0     619
W             82      67      317     102       37      33        7       11       10      25          35        0     725
Total    P         1113    1337    7978        0      708     415       68       94     390      381         797        0  13273
W           1651    1650    6964    2649       739     521      122      204     297      491         870        0   l1615
Production Value
Production  P       203     272    1S46        0      110      52        8       12     276       73         488        0    3020
(Kg)  W           280     303    1461      685      129      49       15       25     232       9s         587        0    3842
Grocs Value/c P   2123    2784   16157         0    1148      784      113      215     560    1173         1405        0  28468
(Tk)  W         2926    3093   15256    7004    1339        732      229     439      474    1561         16S5        0  34738
Net lncome.Tk/d
P           1010    1447    8179        0      440     369       47      121     175      792         608        0   13190
W           1275    1443    8292    4355       0oo     211      107      235     177    1070          815        0   18580
/a   P - Present: W - With Project: Hired labor and bullock 30%A of total cost.
lb   Labour. bullock, seeds. tertilizers, pestictdec. and output prices are in Annex 11. Tabls 2.
Ic  Including by-products.
Id   Gross Value - Total Cost



- 172 -
BANGLADESH                                                             ANNEX a
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                       Table 18
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm /a
Subproject: Polder 5913C
B.Aus   T.Au   r.Aman T.Aman B.Aman  Pulses   Oil-  CowPea  Sweet  Chilli  Vegetables  Millet   Total
LV     HYV      LV     HYV                      seeds            Potato  (green)
Percentage P     10.29    7.86   56.94    0.00    7.42    6.47    1 03       1.47    2.72    2.28        3.53    0.00     100
W          10.52    8.01   45.25   11.33    7.39    4.61    2.37    3.73    1.83    2.31          2.85    0.00     100
Area. ha  P       0.14   0.107   0.775        0   0.101   0.088   0.014    0.02   0.037   0.031        0.048        0    1.36
W          0.155   0.118   0.687   0.167   0.109   0.068   0.035   0.055   0.024   0.034         0.042       0    1.47
Prodtn. Cost. TkMb
Labour   P         630     856    5619        0     530     242       39      55      268     264        480        0   8982
W           775    1003   5003    1420        600     221     114      179     1as    201          441       0   10221
Bullock   P        126      135    930        0     112       66      11       15      47      39         60        0    1541
W           186      149    800      225      121      71      2t       41      30      43          57       0    1750
Seed     P         113      43     310        0      82       35       6        9      17       5         18        0     637
W           146       47     240      67       98      73      13       25      11       8          16       0     741
Ure"     P           0      39    233         0       0        0       0       0        5       9         20        0     306
W             0       62    257      134        0      19       0        0       3      13          24       0     512
TSP      P           0       19    115        0       0        0       0       0        3       5         10        0     153
W             0       29     140      64        0      10       0        0       2       7          12       0     263
MP      P            0        a      39       0       0        0       0       0        1       2          5        0      55
W             0       17      70      35        0       a       0        0       1       4           6       0     138
Pesticides P        18      27      194       0      13       22       4        3       7       8         12        0     306
W            23       44     167      84       14      10       9       14       5       9          21       0     398
Irrigation P         0        0       0       0       0        0       0        0       0      12         98        0     11i
W             0      194       0       0        0       0       0        0       0      26          86       0     305
Misc    P           52       56    357        0      40       19       3        4      13      14         32        0     590
W            59       65     319     115       44      27       9       1S       a      20          28       0     710
Total   P          939    1182   7797         0     777     384       61      as     361      358        736        0   1268o
W          1190    1609   6995    2144       876      438     171      273     246     407        e89        0   15039
Production Value
Production P       154     212    1356        0     121      44        7      11     255       56        432        0    264
(Kg)  W          178     271    1201      468     153      37       19      33      185      71        433        0    3049
Groa Value/c P   1605    2162   14174         0    12U3    664       105     201     528    a85         1296        0  22893
(Tk)  W         1857    2781  12538    4768    1592       557      290     590     378    1135        1300        0  27784
Not lncorne,Tktd
P           666      980   6373        0     48a      280      44      11a     167     537        sao        0   10213
W           667    1172   5543    2622       716      119     119      317     132     728        611        0   12745
/a   P * Preent: W * With Project ;Hired labour and bullock 30% of total cost.
lb   Labour. bullock. seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and output prices are in Annex t 1. Table 2.
/c  Including Dy-products.
Id   Gross Value - Total Cost



- 173 -
BANGLADESH                                                                ANNEX 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                           Table 19
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm /a
Subproject: Polder 60
..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..=5.....
BAAus   TAug  TAman T.Aman B.Aman  Pulses   Oil-   Cowpea  Sweet   Chilli  Vegetables  Millet   Total
LV     HYV       LV     HYV                      seeds             Potato  (green)
Percentage  P      9.66     80.8   57.96     301     5.86    5.78     095      1 27    2.38      1 98        3.09    0.00      100
W          10.33    8.78   44 76   19.19    6.60    3.11        1 01     1.55    1.09    1 55         2.02    0.00      100
Area. ha  P       0.122   0102   0.732   0.038   0 074   0.073   0.012   0.016          0.03   0.025       0.039        0    1.26
W          0.133   0.113   0.576   0.247   0.085    0 04   0.013    0.02   0.014    0.02            0.026        0    1.29
Prodtn. Cost. Tk/b
Labour   p          549      al8    5307      304     426      201      33       44      218     213         390        0    8499
W            732      989    4320    2100    s5o        130      42       65      109      165        293        0    9453
Bullock   p         110      129     878       51      82       55        9      12       38       22         49        0    1444
W            16O      142     691      333      94       42       1 0     15       1        25         35        0    1sse
Seed     p           g9       41     293       15      60       29        5       7       14        4          14       0      580
W            126       45     207       99      77       43        5       9        a        3          10       0      630
Urea     P            0       37     220       24       0        0       0        0        4        a         22        0     314
W              0       59     222      199       0       11       0        0        2        a          15       0      5S15
TSP      P            0       18     110       12       0        0        0       0        2        4          11       0      157
W              0       28     121       95       0        6        0       0        1        4           7       0      262
MP       p            0        8      37        7       0        0       0        0        1        2          5        0       59
W              0       16      60       52       0        3        0       0        0        2          4        0      138
Peetlcides P         15       26     183       19       9       18       3        2        6       6          20        0     307
W             20       42     144      124      11        6        3       5        3        5         13        0      376
Irrigation  P         0        0       0        0       C        0       0        0        0       10         so        0       90
W              0      185       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       15         53        0      254
Misc     P           45       54     337       26      30       16       3        3       11       11         26        0      561
W             51       62     275      170      34       18       4        5        5       12         17        0     652
Total    P          818    1127    7364       458     600      319      52       68      293     289         617        0   12012
W           1088    1569    6041    3171       725      257      63       99      144     239         446        0   13845
Production Value
Production  P       134      202    1281       95      8s       38       7        9     207       53         351        0    2465
(Kg)  W           153     260    1094      741      119       24       a       12      97       46         283        0    2837
GroseValueic P   1375    2016   13119         9e5     912     569       98      159     421      831        1050        0  21513
(Tk)  W          1565    2597   11215    7416    1220       351      110      213      196     718         828        0   26429
Net Income.TkJd
P            557     889    5755      507      306     250       44       91     128      542         433        0    9501
W            477    1028    5174    4245       495       94      47      114       52     479         382        0   12584
/a   P a Present; W * With Project; Hired labour and bullock 30% of total cost.
hb   Labour, bullock, seeds, ertilizers, pesticides, and output prices are in Annex 11. Table 2.
/c  Including by-products.
/d   Gross Value - Total Cost



- 174-
BANGLADESH                                                              ANNEX 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                          Table 20
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm la
Subproject: Polder 6611
... ......  ...  ..  .. ... ..=... s...                                  =f   ... S........
B.Aus  T.Aus  T.Aman T.Anian  Boro  Pulses  Oil-.  Cowp.s Potato   Chilli  Veget-  water  Betel  Salt Shrimp Total
LV    HYV       LV      HYV    HYV           seeds                    (green)  able*  Meloni  Lea#
Percentage  P  9.99   15.08    34.70      5.34   2.29   7.70   0.00     5.78     1.04     1.13     3.47    2.29   1.37   4.65   4.85   100
W       1g.e9    5.52   34,47    5.52   3.18   4.72   0.00    5.52        2.48     2.48     3.40    3.26   3.68   8.94   6.94   100
Area, ha  P   0.144   0.217       0.5   0.077 0.033  0.111        0   0.083   0.015   0.017        0.05   0.033  0.027  0.067 0.067   1.4.4
W       0.417   0.117    0.73   0.117  0.067    0.1        0   0.117   0.052   0.052   0.049   0.047  0.053    0.1   0.1  2.12
Prodln. Cort. Tk/b
Labour   P      64.8    1738    3625       616   289   305        0     228       150      145     525      272   243   302   251  9335
W        2085     995    5475       995   620   300        0     351       559     429      515      338   490   450   375 14025
Bullock   P      130     273      600       97     40    83       a       62       21       21      63       42     10      0      0  1442
W         500      147     a76      147    80    105       0       88       72       66      66       59     19      0      0 2226
Seed     P       117      87    2100        31     13    44       0       37       47        3       19      83   500       0   201  1380
W         394      47      263       47     27    108      0       53      164        9       18     118   981       0   300  2520
Urea     P         0      78    1150        42     22      0      0        0       12        5      21       26    24       0    52   432
W           0      S1      281       84     44     28      0        0       41       20      27       37    48       0    78   749
TSP      P         0      39       75       21     1 1     0      0        0        a        3       1 1     13     14      0      0   191
W           0      29      153       32    22      14      0        0       20       1 1      14      18     27      0      0   340
MP       P         0       16      25       10      4      0      0        0        2        1       5        8      3      0      0    72
W           0       16      77       15      a      a      0        0        8        5        7       8      5      0      0158e
Pesticides P      18      54      125       19     17    28       0       10        4        4       13      17    14       0    50  372
W          63      44      183       29     34     1s      0      29        13       13      25       24     27      0    75   571
Irrigation P       0       0        0        0   116       0      0        0       18        7     103       41    33       0   134   451
W           0     192        0        0   235       0      0        0       64      39      100       58    65       0   200   953
Misc     P        53     114      230       35     25    25       0       16       10        a      34       28   567   436   784  2362
*         159      65      349       54     50     40      0      32       35       31       33       38  1113   650  1170  3818
Total    P       968    2398    5030      870   535   485         0     355      270      196      792      524  1407   737  1473 18037
W       3201    1590    7656    1402  1120   619           0     552      975      623      804      747  2775  1100  21981 253168
Production Value
Production~ P    176     488      975     216    106      61      0      46      158       37      450      363    32   623        7  3737
(Kg)  W       542      293    1606      363   235       60      0      70      624      125      524      538     80   930      12  6050
Gross Value/c  1835    4980   10189    2210  1125   913           0     825      477      587    1350    1833  1984  1240  2144 31672
(Tk)  W      5660    2979   16790    3694  2462   900           0    1260    1855    1978    1897    2936  4773  1860  3200 52244
Net lncome.Tk/d
P         869    2582    5159    1340   590   428          0     470      207      391      558    1309   557   503   671 15635
W       2450    1383    9134    2292  1342   281           0     708      880    1355    1093    2189  1 998   760  1002 26876
la   P * Present ; W . With Project; Hired labour an1d bullock 30% of totai cost.
/b   Labour, bullock, seeds. lertilizers. pesticides, and output prices are in Annex 1 1. Table 2.
/c  Including by-products.
Id   Gross Value - Total Cost



- 175 -
BANGLADESH                                                            ANNEX 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                      Table 21
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm /a
Subproject: Polder 68
.... .....  .....  ....   ...n. ... ...a  .....  ..a..  .....    ...   a....  ........ ....
B9Auc  T Auc  T.Aman T.Aman Boro  Pulses Oil- Cowpea  Potato   Chilli  Veget-  Water  Betel  Salt Shrimp Total
LV    HYV       LV     HYV    HYV           seeds                   (green)  ables   Melon   Leal
Percentage P 10.47    8.38   43.85   16.16  10.93   1.77  0.20    164          1o05    0.59    0.46   o052   1.24   1.37   137   100
W       23.64    8.98   27.98   15.76   2.82   2.53   1.67    1 86    1.53    1.38    4.38       1 57   2.29   3.99   3.99   100
Ara. ha  P    0.16   0128    0 67   0.247 0.167 0.027 0.003   0.025   0.016   0.009   0.007   0.008  0.019 0.021  0.021   1. S3
W       0.495   0.188   0.586    0.33  0.059 0.053 0.035   0.039   0.032   0.029   0,067   0.024 0.035 0.061 0.061   2.09
Prodtn. Corst. Tkhb
Labour   P      720    1024    4858    1976  1461        74      a      69     160       77      74       68   171    95    79 10910
W       2475    1598    4395    2805   546   159   105          117     344      239     704      198   324   275   229 14512
Bullock   P      144     161     304      311   200    20        2      19      22       11       9       10      7      0      0  1721
W        594      237     703      416    71    56    37         29       44      37      90       30     13      0      0  2356
Seed     P      130       51     268       99    67    11        1      11      50        1       3       20   352       0    63  1126
W        468       75     211      132    24    57    38         18      101       5       25      60   648       0   183  2043
Ursa     P        0       46     201      133   110       0      0       0       12       3       3        6    17       0    16   549
W           0      99     226      238    39      15    10        0       25      11       38      19    32       0    48   797
TSP      P        0       23     101       67    55       0      0       0       a        1        1       3    10       0     0   267
W           0      46     123       89     19      7      5       0       12       6       19       9    18       0     0   355
.uP      P        0       10      34       31    21       0      0       0       2        1        1       1      2      0      0   102
W           0      26      62       41      7      4      3       0        5       3        9       4      4      0      0   169
Pesticides P     20       32     168       62    84       7      1       3       4        2       2        4    10       0    16   413
W         74       71     147       83    30       8      5      10        8       7      34       12    18       0    46   550
Irrigation P      0        0       0        0   585       0     0        0      20        4      14       10    23       0    42   697
W           0     308        0       0   207       0      0       0      39       22     137       30    43       0   122   908
Misc     P       59       67     308      114   125       6      1       5       11       4       5        e   399   137   246  1492
W        189      104     280      152    44    21    14         11      22       17      45       19   735   397   714  2763
Total    P     1073    1414    6740    2792  2708    118    13         107     288      104     111      127   990   231   462 17278
W       3800    2584    6146    3955   986   328   217          184     600      347    1100      381  1832   671  1341 24452
Production Value
Production P    195      288    1307     692   534       15     2       14     16e       20      63       8s    23   195       2  3605
(Kg)  W       644      470    1289    1023   207    32    21          23     384       70     717      300    53   567       7  5806
Gross Value/c  2040    2942   13653    7055  6627   225    30          252     504     320      189      440  1380   390   567 35614
(Tk)  W      6729    4801   13472   10450  2166   480   315          414    1152    1120    2151    1500  3180  1134  1952 51016
Net Income.TkJd
P        967    1528    6913    4263  2919   107    17          145     216      216      78      313   390   159   105 18336
W       2929    2237    7326    6491  1180   152    98          230     552      773    1051    1119  1348   463   611 26564
/a   P - Present; W a With Project  Hired labour and bullock 30a   of total cost.
lb   Labour, bullock, seeds, fertilizers. pesticides. and output prices are in Annex 11. Table 2.
/c  Including by-products.
/d   Gross Value - Total Cost



- 176 -
BANGLADESH                                                   ANNEX 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                              Table 22
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm /a
Subproject: Polder 70
m.s   m..         inim  m ,,  =,=  .t  =tmm   1m.m  ins sin  sma  mim   =mm   MU Z.VIN  ....
B.Aus T.Aus T.Aman T.Aman Boro Pulses Oil-  Cowpea Potato Swcct Chilli Voget- Water Betel  Salt Shrimp  Total
LV   HYV    LV       HYV   HYV           seeds                 Potato (green) abbe  Melon  Leaf
Percentage P  2.16   5.23    5.91    6.22   4.31   0.80  0.12    0.86   0.12  0.12  0.31   0.25   0.12  0.68  36.39 36.39         100
W        6.07   3.92    a 95    8.28   4.36   0.94  0.11     .44   0.17   0.22  0.33  0.12  0.12  0.80  36.39  36.39       100
Area. ha  P   0.035 0.085   0.096   0.101   0.07 0.013 0.002   0.014 0.002 0.002 0.005 0.004 0.002 0.011  0.591 0.591    1.82
W        0.11 0.071   0.162    0.15 0.079 0.017 0.002   0.008 0.003 0.004 0.006 0.002 0.002 0.013 0.591  0.511    1.81
Prodtn. Cost. Tklb
Labour   P      15S   680      696    808   613    36        6       39    20    1s    43    42    17    99  2680  2216    8144
W        550   604    1215    1275   731    51         6      24    32    31    50    21    17   120  2660  2216    9602
Bullock   P      32   107       -5    127    84    10        2       11      3     3      a      5      3      4     0      0    510
W        132    89       '94    18a    95    18        2       6      4      5     a      3      3      5      0     0    752
Seed     P       28    34        a      40    28       5     1        6      6     1      1      1      5   204      0  1773   2172
W         104    28       sa     60    32    18        2       4      9      2      1     1      5   241       01 773    2338
Ure      P        0    31       29      55    46       0     0        0      2     0      2      2      2    10      0   411      638
W          0    37       62      108    52      5      1       0      2      1     2      1      2    12       0   461     746
TSP      p        0    15       14      27    23       0     0        0      1     0      1      1      1      6     0      0      so
W           0    17       34     41    26       2      0       0      1      0     1      1      1      7      0     0     131
MP      P         0      e       5      13      9      0     0        0      0     0      0      0      0      1     0      0      35
W          0    10        17      19    10      1      0       0      0     0      1      0      0      1      0     0      so
Peacttdea P       4    21       24      25    35       3      1       2      1     0      1      1      1      6     0   443      se5
W          17    27      41      38    40       3      0       2      1      1     2      1      1      7      0   443    620
Irrigation P      0      0       0       0   245       0     0        0      2     0      2      a      2    14      0  1182    1456
W          0   11e                 0   277      0      0       0      4     0      5      4      2    16       0  1182    1606
Misc    P        13    45       14      46    53       3     0        3      1     1      2      3      2   231  3842  6915  11203
W         42    39       77      69    59       7      1       2      2      1     4      1      2   273  3842  6915   1133e
Total    P      235   939      C66    1142  1135    57       9      6o    36    20   s5    63    32   573  6501 12990  24815
W        844   6s8    1699    1798  1320   105    12          38    se    41    72    33    32   681  6501 12990  27191
Production Value
Production P     42   191      187    283   224        7     1        8    21    14    11    36    22    13  U496    89   6648
(Kg)  W       143   178      356     465   277    10       1        5    36    32    14    21    25    20 649            95   7174
Gross Value/c   452  195S    1958   2883  2366   105    12          144    63    28   176   106   110   794 10984 14332  36468
(Tk)  W      1498  1810    3729   4738  2907   150    14          90   108    64   224    63   125  1205 10984 16218  42927
Net Incomc.Tk/d
P        217  1016      992   1741  1231    48        3       84    27      8   11    43    78   221  4483  1342  11653
W        6U4   842    2030   2940  1587    45         2       52    52    23   152    30    93   524  4483  2228   15736
la   P a Prcsent; W * With Po ject: Hired labour and bullock 30% of total coat.
lb   Labour, bullock, Geds., tenilizers, pesticides, and output prices are in Annex 11. Table 2.
/c  Including by-products.
Id   Gross Value - Total Cost



- 177 -
BANGLADESH                                               ANNEX 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                          Table 23
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm /a
Subproject: Polder 72
flfl                   . ...       ..   **... .....                               ....... ....              ...
B.Aus   T.Aus  T.Aman T.Arnan B.Aman  Juts  Pulses   Oil-  Cowpea  Swoot  Chilli  Vegetable Wheat  Total
LV     HYV      LV      HYV                            seeds            Potato  (green)
Percentage P         a8Ss   10.40   51.32    5.52    0.29   1.49    7.93    3.91    4.71    1.90    2.36         0.00    132      100
w             11.13   10.24   34.24   16.68    1.47   0.00    8.14    4.83    3.26    2.99    2.99        2.84    1.21      100
Area. ha  P         0.154   0.1a1   0.893   0.096   0.005 0.026   0.138   0.068   0.082   0.033   0.041             0   0.023    1.74
w             0.212   0.195   0.652   0.317   0.021       0   0.155   0.092   0.062   o.os7   0.057      0.054   0.023    1.90
Prodtn. Cost. Tkhb
Labour   P            693    1448   6474       768      26   234      380      187     226      239     349         0     138  11161
W              1060    1858    4890    2895      154      0     504     299      202     442     470       567      150   13089
Bullock   P           139      228    1072     130       6    33       104      51       62      42      52         0      17   1932
w               254     246     732     42a       31      0     163       69      47      72      72        73       17   2253
Seed     P            125       72     357      38       4      5       s5      27      37       1s       7         0      21     763
w               200      78     235      127      25      0     167       33      28      26       9        20       21     969
Ursa     P              0       65     268      60       0    14         0       0        0       5      12         0       4    429
w                 0     102    251    255          0      0      43        0       0       a      22        30        4    716
TSP      P              0       33     134      30       0      5        0       0        0       2       a         0       3    213
w                 0      48     137      122       0      0      22        0       0       4       12       16        3     362
MP      P               0       14      45      17       0      2        0       0        0       1       3         0       1      82
w                 0      27      6S      67        0     0       13        0       0       2       6         a        1    192
Pesticides P           19       45     223      48        1    13       35      17       10       7      10         0       3     431
w                32      73     163      159       4      0      23       23      s6      11       14       27        3     547
Irrigation P            0        0       0       0       0      0        0       0        0       0      17         0       0      17
W                 0     320       0       0        0     0        0       0        0       0      43       111        0     473
Misc    P              57       95     411      66       2    14        30      1s       16      12      18         0       a    745
w                81     108     312     219       11     0       62      25       17      20      34        36       8     932
Total   P            1033    2000   8984    1158        38   320      602      297     350      322     474         0     194  15772
w             1628    2659   6838    4070        225     0      998     449      308     585     683       ag8     206   19534
Production Value
Production P          169     353    1518      278       7    41       83       34      41     248       86         0      32   2890
(Kg)  W             265     439    1174    1030       39      0     101       55      37      439     128       567      38   4312
GroY Valu/ec P       1765    3597  15871    2855        89   429    1242       50s     735     502    1370          0     512  29455
(Tk)  W            2770    4474   12265   10528      413      0    1512      826     673      902    2057      1707     605  38732
Not Incomn.TkId
P              732    1597   6887    1697        31   109       639     211      385     1so     896         0     318   13682
w             1142    1815   5427    6458        188     0      514     377      365     317    1374       821     329  1919
la   P * Prevent: W a With Project: Hired labour and bullock 30% of total cost.
/b   Labour, bullock, seds, fertilizers, pesticides, and output prices a*r in Annex 11, Table 2.
/c  Including by-products.
/d   Grocc Value - Total Cost



- 178 -
BANGLADESH                                                  ANNEX 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                            Table 24
Farm Budget: 1 Hectare Model Farm Ja
Subproject: Polder 7311 A&B
.a.S  a.s   nn    w.aw  . San   m..=   Seena   &=.=    W.= 555   SlSe   n..
B.Auc   TAuc  TArnan T.Aman BSArnan Pultsi   Oil-  Cowpos  Swtt  Chilli  Vegetable  Millet    Total
LV     HYV      LV      HYV                   soes             Potato  (green)
Percentage P        1444    0.00   71.03    0.00    479  3.85   0o77          1.23    1.11    1.03       1.28     0.43     100
w             20.45    0.00   46.38   11.59    424  5.91    0.s1    1.74    2.50    1.9T          2.0      1.52     100
Arca. ha  P         0.169       0   0.831        0   0.056 0.045   0.009   0.015   0.013   0.012       0.015     0.005    1.17
w              0.27       0   0.612   0.153   0.056  0.078   0.012   0.023   0.033   0.026       0.037      0.02    1.32
Prodtn. Cost. Tk/b
Labour   P            761        0   5402        0     268   124       25       41     101      g6       161        23    6998
w             1283        0   4284    1224       266   222       34      69     272      215      416        90    8375
Bullock   P           203        0     997       0      62    34        7       11      17      1s        41         6    1394
w              324        0     734     207       E2    56        9      17      44       33       49        24    1559
Seed     P            160        0    299        0      50    1s        4        7       6       2         a         5     556
W              255        0     220      el       50    84        4      10      15        4        14       19     738
Urea    P               0        0     249       0       0      0       0        0       0       4         a         0     259
W                 0       0     202     106        0    19       0        0       7        9        1l        0     380
TSP      p              0        0     199       0       0      0       0        0       0       0         3         0     203
w                 0       0     110       sO       0     9        0       0       4        5         9        0      189
MP      P               0        0      42       0       0      0       0        0       0        1        2         0      4
W                 0       0      46      23        0     5        0       0       2        2         0        0       77
P- ticides P           21       0     203        0       7      a       1        2       0       3         a         1     256
w                41       0     153      77        7    12        3       0       7        7        19         3     326
Irrigation P            0        0       0       0       0      0       0        0       0       5        31         0      36
w                 0       0       0        0       0     0        0       a       0       20        76        0       95
Misc    P              63       0      382       0      22    10        2        3       a       5        10         2     505
w              103        0     293     106       22    31       3        0      13       16       25         7     e24
Total    P           1207       0   7773         0    403   191        38      64      129     131       267        36   10249
W             2005        0   6042    1853      408   439       53       96     368     301       624       143  12340
Production Value
Production P          176       0    1413        0      67    20        4        6      9s      20       121         5    1930
(Kg) w              297       0    1163      459      76    43        7       14     264      55       333        13   2727
Gross Valueic P      1337       0  14754         0     700   301       e7      95      196     320       367        67   18704
(Tk)  W            3102       0  11063    4365       717   643       98     203      529      a89      993       284  22391
Net Income.Tk/d
P              630        0   6976        0    292   110        29       31      67      189      100        31    8455
w             1097        0   5021    2512       309   204      45      107     161     531       374       141   10551
la   P a Present W * With Project: Hired labour and bullock 30U of total cost.
/b   Labour, bullock, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides. and output prices are in Annex 11. Table 2.
/c  Including by-products.
Id   Gross Value - Total Cost



- 179 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 6
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Background
1.    There are two major categories of Project Affected Persons (PAPs) under the
proposed project:
(a)   Squatters living on existing embankments being repaired under the
project; and
(b)   People affected by land acquisition for project facilities.
About 675 ha is to be acquired under the project consisting of (a) about 270 ha of land in
areas where embankments have to be retired due to the effects of erosion on existing
embankments; (b) about 175 ha for repair of existing embankments, of which about half
is for acquisition of land under one existing embankment where the land had previously
been made available on a voluntary basis, without transfer of ownership, and the
remainder is land required for widening of existing embankments; (c) about 55 ha for
new drainage structures; (d) about 35 ha for minor works (excluding khal excavation);
(e) about 35 ha for resettlement of embankment squatters and other landless people; and
(f) about 105 ha to be leased for three years in strips of 10 meters width on each bank of
kahls, as spoil dump areas for khal excavation.
2.    Paras. 2.12 and 2.16 of the SAR describes the program under which about 700
families presently squatting on embankment sections to be rehabilitated and about 1300
other landless families would be allocated an area of the embankment of about 1 ha each
(smaller areas in sections of two polders) for which they would be responsible for
afforestation and routine embankment maintenance. Each of these families would also be
allocated a homestead plot of 10 m. by 20 m. at the inland toe of the embankment. They
would be paid by BWDB on a declining scale for these services for about four years by
which time the value of the produce from their trees and their homestead plots is expected
to be sufficient to provide an adequate income. It is expected that most of the squatters
required to move to permit rehabilitation of embankments would opt to move
immediately to new homes at the back of the homestead plots, which would still allow
contractors enough room on the berm for construction activities. Alternatively, they
would be given the option of a rental allowance for about one year to cover the costs of
temporarily renting a plot or a house during construction. Squatters would be provided a
house construction grant sufficient to cover the costs of movement and erection of
shiftable materials from the prior house and purchase and erection of non-shiftable
materials for the new house. A squatter census report was produced in August 1993 by
the consultants employed for the PWP project. The resettlement consultants, assisted by
NGOs, would formally register the eligible PAPs, and would include any new squatters
up to the date of the new survey.



- 180 -                            ANNEX9
Page 2 of 6
3.    On about 3.7 km of embankment near Sandwip town and about 4 km near
Ramgati a variation of the above arrangements would be made for squatter families with
work or family connections requiring them to live near town. A continuous berm would
be constructed to accommodate about 1 00 families near Sandwip and 80 families near
Ramgati. Groups would be organized to take responsibility for embankment afforestation
and maintenance, with each family responsible for the maintenance and receiving the
benefit of the produce from a smaller area than in the standard model (perhaps 1/4 to 1/8
ha). This would not be expected to provide a subsistence income but (together with the
produce from the homestead plot) would supplement their current sources of income.
Impact of Land Acquisition
4.    Land acquisition in Bangladesh in the past has caused severe adverse impacts on
affected people, for the following reasons:
(a)   the level of compensation for land has generally been far below the market
value of the lost properties;
(b)   Compensation has frequently been delayed;
(c)   Because of the small average land holdings in Bangladesh, people are
extremely vulnerable to losses of productive land; and
(d)   Some categories of affected people have not been compensated.
5.   In compliance with the principles of the Bank's Operational Directive 4.30, a
resettlement action plan (RAP) has been prepared for the project, which addresses the
above-mentioned problems. The main challenges of this plan have been to: (a) develop
an improved mechanism for valuation of land; (b) develop policies which adequately
address the need for restoring income levels of agriculture-based households; (c) identify
and define non-property owners in need of assistance; and (d) provide an adequate and
fair grievance mechanism.
6.    A socio-economic survey has been carried out by consultants (Bangladesh
Institute of Development Studies staff members) of the land to be acquired for
embankment retirement. This study covered a total of 236 ha of land required as
compared to about 270 now estimated to be required for embankment retirement, taking
account of changes in alignment due to erosion and the addition of a section of one polder
not completed under the PWP program. This survey aimed to:
(i)   produce a comprehensive listing of all PAPs;
(ii)   ascertain the socio-economic status of PAPs;
(iii) make a complete list of all losses suffered by PAPs;



- 181 -                          ANNEX9
Page 3 of 6
(iv)  gather data on the prevailing market price of land;
(v)   elicit PAPs' views on compensation levels and modalities.
7.    Data from the complete census of PAPs has been entered into a computer data-
base and two listings produced for each of the 10 polders. One of these contains tables
showing informnation on each plot, referenced by the plot number from the mouza map.
The second contains a data sheet for each individual PAP. Although the information in
these print-outs is quite comprehensive, further information would need to be accessed
directly from the data-base. For instance, although PAP data sheets show the value of
losses of assets, such as houses and trees, information on the type, size and unit value of
each house or tree (which is needed to determine the overall value of the asset) is not
shown. Plot data tables only give information on the land owner, and details of tenants
can only be obtained from the computer.
8.    To retire a total of 65 km of embankment in 10 CERP polders, a total of 236 ha of
land will need to be acquired. Of this, 27 ha is khas (public) land, the remaining 209 ha
consisting of 2,448 plots of private land owned or occupied by 1 ,148 households. On
average the affected households lose 0.18 ha or about 1 1% of their land holdings. In
many cases the value and productivity of their remaining land would increase due to the
protection provided by the embankment. The total number of families rendered landless
due to this land acquisition would be four (all earning their livelihood outside of
agriculture). In addition to agricultural land, about 12% of PAPs would lose homestead
land, 11% buildings, 2% shops or mills, 16% trees, 3% fishponds, and 1% salt beds.
There is little sharecropping in the project area, but there are some longer term tenants.
9.    The remaining land to be acquired under the project is similar to that surveyed
above, except that in most cases the amount of land to be taken from any one PAP (e.g.
for widening existing embankments) would be less.
Compensation Policy
10.   The policies and mechanisms developed in the RAP are primarily cash-based,
with the exception of support for relocation of squatters (described in para 2 above). It is
recognized that land-for-land compensation is not feasible nor desirable with the
acquisition of long strips of land (right-of-way). Most farmers will lose only parts of
their holdings and will prefer not to move, and cannot make use of land allocated by the
Government somewhere else. The primary focus of the policy is therefore on adequate
cash compensation. Within this framework, GOB has agreed to: (a) offer compensation
for properties/assets based on their replacement value; (b) include compensation and
assistance to affected non-property owners; (c) compensate for relocation costs; and
(d) provide compensation for temporary loss of income. These provisions meet the
requirements of Operational Directive 4.30 with respect to resettlement and rehabilitation.



- 182 -ANNEX9
Page 4 of 6
11.   The following types of losses are recognized under the compensation and
resettlement policy:
(a)   agricultural or commercial land, including usufruct rights existing for
more than one year;
(b)   homestead land;
(c)   standing crop;
(d)   living quarters or other physical structures (including buildings used for
commercial or industrial activities);
(e)   trees or fish ponds;
(f)   income from displaced commercial or industrial activities;
(g)   regular wage income; and
(h)   occupied homestead land (either unauthorized use of Government land or
use of private land with owner's permission).
12.   Definition of the persons recognized as having these losses (i.e., entitled persons),
level/form of compensation and assistance offered, and specific guidelines for calculating
compensation are presented in the compensation and resettlement policy in the RAP (see
attachment.) The policy commitments and institutional arrangements reflected in this
policy matrix will be translated into Bangla and distributed to the affected people during
joint verification. In addition, local level information meetings will be arranged where
the text of the Bangla brochure will be explained publicly, both to the PAPs and to the
implementing functionaries at the field level. The concerned BWDB staff will request
the Union Council Chairmen to convene such meetings.
Institutional Arrangements
13.   Land and other properties will be acquired under the Acquisition and Requisition
of Immovable Property Ordinance, 1982. Under this Ordinance, the Deputy
Commissioner's (DC's) office is the acquiring body acting on behalf of the implementing
agency (in this case BWDB). The ordinance specifies that in determining the market
value of property, the DC shall take into account the average value of similar properties
in the vicinity sold during the preceding twelve months. Since such values are frequently
understated for tax avoidance reasons, the compensation values resulting from these
computations of recorded market prices were normally below the real market values of
the property. In consideration of this problems, the Ordinance was amended in
September 1993 to raise the premium on the calculated market value of property "in
consideration of the compulsory nature of the acquisition" from 20% to 50%.
Notwithstanding the increase in the premiums over recorded values, compensation for
property based on computed values could still, in some cases, be less than replacement
value. In addition, the ordinance does not fully cover all categories of loss by PAPs. The
excess of entitlements in the agreed matrix over what is paid by the DCs would be
financed from the project budget.



- 183 -                         ANNEX9
Page 5 of 6
14.   Land acquisition and resettlement activities would be managed by the Project
Resettlement Unit of the PIU, located in Chittagong, and headed by a Deputy Director
Resettlement. Work would be carried out by four subunits established by Cox's Bazaar,
Chittagong, Noahkhali, and Barisal. Each subunit has Regional Project Resettlement
Officers, Revenue Officers, an Accountant, and a Surveyor. Special Land Acquisition
Officers deputed to the Deputy Commissioners have been appointed at Cox's Bazaar,
Chittagong, and Laxmipur to assist the Deputy Commissioners in dealing with polders
with large numbers of affected people. Entitlements beyond those specified under the
law would be paid by the Project Resettlement Unit. The consultants who prepared the
draft resettlement plan with regard to land to be acquired for embankment retirement have
been contracted to use their data base from their survey to assist the DCs and the Project
Resettlement Unit to establish entitlements for land required for the first year of
construction. The resettlement consultants have subcontracted with NGOs active in the
project areas to work with people affected by land acquisition, verify payments, and
participate in grievance committees. Following credit signature, it is expected that the
contract of the resettlement consultants would be extended to cover land required for
subsequent construction years.
15.   All payments to PAPs will be made in the presence of a BWDB representative of
the rank of Subdivisional Engineer or above. Grievance Redressal Committees,
consisting of a representative of the DC, a BWDB Subdivisional Engineer, the local
Union Parishad Chairman, and a representative of the resettlement NGO, would be
formed for each of the four resettlement subunits. (Additional members such as a teacher
at a local educational institute and a BWDB Section Officer may be added, if needed,
while maintaining the ratio of committee members from government departments at 50%
or less.) These committees will be formed within two months of the establishment of the
resettlement subunits and shall commence hearing grievances within a week of issuance
of details of PAP entitlements following joint verification. Grievances may be brought to
the attention of either the resettlement NGO or the resettlement subunit. These
committees are expected to meet regularly to hear grievances at least once every two
weeks, at a place and time publicized to the PAPs.
Timing
16.   The Notice under Section 3 of the Ordinance notifying the public of plots
proposed for acquisition for the first year's construction program was given in mid-
August. A joint verification exercise to assess individual claims, using data provided by
the socio-economic survey, has been initiated for the first year's required land. The
committee carrying out this exercise includes representatives of the resettlement NGOs.
Finalization of the Joint Verification Report and determination of award amounts are
scheduled to be completed by the end of October. (For the one polder where it is
necessary to start on resectioning during the first construction season, the work will
proceed one month later, combining survey of PAPs and registration of squatters on the
embankment.) Payment of compensation in accordance with the compensation policy is
scheduled to be completed by January 31, with land to be handed over to contractors by



- 184 -                         ANNEX9
Page 6 of 6
March 1. The compensation policy includes extra payment for each week by which the
period between compensation and eviction is less than 12 weeks.
17.   Following credit signature, similar procedures would start for the land required for
the second and subsequent year's construction program. This includes updating of the
squatter survey and carrying out of socio-economic surveys of:
(a)   areas where as a result of subsequent erosion the alignments of
embankments to be retired have been modified since the original survey;
(b)   areas required for embankment rehabilitation, including land needed along
side existing embankments for embankment widening, and land
underneath one existing embankment which had been provided by the
owners on a voluntary basis without compensation;
(c)   areas required completion of PWP works;
(d)   areas required for homestead plots for settlers on the toe of the
embankment; and
(e)   areas required for minor rehabilitation and improvement works.
1 8.   The resettlement consultants would also carry out a sample survey of PAPs who
have received compensation, to determine the impact of land acquisition on their socio-
economic situation. The monitoring and evaluation specialist of the general project
consultants would liaise with the resettlement consultants to ensure adequate monitoring
of the PAPs. Under the allowance for contingencies in the provision for resettlement
costs, additional NGO self-help or training programs would be provided to any category
of PAPs identified by the survey as requiring such services.
m: \cerpdoc\cerpanx\annex9



- 185 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 14
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Environmental Analysis
A. Introduction
1.        An environmental assessment of the Coastal Embankment
Rehabilitation Project (CERP) was undertaken by environmental consultants
financed by the European Commission. The report concluded that the overall
environmental impact of the project is positive. The expected impacts on
agriculture, fisheries, and the socio-economic status of the population in the
project area will be significantly positive in most respects. The consultants
concluded that there is adequate scope for mitigation of virtually all the
identified adverse environmental and social impacts of the project and
recommended mitigating measures and arrangements for impact monitoring. This
environmental annex summarizes the consultants' main findings.
B. Potential Environmental Impacts
2.        The potential environmental impacts were considered and likely
impacts were then characterized in terms of their scope, duration, probability
of occurrence, significance and other appropriate factors. An attempt to
characterize project impacts is summarized in Table 1. Since many of the
potential positive and negative impacts are inter-related, could occur
simultaneously amongst differing social groups and to a certain extent, negate
each other, they were grouped and considered under the following headings:
Agriculture.
Fisheries.
Socio-economics.
Miscellaneous.
This will allow a greater appreciation of the relative environmental costs and
benefits of the project.
Agriculture
3.        Two of the greatest constraints on agriculture in the coastal strip
are the salinisation of soil and flood damage due to incursion of saline and
tidal fresh waters. One of the main aims of the project is to offer greater
protection to coastal areas from high tide levels and cyclone surges. In the
post-construction years one would expect to see a decline in soil salinity
and flood recurrence and intensity. This would result in an increase in the
farmers confidence that investments in agriculture will be secure. It is
widely expected that these changes will manifest themselves as agricultural
intensification and increases in yields and incomes.



Natum of Impad                                   Impac CIma,adcilzUlon                              litigatlouiJanakgemea Activities
7iglllc I  Key Potential lrnject Imp,acts anwd Al,iiglttiosn Alclasures - Conlinuleg
Setlimentalimi of kitas andl watercourses.       lIsig, LT, [i., Rev                              Re-excavation od affecteLd watercourses it
necesry Pi,
NCO assistance in lisheries develtipmenl.
Increased recruiltment of sdMmp larvae due lo    Sig, LT, tAo, Rev                                NCO advke on patiens ol afllirsalion aui
mangrove allorslalion.                                                                            stastalbk exploitation.
Suggest management praclkes as approlnpiale.
Key       Sig - Significant
Insig - lnsrasigicant 
LT - Ltng Tenn                                                                                                                                        O
ST - Shom Term
lIP - H8ig  proAbaily
L r Low probability
Lo - Localized
Ex - Exlensive
Rev - Reversible
frr - Irrevenibe
*
r.
91



- 188 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 14
4.        Predictions of the changes that will occur in cropping patterns
have been made by the project preparation consultants and reviewed by the IDA
appraisal mission. Generally, it appears that the percentage of cropped area
under single cropping will decline and the area that is double cropped will
increase. It is not likely that the area which is triple cropped will
increase substantially. It is estimated that over a period of five years from
completion of civil works, between 20% and 40% of the current T. Aman area
would shift to HYV in the Kharif season. Conversion would be at the high end
of the range in those polders with comparatively low levels of absentee
ownership and share cropping. During the rabi season, however, HYV boro
cultivation is expected to increase in only one polder due to the lack of
fresh water for irrigation in other areas.
5.        The sources of environmental impact which are generally associated
with agricultural intensification are as follows:
Increased use of agrochemicals.
Depletion of existing surface water resources within polders
for supplementary irrigation.
Increased use of improved seed varieties and the abandonment
of traditional local varieties.
Increased Use of Agrochemicals
6.        Intensification of agriculture is usually accompanied by increased
use of fertilizers and pesticides which may pollute surface waters by runoff
from soils and contaminate groundwater and aquifer bodies due to the downward
percolation of polluted soil water.
7.        Bangladesh has a comparatively low rate of fertilizer and pesticide
consumption compared to neighboring countries. Currently the rate of
agrochemical use in the coastal area is low. In other areas, where irrigated
agriculture has been introduced, the consumption of fertilizers and pesticides
has increased two to three fold. Much of this increased consumption is the
result of boro cultivation with HYV rice which has a greater demand for
nutrients than low yielding varieties and is also more prone to pests.
S.        It is unlikely that agrochemical consumption will increase
dramatically in coastal polders or that environmental problems will arise for
the following reasons:
Due to lack of irrigation water it is not expected that triple
cropping or the adoption of high yield boro varieties will be
widespread. Switching to HYV varieties would be confined in
most areas to the aman season. Therefore, one would not
expect the agrochemical consumption rate to increase as much
as two fold.
The build-up of unacceptable levels of agrochemicals within
polders is unlikely to occur due to the flushing effects of
seasonal flooding and drainage of polders.



- 189 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 14
Many of the coastal aquifers are small and isolated and
'protected' by the impermeability of the confining layers;
widespread contamination by pesticides is therefore difficult
to envisage.
Supplementary Irrigation using Surface Water Resources
9.        In many polder areas intensification of agricultural production
leads to drawing down of surface water in ponds and khals, reducing water
availability for domestic use, for bathing and laundry, for livestock watering
and for fishing. While in the proposed project area there is some potential
for this occurring, it should be remembered that the project would increase
availability of fresh surface water, since in the absence of the project these
water bodies would become saline. Over the longer run encouragement of crops
requiring less water than rice will reduce this problem.
Salinization of groundwater
10.       While over-pumping leading to salinization of groundwater would
have significant detrimental effects, it is unlikely to occur. Since any
over-pumping would cause salinization of farmers' own sources of drinking
water, they can be relied upon to use appropriate restraint, as they have in
the past.
Soil Waterlogging
11.       One of the adverse impacts reported of the previous coastal
embankment project was that waterlogging of soils occurred in some areas as a
result of inadequate polder drainage. In general, this appears to have been
addressed by polder drainage improvement schemes. The rehabilitation of
embankments will result in their height being increased which could exacerbate
or create such problems. However, since the environmental consultants are not
aware of any significant waterlogging problems at present which are
attributable to coastal embankments per se, it is not considered that this
impact has a high probability of occurrence or significance. Further, the
project will finance additional drainage improvements in selected polders
which will help to prevent this impact from occurring.
Abandonment of Local Seed Varieties
12.       As the residual salinity of the soil declines due to the flushing
effects of yearly flooding and drainage, farmers are expected to replace local
salt tolerant varieties with HYV strains. While the impact at the farm level
is expected to be a positive, measures are required to conserve the country's
genetic resources. This is being undertaken under an ongoing IDA financed
project (as described in para 31).
13.       An additional impact related to the adoption of HYV rice is the
potential reduction in fodder availability. This arises because the residual
straw after rice harvesting is much less with HYV rice than with local
varieties. Whilst this impact may be of local significance, we do not



- 190 -
Annex 10
Page 6 of 14
anticipate that it will be of significance throughout most of the project
area. Where it is an issue, farmers can be encouraged to grow sufficient
fodder crops to provide for livestock needs.
Costs and Benefits
14.       The overall impact of agricultural intensification can be
determined by comparing the positive and negative impacts associated with
intensification which are described above. The key negative impacts which
have to be weighed against agricultural intensification are the loss of
genetic diversity and the possibilities of pollution due to increased use of
agrochemicals or depletion of surface water resources as a result of increased
profitability of irrigation. It is difficult to compare these impacts on a
quantitative basis with the benefits of increased crop yields. A more central
issue to the cost-benefit analysis however, is the scope and cost for impact
mitigation and the significance of any residual impacts. It is possible to
collect and preserve for future use indigenous seed (a component of the World
Bank/ODA Agriculture Support Services Project addresses this issue). It is
also possible to encourage farmers to plant crops of lower water demand and to
train farmers to use appropriate levels of agricultural inputs and integrated
pest management methods.
Fisheries
15.       The construction of coastal embankments affects the fisheries
sector in two ways. Open water capture fisheries are most likely to be
adversely affected due to the barrier effect of the embankments. In contrast,
embankment construction and the protection it affords will create a relatively
risk-free environment for investments in intensive aquaculture to take place.
Open Water Capture Fisheries
16.       Generally inland fisheries have been in decline for some time.  The
reason for this is not clear-cut and is likely to involve a combination of
factors in different areas, including overfishing and the development of flood
control, drainage and irrigation systems. However, open fresh water fisheries
are not of great biological or economic significance in the coastal polders
where marine subsistence and economic fishing predominate. Moreover, the
project embankments do not close up major or medium rivers or shoot channels
of these rivers which are the main routes for migration of fish to the
spawning grounds in flood plains. Therefore, it is unlikely that the CERP
will have any significant discernable impacts on the open water capture
fishery which are additional to existing pressures on the fishery.
Aquaculture
17.       Aquaculture production in the coastal areas of Bangladesh is well
below potential rates of production. With a greater degree of protection,
investments in both brackish and freshwater aquaculture could yield
significant increases in fish and shrimp production.



- 191 -
Annex 10
Page 7 of 14
Freshwater Aquaculture
18.       Estimates have been made of the area of cultivable and derelict
ponds which could be rehabilitated, and of the approximate production of
existing cultured ponds. Increased production benefits in existing cultured
ponds will accrue to the owner or leaser rather than to the population in
general. There may be some limited additional employment opportunities for
the underemployed, however. There is considerable potential for involving the
rural poor in reclaiming derelict ponds for freshwater fish and shrimp culture
with the assistance of NGOs. This could have significant positive impacts on
the nutritional and economic status of people involved, bringing project
benefits to a wider section of the rural community.
Brackish Water Aquaculture
19.       It is highly probable that the project will result in an increase
in the production of existing brackish water shrimp and fish farms, and also
an increase in the area under aquaculture activities. The net result will be
increased income to farm owners, increased employment opportunities and
stimulation of support activities such as product processing and packaging,
refrigeration services and transport.
20.       In most of the project area shrimp is grown in alternation with
salt production in areas unsuitable for rice. However, there is currently
some conflict of interest with rice farmers in areas where both activities co-
exist. It has been reported in some areas that shrimp farmers are forcing
rice farmers to yield their land for expansion. Even in areas where this does
not occur, salinisation of agricultural land adjacent to aquaculture farms is
an interference factor. This issue predates the proposed project and is
unlikely to be significantly worsened by the project.
Costs and Benefits
21.       While the damage to open water fisheries of flood control and
drainage projects can be compensated in production terms by increases in
aquaculture, it can generally be argued that the beneficiaries of increased
aquaculture production are mainly richer elements of the rural communities
while the loss of open water fisheries is mainly bourn by the poor. However,
in the project area open water fisheries are not significant and the project
does not adversely affect open water fisheries in other areas. Therefore,
these general arguments do not apply in this case. While the main
beneficiaries of expansion of acquacultural activities will still be the
richer elements of the community, there will be increased employment
opportunities without damage to the access of the poor to open water
fisheries.
Socio-Economic Impact
22.       The CERP gives rise to several socio-economic impacts and issues
which are related to the construction of embankments, agricultural and



- 192 -
Annex 10
Page 8 of 14
aquacultural intensification and to the afforestation component of the
project.
resettlement and compensation;
improved economic status of the landless; and
changes in the social fabric of rural communities.
Resettlement and Compensation
23.       The rehabilitation of embankments will require additional land on
both the seaward and landward sides of the embankments. Some additional land
may also be required for mangrove afforestation. This will affect existing
land owners within the polders in the following ways:
*     Some homesteads which lie close to the existing embankments
will have to be relocated.
Homestead gardens, fruit trees and ponds may be lost due to
land take.
Agricultural land may be lost, affecting the families ability
to sustain itself.
Squatter families on embankments which require rehabilitation
will have to be relocated.
A detailed polder-wise survey of affected assets along the proposed embankment
alignment and a resettlement and compensation plan are currently being
undertaken to ensure that no persons are significantly adversely affected by
the project. Provided the issue of compensation and resettlement is managed
efficiently and effectively, only short term inconvenience, which could be
deemed insignificant, may be experienced.
Economic Status of the Landless
24.       Some of the landless people currently living on the existing
embankments or on char lands will receive the opportunity to lease embankment
land which can be cultivated in suitable tree crops for the long term
livelihood of the landless family. Landless Contracting Societies will also
have the opportunity to undertake long term maintenance work for which they
will receive payment. This income will substantially improve their economic
status. The net result of successful afforestation and embankment leasing
will have long-term significant positive impacts on the landless community.
Social Fabric of Rural Communities
25.       There is the potential for social conflicts to arise between the
land owners who are affected by land take, and the newly settled landless who
may occupy the area of the formers land. In addition, the social fabric of
existing rural settlements may be disrupted by the resettlement of land owners
elsewhere. Overall such impacts may not be significantly adverse. However,



- 193 -
Annex 10
Page 9 of 14
at the local level serious conflict could arise. This can largely be
prevented by careful consideration during the planning stage and the
involvement of beneficiaries.
Costs and Benefits
26.       At the gross project level, it is apparent that project benefits
far outweigh the costs; one has to compare the loss of about 600 ha of land
due to land take (requiring compensation payments to up to 6000 families or
60,000 people most of whom would lose only a small portion of their holdings)
with the protection afforded to 1.2 million people. About 140,000 people were
killed during the 1991 cyclone.
27.       At the polder level, the positive impacts which arise from the CERP
are of high significance for the landless and land owning groups of the
project area. The enhanced opportunities for long and short term employment
for landless and marginal farmers and the reduced potential for loss of life
greatly outweigh, in opinion of the environmental consultants, the potential
negative impacts of disruption to rural communities and hardship for land
owners due to land take; there is considerable scope to prevent or mitigate
these negative impacts.
Hvdroloc*v and Sediment Dynamics
28.       The construction of embankments alters the natural pattern of river
flow and of seasonal flooding in the project area. However, the environmental
consultants conclude that no significant adverse impacts will arise since
there is ample scope to prevent or mitigate them.
Afforestation
29.       The provision of afforestation on the foreshore areas and on the
embankments for protection of the embankments against wave action and erosion
by rainwater and wind will have the following beneficial impacts upon the
environment:
Provide protection of the embankments and foreshore area
against erosion by waves;
Reduce the wind velocity of cyclones and strong monsoon winds
and thereby reduce wind generated damages and soil erosion;
Protect the pollen of the paddy from strong monsoon wind,
resulting in increase of crop yields;
Increase the vegetation coverage of the area which will
facilitate restoration of the ecological imbalances and
erratic behavior of the nature;
Help meet the demand of fuel energy in the project area; and



- 194 -
Annex 10
Page 10 of 14
Provide valuable food, and cash income to the local farmers,
resulting in uplift of the rural economy.
This component would also provide a long-term means of livelihood to a
significant number of landless families.
C. Environmental Management Plan for the Project Area
30.       Tables 1 and 2 summarize options for environmental monitoring and
mitigation of project impacts. These options constitute an environmental
management plan for the CERP and address the following requirements.
*    Monitoring of environmental impacts in a cost effective way
and where possible combining the project monitoring
requirements with those of related projects.
Enhancement of the positive impacts of the project by
providing assistance to beneficiaries in achieving sustainable
development of polder resources through technical assistance
and the development of self-help groups.
Prevention and/or mitigation of negative impacts through
improved polder management involving beneficiaries,
agricultural extension activities and NGO guidance and
assistance to beneficiaries.
Management of Agricultural Intensification
31.       The potential for negative environmental impacts of agricultural
intensification to arise are directly related to the nature of cultivation
practices in the project area. The Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
and selected NGOs will, through extension activities, promote sustainable
agricultural development. In particular, the IDA supported Agricultural
Support Services Project (ASSP) will support:
Integrated pest management.
Appropriate application and handling of agrochemicals.
Crop diversification (also involving lower water demand
crops).
Development of horticultural export businesses.
Appropriate irrigation water management.
In addition the ASSP will also support the development and cultivation of more
appropriate seed varieties and the establishment of genetic seed banks.



Kay 17vir,gljn rldra   anidit Saiciuil  iq a:cf AlI uiloring BrI lifuircnticls
Nalimie of Impact                           Moniloflog Aclivity                          Frfqutncy anti D)uallon                      Moisoilaodi  Agency
U,llig'i,.iii,uie,iIa Issiaes
licreastsd use of agrmcbemkals              Tesi grotintlvisler qualily at               Annual U4sis Inr 5 years                     DWDIIADC
le.dliig its ga'aundvwater potsihian.        BADVBWDO trnuiiiiig wvells
l1crMAsed ab%tractinC   of gioan1tivalet  MiRnilor eiy season twell wvater kvls                                                       IIWD)l/UADC'
94r iurigatini 11r1-pts.                    of 1JAl)cC/1DW l)  nuilae iaig ave.lls.
Randmnn liikl visils                                                                     B%YDD
Deciiise ill 48[ ri iiltl1l Caplpmt         tIsIsti.ii iipax.ila .iaiI, C.i  1t I SI.Lij isA   s Ama is, si  1t  5 ymis.              DM      pJj.4zild PrFiistiad.
lislleriLs
l,cru.asel a(ipilastilltare sr(pnc1la;isuI       ,liliiitoi sp' il. r' uliaitie n st.ltlislitcs   As,u.asl b.ssis ltig 5 yas         DuF/UpJIazilia I'Par6Ad.
S5Urifr'rice l.reniug conhlkis              Fluumner grzol s to rega.xn                  I0J1'a.ilJ PXaislial lI iseveslig.1C as       Dial/DAE/AUDJazil Parisla&m
,cructuanwl sl. .estIlgllis asid.l L.aauaaligs  14.a1u iu.l
dilliuhies.
Destriacliusl nl mangroves fur               Ex.aniwiie rts,gaa  svomioialp isis1Lary    Animua.I basis far 5 yei.is                   FD
aqi1taciltuirc exrpanskin.
Cusl.U  albr st.sn.                         Examitinc remiale sensin; insisgery in    Annual bUasis tIn1 Ht) yv.us.                   I:)
conjmlsitoknn with grouut-tnriting.
Genelic enusinfocilaniges in cropping   lMinnilor va.iitll use asul crupping             Amu.ial baL  lir 5 yeats                     DAE/Upazila Parisbtai'
pratr. mitalleriis
IncFresed aullistulaiKce 4ii sluigiigi       tIbtiiillt  titulf.ml slogili,ig I.tivaic  lEvy  2 yt.ss lat 6 yv.as.                     1)I81
larvaeL                                     receaulcd Catclmcs.
Dsawtvhas n in Fnulace waler txlies.   NCO diashiupie uvithm auIl1eat InvestBl.mC ale g vduia.cs as 14tullifui&                      NGO/DAE.                                          #1
Sixio-eco,;omitc issu1es                                                                                                                                                                0
Iticrtfise in eimslgi4yILitel late.          Exanaiine sasp.a7iLm slalislts              AninalI basis haa 5 yc.aN                    UDWDh/lJgIzil, P.arislhatNGOs
Clhamiges in incaime btidgets cIn            Sncio econmic slauvey fit ljaraect           nvestil .ile sjecilic g sieveaices.           WDWI) ja.ll.L Paiiisha.l/NCOs
malginal farmenr andu landless              isnpacted gnausps
Review  p-Al"'ss astd ativuaacy nlf
(48g.*' -..'sih.ai 1s  a}t v i.i.i as-



Naleare ol Impact                       Monilocing Activity                     Feequency anl D)uualionh Moniluelaig Agency
Stw-i.l conflikds aimingsl larmliess isonl  NCO dli.lshgo wiethiD llevitAS     Invesligale: gliev.111ces .is re:4ziiele,l    NG.O/IIJJj-si  Pakish.u
l.an,lel  f rotpsP                      comoemueniliesi
ChIanges in cunsnunily social I.sbeic.  NCO dikabStse cvilil ailecled           Igmves.tij.tt al iev.u-es .As ii.jaaiie1  NCO/thljaili P.ariLl.[.
caaa,ca..maeticis.
Ch.anges in IodJer avaiLbbilily.        NCGOADAE thiktinc *viyit Iiariauers     Asmlt bais hiar 5 yeis                NGO/DAE/.1rdzil.a Psish.e    .'
muln livestock owncrs.
Ince.aseJ agriculitral proieleclion.    Review upa4il4 auld poller wise         Annual b.asis tes 5 years.             DAtAJpjzila Patishad'
statisiks.
Changes in croppilig pallern.           Review 11pazid  and puller wise                                                 DAEAJpM uiad  PuicDsie'
statistics.
Sedimentaliun of Ielals and oilter      Investigate specific compllairis        As reyisiret                           BWDPI/6Jphaila Pl.i0t..                             a'
walercourses.                           reLaling it fisnIerk.W/navigalkin
aclivilies.
Fundod by NadonW  lAnoe Iutioadon Development Peolect INMIDPI * Ciedit 22460D.
fundod by ASSP - COadii 2233W0D.
DADC       BangLadesli Agrkinitearal Development Corpor.alion
IWDI    Oangkuuie  Waler Development lBar-d
DoP        Deparlment ol Fisheriesl
DAE        Deparlment ul Agricasillaral Exleitsianb
FD         Forest DepafrmwetX



- 197 -
Annex 10
Page 13 of 14
32.       Appropriate NGOs, who will be involved in other components of the
project will be invited to collaborate in efforts to increase agricultural
production and promote appropriate use of farm inputs. They will also play a
role in assisting the landless in afforestation activities on the embankments
and in foreshore areas. The DAE and the FD would provide technical support to
the NGOs in these activities.
Coordinating Development Efforts
33.       To stimulate and coordinate the above activities an Agricultural
Development Officer will be appointed to the Project Implementation Unit for a
10 month period spread over 18 months and starting in the second year of the
project. The main duties of this officer would be to ensure that the
necessary actions take place to promote agricultural intensification in the
project area, many of which will be promoted nationally under the ASSP and
NMIDP. He will collaborate with the ASSP and NMIDP PIU consultants, the CERP
Social Development Officer, the CERP Environmental Specialist and other CERP
TA specialists in ensuring that a holistic approach to the management of
agricultural and environmental impacts is adopted.
Management of Fisheries Issues
34.       While the project will not obstruct any major natural water courses
affecting fish migration, it could affect some small seasonal water bodies.
In such areas, drainage structures would be operated so as to facilitate
fisheries. The program for appropriate regulator operation would be developed
by the environmental specialist in consultation with local groups and DoF
staff at the upazila level. Shrimp inlets would be provided where needed to
avoid damage to shrimp production.
35.       Various on-going projects are involved in programs to promote fresh
and brackish water fisheries production, particularly through the leasing of
ponds, fish farm management and husbandry. The current project would increase
the opportunities for such activities.
Impact Monitoring
36.       As noted in Table 2, much of the monitoring of the impact of the
project can be achieved without additional work by drawing upon information
already being collected by other agencies and donor-supported monitoring
programs. The project implementation consultants terms of reference would
include responsibility for developing appropriate monitoring programs,
ensuring that working mechanisms are in place to obtain required data already
being collected and supplementing this data as necessary. The technical
assistance component of the proposed project includes funds for procurement of
such supplementary equipment as many be appropriate, such as portable soil and
water analysis kits. Data collected should be on a polder basis, to the
extent possible, to allow information generated to be used for management
decisions at the polder level.



- 198 -
Annex 10
Page 14 of 14
Polder Operation and Maintenance
37.       The operation and management of polders will ultimately rest with
the BWDB through its local offices. The BWDB will develop O&M schedules which
take into account the agricultural and fisheries requirements of polder
occupants. DAB and DoF would provide information on such requirements. The
implementation consultants would assist in developing mechanisms at the local
level to ensure that all concerned agencies are consulted.
Developing BWDB's Environmental Management Capabilities
38.       The BWDB is concerned with the development and management of a wide
range of flood control, drainage and irrigation measures throughout
Bangladesh. It is appropriate that an agency whose actions have far reaching
consequences for the human and natural environment should incorporate
environmental considerations into its activities. GOB is committed to
developing environmental cells within all key Government agencies and
Ministries. This approach is currently being defined within the GOB National
Environmental Management Action Plan.
39.       While this overall approach is being worked out, the current
project will support short term in-country training on environmental and
social issues for key technical, operational and management staff involved in
the operation and maintenance of flood control, drainage, and irrigation
structures and systems. This will help to develop social and environmental
awareness within BWDB and encourage incorporation of environmental
considerations in the planning and design of such projects.
Technical Assistance
40.       The project implementation technical assistance program will
include inter alia finance of short term inputs of the following international
consultants over the life of the project.
Environmental Specialist (21 staff-months)
*    Agricultural Development Officer (10 staff-months)
Community Development Advisor (19 staff-months)



- 199 -                        ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 5
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT (CERP)
Economic Analysis
1.    Economic analysis was done separately for 11 of 12 polders with major
works financed under this project.1 Economic analysis was not done for those
polders where the major works were financed under the PWP, and where the
current project only includes complementary measures (minor works,
afforestation and improved operation and maintenance (O&M)) because the
return to such complementary works, treating the PWP investments as sunk
costs, is known to be high. The main assumptions of the economic analysis
follow.
2.    Prices.  All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 1994 prices.
Recent Bank commodity price projections were used to derive world prices of
traded goods. Economic farmgate prices were then calculated from the projected
world prices for 2000/2005, with appropriate adjustments for quality, freight,
insurance, handling, processing, and inland transport, as illustrated in Table
1. Import parity values are used for goods that are imported in normal years,
such as wheat; export parity values are used for goods that Bangladesh
normally exports, such as jute and urea. For non-traded goods and services,
financial prices were converted to economic prices using a standard conversion
factor (SCF) of 0.90. The official exchange rate of US$1 to Taka 40.25
(currently used for all projects in Bangladesh) converts prices in US dollars
to Taka. Table 2 summarizes the financial and economic prices of the principal
goods.
Costs
3.    Investment Costs.  These include the cost of major and minor civil
works: resectioning and/or retirement of embankments, replacement or repair of
existing drainage structures, new drainage structures, new protection works,
repairs to existing revetment works, surveys and investigations, khal re-
excavation, and establishment costs, land acquisition, afforestation, and
resettlement. All costs associated with these activities, minus price
contingencies, taxes and duties, have been included. Sections of the
embankments in polders 59/2 (Ramgati) and 72 (Sandwip) would have to be
retired again in about year 15 of the operation due to erosion, and the costs
1.    For Polder 60 (Sonagazi), the project does not include major civil works
and only 2 km of embankment strengthening plus khal excavation, and this
polder is therefore excluded from the economic analysis. More time is
required to test the effectiveness of recently completed anti-erosion
works before firm estimates can be justified. Anowar (where about US$2
million equivalent of expenditure is planned to complete major works
started under PWP) is also excluded from the analysis.



- 200 -                           ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 5
of retirement have accordingly been included. The salvage values of project
facilities have not been subtracted from the costs because their discounted
value would be very small.
4.    Operation and Maintenance Costs.  Incremental costs for O&M have been
estimated for each polder with respect to protective works and routine and
periodic maintenance, operation of structures, repair of cyclone damage, and
maintenance of afforestation on embankment and the foreshore. The cost of
family labor used in routine maintenance of the embankment and afforestation
is assumed to be equal to the opportunity cost of labor; the latter is
approximated by what laborers earn as casual workers or sharecroppers (about
Taka 9,000 per family per year). Taxes and duties are excluded.
5.    Value of Unskilled Labor.  There are significant seasonal variations in
agricultural wages in the project area and, because of widespread
unemployment, market wages overstate the opportunity cost of labor. A weighted
average wage rate for each polder was therefore applied to eliminate seasonal
variations in farm wages. The average wage was then multiplied by 0.75 to
reflect the true opportunity cost of labor.
Benefits
6.    The main benefits are reduction in loss of life and property during
major cyclones, and prevention of salinity intrusions and storm surges during
normal monsoons, allowing increased agricultural production. Production
during normal monsoons would increase over the without project situation due
to (i) the direct effects on yields due to reduced saline intrusions; (ii) the
introduction of higher yielding crops made possible by the decrease in
salinity and the reduced threat of periodic cyclone damage; and (iii) better
drainage. In addition to these normal year benefits, there would be reduced
agricultural losses in years of severe cyclones. Indirect benefits from
growth linkages and environmental goods are excluded for lack of data.
7.    Savincr of Human Life.  No attempt has been made to quantify benefits
from lives saved, but this is clearly a major benefit of the operation.
B.    Agricultural Benefits.  Agricultural benefits include crop, livestock
and fisheries production.
(a)   Crops. The components of incremental crop output during normal
years are higher yields, more valuable cropping patterns and
higher cropping intensity. The with and without project
situations are estimated in Annex B. In estimating the reduction
of damages during severe cyclones, it is assumed that high water
levels corresponding to cyclones of a severity that occurs with a
frequency of once in 40 years result in severe flooding both in
the "without project" and "with project" situations. Hardly any
standing crop would be saved. Estimation of benefits from
protection to standing crops has therefore been based upon
detailed analysis of damage from cyclone surges with 10 and 20
year return periods. Experience shows that about 50% and 40W of
the crops would be saved by the embankments in the case of



- 201 -                          ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 5
cyclonic surges with a return period of 10 and 20 years,
respectively.
(b)   Livestock. Based on the official estimate of 40% of livestock lost
in Sandwip (Polder 72) during the 1991 cyclone, a livestock loss
of 309 in the "Without Project" situation has been assumed in the
analysis for cyclones with a return period of 10 years or more.
(c)   Fisheries. Shrimp farming is an important activity in parts of the
project zone. Improved embankments and sluices would protect fish
ponds and shrimp farms, especially for cyclones with a return
period of less than 40 years. The expected loss in income from
such fisheries without the protection afforded by the project has
been based on official estimates.
9.    Salt Production.  Salt production is vulnerable to saline intrusion at
the end of the production period in April. Cyclone seasons are October-
November and April-May, implying a 25% probability of an April cyclone. The
probability of cyclone damage to salt production has accordingly been adjusted
by a factor of 0.25 when estimating losses.
10.   Protection of Property and Infrastructure.  The embankments would
protect houses and other buildings, roads, culverts and other structures. The
damage during cyclones of a return period of 10 years or more was estimated
based on data on damage during recent cyclones. About 864,000 houses were
completely destroyed and another 774,000 were partially damaged during the
1991 cyclone.  A value of Taka 15,000 has been assigned to each destroyed
house.  This low value is due to the fact that cyclones destroy mainly the
poorest houses. The average damage to roads and culverts, based on field
observations, is assumed to be 5% and 30%, respectively, of the replacement
value.  Based on a sample of four polders where road categories and number of
culverts have been registered and valued, the average losses have been
estimated at Tk 2,000 per ha. It has also been assumed that regulators and
other infrastructure in shrimp farms would be saved particularly with regard
to cyclones with return periods of 10 and 20 years.
11.   Destruction by high winds has been excluded because the embankments do
not protect against wind. Half of the damage to buildings has been attributed
to wind, as have all losses of telephone lines and power supplies.
12.   Afforestation Benefits.  Afforestation of the embankments and a 50 to
200 meter wide belt on the foreshore would reduce cyclone damage and
embankment maintenance costs. This benefit has been taken into account when
estimating the costs of periodic and routine maintenance of the embankment and
cyclone damage repairs.   In addition to protecting the embankments, resulting
in lower operations and maintenance costs, other direct economic benefits of
afforestation include timber, fuel wood, fruits, and fodder. On the negative
side, the foreshore afforestation would lead to loss of some agricultural land
leading to reduced agricultural production. This loss has been assumed to be
equal to the value added of T. Aman under saline conditions. (On only about
1,000 ha out of the 4,700 ha planned for foreshore afforestation are crops
currently growtn.) Indirect environmental benefits have not been included for
lack of data.



- 202 -                         ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 5
Proiect Execution
13.   Investment phasing will vary from polder to polder, depending on the
condition of the embankment and the earthworks involved. The earthworks for
the major embankment repairs are assumed to be completed within three years
while the minor works component (other than khal re-excavation) would be
completed in four years. Afforestation on the foreshore would start at the
end of year one. Afforestation of the embankments would begin generally in
year three, while starting in year two in a few polders. Project
implementation has been assumed to produce full benefits beginning in the
seventh year.
14.   Summary of Results. Table 3 summarizes the aggregate results and
information for individual polders is in Tables 4 to 14. The overall economic
rate of return (ERR) based upon quantifyable benefits for the 11 polders in
the project including major works, but excluding any value for reduced loss of
human life, is estimated at 19.2%. The net present value of the incremental
benefits is estimated at US$27.0 million. Polderwise ERRs range from 6.6%
(Polder 70, Matherbari) to 28.1% (Polder 35/1, Sharankhola and Polder 59/3B
Sudharam). All polders have ERRs greater than 12%, excepting Polders 48,
59/2, and 70 which have ERRs of about 7.9%, 6.9%, and 6.6%, respectively.
Taking account of the additional benefit of saving human lives, these polders
are considered justified for inclusion in the project. For example, during
the 1991 cyclone about 10,000 people were killed in polder 70 from a
population of 23,000.
15.   Risks and Sensitivity Analysis.  The economic analysis was supplemented
by a sensitivity analysis to include higher investment and O&M costs and lower
quantifiable benefits (agricultural, non-agricultural, and afforestation).
(a)   The effect of an increase in investment cost was tested because
there is a risk of implementation delays due to
management/institutional weaknesses and to inadequate Government
funding resulting in cost escalation.
(b)   O&M costs may also increase.  The proposed community participation
in routine embankment maintenance and afforestation has not been
tried in the proposed form. If the proposed afforestation
component fails, the cost of routine maintenance would increase
substantially.
(c)   The impact of a reduction in agricultural benefits was tested
because this is the most important variable among the quantifiable
benefits. Agricultural benefits would fall due to intrusion of
saline water. A major risk of the project is that the life of the
embankments may be reduced if inadequate funds are provided for
O&M. In this case, non-agricultural benefits (protection of
property and infrastructure), which are important in some polders,
would also be affected adversely. In the event that the life of
the embankments is reduced, available engineering data suggest
that it would be necessary to have major expenditure on embankment
rehabilitation in about year 10 and again in year 27 after project
completion. It has been assumed in the analysis that for the



- 203 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 5
southern polders, which are very prone to cyclone damage, and
polders in the south west about 75% and 50%, respectively, of the
present cost of rehabilitation would be required in the tenth and
twenty seventh year after project completion.
(d)   The impact of a reduction in afforestation benefits was tested
because there is a major risk in the community participation
component for afforestation and routine embankment maintenance.
16.   Tables 4 to 14 present the sensitivity analysis. Exceptionally large
adverse changes in the variables tested would have to take place before the
ERR for any of the polders, except Polders 48, 59/2, and 70, drops to 12%.
Excluding Polders 48, 59/2 and 70, investment and O&M costs would have to
increase by between 47% (Polder 73/1A&B, Hatiya) and 174% (Polder 59/3B,
Sudharam) to bring ERR to 12%. Total project benefits would have to fall by
between 32% (Polder 73/1A&B) and 64% (Polder 59/3B) to reduce ERR to 12%; in
the case of agricultural benefits the required fall would range from 44%
(Polder 73/1A&B, Hatiya) to 82% (Polder 72); for afforestation benefits the
necessary fall would range from 202% (Polder 73/A&B) to 931% (Polder 35/1);
and for a reduction in non-agricultural benefits the range would be from 390%
(Polders 40/2, Patherghata and 59/3C, Companiganj) to 978% (Polder 35/1).
The ERR is highly insensitive to changes in non-agricultural benefits because
the value of non-agricultural benefits is relatively small in most of the
polders. Major expenditure on embankment rehabilitation in year 10 and 27
after project completion (a proxy for cost effects of inadequate maintenance)
would reduce the average ERR from 18.2* to 17.1%.
17.   The table below gives the ERR for various combinations of unfavorable
developments. It shows that to bring the ERR on quantifiable benefits below
12% would require a combination of a two year delay in project completion and
a decrease in project benefits exceeding 30%, or a three year delay in project
completion and a decrease in project benefits of about 20%. Other
combinations which would reduce the ERR to 12% woud include a two year delay
in project completion and an increase in O&M costs of over 30%, or a three
year delay and an increase in O&M costs of about 15%. Such combinations of
unfavorable developments are considered unlikely. Even then, the additional
nonquantifyable benefits of saving human lives would still make the project
worth doing.
Sensitivity Analysis
Combination of unfavorable factors
ERR
Decrease in Benefits        Increase in O&M Costs
Years delay    10%        20%      30%      10%       25%        50%
1          15.8     14.7     13.7      15.5     13.9       11.8
2          14.1     13.2     12.2      13.9     12.5       10.6
3          12.7     11.9     11.0      12.5     11.2        9.5



- 204 -                                            ANNEX  11
Table 1
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Computation of Economic Prices of Intemationally Traded Commodities
Rice/                   Soya-
A. AT IMPORT PARITY                                   Paddy         Wheat   bean 2/             TSP             MP
US$/tonne
Projected 2000/2005 value at FOB source 1/             355             197         250          130            104
Quality factor                                          0.8            0.9           1            1              1
Adjusted FOB value                                     284             177         250          130            104
Add freight & Insurance 3/                              41              77          72           72             72
Value CIF entry port                                   325             254         322          202            176
Taka/tonne
Value CIF entry port US$1 -Tk4O.25                    13081          10224        12981        8131           7084
Add port dues/handling, otc 4/                         1305           1306         1305        1305           1306
Add handling/transport/storage 5/                      373             373          373         373            373
Value ex-store/market                                 14759          11902        14639        9809           8762
Less processing cost 6/                                349               0           0            0              0
Processing ratio                                       0.66            0.9            -            --             -
Less transport/handling 71                              122            122          122         122             122
Farmgate price                                        9244           10590       14517         9687           8840
B. AT EXPORT PARITY                                                   Jute                      Ursa
USS/tonne
Value FOB exit port 1/                                                 298                      148
Tk/tonne
Value FOB exit port US$1 .Tk4O.25                                    11996                     5957
Less port dues/handling, etc 4/                                       1305                     1305
Less handling/transport/storage 5/                                     373                      373
Value ex-store/market                                                10317                     4279
Processing ratio                                                       0.8
Less transport/handling 7/                                             122                      122
Farmgate price                                                        8132                     4157
1 / Source of projections: World Bank Conmmodity Price Projections, February, 1995. At 1995 projections in
1990 constant dollars and inflated to 1994 values by the increase in Manufacturing Unit Values (MUV)
as index of international inflation (1990-100)
Price bases:
- rice; Thai, nilled, 5% broken, FOB Bangkok.
- wheat; Canadian No. I Western Redspring, Thunder Bay.
- jute; White D. Bangladesh, FOB Chalna
- soyabeans; US, CIF Rotterdam.
- urea; FOB Chittagong.
- TSP; FOB US Gulf.
- MP; FOB US Gulf.
2/ Soyabeen and mustard seed are assumed to be of equal value.
3/ Between Chittagong/Chains and source or destination.
4/ Average of Take 1,450 converted to border values by a SCF of 0.90.
5/ Average of 300 kmn @ Tk 1 .38/tkikn coverted to border values by SCF of 0.90.
6/ Average of 15 km 0 Tk 9/t/km convertd to border values by SCFo 0.90.
7/ As percentage of 'v"ue ex-store, adjusted by SCF of 0.90.



- 205 -
ANNEX 1 1
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Evaluation 1/
UNIT        FINANCIAL 21                  ECONOMIC
Traded     Non-traded 3/
A. OUTPUTS
Paddy                                  Torn.                60                      6728
Wheat                                  Tonn.                6000                    9169
Milet                                  Tonne              1a00                                      14400
Pulses                                 Tonrw               15000                                     13S60
Oiseed                                Tone                15000                   12528
Cowpee                                 Tonne               180l0                                     16200
Vegetables                             Tonn                 3000                                      2700
Groundnuts                             Toame               1000                                      14400
Betel leaves                           Torm                80000                                    54000
Betel nuts                             Tonfe               50000                                     46000
Chilli (Greenl                         Tone                16000                                     14400
Melon                                  Torn                 6000                                      4500
Onion                                  Tone                 6000                                      5400
Garlic                                 Tonre                10000                                     9000
Potato                                 Towre                3000                                      2700
Sweet potato                           Tone                  2000                                    1l00
Bringal                                Tome.                3000                                      2700
Tomato                                 Tonreo                Sa0                                      4500
Shrimp                                 Tone               260000                  212S00
Salt                                   Torne                 2000                                     1800
Jute                                   Tor                  8000                    780s
By-products
Rice straw                             Tonng                2000                                      1800
Wheat straw                            Town                 2000                                      1800



- 206 -                                      ANNEX  11
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Prices Used hi FinancW  and Economic Evluation 1/
UKIT       ,FINANCIAL 21                 ECONOMIC
Traded     Non-traded 31
B. INPUTS
Seed/planting material 4
Padddy ILV)                              Kg                  9                   8.41
Paddy (HYV)                              Kg                  10                     9
Wheat (HYV)                              Kg                   9                  11.46
Jute                                     Kg                 9.5                   9.76
Pulses                                   Kg                  20                                     18
Oilseed                                  Kg                  20                 1S.66
Chilli                                   Kg                 8O                                      72
Onion                                    Kg                  1s                                    13.5
Garlic                                   Ka                  20                                     Is
Cowpeo                                   Kg                  20                                     is
Vgetables (L.S)                          Kg                 300                                    270
Potato                                   Kg                   6                                     7.2
Sweet potato cuttingr                    Kg                   5                                     4.5
Melon                                    Kg               5000                                    4600
Bringal                                  Kg                S00                                     460
Tomato                                   Kg                1000                                    900
Betel leaf cuttings                      Kg                600                                     460
Betel nuts                      Each  edlIng                 S                                      4.5
Groundnuts                               Kg                  20                                      18
Fertilizer
Urea                                     Kg                   6                  4.55
TSP                                      Kg                   6                  10.28
MP                                       Kg                  S                   7.99
Cow dung                                 Kg                 0.1                                    0.09
Ume                                      Kg                  7                                      6.3
Pesticides                               Kg                500                    650
Other Inputs
Labor                              urwnVday                 S0                                      46
Draught animals                      Pair/day               o0                                      54
Irrigation                         Halseeaen              3500                                    31 S0
1/ In constant 1994 Taka.
21 Proect am  average feewket pice for 190. for 1994
3/ Financial Prices converted to econornie prices by SCF of 0.90.
41 Seed costs for traded crops have been estimated as the famngat price
of the crop plus a premium of 25% to alow for the costs of storage,
quality, wastage and transport.



- 207 -                                                        ANNEX 11
Table 3
BANGLA
COASTAL EM 12AN  1Mr REHABLITAnON PROJECT
Ssmey of Projec oonmic Rae of RtmanodNat Ps    Value
fr the Poldw Uw MiTm PTw
(Tab Mialion)
-nwwmia Nat EwifitF-
PoMW         Poldw        Polde         Polder       Poldkr      Polde        Polder      Polder     Polde       Polder     Polder
1wff    mPF_ bd.    Klw                            Im           dbm                      R           I(  Mgdi  h    Hatib   TOIAL
1             -42.3        -11.4         -4.7         -65.4       467.6        -72.9        -1.5      -31.3       -56.9       -90.3       -7.4       452.4
2             -34.0        -37.4       -105.4          45.9       -102.6      -4.4         -32.4       .71.3     -102.8      -138.5       -55.9     -904.5
3             -13.5        -10.4        -13.1          -7.1         -3.3       -14.1        -2.4         4.3       -1.6       -19.2       -15.9     -101.4
4               7.1        -17.5        -11.5          -1.9         27.5         5.7        -2.7         3.3        0.0        37.1       -13.3       39.3
5             25.3          -6.0         -6.7          2i           44.9        25.2        -22         15.5        3.1        65.0       -5.1       161.7
6             37.0          -4.9         -1.5           4.3         69.0        34.0         0.9        21.5        6.1        92.7        16.5      276.1
7              51.3          7.4          3.3           9.1         U4.5        43.0         5.5        27.6        9.0       121.0       21.6       383.9
a             51.4          14.4          4.9          14.3        36.1         43.5         9.4        28.6       10.1       121.4       23.5       407.4
9             51.7          21.5          9.1          14.6        86.5         43.3        13.6        22.3       10.5       121.3       23.8       425.6
10             63.0         43.3          32.4          40.1       137.3        76.3        28.0        64.3        28.5      173.7        43.5      741.9
11             52-6         34.7          13.6          15.3        83.7        44.3        20.9        30.2        11.0      123.4        24.6      459.3
12             52.8         35.2          13.9          16.7        39.3        45.1        21.5        30.5        11.7      126.1        25.6      468.3
13             63.3         51.0          35.0          26.5       140.0        77.7        324         66.1        29.3      160.2        45.1      732.7
14             53.4         35.4          14.0         -27.6        91.0        45.5        21.7        31.6        12.2       82.9        25.9      386.2
15             53.1         35.9          14.3          -2.0        39.9        46.3        22.3        30.7        13.0      114.6        26.9      444.9
16             69.1         51.3         35.2           39.0       140.6        78.1        32.5        66.3        30.3      171.1        45.2      758.7
17             53.7         35.7          14.2          13.9        91.6        45.9        21.8        31.7        12.7      115.2        26.1      462.6
13             53.4         36.2          14.5          15.3        90.5        46.3        22.4        30.9        13.4      117.9        27.1      463.3
19             69.4         51.6         35.4           39.5       141.2        78.5        32.7        66.5        30.S      171.7        45.4      762.7
20             54.1         36.0          14.4          14.4        92.3        46.4        22.0        31.9        13.2      115.9        26.3      466.3
21             53.7         36.5          14.7          15.3        91.2        47.2        22.6        31.1        14.0      118.6        27.3       472.6
22             69.8         51.9          35.6          40.0       141.9        79.0        32.8        66.7        31.3      172.5        45.6      767.1
23             54.4         36.3          14.6          14.9        93.0        46.9        22.1        32.1        13.8       116.6       26.5       471.3
24             54.1         36.3          14.9          16.4        91.9        47.7        227         31.3        14.6      119.4        27.5       477.3
25             70.2         52.2          35.3          40.6       142.7        79.5        33.0        66.9        32.0      173.3        45.9       772.0
26             54.3         36.6          14.3          15.6        93.3        47.4        22.3        323         14.4      117.5        26.3      476.3
27             54.5         37.1         15.1           17.0        92.7        43.3        22.9        31.5        15.2      120.2         0.0      454.7
28             70.6         52.6          36.1          41.3       143.5        30.1         33.2       67.1        32.6      174.2        19.1       750.2
29             55.2         37.0          15.1          16.2        94.6        48.0        22.5        32.6        15.1       118.4       -0.1       454.6
30             55.0         37.5          15.4          17.7        93.6        43.9        23.1        31.3        17.1      121.2         O.3      462.0
IRR           281%          137%          7.9%          64%        2l1%         17.3%       21.2%      21.3%       I36%        2A%         17.3%      19.2%
NPV b           133.4         63.4         (43.3)        (6.0)        Ms6          ".9         43         93         (.9)       331.9        43       1034



- 208 -                                 ANNEX 11
Table 4
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Project Economic Analysis by Polde
POLDER 35/1: SHARANKHOLA
Al amounts in milion Taka   Length of embankm: km 27.5
Totl    Financia  Cost    164.1  Ec. Cost      147.7
Investm   Totl   Cash    Agricul  Agric os   Non-egric Afforet  Inv. cost
Yewr     O&M                      Beneibt   cauecd   Benefits  Beneft    O&M
Benefit   Flow   10% reducr bycycones                 (Finacdl)
=========   C       ====_==============u=S==S=SS===.=S=uz==3=  uu==C ==
1        42.8    0.0    -42.8         0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    47.6
2         34.0    0.0    -34.0        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    37.7
3         32.5   14.0    -18.5       10.8       0.7      2.3      0.1    38.1
4         17.7   24.8       7.1      21.5       0.7      2.4      0.1     19.7
5         10.3   35.7      25.3      32.3       0.7      2.5      0.1     11.5
6          8.9   45.8      37.0      42.3       0.7      2.6      0.2      9.8
7          4.4   56.2      51.8      52.3       0.7      2.6      0.5      4.9
8          4.7   56.1      51.4      52.3       0.7      2.7      0.4      5.2
9          4.5   56.2      51.7      52.3       0.7      2.8      0.4      5.0
10         4.3   72.3      68.0      52.3       0.7       2.9     16.4     4.8
11         4.3   56.9      52.6      52.3       0.7       3.0      0.9     4.8
12         4.3   57.1      52.8      52.3       0.7       3.1      1.0     4.8
13         4.3   73.1      68.8      52.3       0.7       3.1     18.9      4.8
14         4.3   57.7      53.4      52.3       0.7      3.2       1.4     4.8
15         4.3   57.4      53.1      52.3       0.7      3.3       1.0     4.8
16         4.3   73.4      69.1      52.3       0.7      3.4      16.9     4.8
17         4.3   58.0      53.7      52.3       0.7      3.5       1.4     4.8
18         4.3   57.7      53.4      52.3       0.7      3.6       1.0     4.8
19         4.3   73.7      69.4      52.3       0.7      3.8      16.9     4.8
20         4.3   58.4      54.1      52.3       0.7       3.9      1.4      4.8
21         4.3   58.0      53.7      52.3       0.7      4.0       1.0      4.8
22         4.3   74.1      69.8      52.3       0.7      4.1      16.9      4.8
23         4.3   58.7      54.4      52.3       0.7       4.2      1.4      4.8
24         4.3   58.4      54.1      52.3       0.7       4.4      1.0      4.8
25         4.3   74.5      70.2      52.3        0.7      4.5     16.9      4.8
26         4.3   59.1      54.8      52.3        0.7      4.8      1.4      4.8
27         4.3   58.8      54.5      52.3       0.7       4.8      1.0      4.8
28         4.3   74.9      70.6      52.3       0.7       4.9     16.9      4.8
29         4.3   59.5      55.2      52.3       0.7       5.0      1.4      4.8
30         4.3   59.3      55.0      52.3       0.7       5.2      1.0      4.8
NPVQ12%      127.3  310.7    183.4      267.5       4.8     18.7     19.7   141.5
Al calculations are based on a project period of 30 years.
===========         _=  ======= =  -  =====
EIRR base cas                   28.1    %
Beneft-cost ratio              2.44
* Comprising: changes in cropping pattern and intensity,
and a 10% reduction In yield In the without project stuation.
Senstvity Analysi
Variable Tesed             Switching values to brlng EIRR to 12%
(percentage change)
Increa In Investment and O&M C   144
Reducdon In Project Benefft      -59
Reduction in Agric beneft        -89
Reduction In Aflored Benefits   -931
Reduction in Non-agric. Benefit  -978



- 209 -                                                        ANNEX 11
Table 5
BWG -OE~
COASTAL EMBANKMENT  REHABILUTATION PR  PROJECT
POLDER 40d   P PdWrgh                             Profjd Eoormnic Ajieo  by Poldu
Al Atnl  h mIon TWO                          L0 a         Embhdm:    km 12.0
ToWi         FhW&lm    Co*                 115.4  Ec. COat              103.9
KV            TOWI        Ch       Eblug            Agwl       Ar  obe          Nonw-gMit  Ahiot      Inv 0o
Yewr          Oa             10_        Fbw r    OM            Befit             Causd        Bwafi   SenelI        O&M
10% red     by cph_ore
t                 11.4         0.0        -11.4          0.0            0.0            0.0         0.0         0.0        127
2                 37.4         0.0        437.4          0.0            0.0            0.0         0.0         0.0        41.6
3                 13.5         3.1         -10.4         0.4            0.0            0.7         2.0         0.0        15.0
4                 20.8         33          .17.5         0.4            0.0            0.7         2.1         0.1        23.1
5                  9.4         3.3         -4.0          0.4            0.0            0.7         22          0.1        10.4
6                  63          34          '4.9          0.4            0.0            0.7         2,2         0.1         6.3
7                  3.1        10.5          7.4          0.4            7.0            0.7         23          0.2         3.5
8                  3.3        17.7         14.4          0.4           139             0.7         24          0.3         37
9                  3.2        24.7         21.5          0.4           20.9            0.7         2.4         0.3         3.6
10                  31         46.9         43.8         0.4            27.3            0.7        2.5         16.0         3.4
11                 3.1         37.6         34.7         0.4           33.7             0.7        2.6          0.4         3.4
12                  3.1        363          35.2         0.4            33.7            0.7         2.6         0.6         3.4
13                  3.1        54.          51.0         0.4            33.7            0.7        2.7         16.6         3.4
14                  31         35.5         35.4         0.4            33.7           0.7         2.8         0.9         3.4
Is                 3.1         390          35.9         0C4            33.7            0.7         2.9         1.3        3.4
I1                 3.1        54.4         51.3          0.4           33.7            0.7         3.0         16.         3.4
1-7                 31         36.8         35.7         0.4            33.7           0.7         3.1          0.9        3.4
is                  31         39.3        36.2          0.4           33.7            0.7         3.2          1.3        3.4
to                  31        54.7         510           0.4           33.7            0.7         3.3         t6.         3.4
20                 3.1         39.1         36.0         0.4            33.7            0.7         3.4         0.9         3.4
2t                  3.1        39.6         3S.5          0.4           33.7            0.7         3.5         1.3        3.4
22                 3&          55.0         51.9          0.4           33.7            0.7         3.6        16.6         3.4
23                  3.1        39.4         36.3          0.4           33.7            0.7         37          0.9         3.4
24                  31         39.9         36.8          0.4           33.7            0.7         3.8         1.3         3.4
25                  &1         55.3         5Z2           0.4           33.7            0.7         3.9        16.6         34
26                  31         39.7         356           04            33.7            0.7         4.0         0.9         3.4
27                  S`1        40.2         37.1          0.4           33.7            0.7         4.1         1.3         3.4
26                 3.1         55.7         52.6          0.4           33.7            0.7         4.2        16.6         3.4
29                  3.1        40.1         37.0          0.4           33.7            0.7         4.4         0.9         3.4
30                  31         40.6         37.5         0.4            33.7            0.7         4.5         1.3         3.4
;VO12%                      84.7       146.1         63.4          2.5          106.2            4.4        16.2        18.7        92.6
AlN cmluulgn am besed on a        pesio d 30 yar
EIRR b c  1e7 %
Bendl-ootradok                                       1.75
* Coung: Chervges in ro         pn NWd roppi  hb
and a 10% hducdo In yhI in Vwi uNlo pr*t shdon
swn vsk  b brin BERR io 12%
incrs, in h _tbnem  wud OLM Cot                        75
Redudwi In Pro  Ben_                                  J43
Redudon In Agh    e S I. 140
Reduclon in AMoreA Bna.                              -339
Reducdon in Non-lA  Mn_                              4tO



- 210 -                                                   ANNEX 11
Table 6
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBAWKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
POLDER 48: Kalapa                    Prnod Emic AnWi by Podkr
All Amount In miiNion Tal                 Lent of  Embanikm:   km 11.0
Total      Finbncal     Cost:           174.9  Ec. Cost:         157.4
Invetmn        Totl      C.h        EAl_iG       Agili      Nonw-l   AWic be           lIw coat    Affomet.
YEAR        O0M         Bnfts         FUw        0M       Benefit       Beneft        causd       O&M         Benelits
10% roduc              by cyc*e
1                 4.7        0.0        -4.7         0.0          0.0         0.0             0.0        5.2         0.0
2               105.4        0.0      .105.4         0.0          0.0         0.0            0.0        117.2        0.0
3                15.7        2.6       -13.1         0.4          0.0         1.4            0.8         17.5        0.0
4                14.2        2.7       -11.5         0.4          0.0         1.4            0.8         15.7        0.1
5                 9.4        2.7        4.7          0.4          0.0         1.5             0.8        10.5        0.1
6                 4.7         3.3       -1.5         0.4          0.0         1.5             0.8         5.2        0.5
7                 3.1         6.5        3.3         0.4          2.7         1.6             0.8         3.5        1.0
8                 3.6         8.5        4.9         0.4          5.5         1.6            0.8          4.0        0.2
9                 3.4        12.5        9.1         0.4          9.4         1.7             0.6         3.8        0.2
10                 3.3       35.7       32.4         0.4         11 6         1.7             0.8         3.7       21.2
11                 3.3       18.9       13.6         0.4         13.7         1.8             0.8         3.7        0.2
12                 3.3       17.2       13.9         0.4         13.7         1.8             0.8         3.7        0.4
13                 3.3       38.3       35.0         0.4         13.7         1.9             0.8         3.7       21.6
14                3.3        17.4       14.0         0.4         13.7         1.9             0.8         3.7        0.5
15                 3.3       17.6       14.3         0.4         13.7         2.0             0.8         3.7        0.7
16                 3.3       38.5       35.2         0.4         13.7         2.1             0.8         3.7       21.6
17                 3.3       17.5       14.2         0.4         13.7         2.1             0.8         3.7        0.5
i8                 3.3       17.8       14.5         0.4         13.7         2.2             0.8         3.7        0.7
19                 3.3       38.7       35.4         0.4         13.7         2.3             0.8         37        21.6
20                 3.3       17.7       14.4         0.4         13.7         2.3             0.8         3.7        0.5
21                 3.3       18.0       14.7         0.4         13.7         2.4             0.8         3.7        0.7
22                 3.3       38.9       35.6         0.4         13.7         2.5             0.8         3.7       21.6
23                 3.3       17.9       14.6         0.4         13.I         2.5             0.8         3.7        0.5
24                 3.3       18.2       14.9         0.4         13.7         2.6             0.8         3.7        0.7
25                 33        39.1       35.8         0.4         13.7         2.7             0.8         3.7       21.6
26                 3.3       18.2       14.8         0.4         13.7         2.8             0.8         3.7        0.5
27                 3.3       18.5       15.1         0.4         13.7         2.9             0.8         3.7        0.7
28                 3.3       39.4       36.1         0.4         13.7         2.9             0.8         3.7       21.6
29                 3.3       18.4       15.1         0.4         13.7         3.0             0.8         3.7        0.5
30                 3.3       187        15.4         0.4         13.7         3.1             0.8         3.7        0.7
NPVQ12%                  129.4       85.9      -43.5         2.5         43.5        11.2            5.1        143.8       23.5
All calculatone are based on a proct perod d30 yeem
EIRR baw cue                                    7.9 %
====ss=fl=s===. = .,--s==ts=aSS*-flflss.
Benefits-oot rabo tat                          0.66
...........=__,
* Comprising: Change in cropping patten and croppng htensty
and a 10% reduction in yield vi the without pd stuabon.
Senstvity Analy
Swfltsr vale to ben EIRR to 12%
(percnt~  change)
Increae in Investnent an O&M Cost                -34
Reduction in Project Benefit                     51
Reduction in Agc  Beneft                        100
Reduction n Aftrst Beneh                        185
Reduction in Nongnc. Bendfit                    387



ANNEX 11
-  211  -                                          Table  7
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
POLDER 59i2: RamgU             Project Ecomic ANas by Pokr
AN amounxt in milIon Taks          Lwnt of  Embanl:  km 58.0
Totl      finani    cost         227.2  Ec. Coe:        204.5
Inves      Toa      Cah        Agukul  Aric bos      Nongrlcu  Afforea.  Int Cost
Yaw        O &                           s Beft     cud by    benft    Benft           O&M
Beneft      Flow    10% mduct   c-or
* -- uuauuuuu.u--- ..u.m- -u..uuuu.uu--uuuuuumuuuuuuuuauuuu-- . -u
1            65.4       0.0     -e5.4        0.0          0.0         0.0       0.0     72.7
2            85.9       0.0     -85.9        0.0          0.0         0.0       0.0     95.4
3            14.3       7.2      -7.1        2.6          0.9         3.7       0.0     15.9
4            12.3      10.4      -1.9         5.3         0.9         3.8       0.4     13.6
5            10.2      13.0       2.8         7.9         0.9         3.9       0.3     11.4
6            10.2      15.0       4.8         9.8         0.9         4.0       0.3     11.4
7             8.2      17.3       9.1        11.7         0.9         4.1       0.6      9.1
8             3.7      18.0      14.3        11.7         0.9         4.2       1.1      4.1
9             3.5      18.1      14.6        11.7         0.9         4.4       1.1      4.1
10            3.3      43.4       40.1       11.7         0.9         4.5      26.3       4.1
11            3.3      18.6       15.3       11.7         0.9         4.6       1.4       4.1
12            3.3      20.0       16.7       11.7         0.9         4.8       2.6       4.1
13           19.3      45.8       26.5       11.7         0.9         4.9      28.3       4.1
14           48.3      20.7      -27.6       11.7         0.9         5.1       3.0       4.1
15           24.1      22.1       -2.0       11.7         0.9         5.2       4.3       4.1
16            3.3      42.3       39.0        7.7         0.9         5.4      28.3       4.1
17            3.3      17.2       13.9        7.7         0.9         5.5       3.0       4.1
18            3.3      18.6       15.3        7.7         0.9         5.7       4.3       4.1
19            3.3      42.8       39.5        7.7         0.9         5.9      28.3       4.1
20             3.3     17.7       14.4        7.7         0.9         6.1       3.0       4.1
21             3.3     19.1       15.8        7.7         0.9         6.2       4.3       4.1
22             3.3     43.3       40.0        7.7         0.9         6.4      28.3       4.1
23            3.3      18.2       14.9        7.7         0.9         6.6       3.0       4.1
24             3.3     19.7       16.4        7.7         0.9         6.8       4.3       4.1
25             3.3     43.9       40.0        7.7         0.9         7.0      28.3       4.1
26             3.3     18.9       15.6        7.7         0.9         7.2       3.0       4.1
27             3.3     20.3       17.0        7.7         0.9         7.5       4.3       4.1
28             3.3     44.6       41.3        7.7         0.9         7.7      28.3       4.1
29             3.3     19.5       16.2        7.7         0.9         7.9       3.0       4.1
30             3.3     21.0       17.7        7.7         0.9         8.1       4.3       4.1
NPV@12%            188.0    126.0      -82.0        55.9         5.8        29.4      35.0    191.7
ANl calcublo are besed on project period of 30 yeas.
EIRR ba cae                              6.9 %
ZUEUuUUUUSUUUuUU.ZUuUzZuUuuu.uau.uuuu.....usu.....
Bnefts-co raio                          0.67
.................................................
* Compricn: chages In cropping pattm and hInity,
and a 10% reduction In yied  tho wWhut project siuaton.
Snsa   Anatys
Swtching vlues to bfing EIRR to 12%
(prcwetp chag)
Increae in Investment ad O&M Coat        -33
Reduction   Project Benfit                49
Reduction In Agrkc Bneft                 111
Reduction In Affores. Beeibt             177
Reduction In Non-gric. Bnefits           211



- 212 -                                           ANNEX  1 1
BANGLADESH                                                   Table 8
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHA3ILITATION PROJECT
POLDER 59/38: Sudharan             Project Economic Analysis by Polder
All amounts hI mUon Taka               Length of    Embankm:   km 50.0
Total       Fancial   Cost:          259.1  Ec. Cost:             233
Ivestm      Total      Cash        Agrklc    Agric losses   Non-sgrlbu   Atforsst.   Inv cost
Year         O & M                            Benefits     causd by      benrfits    Beneits      O&M
B8nfits      Flow     10% reduct    cyclnes
----_-_--    ------                   . ,    *---.-.----.-.--- _ .....
1               68 *                (67.6)         -            -             -          -         75.1
2              103         -       (102.0)                            - -     -          -        114.0
3               28         24        (3.8)        17.3           1.8          4.6        0.5       31.1
4               14         41        27.5         34.6           1.8          4.7        0.4       15.5
5               14         59        44.9         51.9           1.8           4.9       0.3       15.5
a                5         74        69.0         66.3           1.8          5.0        0.6        5.2
7                5         89        84.5         80.6           1.8           5.2       1.5        5.2
8                3         89        86.1         80.6           1.8           5.3       1.2        3.1
9                3         89        86.5         80.6           1.8          5.5        1.2        2.9
10                2       140       137.8         80.6           1.8           5.7       52.0        2.6
11                2        91        88.7         80.0           1.8           5.8        2.8        2.6
12                2        92        89.3         80.6           1.8           6.0        3.2        2.6
13                2       142       140.0         80.6           1.8           6.2       53.7        2.6
14                2        93        91.0         80.6           1.8           6.4        4.5        2.0
15                2        92        89.9         80.6           1.8           6.6        3.2        2.6
16                2       143       140.6         80.6           1.8           6.8       53.7        2.6
17                2        94        91.0         80.6           1.8           7.0        4.5        2.6
18                2        93        90.5         80.6           1.8           7.2        3.2        2.6
19                2       144       141.2         80.6           1.8           7.4       53.7        2.6
20                2        95         92.3        80.6           1.8           7.6        4.5        2.6
21                2        93        91.2         80.6           1.8           7.8        3.2        2.0
22                2       144        141.9        80.6           1.8           8.1       53.7        2.6
23                2        96        93.0         80.6           1.8           8.3        4.5        2.6
24                2        94         91.9        80.6           1.8           8.0        3.2        2.6
25                2       145        142.7        80.6           1.8           8.8       53.7        2.6
26                2        96        93.8         80.6           1.8           9.1        4.5        2.6
27                2        95         92.7        80.0           1.8           9.4        3.2        2.6
28                2       146        143.5        80.6           1.8           9.6       53.7        2.6
29                2        97         94.6        80.6           1.8           9.9        4.5        2.6
30                2        96         93.6        80.6           1.8          10.2        3.2        2.6
NPVQ12%              191.8      526.3       334.0        415.3          11.5         36.9       62.7      213.1
All calculations are based on project period of 30 years.
==_,= ...........................                                ........................, --
EIRR base cas                                28.1  %
Benefits-cost ratio                           2.74
= = =====-=-- =....................................                             .
Comprickg: changes in croppig pattern and Intensity,
and a 10% reduction In yield In the without project situation.
Sensitivity Analysis
Switching values to bring EIRR to 12%
(percentage chnge)
Increase In Investmnt and O&M Cost            174
Reduction In Project Bernfits                  -64
Reduction hI Agric Benefits                   981
Reduction hI Atforost. Benwfits              -534
Reduction hI Non-agric. Benefits             -908



- 213 -                                           ANNEX  11
Table 9
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Economic Analys by Poidcr
POLDER 59v3C: Con_pnigan
AN amounts In million Tal        Length of  Embankrm:  km 16.0
Total     Fhincl  Coat:         245.4  Ec. Cost:      220.9
Inveen     Totl     Cah       Agrlac  Agric bsm    Non-agrlcu  Ajorsa.    Inv coat
Yoer       0  M                        Bnft    caused by    benefits  Benft        O&M
Benft      Flow    10% mdur   cydcon
1           72.9       0.0     -72.9        0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      81.0
2           88.4       0.0    -8.4          0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      98.2
3           28.7      14.6     -14.1        8.4        2.9         3.2      0.0      31.9
4            17.7     23.3       5.7       16.9        2.9         3.3      0.2      19.6
5            6.6      31.8      25.2       25.3        2.9         3.4      0.2       7.4
6            4.4      38.5      34.0       31.8        2.9         3.5      0.2       4.9
7            2.2      45.2      43.0       38.4        2.9         3.6      0.3       2.5
8            2.1      45.6      43.5       38.4        2.9         3.7      0.6       2.3
9             1.9     45.7      43.8       38.4        2.9         3.8      0.6       2.1
10            1.8     78.1      76.3       38.4         2.9        3.9      32.8      2.0
11            1.8     46.1      44.3       38.4         2.9        4.1       0.7      2.0
12            1.8     46.9      45.1       38.4         2.9        4.2       1.4      2.0
13            1.8     79.5      77.7       38.4         2.9        4.3      33.9      2.0
14            1.8     47.3      45.5       38.4         2.9         4.4      1.6      2.0
15            1.8     48.1      46.3       38.4         2.9        4.6       2.3      2.0
16            1.8     79.9      78.1       38.4         2.9        4.7      33.9      2.0
17            1.8     47.7      45.9       38.4         2.9        4.8       1.6      2.0
la            1.8     48.6      46.8       38.4         2.9        5.0       2.3      2.0
19            1.8     60.3      78.5       38.4         2.9        5.1      33.9      2.0
20            1.8     48.2      46.4       38.4         2.9         5.3      1.6      2.0
21            1.8     49.0      47.2       38.4         2.9         5.4      2.3      2.0
22            1.8     80.8      79.0       38.4         2.9         5.8     33.9      2.0
23            1.8     48.7      46.9       38.4         2.9         5.8      1.6      2.0
24            1.8     49.5      47.7       38.4         2.9         5.9      2.3      2.0
25            1.8     81.3      79.5       38.4         2.9        6.1      33.9      2.0
26            1.8     49.2      47.4       38.4         2.9         6.3      1.6      2.0
27            1.8     50.1      48.3       38.4         2.9         6.5      2.3      2.0
28            1.8     81.9      80.1       38.4         2.9         6.7     33.9      2.0
29            1.6     49.8      48.0       38.4         2.9        6.9       1.0      2.0
30            1.8     50.7      48.9       38.4         2.9        7.1       2.3      2.0
NPV@12%           160.6    280.0       99.9      198.5       18.7        25.6     37.7    200.7
AN calcuatUons   bosed on proj  pIod of 30 yes.
EIRR bas cas                          17.8 %
Benefis-coat raio                     1.55
* Compricing: change In cropping pottmn and intenity.
and a 10% reducton In yied in the without projet stution.
Sensvity Analysi
Switching value to brIng EIRR to 12%
(percentage change)
Increase in Inveatment and O&M Coat     55
Reductn in Proct Bnft                  -30
Reducton in Agric Bneft                -50
Reduction In Afforet. Beneft          -265
Reduction in Non-agric. Beneft        -390



- 214  -                                        ANNEX  11
Table 10
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Profect Economic Anals by Polder
POLDER W61: Ramu                 Length of Embankm: km 19.3
Totl            Fincial Coat:        57.1  Ec. Codt:      51.4
Inewsun    Totl   Cah       Esln      Aglcu       Non-   AUC lose   Altoet.
Yew        O&M                        O&m       Beneft 0gricul.   cused by  Befit
Beneits   Fow              10% reduct  befts    cydon
1             1.5     0.0     *1.5        0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0
2            32.4     0.0    -32.4        0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0
3             4.6     2.2     -2.4        0.6       0.0        1.0         0.8      0.0
4             5.1     2.4     -2.7        0.6       0.0        1.0         0.6      0.2
5             4.6     2.4     -2.2        0.6       0.0        1.1         0.6      0.1
6             1.5     2.4      0.9        0.0       0.0        1.1         0.6      0.1
7             1.0     6.5      5.5        0.6       4.0        1.1         0.6      0.2
6             1.3    10.7      9.4        0.6       7.9        1.2         0.6      0.5
9             1.1    14.7     13.6        0.6      11.9        1.2         0.6      0.5
10            1.0    29.0      26.0        0.8      15.4       1.2         0.6     11.2
11            1.0    21.9      20.9        0.6      18.9       1.3         0.6      0.6
12            1.0    22.5      21.5        0.6      18.9       1.3         0.6       1.1
13            1.0    33.4      32.4        0.6      18.9       1.4         0.6      12.0
14            1.0    22.7      21.7        0.6      18.9       1.4         0.6       1.3
15            1.0    23.3      22.3        0.6      18.9       1.4         0.6      1.8
16            1.0    33.5      32.5        0.6      18.9       1.5         0.6      12.0
17            1.0    22.8      21.8        0.6      18.9       1.5         0.6      1.3
18            1.0    23.4      22.4        0.6      18.9        1.6        0.6       1.6
19            1.0    33.7      32.7        0.6      16.9       1.6         0.6     12.0
20            1.0    23.0      22.0        0.6      18.9        1.7        0.6       1.3
21            1.0    23.6      22.6        0.6      16.9        1.7        0.6       1.5
22            1.0    33.8      32.8        0.6      16.9        1.6        0.6      12.0
23            1.0    23.1      22.1        0.6      16.9        1.6        0.6       1.3
24            1.0    23.7      22.7        0.6      18.9        1.9        0.6      1.8
25            1.0    34.0      33.0        0.6      16.9        1.9        0.8      12.0
26            1.0    23.3      22.3        0.6      18.9        2.0        0.6       1.3
27            1.0    23.9      22.9        0.0      18.9       2.1         0.6       1.8
26            1.0    34.2      33.2        0.6      18.9       2.1         0.6      12.0
29            1.0    23.5      22.5        0.0      16.9       2.2         0.6       1.3
30            1.0    24.1      23.1        0.6      18.9       2.3         0.6       1.8
NPV@12%             41.3    90.0      48.8       3.6      59.6        8.1         3.6     14.8
AN cultons ore based on a project peiod d 30 yars.
EIRR bas case                        21.2 %
Beneft-coat ratio agrcl fcts         1.53
Benefts-ct atO non-apt aects         0.20
Benefits-coat rtio total             2.18
* Corising: changes  cropping pattrn end intewsity
and a 10% reduction In yield in tho without project siuton.
Senstiit Analysis
Switching vlues to brig EIRR to 12%
Oscrntsw chane)
Increse In Inveetet and OaM Cod       116
Reduction In Project Bnfit              4
Reductio in Agricu. Beneft            -82
Reducton i Afforod. B s              -329
Reducon In Non-egic. Bet             40



-  215 -                                         ANNEX  11
Table 11
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANMENT REHABILTATION PROJECT
Protct Economic Analysis by Polder
POLDER 68: Tekad                 Lenth of Embenlom k       26.0
Totl            Fancial Cost         138.9 Ec. Cost       125.0
Ivedm      Total   Cah      Extng    Agricul      Non-   Agric losses  AtresL   Investm
Yew        O&M                         O&M    sBneft        agricult   caused by  Beneis    O&M
Benreft    Flw              10% rsducr  benft      cycn                 flnanc
1            31.3     0.0    -31.3         0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0     34.7
2            71.3     0.0    -71.3         0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0     79.2
3             5.0     9.8       4.8        0.8       5.6        1.3         1.8      0.3      5.6
4             6.3    15.0       8.8        0.8      10.8        1.4         1.8      0.2      6.9
5             5.0    20.5      15.5        0.8      16.2        1.4         1.8      0.2      5.6
6             3.8    252       21.5        0.8      20.7        1.4         1.8      0.4      4.2
7             2.5    30.1      27.6        0.8      25.2        1.5         1.8      0.8      2.8
8             1.6    30.2      28.6        0.8      25.2        1.5         1.8      0.8      1.8
9             1.4    30.2      28.8        0.8      25.2        1.6         1.8      0.8       1.6
10            1.2    66.0      64.8        0.8      25.2        1.6         1.8     36.5       1.3
1 1           1.2    31.4      30.2        0.8      25.2        1.7         1.8       1.9      1.3
12            1.2    31.7      30.5        0.8      25.2        1.7         1.8      2.2       1.3
13            1.2    67.3      66.1        0.8      25.2        1.8         1.8     37.7       1.3
14            1.2    32.8      31.6        0.3      25.2        1.6         1.8      3.1       1.3
15            1.2    31.9      30.7        0.8      25.2        1.9         1.8      2.2       1.3
16            1.2    67.5      66.3        0.8      25.2        1.9         1.8     37.7       1.3
1 7           1.2    32.9      31.7        0.6      25.2        2.0         1.8      3.1       1.3
18            12      32.1     30.9        0.8      25.2        2.1         1.8      2.2       1.3
19            1.2    67.7      66.5        0.8      25.2        2.1         1.8      37.7      1.3
20            1.2    33.1      319         0.6      25.2        2.2         1.8       3.1      1.3
21            1.2    32.3      31.1        0.6      25.2        2.3         1.8       2.2      1.3
22            1.2    67.9      66.7        0.8      25.2        2.3         1.8     37.7       1.3
23            1.2    33.3      32.1        0.8      25.2        2.4         1.6      3.1       1.3
24            1.2    32.5      31.3        0.8      25.2        2.5         1.8       2.2      1.3
25            1.2    68.1      66.9        0.6      25.2        2S          1.8      37.7      1.3
26            1.2    33.5      32.3        0.8      25.2        2.6         1.8       3.1      1.3
27            1.2    32.7      31.5        0.8      25.2        2.7         1.8       2.2      1.3
28            1.2    68.3      67.1        0.8      25.2        2.8         1.8      37.7      1.3
29            1.2    33.8      32.8        0.8      25.2        2.9         1.8       3.1      1.3
30            1.2    33.0      31.8        0.8      25.2        2.9         1.8       2.2      1.3
NPVQ12%            102.0   183.9      81.9        4.9     119.7        9.5        10.6     39.1    113.9
All calculations are based on a projed period of 30 year.
ElRRbacae                             21.3 %
Benefitscst rato agcul effects        1.28
Benft-cost ratlo no-gd effec          0.09
Benefit-cost ratio t                  1.80
* Compring: changes In cropping pattwn and inbrte
and  10% reducton in yel In the wihout projed siuaton.
Senstiit Analysis
Switching value to bring EIRR to 12%
(prcentgo change)
Increase In Investnt and O&M Cost      80
Reducton In Projed Benft               -45
Reduction In Agric. Beneft             -a8
Reducon In Aflores Beneft             -209
Reducton of Non-agric. Benft          .B



ANNEX  131
-  21l 6 -                                            Table  12
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Prolad Economic A      by Polder
POLDER 70: Mathwbal               Legi of Embenkm k         19.0
Totbl            Financial Cost       204.1  Ec. Cost      183.7
New        Tota    Cah       Aricul      Non-   Awico Ale    orsL        lnvestn
Year       O & M                      Beneft      agrcult   caused by  Benft         O+M
Benft    Flow   10% rducr  bnft    cyclne                       finane
1            56.9      0.0    -5.9          0.0       0.0        0.0          0.0     63.3
2           102.8      0.0   -102.8         0.0       0.0         0.0         0.0    114.3
3             7.3      5.7      -1.6        1.3       3.7         0.7         0.0       82
4             7.3      7.3      -0.0        2.5       3.9         0.7         0.2       8.2
5             5.5      8.6       3.1        3.6       4.0         0.7         0.2       6.1
8             3.7      9.6       6.1        4.8       4.1         0.7         0.2      4.1
7             1.8    10.9        9.0        5.9       42          0.7         0.0       2.0
8             1.4     11.5      10.1        5.9       4.3         0.7         0.5       1.6
9             1.2    11.7       10S         5.9       4.5         0.7         0.5       1.3
10             1.1    29.6      26.5        5.9        4.6        0.7        18.3       1.2
11             1.1    12.1      11.0        5.9        4.7        0.7         0.7       1.2
12             1.1    12.8      11.7        5.9        4.9        0.7         1.3       1.2
13             1.1    30.9      29.8        5.9        5.0        0.7        192        1.2
14             1.1    13.3      12.2        5.9        5.2        0.7         1.5       1.2
15             1.1    14.1      13.0        5.9        5.3        0.7         2.1       1.2
16             1.1    31.4      30.3        5.9        5.5        0.7        192        1.2
17             1.1    13.8      12.7        5.9        5.7        0.7         1.5       1.2
18             1.1    14.5      13.4        5.9        5.8        0.7         2.1       1.2
19             1.1    31.9      30.8        5.9        6.0        0.7        192        1.2
20             1.1    14.3      132         5.9        62         0.7         1.5       1.2
21             1.1    15.1      14.0        5.9        6.4        0.7         2.1       1.2
22             1.1    32.4      31.3        5.9        6.6        0.7        192        1.2
23             1.1    14.9      13.8        S9         6.8        0.7         1.5       1.2
24             1.1    15.7      14.8        5.9        7.0        0.7         2.1       1.2
25             1.1    33.1      32.0        S.9        72         0.7        192        1.2
26             1.1    15.5      14.4         5.9       7.4        0.7         1.5       1.2
27             1.1    16.3      152         5.9        7.6        0.7         2.1       1.2
28             1.1    33.7      32.6        S.9        73         0.7        192        1.2
29             1.1    16.2      15.1        S.9        8.1        0.7         1.5       1.2
30             1.1    182       17.1        S.9        8.3        0.7         32        1.2
NPV@12%             152.1     79.3    -72.8       28.0       27.0        4.5        19.9    169.5
All calcuaons we basd on a project piod of 30 years.
EIRR base ca                            6.6 1
Benfit-cost ratio agcul ffects         021
Benft-cost ratio non-gl ffects         0.18
Benfts-cost ratiol                     0.52
* Compricng: dchn  In arong patern and hntnsty
and a 10% reduction in yield in Om wihout proje situation.
Sensi     Analysis
SwIhing values to brng EIRR to 12%
(percentage change)
Incease In Invastnet and O&M Cost       -4
Reduction In Projed Benft                92
Reducon hI Agricu. Benft                260
Reduction In Afforest Beneit            365
Reduction In Non-agric. Bneft           270



-  217  -                                             ANNEX  12
Table 13
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Project Economc Aalys by Pokler
POLDER 72: Sanw*p
Al wnounXt hi mon Tel            Lenth of  Embankm: km 60.0
Tdo       FhenceW  Coat         436.3  Ec. Cos       392.7
hwidm      Total    Cash      Agricul   Non-agri   Ag bee  Afforeet  Investm
Yer       o  M                         BSneft    boneft      caused   Benft   O&M
Benef      Flow    10% reducr             by cyci            Anc
1           90.3      0.0      -90.3       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0      78.5
2          188.5      0.0    -188.5         0.0       0.0        0.0      o.o    122.2
3           55.0    35.7       .19.2      23.9        5.0        6.8      0.0      78.5
4           23.8    60.7        37.1      47.9        5.1         6.8     0.8      91.6
5           19.6    84.8        65.0       71.8       5.3        8.8      0.7      26.2
a           11.8   104.5        92.7      91.6        5.5        8.8      0.6      21.8
7            3.9    125.0      121.0     111.4        5.6        6.8      1.1      17.5
S            4.8   126.2       121.4      111.4       5.8        6.8      2.1       5.8
9            4.5   126.3       121.8      111.4       6.0        6.8      2.1       5.3
10            3.9   182.6      178.7      111.4       6.1         6.8    58.3        4.8
11            3.9   127.3      123.4      111.4       6.3         6.8      2.7       4.8
12            3.9   130.0      126.1      111.4        6.5        6.8      5.2       4.6
13           26.9   187.1      16.2       111.4       6.7         6.8    62.1       31.6
14           48.3   131.1       82.9      111.4       6.9         6.8      6.0      56.8
1.           19.3   133.8      114.6      111.4       7.1         6.8      8.5      22.7
i            3.9   175.0      171.1       98.7        7.3        6.8    62.1        4.6
17            3.9   119.1      115.2       98.7        7.6        6.8      6.0       4.6
16a           3.9   121.8      117.9       98.7        7.8        6.8      8.5       4.6
19            3.9   175.6      171.7       98.7       8.0         6.8    62.1        4.6
20            3.9    119.8      115.9      98.7        8.3        6.8      6.0       4.6
21            3.9   122.5       118.6      98.7        8.5        6.8      8.5       4.6
22            3.9   176.4       172.5      98.7        8.8        6.8    62.1        4.6
23            3.9   120.5       116.6      98.7        9.0        6.8      6.0       4.6
24            3.9   123.3       119.4      98.7        9.3        6.8      8.5       4.6
25            3.9   177.2       173.3      98.7        9.6        6.8    62.1        4.6
26            3.9   121.4       117.5      98.7        9.9        6.8      6.0       4.6
27            3.9   124.1       120.2      96.7       10.1        6.8      8.5       4.6
28            3.9   178.1      174.2       98.7       10.5        6.8    62.1        4.6
29            3.9   122.3       116.4      98.7       10.8        6.8      6.0       4.6
30            3.9   125.1       121.2      98.7       11.1        6.8      8.5       4.6
NPV@12%           335.3    7172      381.9      558.3      40.0        43.3    75.6    352.3
Al alculton ae bed on projec priod of 30 yers.
E RR be  case                                   24.5 %
entsos   ai agric eecs                          1.79
Benialtso      e rotnon-egricefct               0.12
fl~~~~~~~~~~..f.ineiii.e ee.. ..e..e  ei.eeee
Bents- robs ilo                                 2.14
* Compris: ege hi cropping pattm and hitensIty.
and a 10% reductlon hI yied In th wthout project siuatIon.
Swiching values to bring EIRR to 12%
(percntg chonge)
ha_re In hwetnt an OVM Cost                       114
Reduon hI Proct B fit.                            -53
Redulon Adk. Befit.                               43
Redudon hI AiMreat Bwnft                         -505
Reduction hi Nonr-gic. Benft                    -955



- 218 -                                     ANNEX 11
Table 14
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Projet Economic Analys by Podar
POLDER 73/1AMB: Hty      Legth of Embw*nm bun 43.0
TOWi    Fiacl  Cost:       163.4  Ec. Cost  147.1
Investm    Total   Cash    AJc    Non-  AWc bs Affkols   hwabr
Yea    O & M                    Befi  agrkx  causd by Befit        O&M
Be8eft    Fbw   10% redu bneft  cyd-n              1ht
1         7.4     0.0    -7.4      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      82
2        55.9     0.0   -55.9      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     62.1
3        23.5     7.6   -15.9      5.3     1.4     0.9      0.0     26.1
4        26.5    13.2   -13.3    10.6      1.4     0.9      0.3     29.4
5        23.5    18.4    -5.1    15.8      1.5     0.9      0.2     26.1
6         5.9    22.4    16.5    19.7      1.5     0.9      0.2      6.5
7         4.4    26.0    21.6    23.2      1.6     0.9      0.4      4.9
8         3.0    26.5    23.5    23.2      1.6     0.9      0.8      3.3
9         2.7    26.5    23.8    23.2      1.7     0.9      0.8      3.0
10        2.2    45.7    43.5    23.2      1.7      0.9    19.9      2.4
1 1       2.2    26.8    24.6    23.2      1.8      0.9     1.0      2.4
12        2.2    27.8    25.6    23.2      1.8      0.9     1.9      2.4
13        2.2    47.3    45.1    23.2      1.9      0.9    21.3      2.4
14        2.2    28.1    25.9    23.2      1.9      0.9     21       2.4
15        2.2    29.1    26.9    23.2      20       0.9     3.0      2.4
16        2.2    47.4    45.2    23.2      21       0.9    21.3      2.4
17        2.2    28.3    26.1    23.2      2.1      0.9     2.1      2.4
18        2.2    29.3    27.1    23.2      2.2      0.9     3.0      24
19        2.2    47.6    45.4    23.2      2.3      0.9    21.3      2.4
20        2.2    28.5    26.3    23.2      2.3      0.9     21        2.4
21        2.2    29.5    27.3    232       24       0.9     3.0       2.4
22        2.2    47.8    45.6    23.2       2.5     0.9    21.3       2.4
23        2.2    28.7    26.5    23.2      25       0.9     2.1       2.4
24        2.2    29.7    27.5    23.2      2.6      0.9     3.0       2.4
25        2.2    48.1    45.9    23.2      2.7      0.9    21.3       2.4
26        2.2    29.0    26.8    23.2      2.8      0.9     2.1      2.4
27        2.2    29.9    27.7    23.2      2.9      0.9     3.0       2.4
28        2.2    48.3    46.1    23.2       29      0.9    21.3       2.4
29        2.2    29.2    27.0    23.2      3.0      0.9     2.1       2.4
30        2.2    30.2    28.0    23.2      3.1      0.9     3.0      2.4
NPV@12    111.2   163.9    52.7   120.8    11.2       5.7    26.1    123.6
All caculto  ae based on  projed pwiod of 30 yes.
EIRR bae cae                17.9 %
Bnfts-cost ratio agc  effets    1.14
Beeft-coat rtio rnona dec    0.10
Benlfits-cost ratio total   1.47
* Comprii: chaes in croppi ptrn and Iensiky
and a 10% reducdon in yield in the withou projec siuton.
S        Anaysi
Switi val  t brino EIRR to 12%
- EZ dmwc)
Incr_e i lnvesmet and O&M    47
Reducton in Pojct Benfib     -32
Reducton in Aric. Bwft       -44
Reduction Afhort. Bnfit     -202
Redon h N-aWric.  nfit       468



- 219 -
Annex 12
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANXMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proiect Costs
The following cost tables include (as item J 3) the Social
Development Fund which is part of the project as defined by EC, but not part
of the project as defined by IDA. (See para 2.24.) In the cost tables for
the IDA project in the text of the SAR, the costs for this component have been
excluded.



- 220 -
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION                                         ANNX  12
Summary Accounts Cost SummarY                                         Table  1
Taka                                   USS                                I Total
---------------------------------         ---------------------------    t Foreign              Base
Local    Foreign         Total         Local  Foreign       Total       Exchange        Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Major Civil Works
1. Earthworks                       579255.0   579255.0  1158510.0          14391.4  14391.4  28782.9               50.0         37.8
2. Protection Works                  22650.0    22650.0    45300.0             562.7    562.7   1125.5               50.0          I.S
3. Structures                       104950.0   104950.0   209900.0           2607.5   2607.5   5214.9                50.0         6.8
Sub-Total                              706855.0   706855.0  1413710.0           17561.6  17561.6  35123.2               50.0         46.1
B. Minor Civil Works
1. Earthworks                        85500.0          0.0    85500.0         2124.2        0.0   2124.2               0.0         2.8
2. Eatthworks FFU                   119480.0          0.0   119480.0         2968.4        0.0   2968.4               0.0         3.9
3. Structures                       153500.0    22800.0   176300.0           3813.7    566.5   4380.1                12.9         5.7
Sub-Total                              358480.0    22800.0   381280.0            8906.3    566.S   9472.8                6.0         12.4
C. EngineeringSAdein.(8U0B)            107605.5           0.0   107605.5         2673.4        0.0   2673.4              0.0          3.5
D. Surveys & Investigations             16630.0       4000.0    20630.0           413.2      99.4      512.5            19.4          0.7
E. Land Acq.&Coap.Mon Land             132044.5           0.0   132044.5         3280.6        0.0   3280.6              0.0          4.3
F. Resettlement Costs                   16080.0           0.0     16080.0         399.5        0.0     399.5             0.0          0.5
G. Adminis.Cost Resettlement              1111.8          0.0      1111.8          27.6        0.0      27.6             0.0          0.0
H. Afforestation
1. Embankuent Slopes                 47026.0          0.0     47026.0        1168.3        0.0    1168.3              0.0         I.S
2. Foreshore                        165170.0          0.0    165170.0        4103.6        0.0   4103.6               0.0         5.4
Sub-Total                              212196.0           0.0   212196.0         5272.0        0.0   5272.0              0.0          6.9
1. Private Foreshore Leasing            74400.0          0.0      74400.0        1848.4       0.0   1848.4               0.0          2.4
J. Technical Assistance
1. Project Support                  245807.8   139911.2   385719.0           6107.0   3476.1   9583.1               36.3         12.6
2. Training                          29090.0      11680.0    40770.0           722.7    290.2   1012.9               28.6          1.3
3. Social Development Fund           14400.0          0.0     14400.0          357.8       0.0     357.8              0.0         0.5
Sub-Total                              289297.8   151591.2   440889.0            7187.5   3766.2  10953.8               34.4         14.4
K. Procurement Veh.& Equip.              16134.6    20143.0    36277.6            400.9    500.4    901.3               SS.S          1.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                1930835.2   905389.2  2836224.4           47971.1  22494.1  7046S.2               31.9         92.4
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Improved O&M
1. Operations                        18362.0          0.0     18362.0         456.2        0.0     456.2             0.0          0.6
2. E/W Emb.Routine(R&I.Sec)          58540.0          0.0    58540.0         1454.4        0.0   1454.4               0.0         1.9
3. E/U Eab.PeTiodic(AII Sec)    59265.0               0.0     59265.0        1472.4        0.0   1472.4               0.0         1.9
4. E/U Khals Rout.SPeriodic          10914.0          0.0     10914.0         271.2        0.0     271.2             0.0          0.4
5. Protect. Works Rout.& Per          1650.0          0.0       1650.0         41.0        0.0      41.0             0.0          0.1
6. Structures Rout&Per                5340.0          0.0      S340.0         132.7        0.0    132.7               0.0         0.2
7. Cyclone Damage Repairs            63570.0          0.0     63570.0        1579.4        0.0   1579.4              0.0          2.1
Sub-Total                              217641.0           0.0   217641.0         5407.2        0.0   5407.2              0.0          7.1
8. Run.Costs Veh&Equip BUDB              8254.4       3537.6      11792.0         205.1      87.9    293.0              30.0          0,4
C. Run. Costs VehSEquip FD               2149.6        921.2       3070.8          53.4      22.9       76.3            30.0          0.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                  22804S.0       4458.9   232503.9          5665.7    110.8   5776.5                1.9          7.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                  2158880.2   909848.1  3068728.2           53636.8  22604.9  76241.7               29.6       100.0
Physical Contingencies              164177.0   108595.7   272772.8           4078.9   2698.0   6777.0               39.8          8.9
Price Contingencies                 257977.8      48035.5   306013.3         4288.7    914.8   5203.5                17.6         6.8
Total PRO3ECTS COSTS                  2581035.1  1066479.3  3647514.4          62004.4  26217.7  88222.2                29.7        115.7
Values Scaled by 1000.0 -   8/14/1995  8:18



- 221 -
BANGLADESH                                     ANNSlX  12
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION                           Table  2
Project Cost Summary
Taka                                 US$                               % Total
---------------------------------    ---------------------------    % Foreign               Base
Local    Foreign        Total        Local  Foreign    Total         Exchange       Costs
A. REHAB & IMPROVEMENTS
1. Polder 35/1 Sharankhola         112812.0    38940.0   151752.0         2802.8    967.5   3770.2              25.7         4.9
2. Polder 40/2 Pathergata           77316.0    20240.0    97556.0          1920.9    502.9   2423.8             20.7         3.2
3. Polder 48 Kuakata               101555.5    54395.0   155950.5         2523,1   1351.4   3874.5              34.9         S.1
4. Polder 5912.Rangati             123756.5    84185.0   207941.5         3074.7   2091.6   5166.2              40.5         6.8
S. Polder 59/38 Sudharae           152873.0    85510.0   238383.0         3798.1   2124.5   5922.6              35.9         7.8
6. Polder 59/3C Coepaniganj        138277.0    95090.0   233367.0         3435.5   2362.5   5797.9              40.7         7.6
7. Polder 60 Sonagazi               38339.0          0.0    38339.0         952.5       0.0    952.5             0.0         1.2
8. Polder 61/1 Sitakundu             9772.0          0.0     9772.0         242.8       0.0    242.8             0.0         0.3
9. Polder 62 Patenga/Navy           10829.0         0.0    10829.0          269.0       0.0    269.0             0.0         0.4
10. P63/1A Anowara                   69188.0    31100.0   100288.0          1719.0    772.7   2491.6             31.0         3.3
11. Polder 64/lA Bashkhali           15281.0         0.0    15281.0          379.7       0.0    379.7             0.0         0.5
12. Polder 64/IC Chanua               7993.0         0.0      7993.0         198.6       0.0    198.6             0.0         0.3
13. Polder 64/28 Chakoria           107103.0    15600.0   122703.0         2660.9    387.6   3048.5              12.7         4.0
14. Polder 66/3 Cox's Bazaar          5260.0         0.0      5260.0         130.7       0.0    130.7             0.0         0.2
15. Polder 66/1 Kurushkhul           34037.0    17050.0    51087.0           845.6    423.6   1269.2             33.4         1.7
16. Polder 68 Teknaf                 67893.5    51775.0   119668.5          1686.8   1286.3   2973.1             43.3         3.9
17. Polder 69 Moheskhali             10201.0         0.0    10201.0          253.4       0.0    253.4             0.0         0.3
18. Polder 70 Hatherbari             98298.5    72870.0   171168.5         2442.2   1810.4   4252.6              42.6         5.6
19. Polder 71 Kutubdia               19154.0         0.0    19154.0          475.9       0.0    475.9             0.0         0.6
20. Polder 72 Sandwip               223428.5   131485.0   354913.5          5551.0   3266.7   8817.7             37.0        11.6
21. Polder 73/lALIB Hatia           118071.5    35415.0   153486.5          2933.5    879.9   3813.3             23.1         5.0
Sub-Total                            1541439.0   733655.0  2275094.0         38296.6  18227.5  56524.1             32.2        74.1
B. Resettlemeot of families            15008.8          0.0    15008.8         372.9       0.0    372.9             0.0          O.S
C. AFFORESTATION
1. Embankment Slopes                47026.0         0.0    47026.0        1168.3        0.0   1168.3             0.0         1.5
2. Foreshore                       239570.0         0.0   239570.0        5952.0        0.0   5952.0             0.0         7.8
Sub-Total                             286596.0          0.0   286596.0        7120.4       0.0   7120.4              0.0         9.3
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Project Support                 260207.8   139911.2   400119.0         6464.8   3476.1   9940.8              35.0        13.0
2. Training                         29090.0    11680.0    40770.0          722.7    290.2   1012.9              28.6         1.3
Sub-Total                             289297.8   151591.2   440889.0          7187.5   3766.2  10953.8             34.4        14.4
E. Procurement Equip. & Veh.           26538.6    24601.9    51140.5           659.3    611.2   1270.6             48.1          1.7
lotal BASELINE COSTS                 2158880.2   909848.1  3068728.2        53636.8  22604.9  76241.7              29.6       100.0
Physical Contingencies             164177.0   108595.7   272772.8         4078.9   2698.0   6777.0              39.8         8.9
Price Contingencies                257977.8    48035.5   306013.3         4288.7    914.8   5203.5              17.6         6.8
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 2581035.1  1066479.3  3647514.4        62004.4  26217.7  88222.2              29.7       115.7
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 8/14/1995 7:56



- 222 -
BANGLAOESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION                                    ANNEX  12
Sumeary Accounts by Year                                         Table  3
Totals Including Contingencies
US$
19ff/96     1996/97     1997/98    1998/99    1999/00    2000/01    2001/02             Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Major Civil Works
1. Earthworks                         9262.5    22091.7        2356.3       682.0          0.0         0.0         0.0    34392.4
2. Protection IWorks                   152.5        592.8       566.9         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0       1312.2
3. Structures                         1694.9      3016.5       1246.7       285.2          0.0         0.0         0.0       6243.3
:3:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Sub-lotal                               11109.9    25701.0        4170.0        967.2         0.0         0.0          0.0    41948.0
B. Minor Civil Works
1. Earthvorks                            0.0       363.9       1151.6       674.7        439.5         0.0         0.0       2629.7
2. Earthworks FFU                        0.0       227.4        489.5      1115.0       1036.7       633.4       107.3       3609.3
3. Structures                            0.0       667.9       2378.6      1553.9        644.6       118.4         0.0      5363.4
Sub-Total                                    0.0      1259.2      4019.7      3343.7       2120.8       751.8        107.3    11602.4
C. EngineeringWAdmin.(8U08)                566.9      1466.3       517.4        314.9       189.2         62.3        10.3      3127.3
0. Surveys & Investigations               258.8        269.1          3.1         0.5         0.0         0.0          0.0       531.6
E. Land Acq.&COap.Non Land                1921.8       941.4       349.3        250.2         0.0          0.0         0.0      3462.7
F. Resettlemeat Costs                       49.5       142.9       164.9         64.3         5.9         0.0          0.0       427.6
G. Adminis.Cost Resettlement                 0.0        11.0        13.1          5.1         0.5         0.0          0.0        29.6
H. Afforestation
1. Embankment Slopes                    28.8       227.3        328.4       345.4       289.1         68.8        25.0      1313.0
2. Foreshore                            99.0        925.6      1190.8      1230.5        770.5       193.7        57.3       4467.4
Sub-Total                                  127.8      1152.9      1519.3       1576.0      1059.7       262.5         82.3      5780.4
1. Private Foreshore Leasing               58.9        122.6       18S.9        252.9       257.1       262.2       963.8       2103.4
J. Technical Assistance
1. Project Support                    1644.5      2220.4      2209.1       1390.5      1056.4       1090.6       694.0    10305.6
2. Training                              4.1       324.2        293.8       279.7        113.1        54.1        22.5       1091.5
3. Social Developoent Fund               0.0          0.0        76.7        78.3         79.6        81.2        BS.3       401.2
Sub-Total                                1648.5       2544.6      2579.7       1748.5      1249.1      1226.0       801.8    11798.3
K. Procurement Veh.& Equip.                 19.2       852.6        12.2         12.5        12.8         13.0        13.3       935.7
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                  15761.5    34463.6    13534.5         8535.9      489S.0       2577.9      1978.7    81747.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Improved OII
1. Operations                           23.2        43.2         65.6        90.7        92.2         94.1        98.8       507.9
2. E/ll Emb.Routine(R&I.Sec)            40.2        99.9        206.3       326.6        381.9       32S.3       238.6       1618.9
3. E/l Emb.Periodic(All Sec)            10.1        97.6        183.7       313.0       338.0        339.2       370.1      1651.8
4. E/U Khals Rout.&Periodic              0.0         4.S          5.0        34.4        75.9         92.3        96.9       309.0
5. Protect.  lotks Rout.$ Per            0.0          3.3         3.4         4.2         11.4        11.7        12.3         46.3
6. Structures RoutiPer                   0.0          2.1         4.8        26.4        37.0         38.9        41.2        ISO.4
7. Cyclone Damage Repairs                0.0         0.0          4.0       499.0       463.8        423.5       392.9      1783.3
Sub-Total                                   73.5       250.6       472.8      1294.4       1400.4      1325.0      1250.7       6067.S
B. Run.Costs Veh6Equip BUO8                  0.2        51.3        52.0         53.1        54.1        55.2         57.4       323.4
C. Run. Costs Veh6Equip FO                   0.4        13.3        13.5         13.8        14.0        14.3         14.9        84.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      74.0        315.2       538.4      1361.3       1468.6      1394.6      1323.0       6475.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                     15835.6    34778.7    14072.8         9897.2       6363.5      3972.5      3301.8    88222.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0  8/14/1995  8:07



- 223 -AN                                                              12
Table 4
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Conlingencies
usS
1995/96     1996197      1997/98      1998/99      1999/00      2000/01      2001/02        Total
A. REHAB & IMPROVEMENTS
1. Polder 35/1 Sharankhola              1379.4       1029.1        971.3        487.8        210.0        190.2        109.7      4377.6
2. Polder 40/2 Pathergata                309.6       1168.0        365.9        522.9        235.6        227.1         76.1      2905.2
3. Polder 48 Kuakata                       67.5      3436.8        335.4        376.5        240.8        113.1         82.8      4652.7
4. Polder 59/2 Raagati                  2270.0       2958.9        322.9        129.4        122.1        139.3        140.6      6083.2
5. Polder 59/38 Sudharam                2139.3       3313.5        768.1        312.2        342.3         71.7         66.9      7014.0
6. Polder 59/3C Companiganj             2388.5       2891.9        826.2        459.3        170.2         65.4         49.8      6851.4
7. Polder 60 Sonagazi                       0.3         11.1       289.1        268.0        228.5        240.7         55.1       1092.8
8. Polder 61/1 Sitakundu                   14.7         12.6        24.0         64.8         56.4         51.2         46.7        270.3
9. Polder 62 Patenga/Navy                  14.6        28.2          26.1        60.5         54.8         60.2         56.6        301.0
10. P63/lA Anowara                           0.0       462.9       1332.8        839.9        140.5        148.6         68.0      2992.7
11. Polder 64/lA Bashkhali                  25.8         35.1         67.3        95.7         81.2         67.3         46.3        418.7
12. Polder 64/IC Chanua                      3.6         24.5        33.9         35.0         43.5         43.2         37.1        220.9
13. Polder 64/28 Chakoria                    6.6       760.2       1660.0        798.2        244.0         80.7         74.1      3623.8
14. Polder 66/3 Cox's Bazaar                 7.4         19.0          8.1        27.4         27.8         29.5         26.2        145.4
15. Polder 66/1 Kurushkhul                  30.9      1071.5          89.3       133.1        134.5         30.9         30.1       1520.3
16. Polder 68 Teknaf                     1010.0       2326.5           0.0        47.0         45.1         42.5         40.0      3511.1
17. Polder 69 Hoheskhali                     9.0          6.7         40.6        93.4         88.1         30.6         25.0        293.3
18. Polder 70 MatherbaTi                 1610.4       3092.4         87.7         95.7         69.6         38.6         35.6      5029.9
19. Polder 71 Kutubdia                      32.6        38.6        110.3        135.1         86.7         65.8         54.9       524.1
20. Polder 72 Sandwip                    2522.2       5407.5       1441.0        316.0        276.0        270.5        112.8    10346.0
21. Polder 73/IA&IB Hatia                  137.9      1797.4        733.7        873.1        812.9        132.1        133.8      4620.8
Sub-Total                                  13980.5    29892.5        9533.6       6170.9       3710.4       2139.1       1368.2   '66795.2
8. Resettlesent of families                    0.0        149.0        176.6         69.5          6.4          0.0          0.0       401.5
C. AFFORESTATION
1. Embankment Slopes                      28.8        227.3        328.4        345.4        289.1         68.8         25.0      1313.0
2. Foreshore                              157.9      1048.2       1376.7       1483.4       1027.6        455.9       1021.1      6570.8
Sub-Total                                    186.8       1275.5       1705.1       1828.9      1316.7        524.7       1046.1       7883.8
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Project Support                      1644.5       2220.4       2285.9       1468.9       1136.1       1171.9       779.3      10706.8
2. Training                                 4.1       324.2        293.8        279.7        113.1         54.1         22.5       1091.5
Sub-Total                                   1648.5       2544.6       2579.7       1748.5      1249.1       1226.0        801.8      11798.3
E. Procuresent Equip. & Veh.                  19.8        917.2         77.8         79.4         80.9        82.6         85.7       1343.3
Total PROJECTS COSTS                       15835.6    34778.7       14072.8       9897.2       6363.5       3972.5       3301.8    88222.2
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/14/1995 8:37



- 224 -
BANGLADESH                                               ANNB           12
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITAIION                                     Table  5
Taka
Sunmary Accounts by Year
Base Costs
1995/96     1996/97     1997/98    1998/99       1999/00    2000/01    2001/02          TotaIl
1. INVESTMENT cosrs
A. major Civil Vorks
1. Earthvorks                     319360.0   739550.0    77600.0    22000.0              0.0          0.0         0.0  1158510.0
2. Protection Uorks                  5500.0    20500.0    19300.0            0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0    45300.0
3. Structures                       58470.0   101150.0    41080.0         9200.0         0.0          0.0         0.0   209S00.0
Sub-total                             383330.0   861200.0   137980.0    31200.0              0.0         0.0         0.0  1413710.0
B. Minor Civil Uorks
1. Earthvorks                           0.0    12000.0    37750.0    21750.0    14000.0               0.0         0.0     SSS00.0
2. Earthuorks FFV                       0.0      7500.0    16300.0    37450.0    34080.0    21000.0            3150.0   119480.0
3. Structures                           0.0    22800.0    78700.0    50675.0    20475.0           3650.0          0.0   176300.0
Sub-total                                  0.0    42300.0   132750.0   109875.0    68555.0    24650.0             3150.0   381280.0
C.  Engineering&Admin.(B808)           20326.5    50554.0    17650.0    10526.0          6224.0       2010.0       315.0   107605.5
0.  Surveys & Investigations           10230.0    10265.0         115.0        20.0          0.0         0.0         0.0    20630.0
E.  Land Acq.&Coap.Non Land            75799.5    34130.0    12912.5         9202.5          0.0         0.0         0.0   132044.5
F.  Resettlement Costs                  1953.0       5373.5      6173.0      2366.0        214.5         0.0         0.0    16080.0
6.  Adminis.Cost Resettlement              0.0        415.5       489.8       189.3         17.2         0.0         0.0      1111.8
H. Afforestation
1. Embankeent Slopes                 1065.0      8120.0    11986.0    12365.0    10203.0          2441.0       846.0    47026.0
2. Foreshore                         3833.0    34721.0    44685.0    45251.0    27877.0           6868.0       1935.0   165170.0
Sub-total                               4898.0    42841.0    56671.0    57616.0    38080.0            9309.0      2781.0   212196.0
1.  Private Foreshore Leasing           2325.0      4650.0       6975.0      9300.0      9300.0       9300.0    32550.0    74400.0
J. Technical Assistance
1. Project Support                  65090.0    85143.5    83339.0    51392.0    38323.5    38778.5    23652.5   385719.0
2. Training                           160.0    12435.0    11075.0    10330.0          4090.0      1920.0        760.0    40770.0
3. Social Developeent Fund              0.0         0.0      2880.0       2880.0      2880.0      2880.0       2880.0    14400.0
-Sub-total                              652SO.0    97578.5    97294.0    64602.0    45293.5    43578.5    27292.5   440889.0
K.  Procurement Yeh.& Equip.             764.5    33184.4         465.7       465.7        465.7       465.7       465.7    36277.6
Total INVESIMENT COSTS                564876.5  1182491.9   469476.1   295362.5   168149.9    89313.2    66554.2  2836224.4
11 RECURRENT COSTS
L. Improved OS&
1. OPerations                         915.0      1637.0      2462.0       3337.0      3337.0      3337.0      3337.0    18362.0
2. EIU Emb.Routine(R&l.Sec)          1584.0      3790.0       7743.0    12012.0    13818.0    11535.0         805S8.0    S8540.0
3. E/I Eeb.Periodic(AII Sec)          400.0      3700.0      6895.0    11510.0    12230.0    12030.0    12500.0    S9265.0
4. E/UJ Khals Rout.VPeriodic            0.0       170.0       187.0       1266.5      2745.5      3272.5      3272.5    10914.0
S. Protect. Uorks Rout.4 Per            0.0       126.0        126.0       156.0       414.0       414.0        414.0      1650.0
6. Structures Rout&Per                  0.0        80.0        180.0       970.0      1340.0      1380.0       1390.0      5340.0
7. Cyclone Damage Repairs               0.0         0.0       ISO.0    18350.0    16780.0    15020.0    13270.0    63570.0
Sub-total                               2899.0       9503.0    17743.0    47601.5    50664.5    46988.5    42241.5   217641.0
N.  Run.Costs Veh&Equip BUDB                7.3      1964.1      1964.1      1964.1      1964.1       1964.1      1964.1    11792.0
N.  Run. Costs Veh&Equip FO                14.3       509.4       509.4       509.4        509.4       509.4       509.4      3070.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   2920.6    11976.6    20216.6    50075.1    S3138.1    49462.1    44715.1   232503.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                  567797.0  1194468.4   489692.6   34S437.6   221288.0   138775.3   111269.3  3068728.2
Physical CgntiPgencies              59401.0   141643.0    40638.7    19294.9          9080.0      2211.0        S04.0   272772.8
Price Coltingencies                  9866.4    63037.3    S3691.8    SS898.2    48355.1    38093.8    37070.6   306013.3
lotal PROJECT COSTS                   637064.5  1399148.8   584023.1   420630.8   278723.1   179080.1   148843.9  3647514.4
Taxes                               59771.9   148655.5    47761.9    21823.8          5366.6      1555.8        846.7   285782.3
Foreign Exchange                  249999.5   579252.5   134374.2    54374.7    18871.9    20002.3              9604.2  1066479.3
values Scaled by 1000.0  8/14/199S  8:14



ANNEX 12
- 225 -                                                Table 6
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Taka
1995/96     1996/97     1997/98      1998/99     1999/00    2000/01       2001/02        Total
A. REHAB & IMPROVEMENTS
1. Polder 35/1 Sharankhola            55494.9    41402.2    40307.9    20732.2           9199.8      8572.9      4945.3   180655.2
2. Polder 40/2 Pathergata             12457.1    46988.6       15186.7    22221.6       10318.2     10236.9       3431.0   120840.1
3. Polder 48 Kuakata                   2715.2   138262.2       13917.1     16000.9      10544.9      5097.5      3732.0   190269.8
4. Polder 59/2 Ramgati                91323.8   119037.9       13399.7      5498.8       5346.3      6279.7      6338.8   247225.0
5. Polder 59/3B Sudharam              86064.6   133302.5    31876.3    13267.5          14992.8      3231.4      3017.9   285753.0
6. Polder 59/3C Companigani           96090.9   116342.3       34288.1     19520.4       7455.3      2946.6       2245.1    278888.6
7. Polder 60 Sonagazi                    10.2       445.5    11999.4       11390.6    10007.3    10850.9         2484.0    47188.0
8. Polder 61/1 Sitakundu                592.6        508.1       994.2      2755.2       2468.5      2305.9       2103.6     11728.2
9. Polder 62 Patenga/Navy               588.5      1134.0       1082.7      2569.1       2399.5      2715.3      2550.7      13039.9
10. P63/IA Anowara                         0.0    18622.3    55311.9    35695.3           6154.4      6701.1       3064.6   125549.7
11. Polder 64/lA Bashkhali              1038.4       1411.9      2793.6      4066.9       3555.7      3034.3       2086.2    17987.1
12. Polder 64/1C Chanua                  145.9        987.6      1406.8      1487.4       1905.6      1948.7       1672.4      9554.4
13. Polder 64/2B Chakoria                265.2    30582.9    68890.0    33921.6          10686.0      3638.2       3342.2   151326.2
14. Polder 66/3 Cox's Bazaar             295.8        764.8       337.3      1164.9       1217.9      1328.4       1181.3      6290.5
15. Polder 66/1 Kurushkhul              1244.4    43104.5        3704.9      5656.9       5889.6      1393.2       1358.8    62352.4
16. Polder 68 Teknaf                   40632.1    93593.4           0.0      1999.4       1977.0      1915.7       1803.3   141920.9
17. Polder 69 Hoheskhali                 362.1       268.4       1683.2      3969.8       3857.2      1380.5       1126.5    12647.8
18. Polder 70 Matherbari               64786.4   124408.0        3639.6      4068.1       3047.2      1739.0       1603.0   203291.4
19. Polder 71 Kutubdia                  1312.7      1553.0       4578.6      5741.5       3795.4      2968.2      2476.0    22425.5
20. Polder 72 Sandwip                 101466.5   217545.3    59800.3        13430.4      12090.9    12192.0        5086.8   421612.2
21. Polder 73/1A&1B Hatia               5546.8    72308.5    30446.9    37104.7    35605.9            5955.6       6030.4   '192998.7
Sub-Total                               562434.1  1202574.3   395645.3   262263.3    162515.6    96432.3    61679.7  2743544.6
B. Resettlement of families                   0.0      5994.8      7330.6       2953.1       280.5          0.0         0.0     16559.1
C. AFFORESTATION
1. Embankment Slopes                   1160.0      9142.4     13630.2    1468i.6       12663.4       3103.0      1129.2    55509.9
2. Foreshore                           6354.2    42170.0    57132.7    63044.8         45008.8    20552.7    46029.0   280292.1
Sub-Total                                 7514.2    51312.4    70762.9    77726.4    57672.2    23655.7    47158.2   335802.0
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Project Support                    66157.8    89326.3    94864.0    62426.6    49759.1           52827.1     35129.5   450490.4
2. Training                             163.2     13042.8      12193.3    11886.7        4951.6      2440.7      1014.4    45692.7
Sub-Total                                66321.0   102369.2   107057.3    74313.2    54710.7    55267.8    36143.9   496183.1
E. Procurement Equip. & Veh.                795.1    36898.1       3227.1       3374.7      3544.1      3724.4       3862.0     55425.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    637064.5  1399148.8   584023.1   420630.8   278723.1    179080.1   148843.9  3647514.4
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/14/1995 8:37



- 226 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENTb REHABILITATION PROJ13CT (CERP)
Reporting Reauirements and Performance Indicators
1.          The following reports would be sent regularly to IDA:
(a)   six monthly reports within one month of the closing of the first and
third quarters of each financial year.  The report would include
physical and financial progress and would follow the outlines given
in para 2 below;
(b)   quarterly progress reports on the resettlement program, including
the performance of families on afforestation of embankment slopes
and routine maintenance and the performance of community groups on
the foreshore afforestation program;
(c)   audited financial statement of the project,  together with the
auditor's report and opinion on the financial statement, and the
auditor's separate opinion on SOEs, within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year; and
(d)   the borrower's contribution (Section II) to the project Completion
Report, within three months of the Borrower's receipt of Sections I
and III from IDA.
2.          The six monthly reports should provide sufficient information for the
use of IDA supervision missions tentatively scheduled for August and February of
each financial year. The outline suggested for the report would include:
(a)   The Executive Summary
(b)   Physical Progress.   This para would contain information on the
components: civil works, resettlement, afforestation and O&M. The
achievements expected each year are detailed in the physical
progress performance indicators attached to this annex. The report
would include a tabulated statement giving the progress against the
performance indicators. In addition the report would include the
progress on preparatory activities for: (i) civil works construction
such as designs for minor works, procurement of major and minor
civil works, land acquisition for civil works construction inclusive
of khal re-excavation; (ii) land acquisition for resettlement;
(iii) temporary   relocation   of   displaced   families;    and
(iv) preparation of programs for resettlement, O&M and forestry
including forestry nurseries and trials.   The report would also
include a brief discussion on progress of each component.
Attachments to the report would include besides the tabulated
statement on the performance indicators, the physical progress for



- 227 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
each project polder for all categories listed in Items A through E
of Table 2 of the detailed cost tables (Annex 12), giving
achievements up to the previous reporting period and achieved in the
current reporting period, concise information on the major civil
works contracts, updated schedules on procurement of civil works,
vehicles and equipment (Annexes l(b)), and implementation (Annex
la);
(b)   Implementation Support
(c)   Training
(c)   Financial Proaress.   The para would include:  (a) expenditures
(targets and achievements) incurred according to the items of
disbursements listed in para 2.33 of the SAR, and in addition for
the items financed by EC and those financed fully by GOB; (b) a
forecast on cost over run/savings when appropriate; and (c) status
of reimbursement applications;
(d)   Results of monitorinQ and imDact assessment studies:
(i) Sumary of findings of environmental monitoring activities and
proposals for any additional mitigation measures required.
(ii) Results of sample surveys and questionnaires (see Annex 7 para
15 (d) & (e)) covering trends in agricultural production and
farm incomes, cropping patterns, farm employment, incomes of
families  participating   in  embankment  maintenance   and
addorestation   programs,and   participants   in   foreshore
afforestation.
(iii) Any recommendations arising out of (ii).
(e)   Problems.  The para should include: (a) problems identified during
the previous reporting period, actions taken to resolve the problems
and results; and (b) problems identified during the reporting period
and proposed actions;
(f)   Attachments



- 228 -                                           A     lNEX 13
Table 2.
BANGLADESH
Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Proiect (CERP)
Physical Proigress Performance Indicators
Unit      FY96    FY97       FY98     FY99      FY00    FY01       FY02      Total
Major Civil Works
Land acquisition            ha        427       72                                                        499
Contract Awards             %          90        10        -                                              100
Construction--Il Polders    %          18       65        12        5                                     100
Minor Civil Works
Eng. Documents              %          40       50        10        -                                     100
Land Acquisition             ha         -        30        70       40        -         -        -         140
Construction-15 Polders     9-                   10       35       29       17         6        3         100
Afforestation
Forestry Pilot Schemes      Ha        160        -         -        -        -         -        -         160
Embankment Slopes           Ha         -        250      676       550      386                 -        1,862
Foreshore                   Ha         -       1210      1568     1270      569                 -        4,617
Resettlement
Land Acquisition            Ha         37             -        -         -        -             -          37
Families                    No          -       765      900       284       28                 -        1,977
Technical Assistance
Consultants Mobilized                 100             -        -         -         -            -         100
Consultant Support          %           9       20        21        22      14         8        6         100
NGO Mobilized               %          80       20         -        -        -         -        -         100
Trajgiin
W/shops & Seminars           No         -         2        2         3        -        2         -          9
BWDB Staff                  No         -        20        30       20       20        20        -         100
Forestry Staff              No         -        10        20        10    I                     -          40
NGOs                        No         -        22        10        10                          -          42
Beneficiaries               No          -        -        40        60      50                  -         150
O&M
Routine Maintenance
Families Organized         No          -       280       660      710       327        -        -       1,977
Embankment E/W              Km         9        72      239       417       558      575       575
(cumulative)
Proc. Vehicles&Epuipment
Vehicles                   %                   100                                                        100
Equipment                  %                   100                                                        100
iotes
1. Numbers to be trained are based on: (a) for BWDB, 3 per polder plus 37 staff from the divisions; (b) for forestry, 1
forestor for each polder, plus 19 from the divisional office; (c) for NGO, one field superviser and 1 field officer for each
polder; and (d) for beneficiaries, a representaive from each group, a total of about 150.
2. For O&M, families organized are based on the additional length of embankment taken up during the year.



- 229 -
ANNEX 13
Table 2
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicators of Agricultural Growth
Variable                                         End Pro1ect Target
Annual crop production (in project area)                 245,100 MT
Average farm income                                      16,300 Taka/ha
Adoption of HYV rice                                     20-40% of T. Aman to
shift to HYV by year 7.
Cropping intensity (average)                             155%
Increase in rice yields                                  10-15t
Net Income to Families on Toe of Embankment1
(excluding payments from BWDB)
in Taka
# of years after settlement            1     2      3     4      .5     6     7
Income from embankment                 2500  2600  2500   2700  6850  6850  6850
Income from homestead                   750   800   800    800  1700  2000  1700
1.    For standard model of 1 ha on embankment and 200 m2 homestead plot.



- 230 -
ANNEX 14
BANGLADESH
COASTAL EMBANKMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project SuDervision Plan
Mission   Time
No     Mo/Yr                    SDecialt                     Total Staff
Encr     RDS     Eco.   _r.        Env. 
1    #    2/96       2       1        2        1                  6
2          8/96      1       1        1         -        1        4
3          2/97      1       -        1        -         -2
4   *      8/97      1       1        1        1         1        5
5          2/98      1       -        1        - _                2
6          8/98      1       1        1        1         _        4
7          2/99      1       -        1        _         _        2
8   *      8/99      1       1        1        1         1        5
9          2/00      1       -        1        _         _        2
10          8/00      1       1        1         _        _        3
11          2/01      1       -        1         _        _        2
12          8/01      1       _        1         _        _        2
13          2/02      1       1        1        - =                3
14   **    8/02       1       1        1         _    _            3
Notes
Eng.  Engineer
RDS   Rural Development Specialist
Eco.  Economist/Agricultural Economist
Trg.  Training Specialist
Env.  Environmental Specialist
Project Launch Workshop and handover of TM responsibility between HQ and
Resident Mission.
*     Mid-term Review
**    Initiation of PCR process
1/    It is expected that EC would provide specialists in rural development,
training and environment, and IDA would provide the remainder.



- 231 -
ANNEX 15
BANGLADESH
COASTAL KMBANXMKNT REHABILITATION PROJECT (CERP)
Selected Documents and Data in the Proiect File
1.        Cyclone Protection Project II - FAP 7; Feasibility & Design Studies
-- Final Project Preparation Report; Joint Venture of KAMPSAX International
A/S, BCEOM, Danish Hydraulic Institute in association with Development Design
Consultants LTD; May 1992; Volumes 1-3, Appendices A-J.
2.        Bangladesh Coastal Embankment Project:  Opportunities for EC
Support; Environmental Resources LTD.; September 1992.
3.        Environmental Assessment of the Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation
Project: Bangladesh; Environmental Resources Ltd; September 1992.
4.        Modified Resettlement Action Plan for Coastal Embankment
Rehabilitation Project (CERP-II); BWDB; August 15, 1995.
5.        Draft Resettlement Plan Re-Revised; Socio-Economic Survey and
Resettlement Plan Preparation Team; August 1994.
6.        Squatter Census and Resettlement Plan; Revised Draft; Kampsax et
al; August 16, 1993.
7.        Cyclone Protection Project II - Priority Works Program and Coastal
Embankment Rehabilitation Project - Operation and Maintenance of CPP-II
Polders - Draft Final; Kampsax et al; June 1994.
S.        Bangladesh - Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project - Final
Report; ULG Consultants Ltd.; March 1995.
9.        Bangladesh - Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project (CERP) -
Presentation of the Project; Commission of the European Communities; 1993



\  o  JESSCR_  /  \>   ~~~~~~~~~  \  @-g . \ _uxmipur 9' S FENf e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ]' IBRD2419EfRD 2198
>   _t.   5>   Khulna      }    _       ~~~~~~~   B^ftlS~A L                                          ,         ONoakhaii&                                ''  
F   \                           O    C      _    _    S       _Khulna 0                                                    N 0 A KOa1<H LI                        SCOVAGA7,  R,     '            AfGAMATI                I|N DIA
\  f ~~~>- / - O 2 / 0                                                I,ansal                                                                            - hf 5X:.............>9/:B 5&'DHA.RAAA     Rangamatio .......................- 
5 A'                                                  RHA       Pl    C , .   ') '*)   
!~~~~~~~~K6N INI                              H0NHt   >-'3aruaI!/ .6,AeG                                                                                                       0  
t22-   \   2  0  (  >  V  -; 0 0 / | 3ANDARBAN X W<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kata
f   }          I j                      'j(  I   J                                 /                         /                                                  :j->'l~~~;   '=                    _  ,wH'4
) ~ ~     ~       ~~~ ~ ~~~~~                                      PATU|AK\/731HALI17A,S/C,HNU   g                                                                                 .?
I   9   l   <                 |                                                                                -                    71xKUrU60A        4                  J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
I   rss  \                              JO/ZeArHERG4TFtA                                                                                                               lu  ,lB~~~~~0Patt Ao \      
j OatuakhaiADEShitta'ong
IND A                                     ISAR-N;-L                              una 0                ---  
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AaA N D  IA R     B A N1
i G'.">.o<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                                              641A    .`1A
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71 A&$ rtTY                                                                                           6AlC -CHAM                                        ZS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 ,K TB I j}o AOfi FNF, 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  _j a  1 r *2 0aR 
~~~~~~~~4, KMrAA6128,teso . 
uRF ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~02 PAOFAH                                                                                                                     70,P mAT .~                       IJ 






