E421
VOL. 12
,V5ilsoll
Phase 11 - RaichurBy-pass
Environmental Assessment Summary
Part I - Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) &
Part 11 - Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
Project Co-ordinating Consultancy Services (PCC)
Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project
K a  X  ida~~~~idr
Belga
-      oad~~~urga
Mangalor                           e
Prepared for
Govt of Kamataka
Public Works Dept.
(PIU KSHIP)
January 2005



I
I



Karnataka State Highways                          Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                               Raichur By-pass
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTIONS                        PARTICULARS                         PAGE NO.
CHAPTER- 1 INTRODUCTION
1.1          Project Background                                         1
1.2          Bypasses as integral part of KSHIP                         1
1.3          Scope                                                      2
1.4          Objectives                                                 2
1.5          Environmental Assessment (EA) Study                        2
1.2          Al proach and Methodology                                  2
1.2.1        Essential Steps                                            2
1.2.2        Existing Environmental Baseline Condition                  2
1.2.2.1      Collection of Primary and Secondary Data                   2
1.2.2.2      Collection of Primary Data                                 3
1.2.2.3      Collection of Secondary Data                               3
1.2.2.4      Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)                      4
1.2.2.5      Environmental Management Plan (EMP)                        4
1.3          Structure of the Report                              l     5
CHAPTER - 2 POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
2.1          Highlights of the Indian System and Major Organisations  ]  3
2.1.1        Department of Environment and Forests                       -
2 I 1    _   The Pollution Control Board                                 -
2.1.2.1      The Central Pollution Control Board
2.1.2.2      Karnataka State Pollution Control Board
2.2          Guidelines for EIA of Highway Projects, IRC: 104-1998  |
2.3          Responsibilities of the Project Promoter & Interfaces with  4
other Agencies
2.3.1        Interface with Ministry of Environment and Forests          4
2.3.2        Interface with Kamataka State Pollution Control Board       4
2.3.3        Interface with the Department of Land & Land Revenue of     6
GoK
2.3.4        Interface with the offices of the District Magistrate & City  6
Municipalities
2.3.5        Interface with the Departments of Forests of the GoK        6
2.3.6        Interface with the Department of Mines of the GoK           8
2.3.7        Strength of the Public Works Department of the GoK for      8
Interface Management
2.4          Statutes Related to Environment                             8
2.4.1        Land Acquisition Act, 1894                                  8
2.4.2        The Mysore Highways Act, 1964                               8
2.4.3        The Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972                         8
2.4.4        Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974       9
2.4.5        The Kamataka Preservation of Trees Act, 1976                9
2.4.6        Town and Country Planning Act, 1976                         9
2.4.7        Forest Conservation Act, 1980                               9
2.4.8        The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981    10
2.4.9        Environment Protection Act, 1986                           10
scott Wilsoon
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
2.4.10        Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989                                   10
2.4.11        The Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules,        10
Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
6.2.5         Effects of Growing Economy                                   2
6.3          Impacts from Road Designs                                     2
Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
Table 5.20    List of Amenities in Raichur                                15
Table 5.21    Regional Utilities                                          16
Figure 5.1    Air monitoring locations at the Project Area .
Figure 5.2    Noise monitoring locations at the Project Area
Figure 5.3    Water monitoring locations of the Project Area
Table 6.1     Magnitude of impact on Trees along the By-pass Alignment     4
Table 6.2jEvaluation of Environmental features with different Scenarios   15
Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
General
The project involves 2 laning of 7.6 km o fb y-pass for Raichur T own from Km stone
196.700 on Raichur - Makhtal Road (link IA and SH 13) to km stone 5.500 on Raichur -
Kalmala Road (link 1B and SH 20). The PIU-KSHIP is the executing agency of the
project. As per Environmental Screening studies this project road has been categorized as
B Category Project. This means limited environmental impacts may occur due to the
project work and will be mitigated. Detailed reports have been prepared and presented:
Environmental Impact Assessment (ETA)  -     Part I
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)    -     Part II
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)
1.    Introduction
The Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project (KSHIP) is an initiative by the
Public Works Department (PWD) of the Goverunent of Karnataka (GoK), under the
financial assistance of World Bank, to undertake improvement of 2490 km of roads
consisting of State Highways and Major District Roads. The whole project has been
divided into two phases - Phase I and Phase II. In both Phases roads have been selected
for upgradation and rehabilitation. In Phase 1, roads selected for upgradation include
-  --  " .: . . .  _ ..1:Rii..   l r nmd Riciar districts. UDgradation



ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
SUMMARY
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
General
The project involves 2 laning of 7.6 km o fb y-pass for Raichur Town from Km stone
196.700 on Raichur - Makhtal Road (link IA and SH 13) to km stone 5.500 on Raichur -
Kalmala Road (link lB and SH 20). The PIU-KSHIP is the executing agency of the
project. As per Environmental Screening studies this project road has been categorized as
B Category Projecta This means limited environmental impacts may occur due to the
project work and will be mitigated. Detailed reports have been prepared and presented:
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)  -    Part I
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)   -     Part II
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)
1.    Introduction
The Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project (KSHIP) is an initiative by the
Public Works Department (PWD) of the Government of Kamataka (GoK), under the
financial assistance of World Bank, to undertake improvement of 2490 km of roads
consisting of State Highways and Major District Roads. The whole project has been
divided into two phases - Phase I and Phase II. In both Phases roads have been selected
for upgradation and rehabilitation. In Phase I, roads selected for upgradation include
about 394 Kms. in Gulbarga, Raichur, Koppal, Bijapur and Bidar districts. Upgradation
is widening and strengthening of the existing carriageway. The width of the existing
carriageway - 3.5ms, 4.5 ms and 5.5ms will be increased to a width of 7m. This involves
cutting of trees, if any. And for major maintenance (i.e. rehabilitation) in Phase I, total
roads round up to 1027 Kms. Major maintenance does not involve cutting of any trees.
Phase I project is under implementation stage. In Phase II, roads selected for upgradation
total up to 548 Kms. and they come under Belgaum, Gokak, Bagalkot, Bijapur, Gadag,
Chitradurga and Bellary districts. In addition, around 491 Kms of roads have been
selected for Rehabilitation in Dharwad, Uttara Kannada, Belgaum, Raichur and Mysore.
The PIU envisaged construction of by-passes for Towns keeping in view the increase in
traffic along the Project Road following the improvement and to avoid future bottlenecks
in the town area. These by-passes are being viewed as additional corridors to the existing
roads passing through the settlements to facilitate smooth traffic dispersal. Bijapur, and
Raichur towns were considered for constructing by-passes. Separate stand-alone EIA
Reports were prepared for by-passes.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
ES-i
S,coi, Wdlson



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
Methodology
The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study started with a detailed reconnaissance
survey for the purpose of recording the features along roadside and in the adjoining area.
Areas impacted due to anthropogenic activities and the manifest expressions of the
natural environmental processes were also recorded. The need for traffic management
was considered in relation to the road geometry as well as for observed traffic congestion.
The above survey was followed by collation of data pertaining to the physical attributes
of the region in general and the proposed road in particular covering 7.6-Km length.
Detailed information, on physical, biological and human resources, cultural heritage and
human impacts were recorded and analysed. Subsequently, primary data on the ambient
quality o f noise, water, air and soil was collected as per procedures prescribed by the
MoEF.
As part of the assessment, the rules and regulations governing environmental assessment
and their application to the project and the institutions responsible for providing the
clearances and for d ischarging those functions were charted. Thus from the regulatory
perspective, the legal procedures on land acquisition, preparation of rehabilitation &
resettlement action plan and environmental monitoring and reporting were identified as
key issues.
To identify and assess the probable impacts upon the environment from road design,
construction and operation phases, close interaction was established with the design
engineers.
Public consultations were carried out during the environmental reconnaissance surveys.
The public consultations were well attended by the Project affected Persons, students,
academicians, officials and other stakeholders.
Based on the impact analysis and the public consultations, a comprehensive Environment
Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared for sound environment management during
the design, construction and operation phases of the project.
2.    Policy, legal and Administrative Framework
i.    Environmental Policy and Administrative Framework
Environmental Policy and Administrative framework involves the Ministry of
Environment and Forests (MOEF), Government of India, Divisional Forest Department,
and Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). Environmental Clearance is
required for the developmental work of this project road.
ii.   Legal Context
The legal responsibility for creation, maintenance, up-gradation or abandonment of public
road rests with the PWD, Kamataka and other authorities like State Pollution Control
Board and State Forest Department.
Other major elements of the Indian legal context for Environmental Management are:
The Constitution provides for protection and improvement of the environment and states
that it shall be the duty of every citizen of India to protect and improve the national
environment, including forest, lakes, rivers, and wildlife and to have compassion for
living creatures.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
ES-ii
Scott W/solI



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
Various legal enactments to protect environment are as follows:
i.    Water (Prevention and Control of pollution) Act of 1974 and Cess Act of 1977.
ii.   Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981.
iii.  Environment (Protection) Act, 1986
iv.   Forest (Conservation) Act, as amended in 1988.
v.    Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.
vi.   Policy Statement on Abatement of Pollution, 1992 affirming the government's
intention to integrate environmental and economic aspects in development
planning witl4 stress on preventive aspects of pollution abatement and the Polluter
pays principle.
vii.  The Environmental Impact Assessment Notification, 1994 (by MOEF) S.0.60(E)
under clause (a) of sub-rule (3) of rule 5 of the Environmental (Protection) Rules,
1986 invites objections from the public within sixty days from the date of
publication of the said notification, against the intention of the Central Govt. to
impose restrictions and prohibitions on the expansion and modernisation of any
activity or new projects being undertaken in any part of India unless
environmental clearance has been accorded by the Central Government or the
State Government in accordance with the procedure specified in notification No.
S.O. No. 80(E) dated 28h January 1993 (MOEF, 1994; CPCB, 1998).
3.    Project Description
Project area selected for by-pass comes under Raichur district. The project area is
described below:
The project area passes through plain terrain at an elevation of 384m above MSL. The
starting point of the project area is at PWD km stone 196.7, north of Raichur town, after
Yaramaras revenue village on Raichur - Makthal/A.P.Border road (SH - 13 and Link IA,
Contract U5). The project area progresses in a southwesterly direction intersecting
'Central Railway' broad gauge line at approximately 700m. It traverses for a distance of
1.9Km gradually intersecting Raichur - Mansalapur road at chainage 2.670Km in the
limits of Mansalapur revenue village. It curves further to intersect Arasinagi road, Major
District Road (MDR) at chainage 4.820 (at PWD chainage 2.90Km) after crossing
Eklaspur covering a distance of 2.2 Km. The project area continues further to follow plain
terrain in southwesterly direction for a length of 2.7Km and ends at km stone 5.2 west of
Raichur town by joining Raichur- Kalmala road (on SH -20 and Link 1B, Contract U5).
The total length of proposed bypass is 7.6 km.
The project area passes through the lands of Yaramaras, Raichur, Mansalapur, Eklaspur
and Askihal revenue villages. Askihal, Eklaspur and Yaramaras are under the jurisdiction
of Raichur Town Municipality. Mansalapur is under the jurisdiction of Mansalapur Gram
Panchayat.
Vehicles operating on this section carry mainly agricultural produce like Jowar, wheat,
cotton, milk and medicines, industrial goods, machinery, etc. Traffic is increasing in this
section due to general economic growth.
The entire project road traverses through plain terrain of dry land. The soil in this area is
mainly black soil and there is no wetland and marshy land. The geology of the project
corridor consists of rocks belonging to gneiss.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
ES-iii
.scof Wil,S,l



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
SPM (Suspended Particulate Matter) in the project area at by-pass intersections with State
Highways exceeds the prescribed standard limit due to poor road conditions and increased
traffic. As there is no existing drainage system in the project road area, adequate cross-
drainage structures are required to be constructed.
4.     Analysis of Alternatives
Project alternatives -
Three project altematives were evaluated, They are:
Alternative I: No Project
The option does not involve any action. The highway will remain in the existing state. No
construction activity takes place.
Alternative II:    Road though the town
Involves widening to 4- lane divided carriageway with lined covered drains on either
sides in place of the existing intermediate lane carriageway through the dense settlements
of Raichur town.
Alternative III:   Construction of a bypass
Involves strengthening of the existing road pavement with an overlay (restricting
improvements to the minimum required d ue t o t he p resence o f n umerous u nderground
utilities) and construction of a new 2-lane bypass for Raichur settlement on the
northwestem side of the settlement. The construction activity requires a Deriod of 1 vear
for completion.
Alternative I
The section of State Highway 13 and SH 20 passing through Raichur will not be altered.
The carriageway will not be widened. Therefore no construction activity is to take place.
Impacts will be based on increase in the traffic volumes on the existing alignment. It is
assumed that there would be no project.
Alternative II
The option involves widening of the existing carriageway. The cross-section through the
settlement would be 4 lane divided carriageway. In addition to this there would be a
median and sidewalks on both sides. If possible, a parking lane/space would also be
provided. To establish this cross-section in Raichur, few structures would have to be
displaced. At the same time the traffic speeds and hence the journey time would decrease.
Alternative III
This option would entail construction of a new road around the settlement. The new road
would act as a by-pass for the Raichur town. The existing road would be retained in its
present state also. The bypass will take off at chainage 196.7Km on the northern side on
SH 13. It would rejoin the State Highway 20 at chainage 5.5Km. Implementation of this
option would lead to the through traffic plying on the bypass and only the destined traffic,
for Raichur, using the existing road through the town. The hindrance caused by the traffic
movement, plying through the settlement, would be offset. At the same time there would
be a substantial land acquisition for construction of the by-pass.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
ES-iv
.,cot( WElsol



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Evaluation of Alternative III (By-pass alternative)
During the reconnaissance survey, to have shortest possible connectivity to two major
project links, SH 13, the alignment on the north-west part of Raichur was found to be
most favourable for by-pass from engineering and environmental aspects.
Altemative III has the lowest environmental sensitivity score. This indicates that the
alignment is likely to cause minimum impacts to the natural, social and cultural
environment in the study area. The salient feature of this alignment is that it is unlikely to
cause damage to any cultural property. In addition to this there is no likelihood of
displacement of persons. There will be loss of livelihood, but the impacts of this are far
less as compared to displacement. All losses will be compensated and assisted through an
Entitlement framework developed by the GoK. This option will help to reduce the
congestion through Raichur town and traffic through the town will be reduced
considerably. O nly the traffic d estined for the t own w ill u se that road. At p resent, the
ambient air quality levels as well as the noise levels, within the Raichur town settlement,
are higher than the stipulated standards. The construction of the by-pass, in all likelihood,
will decrease the noise levels and increase the ambient air quality levels in Raichur
settlement. Also the by-pass will benefit the vehicular movement. Journey speeds are
expected to increase and the traffic movement to be smooth-faced.
There is no alternate cross-section for this alignment, as improvement is to be generally
done for the existing alignment within the ROW. The standard design guidelines and
dimensions in different sections will be followed.
Widening to a 4-lane section through Raichur town is difficult due to the
utilities in the existing roadway. Relocation of these utilities is difficult and hen=
overlay to the existing carriageway without involving excavation was proposed.
5.    Baseline Environmental Set Up
Primary Data
Baseline conditions of the project areas have been compiled after a walk over
environmental survey of the project area and as per information available from various
Departments and literature and through Topographical Survey maps.
There is natural decline weather quality. Climatic condition in the project area indicates
that there is reduced atmospheric temperature with increased relative humidity.
Within the ROW, there is no municipal supply tap or open wells or hand pumps or tube
wells along the project area. People are mostly dependent on municipal water supply for
requirement of water for drinking and domestic purposes.
Plantation seen along the project area in private lands was very less (16 trees need to be
removed) The project needs plantation along its route to enhance the aesthetic value of
the project and also to protect running vehicles by providing cool atmosphere
Within 30m on either side of the project road there is no rare and endangered animal and
plant species. Wildlife/Bird Sanctuaries, National Parks, Zoos, Wetlands, Marshy I and,
Breeding and Nesting sites were not at all found within 7-10 Km. Within the ROW no
archaeologically important monument, art and cultural sites were noticed along the
project area and also 7-1 OKm away from the project area.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
ES-v
Scott Wlson



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
There is no specified site for dumping of solid and liquid wastes along the project road.
However, at few places garbage dumps, solid waste and domestic effluent discharge have
been observed.
Generated Data
Baseline data for air, water, noise and existing trees was not available. So, analysis was
undertaken for different parameters of ambient air, water and ambient noise quality
(important parameters) by Sneha Test House, Bangalore recognised by Kamataka State
Pollution Control Board, Bangalore and for routine tree inventory was carried out by the
Environmental Consultant of PCC.
Generated ambient air and noise data were compared with the standards prescribed b y
CPCB and it was found that ambient air quality in the project area is within the prescribed
standard limits except SPM (Suspended Particulate Matter) which was found to be more
than the prescribed limit. This will perhaps increase during construction phase of the
project road but will be restored in operation phase.
Ambient noise quality test result indicates that noise levels exceed the limit prescribed for
sensitive, residential and commercial zones. It appeared to be within the limit only during
night.
Water sample was collected from the Mansalapur stream (Ch: 1.4Km-1.5Km) off lKm
distance from the project area because stream crossing the         w a  was drained
during the time of sample collection. The collected sample  =sw z   rrz :-±bmd to be
within the standard limits of surface water but not of drinking -- Z  found to
be polluted due to the confluence of sewage of the local area.
Only 16 trees in private lands have to be removed for the upgradation work they belong to
species of Acacia and Azadirachta.
Borrow pit soils will be tested. Only soil of un-erodible type and suitable for embankment
will be used. Chance of soil erosion will be limited and will be mitigated by turfing of the
embankment slopes, if required. Quarries and borrow soil will be purchased from the
approved owners for construction work.
Accident rate is being increased these days at major links and is expected to increase
further due to increase in number of vehicles. Proper mitigative measures in the form of
traffic management are required.
Key Environmental Issues
There are no water resources or sensitive areas like reserve forests, wildlife sanctuaries,
archaeological sites, cultural sites or religious sites within or outside the ROW of the
project area. The project corridor totally passes through dry lands.
Based on the screening studies this project road has been categorized as B Category
Project as the project emits moderate impacts that can be mitigated with proper measures.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
ES-vi
Scott Wi/so,,



Karnataka State ifghways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
6. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) & Mitigation Measures
Impact Assessment/Evaluation
Impact potential of the project road was estimated keeping in view the series of impacts
that will usually be triggered by the project activities according to Matrix Method. Impact
assessment matrix reveals that overall impact score for project without mitigation
measures was -116. With mitigation measure the impact matrix was evaluated and overall
impact score calculated was +110. Thus, the project may be accepted for developmental
work.
Mitigation /Enhancement Measures
Several mitigation measures have been suggested for the impacts likely to occur due to
project road, ranging from design phase to operation phase. It reflects the detailed design
and construction methodology, maintenance and installation of construction
equipment/machinery, environmental parameters, safety measures, traffic management
etc. which has to taken out by the contractor under the guidance of site engineer and as
per contact clause.
Several enhancement measures have been proposed for the developmental work o ft he
project road based on standard design guidelines. Enhancement measures are given
concerning civil engineering work, activities and facilities provided for the construction
work. These enhancement measures will not only strengthen the existing road but will
also improve the environment of the project area after completion.
7.    Public Consultation
Public consultations/interviews were carried o c E; ,-   approaching the stakeholders
(above 19 years old age group) to know I='-.        s  about the negative and
positive impacts of construction work in the ;- r ;  gsions given by them for the
developmental work are briefed as follows:
90% people said that plantation along the project road will reduce the pollution load (air
and noise level).
60% people said that upgradation of the road would increase cleanliness in the project
area and will reduce the number of accidents and pollution load.
50% people expressed that periodical checking of vehicles would reduce air and noise
level in the project area.
25% people spoke that strict implementation of rules and regulations of pollution check
will reduce the pollution load in the project area.
According to 20% of them, accidents may increase and it may become difficult for people
especially children to cross the road at junctions. Therefore proper traffic management is
required.
Overall opinion of the public is that the project road should be carried out at the earliest,
but with mitigation measures to save the life as well as to increase the quality of life of
the people. All the above suggestions given by the public and officials have been taken
into account in the EMP.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
ES-vii
Scotl WItSol?



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Details of Public Consultation/Interview for the Project Environment
Date                    Place                Town/District  No. of Persons Attended
22-03-2003  Office of the Joint Director of Agriculture, Raichur     15
Raichur
23-03-2003  Near Microwave Tower, Askihal      Raichur               15
23-03-2003  Govt. Primary School, Eklaspur     Raichur               50
23-03-2003  Radha Krishna Temple Yard, Yarmaras  Raichur             40
PART II - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
1.    Introduction
Environmental Management Plan has been prepared for the P IU (KSHIP) for the road
works during construction and operation phase. To make the road stable and environment
friendly major construction work will start and be completed in a single dry season from
October to June by labour based construction. Thereafter, for trees periodic maintenance
depending upon requirement (during dry period 2-3 years) is required so that the trees
may stand without support and grow by producing maximum root network and formation
of leaves.
2.    Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
The environmental impacts   e  ^. l,oc aion, engineering design, impacts during
construction and operation ph  -S      in tabular form as Appendix-i of the EMP.
The prrimary impacts due to the      T i Cn of Phase II upgradation of by-pass roads
and the associated mitigation     irt cnscussed. As the project alignment is a new
formnation and only passes throig2  ,- ijds, the impacts anticipated are moderate and
can b e m itigated t hrough p roper m easures. T his s ection s ummarises t he e nvironmental
impacts of the project and presents measures, which will be implemented to mitigate the
adverse impacts of the project and to enhance the positive outcome of the project. The
environmental impacts due to location, engineering design, impacts during construction
and operation phases and the mitigation measures have been discussed.
Based on the proposed construction activities envisaged for road maintenance, no adverse
environmental impacts are anticipated, if the specifications given for road improvement
are adhered to. However, some minor construction related impacts are expected.
Applying the EMP with the same diligence to the works involving rehabilitation contracts
can mitigate these impacts.
3. Integration of EMP with the Project
The EMP is an integral part of the Project and an important component, which will be
implemented simultaneously as the project proceeds. The project has to be executed and
supervised for effective and efficient environmental management and timely completion
of the project. The budgetary allocations for EMP implementation would be a part of the
project costs so that the EMPRI will receive funding to supervise and monitor the various
components and train the staff and develop capacity and expertise within the Department.
The EMP has been made specific to the project requirements taking into account the
environmental impacts and their respective mitigation measures. Although the conditions
in the Bid Documents are specified, the entire document on EMP shall be made a part of
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
ES-viii
Scott WI/soft



Karnaraka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
the contracts for implementation of the project. The PWD of the GOK has to discharge
responsibilities by:
Making the implementation of the EMP an integral part of the project;
Providing strong support and commitment to the development of the staff; and
Assisting and facilitating the EMPIU to liaise with the relevant interface institutions.
All the relevant issues concerning the protection of the environment have been discussed
in the Phase II - Raichur By-pass EIA report prepared as per the Operational Policy (OP
4.01) of the World;Bank. For all practical purpose, the mitigation measures outlined in
the EMP apply to th'e Upgradation of the by-pass component.
Conditions in Bid Document for Protection of Environment
The Contractors' responsibilities in matters related to protection of environment will be a
part of the Bid Documents. The Consulting Supervisors will be held accountable for any
deviation and non-compliance caused by the Contractor. These conditions have been
included as part of the Bid Documents and are reproduced below for illustration. The
conditions are derived from  General Conditions, Sections 111 (Precautions for
Safeguarding the Environment), 112 (Arrangement for Traffic During Construction), and
Section 500 Annex of MoRT&H. The contract clauses have been modified as appropriate
and additional clauses have been added where necessary.
4.    Environmental Management Plan Implementation Unit
The PIU (PWD          be responsible for implementation of the environmental
managemeni nc m     - gzre the potential impacts of the project. Tmlplementation of
mitigation   s;   wa6d be the responsibility of the Environment Management P lan
Implementa±ic '.- !EPIU) which will be set up as part of institutional strengthening
plan. Followinr discussions between the PCC, PIU and PWD, the EMPIU framework
was finalised and the appropriate expertise required during the implementation of the
EMP were identified. The EMPIU may be further modified and strengthened, as the
project is implemented.
The following Organisations and their representatives will assist the PIU:
Supervising Engineering Consultant
Design Consultant
World Bank
Civil Engineers
Environmental Consultant and
Public Participation (Stakeholders and NGOs).
Actions Taken by the PIU
Following the approval of the Phase I EMP of KSHIP by the Government of Karnataka
and the World Bank, the PIU has adopted a proactive approach leading to the formation
of the EMPIU in the PIU set-up.
The EMPIU formation has been initiated by the appointment of a Senior Environmental
Engineer of the rank of an Assistant Executive Engineer of the Government of Karnataka
in May 2001. The PIU has appointed totally 5 Assistant Environmental Engineers of
Assistant Engineer rank and four of them are already in place in the divisional offices and
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
ES-ix
Scott WIlsoil



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
one in EMPIU. Four Range Forest Officers have been deputed to the PHU. The Divisional
Forest officers (DFO) have been advised to supervise the seedlings being raised in the
nursenes.
5.    Environmental Monitoring
The monitoring locations, frequency of monitoring, length of time, monitoring stations
and record keeping procedures in given format during construction and operation phase
have been defined. Air, noise and water quality standards have also been provided for
comparison. If any parameter will exceed the standard, suitably will be further monitored
and mitigated. ,
6.    Capacity Development through Training for Environmental Management
The PIU (PWD) and the Contractor staff will n eed t o b e t rained a t v arious I evels. A n
Environmental Management Unit setup is functioning in PWD with specialized
personnel. The PIU (PWD) has arranged appropriate training of the staff.
The mitigation plan has been proposed separately for the construction and operation
phases. The c ontractor i n accordance with appropriate clauses included in the contract
specifications will meet the requirements during construction. After construction is
completed, the PWD will maintain safety installation and monitor air and noise pollution
in the normal course and take action as needed. The Forest Department will look after the
plantation.
-.    Budget for EMP Implementation
z)t    ofc 'cironmental mitigation measures has been estimated and provided in Table
-     .S -  v  - B udget Implementation o f P hase II Environmental M anagement P lan
!E2-_ eThe present EMP consists of cost estimate for aesthetics and enhancement
m. sure for the project area. The cost estimated is Rs. 7,22,000. The costs may be
modified based on the implementation of the project.
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) of Phase II Raichur By-pass has been prepared on
the basis of provisions contained in the document approved by Govermment of Kamataka
(GOK) entitled: Resettlement and Rehabilitation: Principles and Policy Framework for
the Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project.
Socioeconomic surveys along with public consultation were conducted on the
upgradation roads, for a Corridor of Impact of 30 m keeping in view the design
requirements. These surveys were conducted during March and April 2003.
There was a concerted effort to reduce impact on the number of families being affected.
The total number of Project Affected Persons (PAPs) is 461 and the total number of
Project Affected Families (PAFs) is 58. The total number of settlements to be affected is
5. The extent of land acquisition from private owners necessary for road widening and
other improvements is 55.05 acres.
RAP provides a detailed and updated implementation schedule for Phase II Raichur by-
pass.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
ES-x
SNcott Wds;on



PART - I
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
ASSESSMENT (EIA) REPORT



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER- 1
INTRODUCTION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTIONS                         PARTICULARS                         PAGE NO.
1.1          Project Background                                          1
1.2.         Bypasses as integral part of KSHIP                          1
1.3          Scope                                                       2
1.4          Objectives                                                  2
1.5          Environmental Assessment (EA) Study                         2
1.2          Approach and Methodology                                    2
1.2.1        Essential Steps                                             2
1.2.2        Existing Environmental Baseline Condition                   2
1.2.2.1      Collection of Primary and Secondary Data                    2
1.2.2.2      Collection of Primary Data                                  3
1.2.2.3      Collection of Secondary Data                                3
1.2.2.4      Enviro4nental Impact Assessment (EIA)                       4
1.2.2.5      Environmental Management Plan (EMP)                         4
1.3          Structure of the Report                                     5
Table 1.1    Bypasses selected by KSHIP                                   I
Figure 1.1   KSHIP Phase II Project Corridors
Scott Wilsonl
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER- 1
INTRODUCTION
1.1   Project Background
The Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project (KSHIP) is an initiative by the Public
Works Department (PWD) of the Government of Karnataka (GoK), under the financial
assistance of World Bank, to undertake improvement of 2490 Km of roads consisting of State
Highways and Major District Roads. The whole project has been divided into two phases -
Phase I and Phase II. In both Phases roads have been selected for upgradation and
rehabilitation. In Phase I, roads selected for upgradation include about 394 Kms. in Gulbarga,
Raichur, Koppal, Bijapur and Bidar districts. Upgradation is widening and strengthening of
the existing carriageway. The width of the existing carriageway - 3.5ms, 4.5 ms and 5.5ms
will be increased to the width of 7 ms. This involves cutting of trees, if any. And for major
maintenance (i.e. rehabilitation) in Phase I, total roads round up to 1027 Kms. Major
maintenance does not involve cutting o f any tree. P hase I p roj ect i s under implementation
stage. In Phase II, roads selected for upgradation total up to 548 Kms. and they come under
Belgaum, Gokak, B agalkot, R aichur, Gadag, C hitradurga and Bellary d istricts. In addition,
around 491 Kms of roads have been selected for Rehabilitation in Dharwad, Uttara Kannada,
Belgaum, Raichur and Mysore. Figure - 1.1 shows Phase II upgradation and rehabilitation
corridors considered by KSHIP.
1.1.1 By-passes as integral part of KSHIP
TWo by-passes are recognised by KSHIP as a part of Phase II keeping in view the increase iu.
traffic along the project roads following the improvement and to avoid future bottle necks in
the town area. The Phase II Project includes by-passes for 2 Towns - Raichur and Bijapur.
These by-passes are considered as additional corridors to the existing roads passing through
the settlements to facilitate smooth traffic flow. By-passes explored by KSHIP with towns are
listed in Table 1.1.
Table 1.1: By-passes selected by KSHIP
Si.     Settlement    KSHIP              Location               Length
No.                    Links                                     (Km)
1   Bijapur         2A &      Bijapur - Tikota (Phase I) &       6.7
___________   3A    Bijapur -Mudhol(Phase II)
2   Raichur          1A &     Raichur - A.P. Border (Phase I) &  7.6
1B       Kalmala - Raichur (Phase I)
1.1.2 Scope
Environmental Assessment study plays an important role in Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) of developmental project by determining the baseline conditions, potential
environmental impacts, consideration of altematives, preventive mitigative and compensatory
measures. Besides, detailed environmental designing for monitoring of evaluation of future
environmental aspects, plans and documentation will be given importance.
Chapter- 1 Page I of 5                    Sco.t Wilsol
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                               Environmental Aseasment Report -
Improvement Project                                    Raicdur By-pass
Improvement Legend For Phase-11 Road
-===UpOr*nG Ro                                  bad (Bidar)
r~~~~~~~~~~~~Bre
Figure 1.1: KSHJP - Phase II Upgradation and Rehabilitation Corridors
sAr      fJ9mkhasidl \  \  E    o8G hal
Scott WiI.sw*
PART I - ENVIRONMfENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMEMT (EMA)



Karnataka State Highways                                Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
1.1.3 Objectives
The main objective of the present study is to conduct a detailed feasibility study of the project
corridor along with thorough evaluation under economic, enviromnental and social criteria, to
qualify for improvement. To achieve this objective Environmental Assessment is required.
The study focuses on probable environmental impacts and to suggest feasible and cost
effective engineering measures to minimise the adverse environmental impacts.
1.1.4 Environmental Assessment (EA) Study
The EA study has been"carried out as per the Guidelines of the Ministry of Environment and
Forests (MoEF) of the Government of India (Gol) as also to meet the requirements o ft he
World Bank as per its Operational Policy OP 4.01.
This Environmental Assessment Report is concerned with environmental aspects of the
Raichur by-pass and is formulated as per MoEF and World Bank guidelines as outlined in OP
4.04 on Natural Habitats. This report enlightens environmental aspects of Raichur By-pass of
Phase II KSHIP.
1.2   Approach and Methodology
1.2.1 Essential Steps
Environmental Assessment (EA) requires the following essential steps as per World Bank
guidelines (1998):
i.    Understanding of existing environmental baseline Conditions;
ii.   Analysis and assessment of potential environmental impacts - direct and indirect
impacts;
iii.  Identifying opportunities for environmental enhancement;
iv.   Systematic comparison of alternative investment, sites, technologies and designs in the
light of environment;
v.    Preventive, mitigatory and compensatory measures and
vi.   Environmental management, training and Environmental monitoring (in the form of
Environmental Mitigation or Management Plan) and
vii.  Environmental Mitigation Costing.
1.2.2 Existing Environmental Baseline Condition
To understand the existing situation of the project area the following activities were carried
out:
i.    Conducting environmental surveys, public consultations, field testing and monitoring
of the air, water and noise and
ii.   Collection of existing and documented environmental baseline data from different
agencies and other sources.
1.2.2.1 Collection of Primary and Secondary Data
Both primary and secondary data are required for establishing baseline conditions of the
project roads and to establish the extent of impacts. Following exercises are involved:
i.    Establishment of baseline condition to define characteristics of the existing
environment;
ii.   Public consultation to understand the environmental conditions;
iii. Analysis of potential impacts, their magnitude and duration on physical and sensitive
natural environment;
Chapter - / Page 2 of 5                   Scott WI/so,,
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                               Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                     Raichur By-pass
iv.   Identification and selection of cost effective and feasible Environmental Mitigation
measures (for Environmental Management Plan) and
v.    Estimation of cost for environmental mitigation measures and environmental
monitoring.
1.2.2.2 Collection of Primary Data
The Environmental Assessment Source Book (update 1999), World Bank Guidelines (1999),
Environmental Procedures and Guidelines (MoEF, 1994) were important sources of guidance
for collection of the baseline data from the field.
The primary environmental survey was conducted in the month of January 2003. Field
reconnaissance survey was followed by detailed environmental survey. Environmental
monitoring locations were identified for air and noise quality and testing of samples were
carried out. Water bodies or bore well sources were not found within or outside 30ms of
ROW. The data provides the background of air and noise quality status of the project area.
Among biological components only 15 trees were observed and local fauna were noted.
Impacts of the project on environmental components and social components were recognised.
A number of persons were contacted for collection of baseline data and their opinion
regarding environmental features of the by-pass and also feasibility of the project. For
conducting environmental survey necessary tools and Proforma have been developed keeping
in view of the Questionnaires for Environmental Clearance (MOEF and CII, 1999).
Questionnaires for Public opinion and other Proforma have also been developed to facilitate
environmental assessment.
1.2.2.3 Collection of Secondary Data
Baseline data have been collected from many sources and by contacting a number of persons.
Meteorological data was collected from IMD Observatory, Raichur. Demographic data for the
Social environment were obtained from the Deputy Commissioner's Office, Raichur. Social
components considered were total area, land use, population density, occupational
structure/pattem, work force ratio, literacy rate, crop pattern and amenities. Geological data
(rocks and soils) was collected from Agricultural Office and Geological and Mining Centre,
Raichur. D ata o n available I ocal s pecies o f p lants w as collected from R egional and Social
Forestry Divisions, Raichur.
Detailed information on the following features were recorded and analysed.
Physical Resources: Geology, Topography, Tectonics, Climate, Soil and Drainage system,
Biological Resources: Ecology, Vegetation, Flora and Fauna
Human Resources: Demography, Land Use and Occupation pattern
Quality of life values: Educational institutions, Medical facilities, basic amenities like water
supply, electricity and communication and transport
Aesthetics
Cultural heritage and Tourism
The reconnaissance survey enabled the consultants to identify the various critical I ocations
where primary data on Air, Noise, Water and Soil quality were to be generated for impact
assessment and prediction. These data were generated.
In addition to the above surveys, informal and formal discussions and consultation were held
with the local populace with reference to the pertinent projects and their views and
Chapter - I Page 3 of 5                  Scort Wilson,
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
suggestions were sought on issues of road widening, land acquisition, environmental pollution
and degradation, sanitary facilities and safety.
1.2.2.4 Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
All the data pertaining to the physical attributes of the region in general and road in particular
on a 10-km wide swath have been collated and processed to provide the baseline condition
and to estimate detailed potential (key) environmental issues. The potential impacts on
environmental components like air, water, noise, land, biological - flora and fauna, and
socioeconomic and cultural aspects were predicted and evaluated based on the field
observations and s econdary d ata. S imple m atrix m ethod w as adopted for the evaluation of
impacts.
As part of the assessment, the rules and regulations goveming environmental assessment and
their application to the project and the institutions responsible for providing the clearances
and for discharging those functions were charted. Thus from the regulatory perspective, the
legal procedures on land acquisition, tree felling, compensatory afforestation, preparation of
rehabilitation & resettlement action p lan and e nvironmental m onitoring a nd r eporting w ere
identified as key issues. The issues related to land acquisition, displacement and rehabilitation
are covered separately in the report on Resettlement Action Plan.
The legal provisions for carrying out this study is given in the January 27, 1994 EIA
notification and subsequent arnendments dated 4th May 1994, 10th April 1997 and 15th
October 1999 under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.
To identify and assess the probable environmental impacts during desigi phase, construct-=
and operation phase, close interaction was established with the design engineers and feasible
engineering solutions were arrived at. In addition alignment shifts were considered =
sensitive areas involving community, religious structure, drainage constraints and stretches
were social forestry plantations were encountered. The corridor of impact varies between 20-
30 m depending upon the terrain and proposed road embankment height. The social section
separately covers the impacts due to land acquisition, displacement and rehabilitation.
1.2.2.5 Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
Cost effective and feasible designed mitigation measures were identified. The detailed plan
for the management of environmental components during construction and operation phase of
the project will be provided to overcome the potential environmental impacts.
The impact analysis and mitigation measures arrived at, help in formulating the Environment
Management Plan (EMP). The EMP looks into the environmental impacts and mitigation
measures, identifying the implementing organisation for environmental management, the
current composition of the PIT, level of expertise of the personnel, external consultants
required for monitoring and implementation. The training needs of the personnel were also
considered for formulating the EMP and calculating the budgetary allocations. These aspects
are covered in Phase II - Enviromnental Management Plan. The present EMP covers the
procedure to be followed for implementation of the mitigation measures, monitoring of the
various activities and the responsibilities of the project proponent, supervisory consultant and
the contractors. The overall budget for environmental mitigation measures and monitoring
was prepared. All these issues are discussed in the Part II - Environmental Management Plan
(EMP).
Chapter - I Page 4 of 5                   Scotr Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                 Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                       Raichur By-pass
1.3   Structure of the Report
Keeping in mind the physical features of the project route and related impacts the report has
been divided into two sections under the following Chapter headings. Each Chapter deals with
the situations related to the project area.
Part - I: Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
Environmental Assessment Summary
Chapter 1- Introduction
Chapter 2- Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
Chapter 3- Project Desdription
Chapter 4- Analysis of Alternatives
Chapter 5- Baseline Environmental Set up
Chapter 6- Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures
Chapter 7- Public Consultation
Part - II: Environment Management Plan (EMP)
Introduction
Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
Integration of EMP with the Project
Enviromnental Management Plan Implementation Unit (EMPTU)
Environmental Monitoring
Capacity Development through Training for Environment Management
Budget for EMP Implementation
Chapter- - I Page 5 of 5                  Scott WIlsol
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                         Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                              Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER- 2
POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Sections                        PARTICULARS                        PAGE NO.
2.1          Highlights of the Indian System and Major Organisations    3
2.1.1        Department of Environment and Forests                      3
2.1.2        The Pollution Control Board                                3
2.1.2.1      The Central Pollution Control Board                        3
2.1.2.2      Karnataka State Pollution Control Board                    3
2.2          Guidelines for EIA of Highway Projects, IRC: 104-1998      4
2.3          Responsibilities of the Project Promoter & Interfaces with  4
other Agencies
2.3.1        Interface with Ministry of Environment and Forests         4
2.3.2        Interface with Karnataka State Pollution Control Board     4
2.3.3        Interface with the Department of Land & Land Revenue of    6
GoK
2.3.4        Interface with the offices of the District Magistrate & City  6
Municipalities
2.3.5        Interface with the Departments of Foress of-±GoK           6
2.3.6        Interface with the Department of Min  -_ ~5                8
2.3.7        Strength of the Public Works Depar:: o- be GoK for         8
Interface Management
2.4          Statutes Related to Environment                            8
2.4.1        Land Acquisition Act, 1894                                 8
2.4.2        The Mysore Highways Act, 1964                              8
2.4.3        The Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972                        8
2.4.4        Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974      9
2.4.5        The Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act, 1976              9
2.4.6        Town and Country Planning Act, 1976                        9
2.4.7        Forest Conservation Act, 1980                              9
2.4.8        The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981   10
2.4.9        Environment Protection Act, 1986                          10
2.4.10       Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989                                 10
2.4.11       The Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules,      10
1989
2.5          World Bank Policies                                        10
2.5.1        Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)                                 10
Table 2.1    Clearances to be obtained for Phase II bypass Component of  11
KSHIP
Figure 2.1   Environmental Clearance Procedure                          5
Figure 2.2   Forestry Clearance procedure under Forest Conservation Act,  7
1980
Scott WdIso,,
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnazaka State Highways                                 Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER -2
POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
2.1   Highlights of the Indian System & Major Organisations
Development of environmental protection and enhancement measures in India has been
determined to a considerable extent by the central legislation. The Ministry of Environment
and Forests (MoEF), set up in 1980, is the controlling institution in this regard. The MoEF has
two wings as Environment and Forests. Clearance of new developmental projects is necessary
from both the wings.
2.1.1 Department of Environment & Forests
Every state in India has now their respective Departments of Environment & Forests. In
Kamataka, this department is known as the Department of Forests, Ecology and Environment.
This Department was established in March 1981 to have an integrated approach to deal with,
prevention and control of air and water pollution, preservation and development of forest
wealth and other natural resources in the state. This department co-ordinates and controls the
activities sponsored by the Union Ministry of Environment within the State. It also co-
ordinates and controls the activities of the State Pollution Control Board.
2.1.2 The Pollution Control Board (PCB)
2.1.2.1 The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)
The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB! -         te a chnical wing of the MOEF
entrusted with the responsibilities for detection r. az~~e  of polluticn. Ev-y- state of
India has their respective pollution control boar-s.. a  .~ m unison with the policies of the
CPCB. The State Pollution Control Boards (SPCB --   are the empowered institution to
issue licenses to the industries. These licenses are issued on the condition of total compliance
with the standards of permissible pollution as prescribed from time to time by the CPCB or as
modified (usually in more stringent terms) norms depending on local conditions. Every
licensed industry is required to carry out environmental auditing and submit such reports to
the license issuing authority. The State Pollution Control Boards can repeal such licenses on
the observed violation of the norms.
2.1.2.2 Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB)
The functions of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board include advising the State
Government on water pollution issues, enforcement and monitoring as per the Air Act, co-
ordinating the activities of the regional offices of the pollution control board. It also issues
"No Objection" Certificates (NOC) for establishment of new projects, environmental
clearance of projects and conducting public hearing with respect to developmental projects. It
also issues consent letters and NOC for projects involving expansion. The KSHIP would
come under its purview.
The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board is the nodal body involved in monitoring the
various industries and infrastructure related development projects from the angle of pollution
control. It also formulates and stipulates the various standards for the various emissions,
discharge of effluents, by-products and pollutants into the environment.
Chapter - 2 Page I of 8                 Scott W/lso,,
PART I- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                Environmental Assessment Report -
Itprovement Project                                     Raichur By-pass
2.2   Guidelines for EIA of Highway Projects, IRC: 104-1988
The Indian Roads Congress published the guidelines for EIA of road projects in 1988. It
outlines the procedure for carrying out the EIA and the requirements to be met under it. It also
lists the various environmental components to be examined in relation to road projects. It also
recommends that the project authorities should have close interaction with the Department of
Environment and Forests. It is pertinent to mention that the Guidelines of the Ministry of
Environment and Forests for EIA are much exhaustive than that outlined in the IRC
guidelines.
2.3   Responsibilities of the Project Promoter & Interfaces with Other Agencies
The r esponsibility o f i nitiating actions I eading t o i ssuance o f e nvironmental c learance o f a
proposed project vests with the project promoter. In the present instance, the Public Works
Department (PWD) of the GoK would be carrying the legal responsibilities of the project
promoter.
The basic responsibility of the project promoter is to prepare, submit a comprehensive
document, complete in all respect. It shall be obliged to provide clarification, with or without
additional documentation, when intimated by the designated authority. It must carry the
commitment that no deviation from designed project would be made during implementation
without prior and explicit permission of the designated authority to do so.
2.3.1 Interface with the Ministry of Environment & Forests
The basic document required for obtaining environmental clearance is the Environmental
Assessment (EA) report pr   --z ze mrtscribed format and supported by detailed and
accurate description of the prqJ,- -rn i ----4mrental Impact Assessment (EIA) report when
prepared and where necessa:-~. wocr foilew the format prescribed by the MOEF in this
regard. In addition to the ELA r. ie project proponent are to fumish information on the
rehabilitation of the displaced people if rmore than 1000 people are likely to be displaced. In
case it is less than 1000 persons a summary plan would be adequate.
While following the prescribed format of the EA report, it would be seen that the project
promoter has to establish and utilise strong interfaces with several other Departments of the
State G overmment and o ther S tate A gencies. It i s u seful to understand the contexts of this
need.
2.3.2 Interface with the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board
The Amendment dated 4h May, 1994 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 requires
every promoter of major infrastructure projects, including road development, to prepare and
submit Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report for clearance before the project can be
implemented. However, the Ministry declared through a notification dated April 10, 1997 that
projects conceming upgradation of existing roads which involve marginal land acquisition
would be exempted from the prescribed clearance procedure except where sensitive areas like
sanctuaries, national park, reserved forests etc, are involved.
In schedule IV of the above referred notification, the MoEF has prescribed that the
Environmental Assessment report on road up-gradation project should be disclosed for public
hearing through a notified meeting to be headed by the nominee of the State Pollution Control
Board and t he D istrict C ollector o f t he c oncemed d istrict. T he r eport o f t his m eeting with
observations would be sent by the SPCB to the MoEF. This report would contain a copy of
the No Objection Certificate (NOC), if issued to the concemed project promoter.
Chapter - 2 Page 2 of 8                Scott W,lsoa,
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                 Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                       Raichur By-pass
Following the amendment (dated April 10, 1997), the Ministry of Environment and Forests,
Government of India issued a circular on 15*' October 1999 (No.21012/26-99-IA-HI). In the
circular, it is clarified that "Marginal land acquisition means that the land acquisition does not
exceed a total width of 20 meters on either side of the existing project area put together.
Further it is also clarified that by-passes would be treated as stand alone projects and would
require enviromnental clearance only if the cost of the projects exceed. Rs.100 crores each".
Figure - 2.1 shows the procedure for obtaining Environmental Clearance from the SPCB,
State Department of Environment and MoEF. The construction costs of the proposed Raichur
Bypass are in the order of Rs13 crores and as such doesn't require an environmental
clearance from MoEFi
Figure - 2.1: Environmental Clearance Procedure
EF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ap 9pOFpreA
Shu P cQ. ao  lr o Co ..dSPCB
However marginal may be the amount of land required,ur h fo r iwts racquisto  h  rjc
Acquisition officer of theB Department of Renueisthedesignated authoritytoo1n ty by MOEFhSe
int~~~ erest.b EAll costsOE in ths readaetobbone byteproject promter Thlie  fieo
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k .-. -l Ik
1S cEP S- -  u6X0r  
adjdicte in cofrmt wit the delredsatfoicy ron etteet
haprer 2  Pagte4 3 q at          ,      Scou H.lsa
PARTII - ENVIROMENA     I    T AN           (
t.   P.           pl       EII-
iAproSr DOE forb,                         A   
2.3.3 Interface with the Department of Land & Land Revenue of the GoK
However marginal may be the amnount of land required, for its acquisition the project
promoter has to proceed by following the laid procedures in this regard. The Distnict Land
Acquisition officer of the Department of Revenue is the designated authority to conduct the
business of land acquisition within his jurisdiction. The Collector of the District in the
Controlling Officer and would receive requisitions for land acquisition required in public
interest. All costs in this regard are to be borne by the project promoter. The given Office of
the District Collector would carry out disbursement of the amounts of compensation,
adjudicated in conformity with the declared state policy on entitlement.
Persistence of public grievance in such matters complicates the schedule of implementation of
the project on ground. Therefore, it is recommended that no construction work should start
Cliapter - 2 Page 3 of 3                Scott Wilison
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
before completing land acquisition process ending with payment of compensation and/or
rehabilitation.
2.3.4 Interface with the Offices of the District Magistrate & City Municipalities
This would be critical at the time of removal of encroachment and congestion. The Magistrate
of the District would take all actions on clearance of these. Rehabilitation of the displaced
persons would need the assistance of both the District Magistrate and the City Municipality.
These offices should be approached while formulating the Resettlement & Rehabilitation
(R&R) Plan. However, in the context of environmental management, no construction work
should start before the displaced persons are resettled and rehabilitated.
2.3.5 Interface with the Department of Forests of the GoK
When road development projects require acquisition of forestland and/or involve felling o f
trees, Consent of the Forest Department of the State as well as that of the Ministry o fthe
Govenmment of India is then required. Although the designated authority to permit felling of
trees is the District Collector, decisions are inviolably taken with the consent of the State
Forest Department.
On receipt of the permission to fell trees, the State Forest Department has to arrange to obtain
concurrence of the Forest Wing of the MoEF of the Gol to the plan. The Ministry, before
concurring, may wish to verify the facts through their own agencies. If no diversion of land
from the designated forest areas is involved, then the Ministry may accept the proposal
without around verification. Under that circumstance, the project promoter is not required to
-3~s~ 34-±ed land to the State Forest Department to carry out compensatory afforestation.
7   -        when felling is limrited only to the avenue tr-ees planted ear!ier on tie unused
.c -z e rit of way belonging to the project promoter. However, raising of new trees
7-ice =: =uber of felled trees on the unused part of the right of way persists as a condition
rr oTaining clearance of the project by the appropriate authority. Assistance of the State
Forest Department for meeting this task facilitates preparation of compliance reports. Figure
- 2.2 shows the procedure to be followed for obtaining forestry clearance.
2.3.6 Interface with the Department of Mines of the GoK
It is generally expected that the project promoter would obtain supplies of stone aggregates
from the existing licensed quarries. If for any reason new quarries have to be opened up, then
the permission of the State Department of Mines would be required. Such new quarries of
sizes more than 5-hectares would require environmental clearance based on EA reports.
2.3.7 Strength of the Public Works Department of GoK for Interface Management
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under KSHIP and formation of a dedicated
Environment Management Plan Implementation Unit (EMPIU) under it consisting of
Highway Engineers, Environmental Engineers and Forest officers are functioning for over a
year now and are well acquainted with the procedural requirements. The PIU and the EMPIU
are adequately aware of the necessity of a multidisciplinary approach being adopted for
Highway Construction and Management. Such multifaceted units that can adopt a holistic
approach should also be deployed for future road projects.
2.4   Statutes Related to Environment
The World Bank can admit the implied costs for implementing the required measures as per
their Operation Policy 4.04 under the KSHIP. In this connection, various laws and policies of
the Central (GoI) and the Karnataka State Government and World Bank are discussed below.
Cliapter - 2 Page 4 of Y                Scotl WI/soil
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                  Raichur By-pass
Figure - 2.2: Forestry Clearance Procedure under Forest Conservation Act, 1980
Applicabon of User Agency to DFO
Scrubny of Applicaon, Preparation
of Formal Proposal                                   7
k. ;
.Scrutiny!Recornmendabion
4
Scrutiny, Remark, Recommendation
of PCCF
4
Scrutiny, Remark, Recommendation
l                ~~~~RCCF
Proposals upto th Proposals above 20       x      _              i        for
120 Ihectares-RCCF ord hectrres-MOEF tate         StteGo
Examination and final decision for
A    cases upto 5 Ha forest land except
those of mining and encroachment        s t
Examinabon and putwhng before       Rei nmmendabons of Advisory
-t State Advisory Group proposais  |committee
other than those menboned above
g recmmedat                             Final decision, issue of 
hter recoPmgenaofo                              S firststag Be approval  |
Issue of orders by State                    State ovt Compliance
. |     ~~Govt        ll                            rebpoftl
| Monitonng    l
|Approval Order
As the subject bypass alignment doesn't involve acquisition of any forest land, hence a
specific Forest Clearance is not necessary for this project.
2.4.1 Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (with subsequent amendments)
This statute would apply on KSHIP as and when land is to be acquired in the case of changes
in project area and widening where there is not enough right-of-way (ROW) with the State
Govermment.
Chaipter - 2 Poge 5 of 8                        Scott ff iIson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
The Land Acquisition Act under Section 4(1) is enforced to acquire land in public interest.
The maximum time allowed, from the date of notification for the acquisition is two years,
after which the notification lapses. For the project land acquisition will be required The
compensation for land is fixed under section 23 (2), where the amount to be paid is the market
value + 30% solatium (compulsory). If this amount is paid within one year then an additional
interest of 9% is paid to the beneficiary; if it exceeds one year then an additional interest of
15% is paid.
2.4.2 The Mysore Highways Act, 1964
The Mysore Highways Act, 1964 and the Mysore Highways Rules, 1965 are in force in the
State of Karnataka. These enactments provide, among other things, for the restriction of
ribbon development and removal of encroachments. They are applicable to highways of the
State, but not to the National Highways. These have also provisions for enforcing restrictions
on building activity along highways and control of access to their land.
2.4.3 The Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972
This Act provides for the protection of wild animals, birds and plants and for matters
connected therewith or ancillary or incidental to. It appoints the wildlife wardens and
constitution of the wildlife advisory board, etc.
2.4.4 Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974
The basic objective of this Act is to maintain and restore the wholesomeness of the country's
aquatic resources by prevention and control of pollution. Water is a state subject under the
con-stitution. Consequently, the Water Act, a Central law, was eracted under Article 252(1) of
the Constitution, which empowers the Union Government to legislate in a field reserved for
the States. All the States have approved implementation of the water Act.
2.4.5 The Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act, 1976
This act provides for the preservation of trees in the State by regulating the felling of the trees
and for the planting of adequate number of trees to restore ecological balance and for matters
connected therewith.
The Act also elaborates the restriction on felling of trees and liability for preservation of trees.
Section 8(2) of the Act specifies that "Any person desiring to fell a tree, shall apply in writing
to the concemed Tree Officer for permission in that behalf. The application shall be
accompanied by a site plan or survey sketch specifying clearly the site or survey number, the
number, kind and girth of tree sought to be cut and the reasons therefore along with the
consent of the owner or occupant".
2.4.6 Town and Country Planning Act, 1976
Like the act on prevention of water pollution, the original structure of this act was drafted in
the Union Govemment and later adopted by the constituent States. Under this the States were
to set up Boards to plan land use for both towns and country. Any promoter of project has to
obtain a certificate from this Board stating whether the proposed land use is compatible with
the laid plan. (It should be mentioned here that The State of Kamataka had its own Town and
Country Planning Act since 1961 which has undergone several Amendments and presently is
known as The Karnataka Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act, 1993).
2.4.7 Forest Conservation Act, 1980
Clhapere- - 2 Page 6 al 8               Scot/ Wd/Ton
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                  Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                       RaLchur By-pass
This Act provides for the conservation of forests and for matters connected therewith or
ancillary or incidental to. This Act restricts the de-reservation of forests or use of forestland
for non-forestry purposes without the prior approval of the Union Government.
The Rules and Guidelines under this Act as amended on October 25,1992 have elaborately
outlined and defined the application of the Act, procedure to be followed for acquisition of
forestland for non-forest purposes, submission of proposals, compensatory afforestation and
certain clarifications about the procedural requirements.
Under Para 2.5, the rules and their applicability is elaborated regarding rail, roads and
irrigation p rojects. K eeping i n v iew t he r equirement o f v arious d epartments like Railways,
Irrigation and PWD for specific purposes like laying of roads for widening or expansion or re-
project area, rail links etc., the Ministry under Para 2.5 stated that vacant land already in
possession with the government agencies which have not been notified as protected forests,
will not attract the provisions of Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. However, the concemed
agency will seek permnission under local laws, if any, from appropriate authority.
Under section 3.2(vi) (e), land for compensatory afforestation requires diversion of linear or
strip plantation declared as protected forest along the road sides for widening or expansion of
road and compensatory afforestation may be raised over degraded forest land twice in extent
of the forest area being diverted/de-reserved in respect of the above proposal.
2.4.8 The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981
The Union Government under Article 253 of the Constitution passed this Statute. This Act
provides for the prevention, control and abatement of air pollution and confers powers to the
Central and State Pollution Control Board with a view to carry out the aforesaid purposes.
2.4.9 Environment (Protection) Act, 1986
The Union Government under Article 253 of the Constitution passed this Statute. The
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 seeks to achieve the objective of protection and
improvement of environment and for matters connected therewith. This legislation enables the
co-ordination of activities of the various regulatory agencies, setting up of an authority or
authorities with advocate powers for environmental protection etc.
2.4.10 Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989
In 1989, the Central Motor Vehicles Rules introduced nation wide emission levels for both
petrol and diesel driven vehicles. Rule 115(1) requires that every motor vehicle be
manufactured and maintained so that smoke, visible vapours, grits, sparks, ashes, cinders are
not emitted when the vehicle is driven. Emission standards for petrol and diesel vehicles have
been specified by the motor vehicles rules.
2.4.11 The Hazardous Wastes (Management And Handling) Rules, 1989
The Central Government formulated these rules under the Environment (Protection) Act,
1986. Under section 7 of these rules, it is required that the operator or occupier of a facility
dealing with hazardous waste ensures that the hazardous waste is packaged in a suitable
manner for storage and transport and the labeling and packaging shall be easily visible and be
able to withstand physical conditions and climatic factors. Packaging, labeling and transport
of hazardous wastes shall be in accordance with the provisions of the rules issued by the
Central Government under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and other guidelines issued from
time to time. Section 9 of these Rules also requires that in case of an accident during
Clhapter - 2 Page 7 of 8                 S.vtt tW150ls
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                       Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                             Raichur By-pass
transportation of hazardous wastes, the operator or occupier of a facility shall immediately
report to the State Pollution Control Board in the prescribed form.
2.5    World Bank Policies
2.5.1 Natural Habitats (OP 4.01)
Environmental Assessment, the Banks OP 4.01 stipulates ELA study and in EMP for
addressing/mitigating significant adverse enviromnental impact due to construction of
proposed bypass.
2.6    Environmental'Clearances
As per EIA Notification (1997), Environmental Clearance is required for highway p rojects
involving developmental work of widening and strengthening of roads with marginal land
acquisition along the existing project area provided that roads do pass through ecologically
sensitive areas such as national parks, sanctuaries, tiger reserves and reserve forests (marginal
land acquisition means land acquisition not exceeding a total width of 20m on either side of
the existing project area). Further, by-passes should be treated as stand-alone projects and
would require environmental clearance only if the cost of the project exceed Rs.100 Crores
each.
The designated authorities are empowered to prescribe norms and procedures to be followed
to comply with the respective Statutes. Bearing in mind that the KSHIP involves upgradation
of by-pass roads, the project will require clearance from the statutory agencies like the
Karnataka State Pollution Control Board and the State Forest Departnent. The Table - 2.1
below lists the laws under which clearances have to be acquired at the state/central level for
Phase II of KSHIP.
Table - 2.1: Clearances to be obtained for Phase II By-pass component of KSEIIP
Statutes                                   Clearance
Water (Prevention and Control *  No Objection Certificate and clearance from the Karnataka State
of Pollution ) Act, 1974       Pollution Control Board.
The   Air (Prevention  and  *  No Objection Certificate and clearance from the Karnataka State
Control of Pollution) Act, 1981  Pollution Control Board.
The Environment (Protection) *  No Objection Certificate and clearance from Department of Forest,
Act, 1986. EIA Notification    Enviromnent and Ecology, Government of Kamataka.
dated   May    1994   and
subsequent amendments.
Cliapter-- 2 Page 8 of8                      Scott WdSon
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER - 3
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTIONS                         PARTICULARS                          PAGE NO.
3.1           Lo6ation and Description of the Project Area                 I
3.2           Projected Traffic                                            1
3.3           Design options                                              2
3.4           Options on Construction Methods                              2
3.4.1         Pavement Overlay                                             2
3.4.2         New Construction                                             2
3.4.3         Treatment Altematives                                        2
3.4.3.1       Upgradation - Widening and Strengthening (including Raising  3
of Embanlanents)
3.4.4         Cross Drainage Structures Construction                       3
3.5           Options on Road Construction Materials                       3
3.5.1         Road Construction Materials - Sources                        3
3.5.2         Pavement Design Materials                                    4
3.6           Options on Cross Drainage Structures                         5
3.7           Options on Intersections on roads for upgradation            5
Table 3.1     Present and projected traffic at Raichur By-pass             I
Table 3.2     Location of Road building materials for Raichur by-pass      4
Table 3.3     Pavement Design Materials                                    4
Table 3.4     Quantity of Materials required for the Road Construction     5
Table 3.5     Number of new Cross-Drainage structures                      5
Table 3.6     List of intersections for Improvement                        5
Figure 3.1    Existing Condition of the Project Area
A-O
Figure 3.2    Typical Cross section of Upgradation Section                 3
Scott Wilsonl
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                     RaLchur By-pass
CHAPTER- 3
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1   Location and Description of Project alignment
Project alignment selected for by-pass comes under Raichur District itself The starting point
of the project alignment is at PWD Km 196.7, north of Raichur town, after Yaramaras
revenue village on Raichur - MakthallA.P.Border road (SH - 13 and Link IA). The project
alignment progresses in a southwesterly direction intersecting 'Central Railway' broad gauge
line at approximately 700m. It traverses for a distance of 1.9Km gradually intersecting
Raichur - Mansalapur road at chainage 2.670Km, on a plain terrain at an elevation of 384m
above MSL in the limits of Mansalapur revenue village. It curves further to intersect
Arasinagi road, Major District Road (MDR) at chainage 4.820 (at PWD chainage 2.90Km)
after crossing Eklaspur covering a distance of 2.2 Km. The project alignment continues
further to follow plain terrain in southwesterly direction for a length of 2.7Km and ends at
PWD Km 5.5 west of Raichur town by joining Raichur- Kalmala road (on SH -20 and Link
IB). The total length of proposed bypass project alignment is 7.6 km (Map - 3.1 and Sketch
-3.1).
The project alignment passes through the lands of Yaramaras, Raichur, Mansalapur, Eklaspur
and Askihal revenue villages. Askihal, Eklaspur and Yaramaras are under the jurisdiction of
Raichur Town Municipality. Mansalapur is under the jurisdiction of Mansalapur Gramn
Panchayat.
The project alignment passes through dry land (former agricultural land) with varying
undulations and improper drainage. Figures - 3.1 (A - 0) show the present condition of the
project alignment.
3.2   Projected Traffic
A traffic survey conducted during 1999 revealed that around 450 vehicles per day is through
traffic, which will use bypass if constructed. The anticipated traffic growth in the by-pass
route for ten years (2002-2010) is given in Table - 3.1.
Table - 3.1: Present and Projected Traffic growth at Raichur By-pass (002-2010)
SI. No.                       Characteristics                       Raichur Bypass
1     A. Projected Base Year Traffic for Bypass (AADT) 2002 -03        530
i) % of Projected Base Year Traffic for Bypass (AADT)           9.34
ii) Composition of Bypass Traffic
- No. of Trucks                                            267 (50%)
- No. of LCVs                                              46 (8.6%)
- No. of Buses                                             20 (3.8%)
- No. of Cars                                              94 (17.7%)
Chapter - 3: Page I of 5                 Scott WJlson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                       Environmental Anessment Report -
Imprvement Project                             Raichur By-pass
Map 3.1: Proposed alignment for Raichur Bypass
a~~~~j~~~~1i     vi >i- >- J/-ir; 
Jo-
--~ ~~ ~ ~           "~ --Avnt14_                   2t_  l
rX YB,  .,;  ,  z  ,#- .e. , >g;-g .  -F  .;& L  _^!:~~~~~~~~~~~~~07 E.
-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~U6
K ' -;'' j-- /  -TiJ t -&  Z     ' YPASS - 7.64)Km
' .d t'0 's,','- -\ \9 AP STFONV-'G _PROPOSED ALIG NMN E.N'T 
,1 t     A   I i  T I D  -V V  
.~~~~~ -
Scott Wilsont
PART I- E,HVRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EA)



-~~~~~~
I   '.                   0S.
I.                        -
I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MANTRALAyAM ROAD
j SH     ®CH:196.70
l~~O
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTO
I1                                           \ CBUS STAND ROAD
0B JUNCTION
CH 2-7u7tsm        t ~~~~~~CH:5.50
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ic,St      PROPOSED BYPAS
3-00 AND TRAFF   SURVEY LOCATION
*-INTERSECTION SURVEY LOCATION
SECTION  LENGTH (Km)  REMARKS
4 TO X  3.80
X TO Y  1.62  SECnoN Of
|                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y TO 2  4.40  ROAD PASSING
Y TO  Z  2.80  THROUGH TOWN
3TO Z  2.70
2-3   2.90   PROPOSED
3-4    4.70   BYPASS
i                     RAICHUR BYPASS
SKETCH SHOWING OD AND TRAFFIC SURVEY LOCATIONS
I                                                           3.
I                                   ~~~~~~~~~~SKETCH: 3.1



Kamataka State Highways                                     Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                         Raichur By-pass
Figure 3.1: Existing condition of the Project Area
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A: Raichur- Makthal Road on link IA (SH-13)
B: Starting Point - OFC Stone on Raichur- Makthal Road on link IA (SH-13)
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
Figure 3.1: Existing condition of the Project Area
/~~~~~~ . ..... .~       . ....
C: Railway line crossing (C- 600-'OOm from Raichur - Makthal Road)
-~~~~~~~~~~: . -  m      - -  ,
w. ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   A
D: After Railway line crossing (proceeding towards Mansalapur Road)
Scott Wilimn
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL hIMPA CT ASSESSMlENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                     Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                           RaichurBBy-pass
Figure 3.1: Existing condition of the Project Area
E: Stream crossing fCk- 1400m-1500m from Raichur - Makthal Road)
E
F: After Stream crossing (the soil condition)
Scott Wilson
PART! - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Kamnataka State Highways                                  Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                       Raichur By-pass
Figure 3.1: Existing Condition of the Project Area
G: Mansalapur Road
I-' ..
: Towards Eklaspur
Scott Wilson
PART!I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Kamataka State Highways                          Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                               Raichur By-pass
Figure 3.1: Existing condition of the Project Area
,-  -  .- 
J: Towards Elaspur - soil condition
Scott wi_s *.
PART - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                RaichurBy-pass
Figure 3.1: Existing condition of the Project Area
+ r Z : v . . ~~~~~~~~~'                                          ' I_
~~~~~~~~~4                  .1
K: Eklaspur Road
L: Towards Askihal
Scott Wilson
PART!I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                Environmental Amemment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
Figure 3.1: Existing condition of the Project Area
..-  .5 -. 
M: Towards Askihal
N: Towards Askihal (Microwave tower seen in the picture)
r      .   ,~~~~~~~~~~~.
?-.
0: Raichur - K<lmala Road on link eB (SH - 20)
Scott Wilsan
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                 Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
Si. No.                        Characteristics                      Raichur Bypass
2     Projected Traffic for Bypass (AADT) - 2004                        713
i) Composition of Bypass Traffic
- No. of Trucks                                                351
- No. of LCVs                                                  57
- No. of Buses                                                 25
- No. ofCars                                                   134
3     Projected Traffic for Bypass (AADT) - 2010                       1279
i) Composition of Bypass Traffic                           _
- No. of Trucks                                                598
- No. of LCVs                                                  89
- No. of Buses                                                 39
- No. of Cars                                                  262
3.3   Design options
The adopted Pavement Design standards are according to the current Indian Roads Congress
guidelines (IRC-37:2001). A design life of 20 years has been considered. Paved shoulders are
also proposed as per the IRC guidelines.
3.4   Proposed Pavement Treatment
As the proposed by-pass road is entirely a new road formation, the new pavement need to be
constructed on a suitable sub-grade. The formation level is fixed based on the field
investigations and on soil properties.
The elements of construction are as follows:
i)    Grub out bushes (some trees may get removed);
ii)   Widen road formation to 12-m width;
iii)  Construct new wider pavement with paved shoulder, including surfacing and
providing ditches, wherever necessary; and
iv)   Construct unpaved shoulder filling to the specified camber and width along with the
pavement layers as per new cross section.
Figure 3.2: Typical Cross-Section of Upgradation Section
Paed ad                            Pa&ed a
Ura
Siotlder        CwriageV            ftolder
'         250 m      ~~~~~3.50 m  3.Cm       250 m     \
Ccnicr dcf In1
Chapter - 3- Page 2 of 5                  Scott Wilson
PART I- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                 Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                       Raichur By-pass
3.4.4 Cross Drainage Structures
New cross drainage structures are proposed based on the project area requirements. The
conventional revetments in the form of pitched grouting and embankment slope stabilisation
methods are being considered where necessary and required based on the height of the new
road embankment.
3.5   Options on Road,Construction Materials
3.5.1 Road Construction Materials - Sources
Details of the existing local quarries/borrow pits used for the extraction of rock for crushing,
natural gravel (Moorum), sand and water sources are fumished in Table-3.2.
If the rock is properly selected adequate quality and quantity would be available for all
purposes requiring broken or crushed rock. The reddish brown natural gravel (Moorum) that
has been identified in various sources has a CBR varying from 9.60% to 14.50%. Sufficient
moorum of good quality is easily available for all purposes as filling materials. Clean river
sand sources were identified having fines less than 2.0%, which are available in good quality,
and sufficient quantity for all construction purposes.
Table - 3.2: Location of Road Building Material for Raichur by-pass
Road           Rock                 Gravel                 Sand              Fly-ash
Links
Lk &   Granite: Asarpur quarry: Moorum:    Asarpur Wadlur water course: 5  Raichur ihermal
lB     5Kins off             quarry: SKm off       Km off                Power Station
Granite:  Shaktinagar Moorum: Chandrabandla Jambaldinni    Nala:
quarry: lKm off       quarry: 4Km off       25Km off
Granite:    Sultanpur
quarry: 13Km off      Moorum; Borrow pit on
right side at Km 4.   Krishna River sand, 75
Trap Metal: Buranpur                        Km   from  Raichur on
Trap Metal Quarry 7                         Raichur  -   Sholapur
Km from Km 0.00 on    Moorum; Borrow pit on  road.
Raichur-      Devera right side at Km 41.
Hippargi Road.
Trap Metal; Quarry 3.7
Km from Km 0.00 on
Raichur-     Sholapur
Road.
Chapter - 3. Page 3 of 5                  Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                 Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
Rocks
Granite and gneiss are available common rock sources and suitable for all purposes.
Natural Gravel
Moorum and residual gravel are useful for application for sub-base, subgrade and shoulder
material. The bearing strengths of the available materials have been tested.
Sand
Most rivers in Kamataka,' especially those with dry beds during the greater part of the year
have spreads of sand, which are collected for making concrete and lime plaster. These sands
get replenished each monsoon and there is little shortage in their availability.
Embankment Fill
Appropriate materials will be drawn from the nearest available location to the construction
site. However, highly plastic black cotton soil will not be used.
Fly Ash
The thermal power plant at Raichur is a major source of fly ash. It is relatively strong when
compacted. It has compaction characteristics similar to natural sand. It compacts well when
dry and does not have a pronounced optimum moisture content and a maximum dry density.
Its utilisation will be limited to the suitability of the available material from the fly ash ponds
during construction.
Guidelines on Fly ash handling is furmusned in Annexure - I
3.5.2 Pavement Design Materials
Materials required and their thickness are presented in the Table - 3.3.
Table - 3.3: Pavement Design Materials
Material Layers              Materials                 Thickness
Subgrade            Selected Borrow Material         500mm
Sub-base                Porous/Crushed               200mm
Base                      WMM                       250mm
Binder                      BM                       50mm
Surface                    DBM                      r50mm
Quantity of Materials required
Table -3.4 gives the quantity of materials required for pavement and cross drainage
structures.
Table - 3.4: Quantity of Materials required for the Road Construction
Material          _                    Unit     Quantity 
Sub-base                               mi           25660
Base Course (Non-bituminous)            m3          27200
Base and Surface Course (bituminous)    m3          16560
Chapter - 3: Page 4 of J                  Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                   Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                        Raichur By-pass
Material                                Unit     Quantity
Earth-fill                               m         1,30,287
Fly-ash                                  m          39,481
Protection Works
Turfing                                  m2          30400
Protection of Slope                      m            1,350
Cement                                  MT            2140
3.6    Options on Cross Drainage Structures
The number of culverts and bridges proposed to be created anew is noted in Table - 3.5.
Table 3.5: Number of New Cross-Drainage Structures
Chainage  Type of CD    Formation Width   No. of Span    Size of Vent
(m)                     Breadth   Height
1.450    RC Grider         12.0             2         15.0     3.0
2.875     RC Slab           12.0             1        8.0      2.5
3.310    RC Grider          12.0             2        12.0     3.0
4.255     RC Slab           12.0             1        8.0      2.0
5.780     RC Slab          12.0              1        8.0      2.0
3.7    Options on Intersections on Roads for Upgradation
Two intersections on the project road selected for upgradation were studied. The list is shown
in Table - 3.6. Improvement would entail establishment of smooth gradient into the feeder
road frorr the given main road ?1nd widenirg the paved surface to allow easy turD forf
vehicles.
Table 3.6: List of Intersections for Improvement
Link    Chainage        Intersection with       Intersection
SH      MDR    Other Road      Type
IA       196.700    13                           Y-Type
lB         5.500    20                           Y-Type
Note: SH-State Highway; MDR- Major District Road; ODR- Other District Roads
The intersection improvements include:
Widening and improvement of road geometrics for smooth movement of vehicles and
enhanced safety due to better line of sight.
Deceleration and acceleration lanes for vehicles
Separate lane for left turning vehicles
Road markers like Pedestrian crossing for safety of the pedestrians
Channelising and Directional islands
Chapter - 3 Page 5 of 5                    Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER - 4
ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTIONS                         PARTICULARS                           PAGE NO.
4.1          Introduction                                                   1
4.2           Design Altematives                                            1
4.2.1         Rofite Altematives                                            1
4.2.2         Alignment Altematives                                         1
4.2.3         By-pass Altematives                                           2
4.3           Project Altematives                                           2
4.4           Detailed Evaluation of Altemative III (By-pass Alternative)   3
4.4.1         Natural Environrment                                          3
4.4.2         Social Environment                                            3
4.4.3         Cultural Environment                                          3
4.4.4         Critical Areas                                                3
4.4.5         Sensitivity of Altemative III                                3-4
Scott WdIson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER - 4
ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
4.1   Introduction
The constituent road-links of the KSHIP were selected after considering various options
as the work of project formulation progressed. The objective of this Chapter is to
highlight some of the salient issues considered for exercising options. The work of
ascertaining feasibility was assigned to the PCC.
4.2   Design Alternatives
The recommended. designs are based on the assumption that the available road
construction materials would have a CBR value of 10.
4.2.1 Route Alternatives
The route alternative issue does not arise in any of the selected by-passes as these
corridors pose the minimum of environmental problems and also available Right of Way
is more than the other corridors under consideration for improvement.
4.2.2 Alignment Alternatives
No cost effective engineering solution other than embankmes;  .--  cross drainage
structures could be envisaged as this option has been sugaes;u  icw .yng area That are
often prone to inundation during monsoons and due to -o33Died discharge of
irrigation waters, causing damage to road sub-structure  On  =o'=ietion of the
construction phase, the tree plantation will begin and add to the aesthetic beauty of the
roads.
4.2.3 By-pass Alternatives
By-passes for some urban settlements to offer better connectivity and to run smooth
traffic, have been suggested by the PIU. These by-passes are related to two urban
settlements, namely Bijapur (on Links 3A and 2A) and Raichur (on Links IA and IB).
The environmental assessments of these bypasses are covered in separate sections in
respective reports.
4.3   Project alternatives
Three project alternatives were evaluated, They are:
Alternative I: No Project
The option does not involve any action. The highway will remain in the existing state. No
construction activity takes place.
Chapter - 4: Page I of 4               Scott Wilson
PART I- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmenial Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Alternative II:    Road through the town
Involves widening to 4- lane divided carriageway with lined covered drains on either
sides in place of the existing intermediate lane carriageway through the dense settlements
of Raichur town.
Alternative III:   Construction of a bypass
Involves strengthening of the existing road pavement with an overlay and construction of
a new 2-lane bypass for Raichur settlement on the northwestern side of the settlement.
The construction activity requires a period of 1 year for completion.
Discussion of Project Alternatives:
Alternative I
The section of State Highway 13 and SH 20 passing through Raichur will not be altered.
The carriageway will not be widened. Therefore no construction activity is to take place.
Impacts will be based on increase in the traffic volumes on the existing alignment. It is
assumed that there would be no project.
Alternative II
The option involves widening and strengthening of the existing carriageway. The cross-
section through the settlement would be 4 lane divided carriageway. In addition to this
there would be covered drains cum foot-paths o-n booth sides. To establish this cross-
section in Raichur, few structures w ould h zv--  e ' - 4 :aced and also w ould i nvolve
relocation of a number of underground and cv--=  ='_1"es.
Alternative III
This option would entail construction of a new road around the settlement. The new road
would act as a by-pass for the Raichur town. The existing road would be strengthened
with an overlay. The bypass will take off at Km.196+700 on the northem side on SH 13.
It would rejoin the State Highway 20 at Km.5+500. Implementation of this option would
lead to the through traffic plying on the bypass and only the destined traffic, for Raichur,
using the existing road through the town. The hindrance caused by the traffic movement,
plying through the settlement, would be offset. At the same time there would be a
substantial land acquisition for construction of the by-pass.
Chapter - 4 Page 2 of 4               Scont Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
4.4   Detailed Evaluation of Alternative III (By-pass alternative for Raichur)
During the reconnaissance s urvey, t o h ave s hortest p ossible c onnectivity to t wo m ajor
project links, SH 13, the alignment on the north-west part of Raichur was found to be
most favourable for by-pass from engineering and environmental aspects.
Widening to a 4-lane section through Raichur town is difficult due to the numerous
utilities in the existing roadway. Relocation of these utilities is difficult and hence only an
overlay to the existing carriageway without involving excavation was proposed.
4.4.1 Natural Environment
The land surrounding the proposed bypass is agricultural. Any increase in pollution due
to increase in traffic volumes (and resulting impacts on human health) will be offset by
dispersion of pollutants over distance. The pollution levels within the town would
therefore be reduced. The ambient noise levels, based on the same levels of traffic
volume would also reduce in the village.
4.4.2 Social Environment
No residential or business property is being affected by the proposed bypass alignment.
The bypass is towards northwest of the town and passes through agricultural land - dry
land only. It would, however, separate the landowners and agricultural workers from their
land. Very few (if any) of the landowners would actually lose their entire parcel of land,
and a liberal Entitlement frarnmew-  aroved by the GoK would compensate them.
Implementation of this option wi: a.s c  e :duce congestion in the settlement.
4.4.3 Cultural Environment
The bypass alignment is about 21. away from the important cultural properties in
Raichur town and would not have any direct or indirect impact on them. Moreover, it
would redirect all the heavy vehicles away from the dargah, tombs, and temples. Thus,
safety of people as well as the sensitive cultural properties will be ensured.
4.4.4 Critical Areas
This alternative would decrease the probability of accidents. As a 2-lane, congestion-free
highway, vehicular speeds would be high and therefore emissions would be less because
the traffic congested road leads to more stoppage of running vehicles that emit pollutants.
The construction of a by-pass would result in improvement in ambient air quality in the
town and reduction in noise levels.
4.4.5 Sensitivity of Alternative III (By-pass alternative)
Alternative III has the lowest environmental sensitivity score. This indicates that the
alignment is likely to cause minimum impacts to the natural, social and cultural
environment in the study area. The salient feature of this alignment is that it is unlikely to
cause damage to any cultural property. In addition to this there is no likelihood of
displacement of persons. There will be loss of livelihood, but the impacts of this are far
less as compared to displacement. All losses will be compensated and assisted through an
Entitlement framework developed by the GoK. This option will help to reduce the
congestion through Raichur town and traffic through the town will be reduced
Chapter - 4: Page 3 of 4              Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                    Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                         Raichur By-pass
considerably. Only the traffic destined for the town will use that road. A t p resent, t he
ambient air quality levels as well as the noise levels, within the settlement, are higher
than the stipulated standards. The construction of the by-pass, in all likelihood, will
decrease the noise levels and increase the ambient air quality levels in Raichur settlement.
Also the by-pass will benefit the vehicular movement. Journey speeds are expected to
increase and the traffic movement to be smoother.
Chapter - 4: Page 4 of 4                   Scott Wdison
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                          Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                               Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER- 5
BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL SET UP
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTIONS                        PARTICULARS                         PAGE NO.
5.1          Physical Features                                    l     I     l
5.1.1        Geographical location                                |       1   l
5.1.2        Physical Resources                                         1
5.1.2.1      Physiogr ahy                                                __I
5.1.2.2      Geology                                              l       1
5.1.2.3      Seismicity                                                 1
5.1.2.4      Climate                                                    1
5.1.2.5      Drainage System                                            2
5.1.2.6      Soil Characteristics                                       2
5.2          Environmental Monitoring                                   2
5.2.1        Ambient Air Quality                                        2
5.2.1.1      Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Locations                   3
5.2.1.2      Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Result                      4
5.2.2        Ambient Noise Quality                                      6
5.2.2.1      Ambient Noise Quality Monitoring Locations                 6
5 222       I Ambient Noise Quality Result                              7
5 -13,Water Qalit7
5 23-        Warier Quality Monitoring Locations                        7
Water Quality Results                                     8-10
5.3          Ecological Resources                                       10
5.3.1        Flora                                                      10
5.3.1.1      Existing Trees along the by-pass project area              10
5.3.1.2      Existing Tree species along the by-pass project area       I 1
5.3.2        Fauna                                                      12
5.4          Existing Enviroanental Scenario of Raichur By-pss          12
5.5          Human Use Values                                           12
5.5.1        Land Use                                                   12
5.5.2        Crops of the Project Area                                  13
5.6          Social Enviromnent                                         13
5.6.1        Demographic Profile                                        13
5.6.1.1      Population                                                 13
5.6.1.2      Literacy Status of the Population                          14
5.6.1.3      Occupational Pattern                                       14
5.6.1.4      Amenities                                                  15
5.7          Economic Profile                                           15
5.7.1        Major Functions of the District - Bijapur                  15
5.7.2        Places of Tourist and Archaeological Interest              16
5.8          Utilities and Structures along the Project Area            16
5.8.1        Regional and Local utilities along the Project Routes      16
5.8.2        Religious and other Sensitive Structures along the Project  16
Routes
Scott Wilson
PART I- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                          Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                               Raichur By-pass
SECTIONS                        PARTICULARS                         PAGE NO.
5.9          Public Health                                              16
5.10         Accidents Hazards and Safety                               16
5.11         Aesthetics                                                 17
5.12         Key Environmental Issues of Raichur By-pass                17
5.13         Project Categorization                                     17
Table 5.1     Climatic data of Raichur By-pass                          1
Table 5.2    Characteristics of the soil in the study area              2
Table 5.3    Ambient Air Quality Standards                              3
Table 5.4    Air and Noise Quality Monitoring Locations of the Project  3
Arta
Table 5.5    Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Results of the Project Area  5
Table 5.6    Ambient Noise Quality Standards                            6
Table 5.7    Ambient Noise Quality Monitoring result of the Project Area  7
Table 5.8    Water Quality Monitoring Locations                         7
Table 5.9    Drinking Water Specification                               8
Table 5.10   Water Quality Monitoring Results                           9
Table 5.11   Distribution of trees on LHS of the project area           11
Table 5.12   Distribution of trees on RHS of the project area           11
Table 5.13   Existing trees along the project area                      12
Table 5.14   Land use near the project area                             12
Table 5.15   Land acquisition for the project                           12
Table 5.16   Types of Crops and their Cultivation Area                  13
Table 5.17   Population of Raichur                                      14
Table 5.18   Literacy Status of the population                          14
Table 5.19   Occupational Pattem of Main Workers in Raichur             15
Table 5.20   List of Amenities in Raichur                               15
Table 5.21   Regional Utilities                                         16
Figure 5.1   Air monitoring locations at the Project Area
Fi_e 5.2     Noise monitorin locations at the Project Area
Figure 5.3   Water monitoring locations of the Project Area
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER- 5
BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL SET UP
5.1    Physical Features
5.1.1 Geographical;Location
The geographical areat of Raichur district is 8386 Sq. Kmn. The district is situated in the
Northem part of the Karnataka State at 16° 12' to 160 16' north latitude and 770 14' to
770 22' east longitude. The area is located at an altitude of 370m - 390m above MSL. The
project road traverses lands of Yaramaras, Mansalapur, Raichur, Eklaspur and Askihal
revenue villages under Raichur district.
5.1.2 Physical Resources
The physical resources comprise of the physiography, geology, climate, drainage and soil
characteristics of the study area. These characteristics are described as below:
5.1.2.1 Physiography
The proposed by-pass is located in the northem part of the Karnataka plateau and is also
called northem maidan. The project corridor passes over plain and rolling terrain.
5.1.2.2 Geology
The proposed project area falls in the younger Gnessic Complex coilsisting of Cinessic
rocks that are mainly granodioritic and granitic in composition. Mainly B lack soil and
partly red soil were found along the proposed bypass project area.
5.1.2.3 Seismicity
The project area falls under zone III. The region is not prone to frequent earthquakes of
high intensity. It is normally affected by mild tremors, not causing damage to life or
property.
5.1.2.4 Climate
The project area falls under North interior Karnataka climatic zone. This region
experiences semi-arid, tropical steppe type of climate. The project area is characterised
by hot summers and normal winters. Climatic data is given in Table - 5.1.
Table - 5.1: Climatic data of Raichur By-pass
SI. No.   Year   Annual Rainfall (mm)  Temper ture (in ° C)  Relative H umidity (%)
Max.     Min.      Highest     Lowest
1      1997          505.5         43.0      15.0       100         06
2      1998          1083.5         44.0     14.4       98          15
3      1999          620.1          42.6     12.0       100          1
4      2000          631.2          44.0     12.0       100         15
5      2001          748.0         44.3      12.0       96          18
6      2002          496.3          43.2     15.0       98          16
Chapter - 5. Page I of 17              Scott WIlsoo?
PART I- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Rainfall: The average and annual rainfall based on 10 years data from 1991-92 to 2000-
01 in the district is approximately 632mm, the minimum being 360.60mm and the
maximum being 860mm. Highest rainfall occurs during September. The driest part of the
year is between November and May. Widespread rain occurs during post monsoon
period.
Temperature: The climate of the district in general is hot and dry for major part of the
year. The hot season is between Mid-February to end of May. Temperature goes upto
44.30C during April and May. The cold season is in between December to middle
February with minimuum temperature of 120C.
Humidity: Humidity ranges from 6% to 100%.
Wind Direction: The prevailing wind direction is from southwest direction. Local
topography and slope largely influence the wind direction. The wind direction shifts to
northeast during evening hours. The nearest IMD station is at Raichur.
5.1.2.5 Drainage System
The project area is located in the Krishna river basin. Earthen drains were found in the
project area. But dry land through which the proposed bypass project area passes is not
provided with any proper drainage system. Therefore, drainage system is to be properly
designed.
5.1.2.6 Soil Characteristics
In the project corridor the project area passes mainly through black soil and partly red
soil. The soil is highly argillaceous and calcareous with kankar nodules. The clay content
varies from 50 - 60 %. Tfhe higher propensity of expanding clay fraction, propensity for
developing cracks horizontally or vertically and moisture retentive character makes it
unsuitable for road construction. Therefore, raising of embankments is required almost
for entire stretches. Moorum from approved quarry s ites i n the region w ill h ave to b e
obtained.
Table - 5.2: Characteristics of the soil in the study area
Soil Type                            Description
Deep Black Soil                  Deep, moderately well drained, dark greyish
brown, calcareous cracking clay to silty clay soils,
moderately to severely eroded.
Red gravelly clay soils         Deep to moderate deep and shallow, well drained
to excessively drained, yellowish brown dark red
to reddish brown, gravelly sandy loam and loamy
sand surface soils and gravelly sandy clay to clay
subsurface, moderately to severely eroded.
5.2   Environmental Monitoring
5.2.1  Ambient Air Quality
Ambient Air Quality Standards: The Central Pollution Control Board has specified the
Parameters to be monitored and their permissible limits in the ambient air depending
upon the location of the proposed project. The various parameters considered for ambient
air quality monitoring are Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM), Respirable Particulate
Chapter- - 5: Page 2 ofl 7            Scott Wilsoln
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                Raichur By-pass
Matter (RPM), Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx), Sulphur Dioxide (S02), Carbon Monoxide
(CO), Hydrocarbon (HC) and Lead (Pb) in air. Table - 5.3 lists the standards prescribed
for Ambient Air Quality. Limits have not been prescribed for hydrocarbons in the
ambient atmosphere. These have been used as datum for ascertaining the quality of
ambient air in the project area.
Table - 5.3: Ambient Air Quality Standards (National)
Pollutants         Time-Weighted            Concentration in ambient air
Average       Industrial Residential, Rural     Sensitive
Area       & other Areas         Area
Sulphur Dioxide (SO2)      Annual Avg.       80,ug/m3    60pg/m3              15g/m3
24 Hours*         120pg/m3    80gg/m3              30ig/rm3
Oxides of Nitrogen (NO.)   Annual*           80gg/m3     60p±g/m3             l5Ig/m3
24 Hours`*        120gg/m3    801±g/m3             30ig/n/m3
SPM                        Annual            360gg/mn3   1404g/m3             70±g/fn3
24 Hours"         500g1g/m3   200 g/m3             100pg/m3
RPM (Size<10grm)           Annual             120g/m3   60gg/m3              50gg/m3
24 Hours*         150p.g/m3   I00g/m3              75gg/m3
Lead (Pb)                  Annual            I gg/m3     0.75pg/rn3           0.5lig/m3
24 Hours"         1.5gg/m3   I,ug/m3              0.75j±g/m3
Carbon Monoxide (CO)       8 Hours*"         5mg/m3      2mg/m3               lmg/m3
I Hour            I0rmg/m3    4mg/mn3             2mg/m3
Source: Standards for liquid effluents, gaseous emissions, automobile exhaust, noise and Ambient Air Quality,
Central Pollution Control Board,PCL14/1995-96
* Annual Arithmetic Mean of minimum 104 measurements in a year taken twice a week 24 hourly at uniform
interval
** 24 hourly/8 hourly values should be met 98% of the time in a year. However, 2% of the time, it may exceed
but not on two consecutive days.
5.2.1.1 Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Locations
The ambient air quality tests were carried out at selected locations in the project route in
the month of April 2003. The sampling stations were selected considering the location of
sensitive areas and receptors like residential areas and educational institutions. Due
consideration was given to the traffic density in the area and the commercial activity in
the region. The sampling stations were selected to cover the densely populated semi-
urban and rural areas. Ambient air quality monitoring locations were identified for the
project area. Tests were conducted for ambient air quality - AQ 1 and AQ 2. Details of
the air monitoring locations are given below (Table - 5.4 and Figure - 5.1).
Chapter - 5 Page 3 of /7                         Scott Wdson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highvways                                  Environmental Assesment Report -
Improvement Project                                        Raichur By-pass
Figure 5.1: Air Monitoring Locations
~~ ~~ILjI
ir~~~~~~~~~~~~
o  -w                                  _ -
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soeu - L o
At STD Booth -   Yarmaras
~~,*>= aI                                          -
Near Agricultural College, Askihal
Scott Wj!s0r
PART!I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIAJ



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
Table - 5.4 : Air and Noise Quality Monitoring Locations of the Project Area
Particulars                          Monitorin g Locations
AQI     |     NQ 1          AQ 2            NQ 2
Name of the Area       STD/ISD Booth, Near Yermaras, Agricultural  College,  Near
Raichur                      Microwave Tower, Raichur
Chainage (Km)           Near CH: 196.7 on SH - 13    Near CH: 5.50 on SH - 20 (Link
(Link 1A) Raichur - Shaktinagar  IB) Raichur -Lingasugur/Kalmala
Road                           Road
Land Use              Agricultural and commercial area      Agricultural area
Rural area                   Rural area
Traffic Relation           Moderately Congested             Non-congested
Population                       Moderate                       Sparse
Road Geometry                      Poor                         Good
Height above G. L. (m)     0.6            1.0            1.0            1.0
Distance  (from   the      6.0       1.0, 2.0 and 3.0    3.0            2.0
Centre line of the existing
Road in m)
Date of Collection of   06-04-2003     06-04-2003    07-04-2003  07-04-2003
Sample & Testing            to                          to
07-04-2003                   08-04-2003
5.2.1.2 Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Result
Sampling and Testing Methods: The measurement techniques employed for carrying
out the ambient air quality measurements are outlined below in brief
Suspended Particulate matter (SPM) and Respirable Particulate Matter (RPM) were
measured using High Volume sampler and Respirable Dust Sampler respectively by
collecting 8 hourly samples for 72 hours. The RPM was collected on EPM 2000 Filter
paper.
Sulphur Dioxide was measured by employing the method prescribed in IS: 5182 Part II,
Method II (Improved West and Gaeke method) and 8 Hourly samples were collected for
72 hours. S02 is absorbed in Sodium tetrachloromercurate. The absorbed S02 is
estimated by colour produced when pararosaniline-HCL is added to the solution.
Absorption is measured in a spectrophotometer and compared with calibration curve.
Oxides of Nitrogen were measured by employing the method prescribed in IS: 5182
(Jacob and Hochheiser modified method). 8 hourly samples were collected for 72 hours.
Ambient air is bubbled through NaOH solution to form stable Sodium nitrite. Nitrite
produced is determined colorimetrically with phosphoric acid, sulphanilamide and NEDA
reagent.
Carbon Monoxide was measured as per IS: 5182 Part X. Ambient air sample was
collected in a sealed rubber bladder fitted with an air valve. Subsequent analysis is done
at laboratory using Gas Chromatography technique.
Chapter - 5- Page 4 of /7             Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
Lead in air was analysed by collecting the sample in EPM 2000 Filter paper. The filter
paper containing particulate is leached in nitric acid and filtered. The solution is made to
a known volume and aspirated in to the air/acetylene flame. The standard solution is
prepared in a similar manner and readings are taken at 217 nm.
Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Results: The ambient air quality monitoring results
are presented in Table - 5.5. The values of each parameter for each of the monitoring
locations are presented in the table. The major findings are briefly noted as follows.
Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM): The SPM level in all the monitoring locations is
well beyond the limits specified for residential, rural and other areas i.e. 200 pg/m3. Slow
movement of traffic and pedestrian traffic dust entrainment due to the damaged condition
of the carriageway and broken a nd degraded e arthen s houlders a Iso c ontribute t o h igh
SPM concentration. Localised wind pattem and velocity and drifting nature of the soil
also contribute to the high levels of SPM in the area.
Respirable Particulate Matter (RPM): The data shows that the level is within the
prescribed limits of 100 pLg/m3.
Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx): The data shows that the level is well within the prescribed
limits of 80 g.g/m3 for residential areas in all the monitoring stations.
Sulphur D ioxide (SOx): T he data shows that the level is well within the prescribed
limits of 80 4gt/m3 for residenltial areas in all the monitoring stations.
Lead in air (Pb): The lead level in ambient air is well below.the prescribed limits of 1.0
gg/ for residential areas in all the monitoring stations.
Carbon Monoxide (CO): The average CO level on all the monitoring stations are well
within the prescribed limits of 2 mg/m3 for residential areas.
Table - 5.5: Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Results of the Project Area
Sampling Stations     Air Q uality
S.No.  Parameters              AQ 1       AQ 2        Standards   Protocol
09:30 a.m.  03:30 p.m.
(06-04-2003) (07-04-2003)
I      Time of Sampling (hr)      to          to
09:30 a.m.  03:30 p.m.
(07-04-2003) (08-04-2003)
2      Sampling Duration (min)  1440       1440
3      Flow Rate (m3/min)      1.2 - 1.5   1.2 - 1.6  > 1.1 m3/min
4 Atmospheric  Max.     32.0          39.0
4  emp. _      Min.      22.0          23.0
Chapter - 5 Page 5 of /7               Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                     Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                          Raichur By-pass
5       SPM (pLglr3)               412.1           388.4         200       I    8 4)
IS:5182
6       RPM (g±g /m3)              58.7            54.7          100       RP
I_________                 Manometer
7       Oxides of Sulphur (as SO,,, 5.01           6.28           80       IS:5182 (pt-
gg/rn)                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2)
8       Oxides   of Nitrogen   (as  24.7           21.6          80        IS:5182 (pt-
NO., pg/rn)                                                        6)
9       Carbon Monoxide (as GO,      4              1.3           2        IS:5182 (pt-
mg/rnl)                    1                                       10)
10      Lead (as Pb gg/m3)         0.38            0.27          0.75     IS:12074
5.2.2 Ambient Noise Quality
To determine the existing Ambient Noise level in the study area extensive noise level
measurement were carried out as per the guidelines of the CPCB and the requirements of
the MoEF. The methodology adopted for the sampling and monitoring and various other
parameters in selection of the monitoring stations are discussed in the subsequent
sections. The discussion begins with an introduction to the prescribed s   tis 'e
CPCB with respect to Ambient Noise level measurement.
Ambient Noise level Standards: The measurements should yield hourly avra-g6as        =
day-time (0600 to 2100 hrs.) and night-time (2100 to 0600 hrs.) over 24-hours on two
days interspersed by a two-day interval in a given week. These are shown in Table - 5.6.
These were used as datum to ascertain the quality of ambient noise in the project area.
Table - 5.6: Noise Level (Ambient Air Quality Standards)
Area     Category of Area             Limits in d (A) Leg
Code                             Day Time           Night Time
A       Industrial area           75                  70
B       -Commercial area          65                  55
C      Residential area           55                  45
D       Silence area              50                  40
Note: (1) Daytime is reckoned in between 6 am, and 9 p.m.; (2) Night time is reckoned in between 9 p.m. and 6 a m.;
(3) Silence zone is defined as area upto lOOm around such premises as hospitals, educational institutions and law-
courts. The silence zones are to be declared by the competent Authority- Use of vehicular horns, loud speaker and
bursting of crackers shall be banned in these zones. (4) Mixed categories of areas should be declared as one of thefour
above-mentioned categories by the competent authority and the corresponding standards shall apply.
5.2.2.1 Ambient Noise Quality Monitoring Locations
The Noise level measurements were carried out at select I ocations in the routes in the
month of April 2003. The sampling stations were selected considering the location of
sensitive areas and receptors like residential areas and educational institutions. Due
consideration was given to the traffic density in the area and the commercial activity in
Chapter - 5 - Page 6 of 17                  Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
the region. The Sampling Stations w ere s elected t o c over t he d ensely p opulated s emi-
urban and rural areas.
Identified noise quality monitoring locations (NQ I and NQ 2) for the project area are
described in Table - 5.4. Figure - 5.2 shows noise monitoring locations.
Measurement Technique: Portable sound level meters with a built in capacitance
microphone were utilised for measuring the ambient noise level in the location. The
measurements were iecorded every 5 minute interval and the equivalent sound pressure
level were calculated for 8 hour cycles for 72 hours. The eight-hour cycles were devised
based upon the day and nighttime duration and the movement of traffic during the course
of the day. The three cycles considered are from 0600-1400 Hours, 1400-2200 Hours and
2200-0600 H ours. T hree c ycles w ere m erged i nto two p eriods - daytime (6 a.m. to 9
p.m.) and nighttime (9 p.m. to 6 a.m.). The results are shown in dB (A) Leq i.e. indicating
the equivalent sound pressure level in the area.
5.2.2.2 Ambient Noise Quality Result
The results of the noise quality tests are concentrated in the following table (Table - 5.7).
Table - 5.7: Ambient Noise Quality Monitoring Result of the Project area
Monitoring                    Sound Level dB(A)
Locations      6.00-14.00.     14.00-22.00        2'-D0O
(06-04-2003)    (06-04-2003)
NQ 1             56.7           56.05
NQ 2             58.8            58.5               -;
The n oise I evels r anged b etween 5 5.95 t o 5 8.5 d B (A) Leq. Higher noise levels were
recorded during day time and evening hours. Lower noise levels were recorded during
nighttime. The ambient noise level was found to be high during daytime due to the
commercial activities and the traffic with the vehicles blaring their horns. Lack of land
use control, poor town planning and lax implementation of noise nuisance control laws,
by the enforcing agencies, have also resulted in congestion and unwanted noise nuisance.
5.2.3 Water Quality
5.2.3.1 Water Quality Monitoring Location
No settlements were observed during the survey. Only a stream was found crossing the
project area. This stream was selected for water quality monitoring. This stream was dry
during water sample collection. Therefore, representative water sample was collected
lkm distance off this area (Chainage: 1.4 - 1.5). The description of the monitoring
location is given in Table - 5.8. water quality tests were carried out and values are
expressed in Table 5.10. Figure - 5.3 shows the water quality monitoring location.
Chapter - 5 Page 7 of 17              Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karmataka Stale Highnwsys                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
Figure 5.2: Noise Monitoring Locations
J A ~     £ 
4(1     1gJ a                              tf.r' s
1" ~ ~   ~   ~   7
--v~ ~~~-
w- F-                         Iiv  S''*
o
.;  .'< , - A.     ',- ;  :- *i   -:
I              -     a          -- >-'
At STD Booth, Yarmaras          Near Agricultural College, Askibal
Scott -  Wion
PART I-ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMErT (EIA)
-i  ,  -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Kamataka State Highways                       EnvironmntalAssesmentReport -
Improvement Project                           RachurBy-pau
Figure 5.3: Water Monitoring Location
^'~ '
~~~~~~~~~~ *.-  S   r 
. * 
'~~~~~~- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   r
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mansalapur Stream
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (E.A)



Karnataka State Highways                                        Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                             Raichur By-pass
Table - 5.8: Details of Water Quality Monitoring Locations of the Project Area
Particulars                       Monitoring Location - WQ1
Name                                                      Stream
Chainage (Krn)                                            1.4_-_1.5
Land Use                                        Agricultural and rural area
Traffic Relation                                    Non-congested area
Population                                          Sparsely populated
Road Geometry                                              Poor
Date of Sample Collection                               09-04-2003
Water Quality Standard: The drinking water standards for potable water are prescribed
under IS-10500: 1991. The parameters and their limits thereof are presented in Table -
5.9. These have been used as datum to assess the quality of water in the project area.
Surface Water Quality Results: T he r esults o f t he w ater q uality analysis o f t he f our
stations are presented in Table - 5.10. The sampling was c arried out in the month of
April 2003. The concentration of all the parameters are well within the prescribed limits
of the surface water standards. It is an indicator that water in the stream is polluted with
sewage entry into it. The variation in quantity is observed due to natural causes and
seasonal chan.es due to ingress of irrigation water. People in the vicinity use the water
supplied by t~e -:aliaty, for drinking purpose and other household chores.
Table 4.9: Drinking Water- Specification- IS 10500: 1991
SI. No I      SETSTA-JC              DESIABLE         PERMISSIBLE         REMARKS
E CARACTERISTIC                  LINnT             LIMIT
I     COLOUR, HAZEN      UNITS, 5                 25                 Extended  To 25 If
MAX                                                            Toxic Substance Are
Not Suspected   In
Absence Of Alternate
________                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sources
2     ODOUR                       Unobjectionable                    a)Test cold and when
________   ______________________________             ~~~heated
b)Test  at  several
________   _____________________________              ~~ ~~~~dilution
3     TASTE                       Agreeable                          Test to be conducted
only after safety has
________  _____________________________               ~~ ~~been  established
4     TURBIDITY N T U, Max        5                1.0
5     pH value                    6.5 to 8.5       No relaxation
6     TOTAL HARDNESS (as Ca       600              600
C03 mg/lit)
7     IRON (as Fe mg/lit, Max     0.3              1.0
8     CHLORIDES(as Cl mg/lit Max  250              1000
9     RESIDUAL FREE CHLORINE, 0.2                                    To be applicable only
mg/lit Max                                                     when    water   is
chlorinated Treated at
consumer end. When
protection against viral
infection is requir.ed,
it should be Min 0.5
________ ________________________________________________mg/lit
Chapter - 5: Page 8 of /7                     Scott Wi/so,,
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                     Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                          Raichur By-pass
SI. No        SUBSTANCE/            DESIRABLE      PERMISSIBLE         REMARKS
CHARACTERISTIC              LIMIT           LIMIT
10    DISSOLVED   SOLIDS   mg/I, 500             2000
Max
II    CALCIUM (as Ca) mg/1 ,Max  75              200
12    COPPER (as Cu ) m/l,Max   0.05             1.5
13    MANGANESE(Mn ) mg/i Max   0.1             0.3
14    SULPHATE (As So4 ), Max   200              400              May be extended up
to 400 provided (as
Mg )does not exceed
15    NITRATE (as No3)mg/I, Max  45              100              -
16    FLUORIDE (as F) mg/I, Max  1.0             1.5
17    PHENOLIC COMPOUNDS (as 0.001               0.002
C6H6OH) mg/A Max
18    ARSENIC(as As) ,mg/l      0.05             No relaxation    To be tested when
pollution is suspected
19    LEAD(as Pb) mg/l          0.05             No relaxation
20    ANIONIC DETERGENTS (as 0.2                 1.0
MBAS)mg/l
21    CHROMIUM(as Cr) mg/l      0.05             1.0              To be tested when
_____ ___  _ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____   ____ _____ ______ _  _ _ ___   pollution  is  suspected
22    MINERAL OIL mg/I          0.01             0.03
23    ALKALINITY mg/l            200             600
Table - 5.10: Water quality monitoring Result for surface water
Monitoring         Water Quality Standards      Protocol     |
Location                                        IS:
WQ I          Drinking Water   Surface   Water
j ____________  Standards      Standards
Phvvical Parameters
Atmnospheric Temp. (°C)                 31.0                                    _   _    _
Water Temp.(°C)                         28.0              5.0              5.0     3025 (Pll)
Colour (Hazen Units)                    6.00              5.0                -
Odour                           Objectionable  Unobjectionable   Unobjectionable
Turbidity(NIU)                          3.00              5.0                -
Total Solids                            745              500              2200    3025 (1964)
Suspended Solids                        215 _                              100    3025 (1964)
Total Dissolved Solids                  530              500              2100    3025 (1964)
Conductivity (pmhos/cm)        j       376.0                -             1000     3025 (P14)
Chemical Parameters                                                 ___
pH                                      8.05         6.5 - 8.5        6.5 - 8.5    3025 (Pl 1)
DO                                       0.4              6.0              4.0     3025(P38)
BOD (at 20°C for 5 days)                16.0              Nil             30.0     3025 (P44)
COD                                     14.0              Nil            250.0      2488 (P5)
Total Alkalinity                        72.0            200.0  _                  3025(1964)
Total Hardness (as CaCO3)              472.0            300.0 _        _           3025__P21
Calcium Hardness (as CaCO3)            305.0 _                 _                   3025 (P21)
Magnesium Hardness(as CaCO3)           167.0            100.0                 -    3025 (P21)
Arnmoniacal Nitrogen                    22.1                                50     3025 (P34
Sulphates (as SO4)                     174.5            200.0           1000.0     3025 (P24)
Chaprer - 5 Page 9 of 17                    Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                               Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                    Raichur By-pass
Phosphates (as P04)                  0.0 |                          5.0   3025 (P31)
Nitrates (as NO3)                    4.4           45.0            10.0   3025 (P34)
Chlorides (as Cl)                  215.7          250.0          1000.0   3025 (P32)
Fluorides (as F)                     1.4            1.0             1.5        3025
Calcium (as Ca)                     62.0           75.0               -   3025 (P40)
Magnesium (as Mg)                   24.4           30.0               -   3025 (P46)
Boron (as B)                         0.0            1.0               -        3025
Heavy Metals
Total Iron (as Fe)                  0.06            0.3             3.0        3025
Lead (as Pb)                         0.0           0.05             0.1        3025
Manganese (as Mn)                    0.0            0.1               -       APHA
Organic
Phenolic compounds                   0.0          0.001             1.0    2488 (PI)
Oils & Grease                        0.6            Nil _          10.0   3025 (P39)
MPN                                 4.00           0.00            0.00   1622 (1981)
Total Coliforms ( /lOOml)
'N                                  1.00           0.00            0.00   1622 (1981)
Faecal Coliformns ( /100ml)
ANote: All parameters are expressed in mg/l except pH and Odour and otherwise mentioned along with the parameter.
5.3    Ecological Resources
5.3.1 Flora
The ecological diversity/ bio-diversity is very poor as the project area passes through
mainlyv dry irrigated land.
5.3.1.1 Existing Trees along the bypass project area
The distribution of trees along the bypass project area varies in number and also in
species. Totally, 7 trees were recorded on Left Hand Side (LHS) within ROW of the
bypass project area from Km 0.0 (PWD Km stone 196.7 on Raichur - Shaktinagar road
SH - 13 and link 1A) to 7.6 (PWD Km stone 5.5) passing through Yermaras, Raichur,
mansalapur, Eklaspur and Askihal villages. Only 7 trees need to be removed because
their girth measured above 30 cm (Table - 5.11).
Totally, 8 t rees w ere r ecorded o n R ight H and S ide (RHS) w ithin R OW o f t he b ypass
project area from Km 0.0 (PWD Km stone 196.7 on Raichur - Shaktinagar road SH - 13
and link LA) to 7.6 (PWVD Km stone 5.5) passing through Yermaras, Raichur,
mansalapur, Eklaspur and Askihal villages. Only 8 trees need to be cut because their girth
measured above 30 cm (Table - 5. 12).
Only one tree (girth size - 60 cm) is located at the centre of the by-pass project area at
chainage 4.0 to 5.0.
According to the girth size, number of plants along the project corridor are as follows:
i.     >30 - 60 cm = 4 in numbers (0 on left side, 3 on right side and I at the centre),
ii.    >60 - 90 cm = 3 in numbers (3 on left side and 0 on right side),
iii.   >90 - 120 cm = 7 in numbers (3 on left side and 4 on right side) and
iv.    >120 -150 cm = 2 in numbers (I on left side and 1 on right side)
Totally, 16 number of trees is to be removed for the upgradation of the proposed bypass.
Chapter - 5: Page 10 of 17              Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                          Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                Raichur By-pass
Table - 5. 11: Distribution of trees per Km within 30ms of ROW - on LHS of the
By-pass Road from Km Stone 196.7 on link 1A to Km Stone 5.5 on link 1B
Chainage (in                       Girth Size (in cms)                    Total No.
kms)                                                                  of trees to
From     I  To     >30 - 60  >60 - 90    > 90 -120    >120 - 150   > 150     be cut
Km Stone 196.7
0.0       1.0        0          0           0            0          0          0
1.0       2.0        0         0           2             0          0         2
2.0       3.0        0          1           1            0          0          2
3.0       4.0        0          0          0             0          0          0
4.0       5.0        0          0           0            1          0          1
5.0       6.0        0          2          0             0          0          2
6.0       7.0        0          0           0            0          0         0
7.0       7.6        0          0          0             0          0          0
Km Stone 5.50
Total            0          3          3             1          0          7
Note: For cutting (including removal of stumps and roots) of trees the girth above 30 cm have been considered and
measured in terms of number according to size given below:
i) Above 30 cm to 60 cm; ii) Above 60 cm to 90 cm; iii) Above 90 cm to 120 cm; iv) Above 120 cm to 150 cm; v) Above
150 cm. The girth of the tree has been measured at a height of I m above the ground level.
Table - 5. 12: Distribution of trees per Km within 30ms of ROW - on RHS of the
By-pass Road from Km Stone 196.7 on link IA to Km Stone 5.5 on link 1B
Chainage (in                       Girth Size (in crns)                   Total No.
kms)                                                                  of trees to
From       To      >30 - 60  >60 - 90    > 90 -120    >120 -150    > 150     be cut
Km Stone 196.7    ____                                                       ____
0.0       1.0        0          0           0            0          0          0
1.0      2.0         0         0           0             0          0         0
2.0       3.0        0          0           0            0          0          0
3.0       4.0        0          0           1            0          0          1
4.0       5.0        I          0           1            0          0          2
5.0       6.0        0          0           1            0          0          1
6.0       7.0        2          0           1            1          0          4
7.0       7.6        0          0           0            0          0          0
Km Stone 5.50                _                     1
Total            3          0           4            1          0          8
Note For cutting (including removal of stumps and roots) of trees the girth above 30 cm have been considered and
measured in terms of number according to size given below:
Above 30 cm to 60 cm; ii) Above 60 cm to 90 cm; iii) Above 90 cm to 120 cm; iv) Above 120 cm to 150 cm. v) Above
150 cm. The girth of the tree has been measured at a height of I m above the ground level
Chapter - S: Page 11 of 17                       Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Table - 5. 13: Distribution of trees per Km within 30ms of ROW - on Centre of the
By-pass Road from Km Stone 196.7 on link 1A to Km Stone 5.5 on link lB
Chainage (in                Girth Size (in cms)             Total No.
kms)                                                    of trees to
From I   To    >30 - 60  >60 - 90  > 90 -120  >120 -150  >150  be cut
Km Stone 196.7                           1
0.0     1.0      1       00                  0         0       1
5.3.1.2 Existing Tree species along the project area
Existing tree species in the COT/ROW (30 m) of the bypass project area are listed in the
Table - 5.14. Few trees recorded along the project area belong to the species of Acacia
auriculiformnis, Acaciaferruginea a nd A zadirachta i ndica. In the s tretch along the b y-
pass road trees were in sparse distribution.
Table - 5.14: Existing Tree species along the project area
Botanical/Scientific Name        Family             Local Name
Accia auriculiformis        Mimosaceae           Bangali Jali
Acaciaferruginea           Mimosaceae            Bannimara
Azadirachta indica           Meliaceae              Bevu
5.3.2 Fauna
The faunal population constitutes mainly domestic mammals including cattle, goats.
sheep and dogs. Other faunal population includes sparrows, owls, crows, kites and
parakeets under avian population and rats, snakes and land monitors under reptiles. No
wild life is seen in project areas except wolves and wild boars appear rarely in the habitat
area. The project road does not pass through any sensitive area.
5.5    Social Environment - Human Use Values
The salient features of the project road have been depicted below. No settlements were
found along the project area.
5.5.1  Land Use
In Raichur the project area passes through dry land. By-pass Junctions like Raichur -
Shaktinagar Road on link IA and Raichur - Kalmala Road on link 1B represent traffic-
congested areas. The total area proposed for the project is approximately 55.05 acres. The
land use pattem in Raichur town is presented in Table - 5.15.
Table - 5.15: Land Use Pattern in the Raichur District
SI. No.       Land Type          Area (in Ha)
I     Irrigated Area                 33,775
2     Sowing Area                   1,58,514
3     Cultivable Land
4     Forest Land                    34,414
5     Non-forest Land                 9,713
6     Non-cultivable Land             3,253
Chapter - 5: Page 12 of /7             Scott Wglso,i
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
Table - 5.16: Land acquisition for the project area
Land Acquisition
Total land to be acquired (Acres)                                55.05
% of irrigated land for Bypass road                               0
% of dry land for Bypass road                                    100
Area of irrigated land for Bypass road (Acres)                   Nil
Area of dry land for Bypass road (Acres)                         55.05
Total PAFs being affected for Bypass road                         58
Total PAPs being affected for By-pass road                       461
Residential layout getting affected due to Bypass road (Sq. m)    Nil
Bore wells getting affected due to Bypass road                   Nil
5.5.2 Crops of the project area
During kharif thur, greengram, cotton, chilly and onion are cultivated and maize is
cultivated during rabi. The main food crop is Jowar and the main commercial crops
include soya bean and ground nut (Table - 5.17). Other food crops include bajra and
paddy.
Table - 5. 17: Types Crops, Production and their cultivation area (in Hectares) in
Raichur District (2002-03)
Crops         I Production (in Tonnes)  Cultivation area (in Hectares)
Paddy                                  430342.6                        85813
Bajra                                  28603.2                         66448
Maize                                   1193.4                          1641
Millets                                  147.6                           720
Total Cereals          _                                               22000
Total pulses           _                                               11450
Groundnut                               9807.0                         26485
Soya bean                              23487.8                         40349
Total Oil seeds                                                        17675
Total Commercial Crops                                                  2400
5.6   Social Environment
Many of the major changes in the environmental set up have been induced by society.
Some of these have arrested deterioration in the ecological systems. Some made the
system i ncreasingly v ulnerable. A 11 impulses in this regard originated from within the
emerging social systems. This has been true as much in Kamataka as in all other places
of the world.
Propensities in this regard have, however, been different between the societies, govemed
as these are by their respective demography, l iteracy, economic o ccupations and b asic
amenities. All these features of the social environment of the study area have been
described in the following sections.
Chapter - 5 Page 13 of 17             .Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                               Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                    Raichur By-pass
5.6.1 Demographic Profile
The demographic features of Raichur are depicted in the following paragraphs.
5.6.1.1 Population
The total population of the study area is 1,66,880. Out of these, 28.673 persons belong to
scheduled c aste and 2,559 p ersons (of o nly 2 v illages) b elong to scheduled tribe. The
population of the study area is presented in Table - 5.18. The female percentage was
found to be 47% in Yarmaras, 48.5% in Raichur, 49.9% in Mansalapur, 47.9% in
Eklaspur and 49.9% i'n Askihal villages.
Table - 5.18: Population of the Study Area (as per 1991 Census)
SI. No.     Persons                         Population
Yarmaras   Raichur  Mansalapur  Eklaspur   Askihal
I         Total           2011   157551        2419      1594      3305
Males           1065    81213        1212       831      1656
Females           946    76338        1207       763      1649
2          SC                  I_                                   __
2_____     SCTotal         393    25270         871       576      1563
Males            220    12927         437       302       782
Females           173    12343         434       274       781
3           ST
3_______  Total              0     2377          182        0         0
Male                     1249          89         0        0
Female              0     1128          93         0        0
4         Others
Total           1618   129904        1366      1018      1742
Male             845    67037         686       529      874
Female            773    62867         680       489      868
Source: Census Data, Deputy Comnnissioner's Office, Raichur
5.6.1.2 Literacy Status of the Population
Illiteracy was found to be high in the study area. Literacy level was found to be less than
50% in most of the villages. Literacy was found to be 47.2% in Yarmaras, 51.3% in
Raichur, 15.7% in Mansalapur, 25% in Eklaspur and 41% in Askihal villages. The female
literacy was found to be 34.5% in Yarmaras, 39% in Raichur, 22% in Mansalapur, 21.1%
in Eklaspur and 29% in Askihal villages. The literacy status is presented in the following
Table - 5.19.
Table - 5.19: Literacy Status of the Population (as per 1991 Census)
SI. No.                          Literates in Villages
Persons   Yarmaras    Raichur  Mansalapur  Eklaspur     Askihal
1     Total            949     80813         379       399        1353
2     Male             622     49215         295       315         961
3     Female           327     31598           84        84        392
Source: Census Data, Deputy Commissioner's Office, Raichur
Chapter - 5. Page /4 of! 7              Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                     Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                           Raichur By-pass
5.6.1.3 Occupational Pattern
People near the project area are a mixed population of agriculturists, labourers and
businessmen. The type of workers and their work force participation types are given in
Tables - 5.20. Totally, 46,629 persons are main workers, 863 persons are marginal
workers and 1,19,458 persons are non-workers. Out of 47,933 male workers are 42,851 in
number and 5,082 are female workers.
Table - 5. 20: Occupation Pattern of workers in Raichur District (as per 1991 Census)
Village      Total Maih    Main Workers -Industrial Workers    Marginal       Non-workers
Workers       Cultivators     Agricultural        Workers
labourers
M       F       M      F       M          F       M       F       M        F
Yarmnaras      492     196      67     9        154       93       4      69     569      751
Raichur      36209    6611    1490   213        607      436     210     423   44794    69304
Mansalapur     666     557     153    36        446      510       1      36     545      614
Eklaspur       459     366     112    38        186      323       0      77     372      320
Askihal        742     331      49    13        187      222      16      27      898    1291
Total        38568    8061    1871 1 309       1580     1584     231     632   47178    72280
Note: T - Total, - Males and F- Females  Source: Census Data, Deputy Commissioner's Office, Raichur
5.6.1.4 Amenities
All the villages are adequately served by the basic amenities like educational institutions.
The number and hierarchy of the amenities are in consonance with the size of the
settlement in the study area. Totally there are 3 Postal and Telegraph Centres, 2 public
telephone booths, 5 bus stops and 7 water resources for drinking water purpose. Ground
water quality i s n ot s uitable f or d rinking p urpose. T herefore, p eople are d ependent o n
public water supplies and hand pumps for the drinking water. Still water problem exists
in the villages because of insufficient supply of municipal water and non-working of few
hand pumps. All the villages in the study area are accessible by bus. There is a bus stand
in each village. All villages lack medical facilities and people are dependent on nearby
Raichur main town for these facilities. Amenities available for people near the project
area are listed in the following Table - 5.21.
Table - 5. 21: List of Amenities in Raichur (as per 1991 Census)
Village       Educational    Medical      Drinking Water    Post and   Communication    Pu blic
.______           Telegraph                 Telephone
PS    MS     HS            W    TW   HP    TK                 Bus Stop
Yarmraras     I      1     1      0      1    0     0    0       1             1 I
Raichur       2      0     0      0      0    1     1    0       0             1            0
Mansalapur    I      I     0      0      I    I     I    0       1             1            0
Eklaspur      I      1     0      0      1    0     1    1       0             1            0
Askihal                    _   1   1    0    1   0 0     0       1
Note: P.S. =Primary School; MS. = Mliddle School; HS = High School; W  Well; TW = Tube Well; HP = Hand
Pump; TK = Tank
Source: Census Data, Deputy Comrnmissioner's Office, Raichur
5.7    Economic Profile of the Region
Urban outgrowths are projecting higher as there is linear extension of existing area along
the route. The people are transforming themselves by using the urban facilities and by
participating in the urbanising social process.
Chapter- 5 Page 15of l7                      Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                    Raichur By-pass
5.7.1 Major Functions of the district - Raichur
The district plays a major role in the development of the region. It acts as a collection
point of diverse commodities raised in different parts of the surrounding tracts and the
taluks. Processing of the same materials take place in this district and the finished goods
are exported to different centres of consumption. The point to note is that the functions of
this district are intimately related to, but not exclusively determined by the economy of
the immediate neighbourhood.
5.8    Utilities and Structures along the Project Area
5.8.1 Regional and Local Utilities along the Project Routes
A variety of regional utilities like Telephone p oles, Optical F ibre C ables, and E lectric
Poles, Telephone boxes transformers etc fall within the ROW. Road widening will
involve removal and relocation of very few of these utilities. The total number of such
utilities falling within the Project Corridor of Impact (COI) is listed in the Tables - 5.22.
But none of the utilities serving local needs like lampposts, hand pumps, water taps and
bore wells fall within the ROW.
Table 5.22: Regional Utilities (Magnitude indicated in Nurmbers)
Optical  Telephone  Telephone  Power    Electric
Fibre     Box       Poles   Transform    Poles
Cable                          ers
line
0        0          1                   3
5.8.2 Religious and other Sensitive Structures along the Project Routes
No religious or sensitive structures were found along the project route.
5.9    Public Health
No major diseases in the form of pulmonary and respiratory trouble due to vehicular
pollution and traffic movement have been observed. The common diseases seen in the
area are cases of common cold, influenza, diarrhea, typhoid, dysentery and other gastro-
intestinal disorders. Nutrition related problems and ailments due to old age and infirmity
are also observed in the study area. It should be emphasised that sanitary facility is
partially provided in the district.
5.10 Accident Hazards and Safety
In the area of intersection of by-pass with major link IA and lB, the existing road is only
a single lane and moreover congestion has resulted in reducing the carriageway width.
Acute-angle intersections, lack of proper road signage and dumping of leftover
construction material are common sights on the roads. Improper storage of construction
material also poses a major threat to the road users and cause accidents. Lack of proper
bus-bays and parking facilities also pose a major obstacle to the smooth flow of traffic in
urban and rural areas. The existing bus stops are also not properly constructed at proper
locations keeping in mind the terrain and curve of the road.
One of the constraints in identifying the accident-prone locations is the lack of authentic
database and statistics on the traffic accidents that have occurred in the corridors. The
Chapter - 5: Page 16 of l7              Scott Wilson
PARTI - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
consultant conducted specific junction surveys and visual observations along with
discussions with the local populace for identifying the location of bus bays, parking
facilities and other requisite road furniture.
5.11  Aesthetics
The project by-pass lacks the aesthetic quality at present. The landscape in the form of
schematic presentation of plantation provided in EMP, adds to the aesthetic wealth of the
project road.
5.12 Key Environmental Issues of Raichur By-pass
The following are the key environmental issues of Raichur By-pass project area:
*  Air quality in the project area is within the standard limit except SPM (Suspended
Particulate Matter). Air pollutants and noise levels are high at road junctions.
*  No Open wells or Tube wells are found along the project area.
*  No cross drainage structures - culverts or bridges were observed. Hence the proposed
bypass road requires suitable and adequate drainage system.
*  The project area passes through only dry irrigated land.
*  No settlements are found along the project road area.
*  Municipal water supply is the common source of drinking water supply. But water
supply is restricted to few hours per day and the populace is facing the problem of
drinking water supply. Water bodies, hand pumps or bore wells were not found along
the project road route.
*  Plantation was found to be very poorly presented.
*  No natural forest area is involved in the by-pass road cons5=C L No significant
impact on ecological resources is foreseen.
*  There are no rare and endangered animal or plant species on either side of the project
road within or outside ROW.
*  There are no Wildlife/Bird Sanctuaries, National Parks, Zoos, Wetlands, Marshy
land, and Breeding/Nesting sites on either side of the project road within or outside
ROW.
*  There are no archaeologically important monuments, art and cultural sites on either
side of the project road within or outside ROW.
*  There are no corrmercial/industrial units existing along the road project area.
*  There are no specified dumpsites along the project road. Least mitigation measures
may be required to overcome this problem.
Chapter - 5- Page /7 of 17             Scott Wilson
PART I -ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER- 6
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA) AND MITIGATION
MEASURES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION                          PARTICULARS                         PAGE NO.
6.1          Introduction                                                 I
6.2          Impacts from Location Potential                              1
6.2.1        Impacts of gravity flow Irrigation Systems                   1
6.2.2         Large Reservoirs behind Dams                                1
6.2.3         Consequences of Deforestation                               2
6.2.4        Improper Road Drainage Systems                               2
6.2.5         Effects of Growing Economy                                  2
6.3          Impacts from Road Designs                                    2
6.3.1        Impacts from Altered Designs                                 3
6.3.2        Impacts from Diversion from Current Use of Land              3
6.3.3        Impact on People due to land acquisition and Displacement    3
6.3.4        Impacts on Regional and local utilities                      4
6.3.5        Impact on Local Religious Structures                         4
6.3.6        Impacts on other Community Assets                            4
6.3.7        Impacts on Avenue Trees                                      4
6.3.8        Impacts from the choice of Conszracdo! Marerials             5
6.3.9         Accidents and Road Safety                                   6
6.4          Impacts during Construction                                  6
6.4.1        Impact on Land Resources                                     7
6.4.2        Impact on Soil Quality                                       7
6.4.3        Impact on Water Resources                                    7
6.4.4        Impact on Water Quality                                      8
6.4.5        Impact on Air Quality                                        8
6.4.6        Impact on Noise Level                                        9
6.4.7        Impact on Biological Environment                             9
6.4.8        Impacts from Sanitation and Waste Disposal                   9
6.4.9         Equipment Storage and Machinery Maintenance                 10
6.4.10        Traffic Management and Safety Aspects                       10
6.4.11        Employment Opportunities                                    10
6.5          Impacts during Operation Phase                               11
6.5.1        Impact on Land Use                                           I 1
6.5.2         Inpact on Air Quality                                       11
6.5.3        Impact on Noise Level                                        12
6.5.4        Impact on Ecological Resources                               12
6.5.5         Accident hazards and Safety                                 12
6.5.6         Aesthetics                                                  13
6.6           Social Environment                                          13
6.6.1         Positive Attributes                                         13
Scott Wilson
PART 1- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTASSESSMENT(EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
SECTION                          PARTICULARS                         PAGE NO.
6.6.1.1      Proper Road Connectivity                                     13
6.6.1.2      Employment Opportunities                                     13
6.6.1.3      Education                                                    13
6.6.1.4      Public Health                                                13
6.6.2        Negative Attributes                                          13
6.7          Evaluation of Potential Impacts                              1 3
6.8          Preparation of EMP                                           15
T ables
Table 6.1     Magnitude of impact on Trees along the By-pass Alignment    4
Table 6.2     Evaluation of Enviromnental features with different Scenarios  1 5
Table 6.3    Impact Matrix for the Project - Raichur Bypass with and      -
without Mitigation Measures                            .
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER- 6
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA) AND MITIGATION
MEASURES
6.1   Introduction
Roads may cause negative impacts upon environment in many different ways. The
objective of this chapter is to discern those negative impacts that are contextually
possible in the project under consideration and to suggest the required mitigation
measures. Care has been taken also to identify the prospects of positive impacts and of
the measures that are likely to enhance the quality of the given environment.
Road development projects generally cause impacts in four specific situations. These are
Impacts from Location,
Impacts from Project Design,
Impacts during Construction Phase and
Impacts during Operation Phase.
6.2   Impacts from Location
The objective of KSHIP is to improve several existing road links, which are distributed
across the State of K=z=-ka The major features of social action influencing the
alterations in the '_-Nc1c. '-c;I r-ges appear to suggest the following specific processes:
Improper practices m =e command areas of gravity flow irrigation,
Large Reservoirs 4eIISnd d's,
Extensive deforestation,
Improper road drainage systems and
Effects of growing Mining Economy
6.2.1 Impacts of Gravity Flow Irrigation Systems
All major command areas of Karnataka, as in many other places of India, function
through uncontrolled delivery of water without laying proper drainage facilities. This
leads to the rise of ground water table above the level of the sub-grades that was assumed
in the original road design. In some extreme cases, the excess water from the nearby
agricultural fields overflows across the roads. Both these situations cause damage to the
road-pavements on account of damaged sub-grades.
The present project alignment has no such problems because it is the new aligmnent
passing through dry land.
6.2.2 Large Reservoirs behind Dams
No reservoirs were found near the project alignment. Therefore there would be no
overflow of backwater of the reservoir and no effect on cross drainage structures in
future.
Chapter- 6: Page I of 15              Scot Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)
0       0            0           0            0             m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
6.2.3 Consequences of deforestation
The project alignrment passes through dry private land wherein very few trees (16 in
number) were noticed. These trees belong to local species such as Acacia and
Azadirachtha. Therefore the impact on trees will be less. The PWD has envisaged a
comprehensive tree plantation programme along the road and has also made budgetary
allocation for taking up afforestation programme in the degraded area in the vicinity of
the project corridor in due consultation and participation of the State Forest Departrnent.
The present tree afforestation programme involves planting 200 trees per km. 100 trees
are to be planted per'km on each side of the road with a spacing of 10 m between each
tree. Local and indigenous tree species like Azadirachta indica, Tamarindus indica,
Mangifera indica, Acacia nilotica, Acacia auriculiformis, Albizia lebek, Ficus spp., are
grown in the Forest Department Nurseries. Fast growing species like Gliricidia sepium,
Dalbergia sissoo, etc., are also being raised in the Forest nurseries. Indigenous and
endemic species like Prosopis juliflora, Euphorbia tirucalli, Justica adhadota,
Caesalpinia bonduc and Bougainvillea sp. can be planted adjacent to the tree line.
Adequate budgetary allocation has been made for the plantation and subsequent
maintenance of the plantations in the EMP budget. Plantations of tall flowery trees in the
rotary of major intersections will also be undertaken for increasing the aesthetics of the
surrounding area.
6.2.4 Improper Road Drainage System
The proposed project alignment is new and no cross drainage structures were found
except a f-w =-rhen cross drainage structures for the flow of irrigated water. These
earthe s==c-res sill be replaced with proper drainage structures at required places
alor. the a'-ment.
It is important to note that nearly all parts of Karnataka are windy and suffer from aeolian
erosion, especially during dry weather months. Regular grubbing and dressing of earthen
shoulders of the new pavement to establish and maintain a gentle slope away from the
carriageway can be an effective mitigation measure. This has been taken care of in the
proposed road designs.
6.2.5 Effects of Growing Mining Economy
The project alignment is far away from mining areas. Hence, dispersal of suspended
particulate matter from loaded vehicles is less. The carriage vehicles often transport
materials other than mining materials.
Specific mitigation measures in terms of road furniture have also been proposed in the
engineering design. The PWD could interact with the Police department and carry out
random checks during the operation phase to prevent over loaded vehicles from plying on
the roads.
6.3   Impacts from Road Designs
The design criteria for roads under upgradation have been noted in Chapter-3 of this
report. Diverse types of impacts that can arise on account of implementing the proposed
design are as follows:
Chapter - 6. Page 2 of 15             Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Impacts from Altered Design
Impacts from Diversion from Current Use of Land
Impact on people due to land acquisition and displacement
Impacts on Regional and Local Utilities
Impacts on Local Religious Structures
Impacts on Other Community Assets
Impacts on Avenue Trees
Impacts from the Choice of Construction Materials
Accidents and Road Safety
Detailed explanations on all such impacts are noted below.
6.3.1 Impacts from Altered Design
Various types of alterations of the road designs and improvements upon many
components of the existing road have been suggested in the Final Design of the project
routes. The magnitude of alteration with reference to Road Over-Bridge (ROB) was
considered. No other alterations are required. But instead of Over Bridge level crossing
may be provided at the juncture of by-pass alignment with the railway line. The required
mitigation measure is to implement it in the design with utmost care during construction
phase.
6.3.2 Impacts from Diversion from Current Use of Land
In order to implement the altered road design, some land is to be acquired. This will
cause diversion of land from current use. The required mitigation measure is to follow the
land acquisition procedure as per land acquisition Act (1894) detailed out in Chapter 2
and to implement the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) according to the State's policy on
entitlement. The details on both these issues have been presented in a separate report on
Resettlement Action Plan.
The land acquisition involved is about 55.05 acres of land belong to private owners,
requiring acquisition. The details of land acquisition, ownership and land use are covered
in the Phase II addendum to the Resettlement Action Plan.
6.3.3 Impact on people due to land acquisition and displacement
For the construction of new road private lands in the form of agricultural lands are getting
affected and will be acquired as per the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. A comprehensive
Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R & R) policy has been formulated, presented in a
separate volume, detailing the benefits to be extended to the Project Affected Persons
under this project. Since many people are dependent on the agricultural land for their
livelihood, the shifting from the current place will affect their sustenance. Based on the R
& R policy a detailed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) has been prepared as per the
World B ank Guidelines described i n their Operational D irective - OD 4.30. The RAP
addresses the issues pertaining to displacement of Project Affected Persons and their
rehabilitation and resettlement. The total number of Project affected Persons (PAPs) is
461 and the total number of Project Affected Families (PAFs) is 58.
Chapter- 6: Page 3 of 15              Scott WIlsoi
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                   Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                        Raichur By-pass
6.3.4 Impacts on Regional and Local utilities
A variety of regional utilities serving the local populace needs are currently placed within
the ROW. The details of these utilities that are falling in the Corridor of Impact are
presented in Table - 5.21.
The required mitigation measure would be to instruct the relevant authorities of local
utilities in advance to shift those before construction starts to avoid disruption of regional
services. It is the responsibility of the PWD to make the required land available to the
contractor free of all ehcumbrances before construction begins.
6.3.5  Impacts on Local Religious Structures
There are no religious structures located within the ROW.
6.3.6 Impacts on Other Community Assets
No community assets like parts of land of Colleges or Schools or Bus Stands were found
within or outside the ROW of the project alignment.
6.3.7 Impacts on Avenue Trees
On account of the developmental some trees existing within ROW (30m) would
unavoidably be felled. The magnitude of such impacts is discemible from Table - 6.1. It
appears that totally 16 trees are to be felled. The trees that are located in the Corridor of
Impact (COI) are the only ones that are to be felled. The felling of these trees is
inevitable.
Table - 6.1: Magnitude of impact on Trees along the by-pass alignment from Km
Stone 196.7 on link IA to Km Stone 5.50 on link 1B (Magnitude indicated in
Numbers)
Road Side                    Girth Size (in cms)                Total No. of trees to be
>30 - 60  >60 - 90  > 90 - 120  >120 - 150  > 150          cut
LHS          0         3          3           1        0               7
RHS          3         0          4           1        0               8
Centre        1         0          0          0         0               1
Total        3         3          7           2         1              16
LHS = Left Hand Side; RHS = Right Hand Side
Note: For cutting (including removal of stumps and roots) of trees the girth above 30 cm have been considered and
measured in terms of number according to size given below:
i) Above 30 cm to 60 cm; ii) Above 60 cm to 90 cm; iii) Above 90 cm to 120 cm; iv) Above 120 cm to 150 cm; v) Above
150 cm. The girth of the tree has been measured at a height of I m above the ground level.
In the stretch along the by-pass road trees were in sparse distribution. A few trees
recorded along the project area belong to the species of Acacia auriculiformis, Acacia
ferruginea and Azadirachia indica.
No cost effective engineering solution other than embankment raising and cross drainage
structures could be envisaged as this option has been suggested in low lying area that are
often prone to inundation during monsoons and due to uncontrolled discharge of
irrigation waters.
Chapter - 6 Page 4 of 15                   Scott Wilson1
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
The required mitigation measures are many indeed. The permission to fell trees would
have to be obtained from the designated authority. Then nurseries will have to be
established with the help of the Department of Forest. Simultaneously appropriate
institutions will have to be entrusted with the job of replanting of avenue trees as per the
rules of the MoEF and for their subsequent maintenance. The procedure has been fully
stated in Chapter 2. The views expressed by the local people during Public Consultation
(see Chapter 7) should be noted in this regard. The involvement of the village populace
and the village panchayats in the plantation programme will be an added advantage.
As recommended by the MoEF, the most effective species to absorb the various elements
of traffic related pollutants are, Azadirachta indica (Bevu or Neem), Tamarindus indica
(Hunsemara or Tamarind), Ficus benghalensis (Aladamara or Banyan), Terminalia
chebula (Hallalemara or Arjun) and Dalbergia sissoo (White Beete or Shisham). All
these species were found to be the major constituents of the existing avenue plantations.
These are also the preferred species in the a venue-plantations by the Karnataka Forest
Department. The Forest Department is also planting Acacia auriculiformis (prevents soil
erosion & provides fuel-wood), Albizia lebek & Albizia amara (shade giving ornamental
trees) and Mangifera indica (fruit bearing tree) along the roadsides.
The PWTD is also considering planting Justica Adhadota (Adasala or Adusoge), Jatropha
tanjorensis (Gavadal or Bettada haralu), Caesalpinia bonduc (Gajaga), Prosopisjuliflora,
Euphorbia tirucalli and Bougainvillaea sp. as the second tier. All these species are used
as live hedges in the villages and are well adapted to dry conditions.
The programme of planting avenue trees will be taken up immediately after the
Construction phase with the participation of the State Forest Department.
6.3.8 Impacts from the Choice of Construction Materials
The thickness of the different components of the road-formation would under go
modifications in tune with the bearing strengths of the available materials. Since the
nature of available materials would vary between regions, the total thickness of the
formations is likely to vary between the locations of the project roads. However, careful
supervision is warranted while using the diverse materials. In this regard, three
observations noted below may appear pertinent. All related to the choice of materials.
Gravel & Borrow Pit
In the first instance, one should note that soil with gravel (moorum) occur extensively
over nearly all parts of Karnataka, but is generally associated with rather high clay
fractions. Proper homogenisation with sand would add to the stability of the road
embankments. Connected to this situation is the location of borrow-materials. Borrow
pits are generally located along the road corridors. Water accumulates in these pits during
the rainy season, which in tum can act as disease vectors. Proper reclamation of the pits
would be environmentally desirable. The locations of the borrow material, gravel and
sand are listed in Table-3.2 of Chapter 3.
Chapter - 6- Page 5 of/5               Scot Wilsoni
PARTI - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Use of Alternative Materials
Apart from moorum, options exist on the use of other materials for embankment
construction. These altemative sources are fly ash from thermal power stations.
Transportation of fly ash requires very careful handling to avoid adding to the load of
suspended particulate matter along the routes. Use of slurry in covered trucks is the
required mitigation measure. But the travel distance would be a limiting factor on the use
of fly ash. Raichur thermal power station is the major source of fly ash and the average
haulage distance from Source to project road would be about 20kms.
Mines
All the mines and quarries to be used for obtaining construction materials for the project
roads are licensed units. Due to increased production, some negative impacts can be
apprehended. However, it would be appropriate to inform the Karnataka State Pollution
Control Board (KSPCB) about the specific mines used for obtaining construction
materials, since these are in their purview. Decision should also be taken in consultation
with the K SPCB o n the p roposed location o f stone c rushers. If the stone crushers get
located near the construction site, then adequate measures must be taken to control dust
pollution and noise level. The contractors should also purchase the construction materials
from licensed quarries only. In case new mines are to be utilised by the contractor proper
clearance and licenses should be obtained from the Karnataka State Pollution Control
Board and the Department of Mines and Geology respectively. The quarries and mines
are listed in Table 3-2 of Chapter 3 of this Report.
6.3.9 Accidents and Road Safety
The traffic studies have identified areas with heavy traffic intensity and acute-angle
intersections, which require junction improvements and widening of roads i. congested
stretches. The road improvement plan has suggested improvement of junction points and
improvements in the vertical profile. Sound construction management practices and
traffic management plans have been formulated for implementation during the
construction phase. Road markers, safety appurtenances and safety signage in
construction area and advance warning signs have been included in the construction
management aspects. For smooth traffic movement and safety during operation phase, the
provision o fs peed breakers and raised reflective pavement markers (RPM) have been
included in the designs.
6.4   Impacts during Construction
Several types of negative impacts upon environment may happen during construction of
roads, primarily due to negligent practices. Responsible supervision is needed to
avoid/minimise and to mitigate such adversities. The contexts of such impacts are as
listed below. Each of these requires specific mitigation measures.
Impact on Land Resources
Impact on Soil Quality
Impact on Water Resources
Impact on Water Quality
Impact on Air Quality
Impact on Noise Level
Chapter - 6: Page 6 of /5             Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Impact o n B iological E nvironment - Impacts from S anitation a nd Waste disposal, and
other impacts
6.4.1 Impact on Land Resources
Here, use of the instruments of land acquisition would be unavoidable. Complete
reinstatement of the original condition after removal of borrow materials will not be
possible. However, dressing the sides of the borrow pit to create a slope consistent with
the level of the adjoining land would be better than leaving the hollow altogether
unattended. As a supplementary action, the local villagers may be encouraged, through
public consultation, to use these pits for compost making. The top soil in most of these
borrow areas would be protected/reinstated during and after the quarrying operations.
6.4.2 Impact on Soil Quality
Soils of eastern and northern Karnataka plateau are prone to erosion due to their
characteristics. Scouring of soil is expected along the roadside earthen drains leading to
siltation. Periodic maintenance of the drains is the required mitigation measure. In the
areas prone to soil erosion, clearing and grubbing, excavation, borrow and fill operations
shall be limited to the extent practicable.
The mitigation measures to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation include:
Designated storage sites for fill material and adequate stockpiling to prevent erosion and
runoff related problems.
Construction of temporary sediment basins, slope drains and use of temporary mulches,
fabrics or other control devices or methods necs.-    -to control erosion and
sedimentation.
Cut and fill slopes shall be seeded and turfed as requiled depending upon the site
condition and design requirements.
Embankment stabilisation will be undertaken as specified in the contract clause by
prudent selection of fill material to prevent erosion.
The embankment slopes will be vegetated with native seed mix to prevent soil erosion.
Good construction practices coupled with responsible supervision and with the
implementation of mitigation measures explained above will reduce soil erosion and run
off during monsoon and unexpected showers.
Construction activities for culverts and bridges should be limited to dry seasons.
6.4.3 Impact on Water Resources
During construction of cross drainage structures care should be taken to prevent erosion
of soil. Proper management of excavation materials, construction debris, site wastes and
run off is required to protect the stream ecosystem.
Roads can act as dams, impeding free run off along the sloping terrain. It would be
necessary to place adequate number of culverts with carefully designed capacities to
avoid adverse impacts on water resources. It is also necessary to note that accumulation
of water on one side of the road damages the road structures. Establishing roadside drains
leading to natural drainage channels will prevent water accumulation near the road
formation. Hence all temporary cross drainage structures and roadside drains should have
Chapter- 6 Page 7ofI5                 Scott Wilson
PART I- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmenial Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
adequate capacity to discharge the run off from probable highest rainfall in 24 hours as
per the IMD Data-book.
No dismantled material like earth, stone and site debris will be allowed in the stream and
canal bed. This is to prevent any hindrance in the stream flow and pollution of the canals
and streams.
6.4.4 Impact on Water Quality
No permanent impact is anticipated on water quality due to the project. Construction
activities may temporarily deteriorate surface water quality near the alignment through
increase in turbidity as well as in oil and grease. Some of the important mitigation
measures are as follows:
All w ater and other liquid wastes arising from construction activities will be properly
disposed off and will not be let into any water body.
Littering or unauthorised discharge will not be permitted.
Permission of the engineer and the concemed regulatory authorities will be obtained for
disposal of the wastes at the designated disposal point.
The stream courses and drains will be kept free from any dumping of solid wastes and
earth material.
All the natural and artificial water bodies will be protected from possible modes of
pollution like runoff ofthe earth material to the water course, blockage of drains and
culverts due to spillage of materials and other drain off which contribute to siltation.
Details of temporary drainage system (including all surface channels, sediment traps,
washing basins and discharge pits) w'il be subraiemd for approval prior to commencing of
construction works.
6.4.5 Impact on Air Quality
Moderate air quality impacts during the construction phase of the project can be
anticipated due to the uses of construction machinery and fugitive dust generation in and
around the construction site due to vehicular movement and handling of materials. It has
been noted in that the SPM and RPM levels are generally high in Karnataka and well
beyond the prescribed limits in the project area. Unauthorised entry of vehicles into the
construction site is of particular concern in the urban areas during construction. The
required mitigation measures are given below.
Asphalt and hot mix plants and stone crusher plants should be located at least 500-metres
away from inhabited urban and rural settlements. These units should be located in
downwind direction to the nearby settlements. Guidelines issued by the State Pollution
Control Board on establishment of Stone Crusher Units would be adhered to.
Trucks carrying earth, sand or stone should be covered with tarpaulin or canvas sheets to
avoid spilling,
Fugitive dust should be controlled by sprinkling water, and
Regular maintenance of machinery and equipment should be carried out.
Designated storage area for construction material like gravel, blue metal, earth and sand
should be demarcated to ensure safe and accident free utilisation of raw material.
Diligent supervision by the PIU and the Supervision consultant should be carried out to
ensure implementation of suggested measures and rectify lapses of the contractor.
Chapter - 6 Page 8 of 15              Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
A green belt would be developed around the Plant site.
6.4.6 Impact on Noise Level
Temporary impacts in the immediate vicinity of the project may occur due to
construction. The magnitude of impact will depend upon the specific types of equipment
used and on the construction methods employed. Care should be taken to reduce such
impacts.
Based upon previous'studies and measurements, the construction equipment appears as a
point source of such negative impacts. With source strength of 95 dB (A) at a reference
distance of 2m, the noise produced should not exceed 45 dB (A) beyond a distance of
250m, the drop off rate being 6 dB (A) for doubling the receptor distance from a point
source. In view of this, the construction equipment will be located at least 250m away
from inhabited areas. These units would be located in downwind direction to the nearby
settlements. Guidelines issued by the State Pollution Control Board on establishment of
Stone Crusher Units would be adhered to. This would be the essential mitigation
measure.
In addition, one should note that the workers near construction equipment are likely to be
exposed to an equivalent noise level of 80 to 95 dB (A) in an 8-hour shift. The generated
noise may affect workers. They would require protection devices like earplugs.
Other ancillary Tritigtiorl measures are source-control and scheduling of construction
activities. Sourcc-co=ci me=s that all equipment will be maintained in good condition,
properly designed enzine enclosures and intake silencers will be employed. Scheduling of
project activities means that a'l operations will be scheduled to coincide with periods
when people would be least affected. Construction activities will be strictly prohibited
between 10 P.M and 6 A.M. near the residential areas.
6.4.7 Impact on Biological Environment
No i mpacts t o t hreatened o r e ndangered p lant a nd a nimal s pecies are anticipated. The
temporary impact may be in the visual appearance of the trees and shrubs as construction
activity may lead to deposition of dust over the leaves and foliage. This is limited to the
construction period and gets washed away with the first monsoon showers. In addition
regular watering will arrest entrainment of dust during construction period in the
construction site and crusher plants. Nevertheless, actions specified under Sub-section
6.4.5 and 6.4.6 above must be strictly followed.
6.4.8 Impacts from Sanitation and Waste disposal
Sewage and domestic solid waste generated at the construction workers colony shall be
properly disposed off. Improper management of these solid wastes may lead to health and
hygiene related problems. The applicable PWD specifications for labour camp
development for type A construction will ensure that adequate sanitation at the workers'
colony is maintained. The basic mitigation measures are:
The contractor shall install adequate lavatories at the construction camp to cater to the
requirements of the workers.
Chapter - 6 Page 9 of 15              Scott Wilson,
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
The contractor at the campsites shall build Septic Tanks.
Proper collection system for domestic refuse from the campsite and its segregation and
disposal will be ensured.
Periodic health check-ups of construction workers will be undertaken.
Other impacts
Some short-term impacts may happen during the construction phase. The locations and
contexts of such impacts are:
Site office and labour camps - Temporary impacts may occur due to the construction of
site offices and labout camps.
The following impacts are envisaged:
Land acquisition and
Destruction of vegetation
These impacts are likely to be marginal and can be mitigated by sensitising and educating
the workers through regular discussion of issues and following good construction camp
practices.
6.4.9 Equipment Storage and machinery maintenance
The site area should have a proper maintenance shed for the regular maintenance of the
construction vehicles and the waste emanating from the maintenance shed should not be
allowed into anv water body. The oil and Grease change of the equipment and vehicles
should be car-ed out in the service area designed for the vehicles and the wastes should
be collected = co;>aiers and bins before selling them off. Proper sand beds shouid be
developed to prevent the flow of oily wastes. The tar-coated drums should be properly
stored in the site area and can be used for demarcating the diversions during construction
phase with proper fluorescent markers. The drums can be used for storing water for
construction purposes. Under no circumstances uncleaned drums should be used for
storing drinking water.
6.4.10 Traffic Management and Safety aspects
Suitable traffic management system will be devised and finalised with the concurrence of
the Police Department. Assistance of the Police Department would be necessary to
regulate traffic. Road markers, safety appurtenances and safety signage will be displayed
along the construction area and advance warning signs will be established to forewarn the
traffic about the construction site. The traffic management includes sufficient safety
measures in terms of advance warning to the road-users, clear demarcation for movement
of vehicles and traffic control devices to guide the drivers and improve their behaviour
through construction and maintenance zones. The details of Traffic Management Plan
during construction are covered in Chapter 3, Section 3.13 of the Detailed Engineering
Design Report.
6.4.11 Employment Opportunities
The construction activity can provide opportunities to the residents of the neighbouring
area to earn. They may come to provide labour or to service the construction camps. It is
Chapter - 6 Page 10 of 15             Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
necessary to ensure that the persons after completion of construction works return back to
their homes and not set up squatter colonies.
6.5   Impacts during Operation Phase
The operation phase impacts mainly arise due to vehicular movements. These can be
grouped as follows
Impact on Land Use,
Impact on Air Quality,
Impact on Noise level,
Impact on Biological Resources,
Accident Hazards and Safety and
Aesthetics
6.5.1 Impact on Land Use
The land use pattern may experience some changes on the roadside like the coming of
commercial establishments and other road induced developments. The local statutory
bodies will strictly enforce land use control measures to regulate development of
commercial, residential and industrial infrastructure. Development of squatter settlements
on the slopes of the embankments and on vacant areas of the acquired ROW will be
prevented and monitored.
6.5.2 Impact on Air Quality
Road upgradation will lead to better road surface and wider area for traffic movement.
This would ensure smooth flow of traffic. However, increase in vehicular traffic is
assumed in the very design for road upgrading. Consequent rise in the level of vehicular
emission as well as of noise is. only to be expected on this road segments in future.
Creating a vegetation screen along the roadside having a two-tier arrangement will absorb
pollutants and arrest dust entrainment. The details of Avenue Plantations have been
presented in Sub-section 6.3.7 above. At the operation phase maintenance of avenue
plantation would be necessary. In addition to this, periodic air quality monitoring is also
to be carried out in the Operation Phase to identify the locations where air quality may be
getting affected for causes due to road improvement and others external to it.
Other measures on reducing impacts on air quality would be
Phasing out of old vehicles,
Promote increasing use of fuel-efficient engines,
Promote use of catalytic converters for petrol vehicles,
Promote use of Natural Gas in cars,
Promote use of smoke traps for diesel vehicles and
Prevent Debris and Municipal Waste Disposal and burning by roadside
It may be noted that increased traffic speed will reduce localised concentration of
pollutants and result in faster dispersion of the pollutants.
Chapter- 6: Page II of 15             Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
6.5.3 Impact on Noise level
Increase in noise level is anticipated due to increase in traffic movement. The impacted
areas are basically the towns and the other places having a semi-urban profile and which
function as major market centres and where inter-modal transfer of commodities is
involved. Proper traffic management and legal measures can easily control the unwanted
increase in the noise level.
Avenue plantations would dampen traffic-related noise. Intermix of vegetation consisting
of local shrubs and trees will be planted along the project alignment.
6.5.4 Impact on Ecological Resources
The roadside plantation, once undertaken, will greatly enhance the aesthetics of the road
and also function as a pollution arrester and prevent surface runoff in stretches prone to
soil erosion. It needs mention that no negative impact is anticipated on forest vegetation
and the fauna during operation phase.
The villagers can be involved in maintaining the shrubs that has been suggested as the
second tier plantation and in turn they can source their fuel wood from these plantations
by pruning the branches of the shrubs. The only precaution that has to be exercised is that
the shrubs are not uprooted to meet the fuel wood needs. This is one way of preventing
the villagers from indiscriminate felling of the trees and other vegetation for fuel.
6.5.5 Accident Hazards and Safety
During the- operation phase, accident hazards will be greatly redaced and the new road
will ensure smooth and fast flow of traffic. The event that could pose potential
environmental risk is the accident of vehicles carrying hazardous cargo. At present most
of the vehicles carrying such cargo use the National Highways. With better connectivity,
some of the vehicles may use the state highways.
Spillage of hazardous chemicals and subsequent run off into a water body may have
adverse environmental impact. To handle such problems, the area of spillage should be
immediately cordoned off and be made off limits to the public. Run off of the chemical
into any water body shall be prevented. Side drainage channels and collection sumps at
the landfall points need to be provided for collection and safe removal of hazardous
materials. Emergency response mechanism should be evolved to tackle accidents and
spillage of hazardous nature. Effective collaboration will be established with the PWD
National Highway Division's wing dealing with emergency response to evolve a spill
management capability.
In addition, to reduce accidents and enhance safety, PIU has carried out safety audits on
all project roads. The results of the safety audits will be incorporated in the road design
and in placing road furniture. As part of the Institutional Development Strategy, the
project also plans to carry out:
Black spot improvement study on the project and other non-project roads;
Extend the computerised accident analysis system (currently in use in Bangalore and
other cities) to the rest of the State roads and
Chapter - 6: Page 12 of 15            Scot: Wilson
PART I- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Train the PWD, Police and other safety staff on accident investigation and analysis
techniques. The outcome would be incorporated in the implementation of the project and
form the basis of on-going institutional and capacity development component.
6.5.6 Aesthetics
The roadside plantation, in addition to functioning as pollution screens, will add to the
aesthetics of the road. Road furniture, if properly designed, can also contribute towards
attractiveness of the road to the users.
6.6   Social Environment
6.6.1 Positive Attributes
6.6.1.1 Proper Road Connectivity
It provides good connectivity to different towns. There will be a boost to transportation of
agricultural goods or locally manufactured products from/to nearby market places or
distant places. It enhances business activities.
6.6.1.2 Employment Opportunities
Local people are in majority illiterates and are agricultural labourers dependent on any
type of labour work in the neighbouring towns. The project will create new employment
in local areas and help in providing more opportunities to labourers and businessmen.
6.6.1.3 Education
This p roj ect area improvement p rovides an e asy a ccess to children and College going
students to obtain higher education. It reduces the time of travelling and avoids accident
hazards.
6.6.1.4 Public Health
Public and Road Users complained of respiratory problems because of heavy dust
pollution generated due to vehicular exhausts. In operation phase the proposed by-pass
may reduce health problems to certain extent and medical care centres will be increased,
so that public health will be given due importance.
6.6.2 Negative Attributes
Industries, agricultural produce, education, medical care, business, tourism, etc. may
increase due to the developmental work. This would lead to higher traffic flow, induced
development and urbanization. This further results in congestion, health problems and
other problems of social and cultural natures. However, these need to be tackled as and
when they occur.
6.7   Evaluation of potential impacts
There are several techniques available for the assessment of the impacts of developmental
work. Each of the technique has its own advantages and disadvantages. The selection of
any of these techniques for any particular project depends largely upon the choice and
judgment of the analyst. The technique chosen should be comprehensive, easy to
understand, systematic and flexible. By considering these criteria, the matrix method is
proposed for the evaluation and assessment of impacts in detail.
Chapter- 6 Page 13 of 15              Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPA CT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Impact potential of the project road was estimated keeping in view the series of impacts
that will usually be triggered by the project activities according to the Scaling-Weightage
Checklist and Matrix methods. The environmental impact weightage value was allotted to
different environmental components for impact evaluation. The impact evaluation is
based on the judgement made by the Consultant after the field visit and studying the
available baseline/generated data in the scaling-weightage form and in environmental
impact matrix. The weightage given for each environmental component in pre-project
(without mitigation measures) and post-project (with applied mitigation measures during
construction phase) discloses the net expected positive change in result.
An attempt has been made to assess and compare the quality of environment in the Study
Area under three assumed scenarios as
No Project Scenario
Project Scenario without Mitigation Measures
Project Scenario with Mitigation Measures
A summary of the impact evaluated for the project with and project without mitigation
measures is presented in Table 6.2. Granting that subjectivity would always be there in
such assessments, the advantage of comparison between the three scenarios would still be
possible because the subjective weightage have been kept constant between them.
Based on the severity criteria of impacts, positive (beneficial) and negative (adverse)
impact scores were drawn for each project activity by Matrix method. A matrix was
formulated by combining environmental components and project activity for both without
and with mitigation measures. The values are depicted in Table - 6.3.
A matrix has been developed taking into account twelve impact areas. The twelve impact
areas have been considered keeping in view the main resources that will get affected due
to road development. In this context, a weighted scheme approach has been adopted. This
approach i s b ased o n the d esire to a ssess q uantitatively the i mpact and weight of that
value by its significance or importance. The idea is to require environmental impact
analyses to define two aspects of each action that may have an impact on the
environment. The first aspect is "magnitude" (M) of the impact upon specific
environmental factors. The term magnitude is used in the sense of extensiveness or scale.
The second is the weighting of the degree of "importance" (W) i.e. significance of the
particular action on the environmental factor in the specific instance under analysis. A
scale of 1-5 has been used for the magnitude and importance. A (+) in front of the
magnitude number indicates the impact is beneficial and (-) indicates an adverse impact.
The product of the magnitude "M" and importance "W" value gives the net impact of the
action on the environmental resource i.e. the impact magnitude. The total impact score of
a project altemative can be obtained by the sum of the impact magnitudes on the
environmental resource in a given scenario. Based on this approach the maximum impact
score that can be achieved is +300 i.e. a maximum impact magnitude of (+) 25 for each
parameter and summation for 12 environmental parameters gives a maximum impact
score of (+) 300 indicating positive and beneficial impact. Similarly the minimum score
Chapter - 6. Page 14 of 15            Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
that can be achieved is (-) 300 indicating negative and adverse impact. To distinguish
between the three scenarios and to give it a qualitative aspect, the following classification
has been adopted.
Impact Type                       Score
Positive and beneficial impact           (+) 200 to (+) 300
Positive and moderate impact              (+) 100 to (+) 199
No appreciable impact                     0 to (+) 99
Negative ana moderate impact              (-) 1 to (-) 100
Negative and significant impact           (-) 101 to (-) 199
Negative and adverse impact              (-) 200 to (-) 300
The impact scores obtained for the three scenarios considered for the project route -
Bijapur by-pass are presented in Table - 6.2. The details of the analysis are presented in
Table - 6.3.
Table - 6.2: Evaluation of Environmental Features with different Scenarios
No Project    Project without Mitigation  Project with Mitigation
Scenario           Measures               Measures
(-) 97             (-) 116                (+) 110
It is very clear from the scores obtained for the 'No Project Scenario' and 'Project
without Mitigation Measures Scenario' that both situations- will certainly have negative
impacts u pon t he e nvironment. It i s e vident from t he t able t hat i mplementation o f the
mitigation measures will have a positive impact upon the environment and assist towards
better uses of the natural resources.
Total negative impact score was -116 for the project without mitigation measures while
positive impact score was 110. The overall negative impact score of -116 indicated that
the project would cause significant impacts on surrounding environment and needs
proper mitigation. However, the impact matrix was evaluated keeping in view the project
work with mitigation measures and overall positive impact score calculated was 110
(positive). Moderate and beneficial impacts are anticipated from the project. Hence, the
project may be accepted for upgradation work.
6.8   Preparation of EMP
Based o n the a ssessment o f the above potential impacts, the EMP has been designed.
Environmental Mitigation Measures and Monitoring Plan with Cost Estimate will be
dealt in the Part II - Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
Chapter - 6 Page 15 of l5             Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka Stase Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER- 7
PUBLIC CONSULTATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTIONS                         PARTICULARS                           PAGE NO.
7.1           General                                                       I
7.2           Objectives                                                    1
7.3           Public  Consultation  - community representatives, local      1
residents and NGOs
7.4           Outcome of public consultations/interviews                    2
i)  Ambient Air Quality                                       2
ii) Water Quality                                             2
iii) Noise Level                                              2
iv) Archaeological/Religious Sites                            2
v)  Natural Disasters                                         3
vi) Existence of Major Structures                             3
7.5           Merits/Demerits of Rehabilitation of the Project Road         3
7.5.1         Merits                                                        3
7.5.2         Demerits                                                      3
7.6           Public Suggestions to improve the environment in the Project  3
Area
Scott Wilson
PART 1- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTASSESSMENT(EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                                                                        Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                                                            Raichur By-pass
Table - 6.3: Impact matrix for the Project - Raicliur By-pass with and without mnitigation measures
Impact Criteria        Magnitude (m)   Importance (w)   No Project Scenario    Project without Mitigation Measures  Project with Mitigation Measures
m       w    m*w        m           w           m*w           m            w        m*w
Location                        5 (Max.)        5 (Max.)                      _
Gravity flow irrigation            5               5           -4      5     -20       -4          4           -16            4           4          16
Reservoirs behind dams             5               5
Deforestation                      5               5            _
Road Drainage                      5               5           -3      3      -9       -3          4           -12            4           4          16
Road Design                        5               5           -2      3      6        -3          4           -12            4           4          16
Land Resources                                                 -I         -I      -4                           -16           -3           3          9
Soil Quality                       5               5           -I      2      -2       -3      _     _3         g9            I           3          3
Water Resources                    5               5            1      I       1       -2          2            -4            2           I          2
Water Quality                      5               5           -3      3      -9       -4          3           -12            1           4          4
Air Quality                        5               S           -3      4     -12       -3          4           -12            4           4          16
Noise level                        5               5           -3      4     -12       -3          3            -9            3           4          12
Biotic Environment                 5               5           -1      1      -1       -2          2            -4            4           4          16
Sanitation and waste disposal      5               S           -3      4     -12        4          4            -16           4           4          16
Employment Opportunities           5               5            1      1      1        2           2            4             3           3          9
Safety                             5               5           -3      4     -12       2           1            2             3           3          9
Total                      I                                                 -97                               -116      _110
Magnitude Defined in scale of I to 5 ("+" indicates beneficial impact and "-" indicates adverse impact)
Importance Defined in scale of I to 5 (Importance means the significance of the particular action on the environmental criteria/action)
Positive and beneficial impact     (+) 200 to (+) 300                                            Negative and moderate impact     (-) I to (-) 100
Positive and moderate impact       (I) 100 to (+) 199                                            Negative and significant impact:  (-) 101 to (-) 199
No appreciable impact              0 to (+) 99                                                   Negative and adverse impact:     (-) 200 to (-) 300
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
CHAPTER- 7
PUBLIC CONSULTATION
7.1   General
Asper the World Bank Operational Policies/Directives (OD - 4.01 for Environmental
Assessment (World Bank, 1991)) and its successor documents (OP/BP/GP 4.01 (World
Bank, 1 999a,b&c)), 'public consultation is an essential part of the environmental
assessment of those projects and particularly those with potentially significant impacts.
7.2   Objectives
The primary objective of this public consultation is to protect the environment and
affected communities. Experience has shown a strong link between project sustainability
and effective public consultation.
Task team leaders are required to use the EA process to build consultations into project
planning, so that information exchanged with stakeholder groups can influence each key
stage of the project cycle. Strategic planning is required to reconcile this aim with the
inevitable constraints on time and financial resources.
7.3   Public Consultation - community representatives, local residents and officials
To meet the requirement of the public consultation of World Bank, the Consultant
undertook extensive field visits and held detailed discussions with public.  c   i
and officials. Public interviews have been conducted as per the MoEF Guidelin, with
the help of the questionnaire i.e., Public Opinion about Environment in Projeci Area
depicted in Appendix- 7.
The baseline data was also collected by consulting the public to ascertain their opinion
about significant environmental conditions/features in their area and merits and demerits
of the implementation of the project road.
The questionnaire consists of the following features:
i)    Wildlife, flora and fauna, endangered animals/birds of the locality,
ii)   Sources of drinking water,
iii)  Causes and impacts of air and noise pollution by the automobile exhausts,
iv)   Water pollution problems,
v)    Sanitation,
vi)   Medical care,
vii)  Education,
viii) Archaeological/historical sites,
ix)   Employment opportunities,
x)    Improvement in quality of life by facilitating transport facilities and
xi)   Negative and positive impacts by the proposed project road in their area.
Chapter - 7: Page I of 3              Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
Records have been maintained of public meetings and other activities, communications
and comments/suggestions (Annexure-1 to 3).
During field visit, the questionnaire has been completed by consulting public at their
premises, commercial places and agricultural fields and by seeking their opinion about
the developmental work. During this assessment, most stakeholders (age of consulted
person: abovel8 years) have shown their willingness to get developmental work of the
proposed project road started at an early stage, so that, traffic problems may reduce. Poor
road geometry and tongestion at certain places have deteriorated the environmental
quality of their surroundings and each day brings increase in ambient air quality level and
also reducing the quality of public health. During public consultation, they also learnt a
lot about their environment (negative and positive impacts) from the environmental
consultant. The list of persons contacted for public consultation programme is given in
Annexure- 3. The details of public consultation is presented in the Table - 7.1.
Table - 7.1 Details of Public Consultation/Interview for the Project Environment
Date                    Place                Town/District  No. of Persons Attended
22-03-2003  Office  of the   Joint Director of Raichur                15
Agriculture, Raichur
23-03-2003  Near Microwave Tower, Askihal       Raichur                15
23-03-2003  Govt. Primary School, Eklaspur      Raichur               50
23-03-2003  Radha Krishna Temple Yard, Yarmaras Raichur                40
7.4   Outcome of public consultations/interviews
The outcome of the questionnaires filled by the local peopie for different aspects of the
environmental assessment is as follows:
i)    Ambient Air Quality
80% people said that the air quality of project area is healthy and clean but likely to
pollute during construction work. Vehicular smoke and dust caused due to poor road
condition, are the main reasons for the degradation of air quality. People suggested for
the improvement of the project road condition to be implied immediately with public
health protection.
ii)   Water Quality
In the project area the drinking water source is mainly municipal supply. The ground
water quality in the project area is not satisfactory as per the public view (100%).
iii)  Noise Level
In the project area noise level is satisfactory as disclosed by 60% of the interviewed
people. The noise level may increase during construction work if proper care is not taken.
Diversion of vehicles and proper mitigation measures can reduce noise problems.
iv)   Archaeological/Religious Sites
According to the public view, neither archaeologically important structure nor arty
cultural site is located in the project area.
Chapter - 7. Page 2 of 3               Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
v)    Natural Disasters
As per the public opinion, there is no record of any natural disaster in the project area.
vi)   Existence of Major Structures
As per the public analysis, there are no major or minor structures within or outside the
ROW of the project road.
7.5   Merits/Demerits of Upgradation of the Project Road
The following are the'merits and demerits of upgradation of the project road, as viewed
by the interviewed people:
7.5.1 Merits
60% of people are of the opinion that employment opportunities, transportation facilities,
handicrafts, tourism, urbanisation and quality of life may increase, if the project road is
rehabilitated. Accidents and vehicle or its parts getting damnaged may be reduced, if the
road is maintained properly.
7.5.2 Demerits
40% of the public expressed that the rehabilitation of the project road may increase air,
water and noise pollutants and urbanisation, there by bringing new diseases and health
problems.
7.6   Public Suggestions to improve the enviroement in the project area
The following are suggestions given by the i:-.:ewed people:
90% people said that plantation along the project road will reduce the pollution load (air
and noise level).
60% people said that upgradation of the road would increase cleanliness in the project
area and will reduce the number of accidents and pollution load.
50% people expressed that periodical checking of vehicles would reduce air and noise
level in the project area.
25% people spoke that strict implementation of rules and regulations of pollution check
will reduce the pollution load in the project area.
According to 20% of them, accidents may increase and it may become difficult for
people especially children to cross the road at junctions. Therefore proper traffic
management is required.
Overall opinion of the public is that the upgradation of the project road should be carried
out at the earliest, but with mitigation measures to save the life as well as to increase the
quality of life of the people.
All the above suggestions given by the public and NGOs have been taken into account in
the EMP.
Chapter - 7 Page 3 of 3               Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
REFERENCES
APHA (1998). Standard Methods for the Analysis of Water and Wastewater. 20 t ed.,
American Public Health Association, Washington, D.C.
CII and MOEF (1999). Application Form and Questionnaire for Environmental
Clearance. Environmnent Management Division, Confederation of Indian Industry, New
Delhi and Ministry of Environment and Forests, Govt. of India, New Delhi.
CPCB (1998). Pollution Control Acts, Rules and Notifications Issued Thereunder.
Central Pollution Control Board (Ministry of Environment and Forests, Govt. of India),
PCL/2/1992, Vol. 1, Delhi, pp. 501.
CPCB (1999a). Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Status-1997. National Ambient Air
Quality Monitoring Series: NAAQMS/12/1999-2000, Central Pollution Control Board,
Delhi, pp. 130.
CPCB (2000). Environmental Standardsfor Ambient Air, Automobiles, Fuels, Industries
and Noise. Central Pollution Control Board (Ministry of Environment and Forests),
Pollution Control Law Series: PCLS,4-2000-2001, Delhi, and pp. 109.
IRC:104 (1989). Guidelnes for EAnvironmental Impact Assessment of Highway Projects.
The Indian Road Congress. New Delhi. pp. 27.
IS:4758 (1989). Indian Standards: Methods of Measurement of Noise Emitted by
Machines. 3rd reprint, Dec., 1989, Bureau of Indian Standards, New Delhi, pp. 14.
IS:5182 (Part-2) (1989). Indian Standard: Methods for Measurement of Air Pollution:
Sulphur Dioxide. Part - 2, Bureau of Indian Standards, New Delhi, pp. 11.
IS:3028 (1998). Automotive Vehicles-noise Emitted by Moving Vehicles: Method of
Measurement. 2nd revision, Bureau of Indian Standards, New Delhi, pp.16.
IS:5182 (Part-4) (1999). Indian Standard: Methods for Measurement of Air Pollution:
Suspended Particulate Matter. Part - 4, I" revision, Bureau of Indian Standards, New
Delhi, pp. 5.
IS:5182 (Part-6) (1992). Indian Standard: Methods for Measurement of Air Pollution:
Nitrogen Oxides. Part - 6, Bureau of Indian Standards, New Delhi, pp. 6.
IS:5182 (Part-10) (1999). Indian Standard. Methods for Measurement of Air Pollution:
Carbon Monoxide. Part - 10, 15 revision, Bureau of Indian Standards, New Delhi, pp. 6.
IS : 9779 (1997). Indian Standards: Specification for Sound Level Meters. 15' reprint,
Dec. 1997, Bureau of Indian Standards, New Delhi, pp. 29.
References: Page I of 3       Scott Wilson / CES / IrrE
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)
m -



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
IS: 10399 (1998). Indian Standards: Automotive Vehicles-Noise Emitted by Stationary
Vehicles: Method of Measurement. ISt revision, Bureau of Indian Standards, New Delhi,
pp. 5.
Kothari, A., Pande, P., Singh, S. and Variava, D. (1989). Management of National
Parks and Sanctuaries in India (A Status Report). Indian Institute of Public
Administration, Indraprastha Estate, New Delhi.
MOEF (1994). Handbook of Environmental Procedures and Guidelines. Ministry of
Environment and Forests, Govt. of India, New Delhi.
Naya, M.P. and Sastry, A.R.K. (1990). Red Data Book of Indian Plants. Vol. 3,
Botanical Survey of India, Govt. of India, New Delhi
Nair, S.M. (1992). Endangered Animals of India and Their Conservation. National
Book Trust, New Delhi, pp. 110.
Randhawa, M.S. (1996). Flowering Trees. National Book Trust, New Delhi, pp. 208.
Santapau, H. (1996). Common Trees. National Book Trust, New Delhi, pp. 118.
Swamv, NN.M. (1998). Law Relating to Environmental Pollution and Protection. Asia
Law House Hvdrabai pp. 1490.
World Bank (1991). Environmental Assessment. OD 4.01, Update 1996, The World
Bank, 1818 HST.NW, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1993). The World Bank and Environmental Assessment : An Overview.
Environmental Assessment Source Book Update No. 1, April, 1993, The World Bank,
1818 HST.NW, Washington, D.C., pp. 4.
World Bank (1999a). Environmental Assessment. Operational Manual - BP 4.01, The
World Bank, 1818 HST.NW, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1999b). Environmental Assessment. Operational Manual - GP 4.01, The
World Bank, 1818 HST.NW, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1999c). Environmental Assessment. Operational Manual - OP 4.01, The
World Bank, 1818 HST.NW, Washington,,D.C.
World Bank (1999d). Forestry. Operational Manual - OP 4.36, The World Bank, 1818
HST.NW, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1999e). Public Consultation and Environmental Assessment.
Environmental Assessment Source Book Update No. 26, April, 1999, The World Bank,
References: Page 2 of 3       Scott Wilson / CES / IIIE
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                               Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                    Raichur By-pass
1818 HST.NW, Washington, D.C., pp. 14.
World Bank (1994). Roads and the Environment - A Handbook. Report TWU 13. The
World    Bank   Environmentally  Sustainable  Development   Vice   Presidency
Transportation, Water & Urban Development Department, Transport Division, pp. 167.
References: Page 3 of 3        Scott Wilson / CES / IIIE
PART I- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                        Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                             Raichur By-pass
APPENDICES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
APPENDIX                      PARTICULARS                        PAGE NO.
Appendix 1   Air Monitoring Proforma                                  I
Appendix 2   Water Monitoring Proforma                               2-3
Appendix 3   Noise Monitoring Proforma                               4
Appendix 4   Ambient Air Quality Standards                            5
Appendix 5   Water Quality Standards                                  6
Appendix 6   Ambient Noise Quali Standards                            7
Appendix 7   Public Opinion about Envirornent in the Project Area-  8-10
Questionnaire
Scota Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka Slate Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
APPENDIX- 1
AMBIENT AIR QUALITY MONITORING PROFORMA
MONITORING LOCATIONS:
AQ 1 =
AQ2=
Sampling Stations  Air Quality
S.No.        Parameters        AQ 1      AQ 2    Standards    Protocol
1    Time of Sampling (hr)
2    Sampling Duration (min)
3    Flow Rate (m3/min)
4    Atmospheric      Max.
Temp. (°C)       Min.
5    SPM (j±g/m3)
6    RPM (pg /m3)
7    Oxides of Sulphur (as
sox, jig/M3)
8    Oxides of Nitrogen (as
NOR, jig/M3)
9    Carbon Monoxide (as CO,
, ___ mglm/3)
10    Lead (as Pb jig/m3)
Appendices. Page I of 10             Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pas
APPENDIX - 2
WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROFORMA FOR SURFACE WATER
MONITORING LOCATIONS:
WQ I=
WQ 2=
WQ 3=
Monito ing Locations       Water Quality Standards   Protocol
Parameters          I       'W~21             Drinking        Surface      IS:
WQ1     WQ2        WQ 3  Water           Water
Standards       Standards
Physical Parameters
Atmospheric Temp.
(,IC)
Water Temp.(°C)
Colour (Hazen Units)
Odour
Turbidity (NTU)
Total Solids
Suspended Solids
Total Dissolved Solids
Chemical Parameters
pH
DO
BOD (at 20°C for 5
day s)                       _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __             _ _ _ _
COD    -
Total Alkalinity (as
CaCO3)                                                      _
Total Hardness (as
CaCO3)
Calcium Hardness (as
CaCO3)
Magnesium
Hardness(as CaCO3)
Sulphates (as S04)
Phosphates (as P04)
Nitrates (as NO3)
Ammoniacal Nitrogen
Chlorides (as Cl)
Fluorides (as F)
Calcium (as Ca)
Magnesium (as Mg)
Appendices: Page 2 of 10                Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                     Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                          Raichur By-pass
Parameters             Monitoring Locations       Water Quality Standards        Protocol
WQ 1     WQ 2     WQ 3     Drinking         Surface       IS
Water            Water
-Standards        Standards
Sodium (as Na)
Potassium (as K)
Boron (as B)
Heavy Metals         '
Total Iron (as Fe)
Lead (as Pb)                                                                    .
Manganese (s Mn)                                         .
Organic                                                                  .
Phenolic Compounds
Oils & Grease
Biological parameters
MPN
Total Coliforms
(/lOOml)
MPN
Faecal Coliforms
( /lOOml)
Note: All parameters are expressed in mg/l except pH and Odour and otherwise mentioned along with the
parameter.
Appendices: Page 3 of 10                    Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                        Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                             Raichur By-pass
APPENDIX - 3
AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL MONITORING PROFORMA
MONITORING LOCATIONS:
NQ1=
NQ2=
Monitoring  Category  Distance  Sound Level dB(A)  Range          Standard
Location   of Zone    from the                    of              Limit in
Centre                      Sound  Protocol  dB   (A)
line (m)  Mi. Max. Avg      level           Leq
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _   ~d B   (A )   _ _ _   _ _ _
NQ    I_                                                            __   _
Average =
NQ 2
Average =
Max. = Maximum; Min. = Minimum
Appendices: Page 4 of 10          Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                      Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                           Raichur By-pass
APPENDIX - 4
AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS (NATIONAL)
Time      Sensitive   Industrial   Residential,
Pollutants       weighted      Area        Area         Rural &          Method of
Average                             Other Areas        Measurement
Sulphur Dioxide     Annual'      15 Pg/M3   80 Pg/M3     60 gg/m3      1) Improved West and
(SO2)                              ggM                    0P/3Gaeke Method
24 hours-   30 pg/r     120 Pg/m3    80 g/m        2) Ultraviolet Fluore-
____________________   ___________~~~~~~ scen               ce
Oxides of Nitrogen as  Annual    15 Pg/M3   80 gg/M3     60 pg/M3      1) Jacob and Hochheiser
N02                 24 hours    30 Pg/r3    120 Pg/M3    80 Pg/r3        Modified (Na-Arsenite)
method
2) Gas phase Chemil-
uminescence
Suspended           Annual'      70 gg/M3   360 .g/m3    140 Pg/M3      High Volume Sampler
Particulate Matter                                                     (Average flow rate not
(SPM)               24 hours-    100 pg/mr3  500 Pg/M3   200 pg/M3     less than 1.1 m3/ minute)
Respirable Particulate  Annual'  50 pg/M3   120 Ag/M3    60 pg/iM3     Respirable Particulate
Matter (RPM) size <i  _______    ___-_                                 Matter sampler
Pm                  24 hours    75 Pg/M3    150 pg/mr3   100 gj/m3
Lead (Pb)           Annual'      0.50 Ag/M3  1.0 pg/M3   0.75 Pg/m3    AAS Method after
__________sampling using EV2PA C
24 hours-   0.75 pg/M3  1.5 gg/M3    1.00 pg/m3    or equivalent filter paper
Carbon Monoxide (Co) 8 hours"    1.0 mg/m3  5.0 mg/m3    2.0 mg/mr      Non Dispersive Infra Red
1o2Mg/rn3  10.0 mg/rn3  4.0 mg/rn3  (NDIR) Spectroscopy
I hour      2.0 mgm     10 0 mg/m    4.0 mg/m
*     Annual arithmetic mean of minimum 104 measurements in ayear taken twice a
week 24 hourly at uniform interval
24/8 hourly values should be meet 98% of the time in a year. However, 2% of the
time, it may exceed but not on two consecutive days
Note:
National Ambient Air Quality Standard  The levels of air quality with an adequate margin
of safety, to protect the public health, vegetation and property.
Whenever and wherever two consecutive values exceed the limit specified above for the
respective category, it would be considered adequate reason to institute
regular/continuous monitoring and further investigations.
Appendices Page 5 of I0                     Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
APPENDIX- 5
PRIMARY WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
Designated Best Use    Class                       Criteria
of
;___ _ _ _   W ater
Drinking     water     A       *  Total Coliforms MPN/100ml shall be 50 or less
source                         *  pH between 6.5 to 8.5
(with conventional             *  Dissolved Oxygen 6 mg/l or more
treatment)                     *  Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 5 days 20
°C 2 mg/l or less
Outdoor bathing        B       *  Total Coliforms MPN/100 ml shall be 500 or
(Organised)                       less
*  pH between 6.5 to 8.5
*  Dissolved Oxygen 5 mg/l or more
*  Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 5 days 20
°C 3 mg/i or less
Drinking    Water       C      *  Total Coliforms MPN/100 ml shall be 5000 or
Source                            less
(without                       *  pH between 6 to 9
conventional                   *  Dissolved Oxygen 4 mg/l or more
treatment)                     *  Biochemical Oxygen   Demand (BOD) 5 days
20 °C 3 mg/l or less
Propagation of         D       *  pH between 6.5 to 8.5 for Fisheries
Wildlife                      *  Dissolved Oxygen 4 mg/l or more
*  3. Free Ammonia (as N) 1.2 mg/l or less
Irrigation, Industrial  E      *  pH between 6.0 or 8.5
Cooling,                       *  Electrical Conductivity at 25 °C iLmhos/cm Max
Controlled Waste                  2,250
*  Sodium absorption ratio Max. 26
*  Boron, Max. 2 mg/l
Appendices: Page 6 of I0              Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
APPENDIX- 6
AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL STANDARDS
Limit in dB(A) leq
Area Code Category of Area
Day Time          Night Time
A         Industrial Area            75                70
B        Commercial Area            65                 55
C        Residential Area            55                45
D          Silence Zone              50                40
Note - 1 Day time is reckoned between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m.
Note - 2 Night time is reckoned between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m.
Note - 3 Silence zone is identified as area up to 100 meters around such
premises as hospitals, educational institutions and courts. The
silence zone is to be declared by the Competent Autl-oity.
Note - 4 Mix categories of areas should be declared as one of the four above
mentioned  categories  by the  Competent Autlory   and   the
corresponding standard shall apply.
NOISE LIMITS FOR AUTOMOBILE (FREE FIELD AT ONE MET-ER IN dB(A) AT
THE MANUFACTURING STAGE)
S.No.                  Type of Automobile                  Stndard
(a)      Motorcylce, Scooters & Three Wheelers               80
(b)      Passenger Cars                                      82
(c)      Passenger or Commercial Vehicles upto 4 tonne       85
(d)      Passenger or Commercial Vehicles Above 4 tonne and  89
upto 12 tonne
(e)      Passenger or Commercial Vehicles Exceeding 12 tonne  91
Appendices: Page 7 of 10              Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                        Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                             Raichur By-pass
APPENDIX -7
Public Oninion about Environment in the Proiect Area
I Questionnaire No.
From: km        To km
Name
Age     :-Years                                 Profession:
Address:
01      Do you think the air which you breath is healthy and clean:  YES I NO
Q2      If no, what would be the expected reason?  (Grade in %)
Construction      Poor                    Smoke                  Others
Items       of Road      Sanitation  Vehicular  I Industrial  Domestic
I 0-100%                                          I           I
Q3      How it can be minimized to satisfactory levei (Grade in %):
|  Items  |RWanI       | Plantation   Ag      . Shdftng Of  Awareness |        em
n of Roadll
0   - 00%                           l 
Q4      Do you think the water quality of different sources of your locality is (Grade in %):
Items           Municipal   Hand   Well     Bore    Pond    River/   Others
Supply    Pump             Well            Canal
Worse         (1 - 30%)
Good         (30- 60%)
Satisfactory (60-100%)
Q5      What would be the expected reason for making water quality worse?
Construction/Rehabilitation of Road       :     may be I may not be
Mixing of Industrial/Domestic Discharge  :  may be / may not be
Seepage from Septic Tank/Sewers           :     may be / may not be
Others, Please specify                          may be / may not be
Q6      Whether noise level in your area is disturbingArritating you?  YES / NO
Appendices: Page 8 of 10                      Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                        Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                              Raichur By-pass
Q7      If yes, what would be the expected reason (Grade in %):
Items    Narrow    Heavy    Constructl  Industries  WorkshoP        oud      Others
Ies  Road     Traffic   onWr                     okhp       Speaker /
Deck
0 -100%
Q8      How, it can be brought to the satisfactory level in your area (Grade in %):
Widening/         Diversion of        settling the        Others
Items     Rehabilitation of      Traffic         Encroachers
Road
0 - 100%
09      Is there any Religious/ArchaeologicaVHistorical place in your area : YES / NO
Q10     If yes, please describe:
Items       Holy Places    Monuments    Art & Culture Site  Graveyard  Others
Place                   l                               l
Since (Year)
Q11     Do you remember any natural      in or asrea:        YES / NO
012     If yes, please describe:
Items    Flood    Draught      soi         Land      Cyclone BrGas         Others
Items Floo  Dragttt   Erosion      Slide    Earthquak    Leakage
e
Place
Year
Q13     Have you seen any rare animal I bird in your area:   YES!/ NO
014     If yes,, please describe :
Items             Animals                       Birds                    Others
Place
Year
Q15     Is there any important structure (Market, Community Hall, Drinking Water Source, etc.) in your area
are expected to be affected by widening / rehabilitation of road:
YES I NO
016     If yes, where it should be shifted (Describe the actual site):
Appendices: Page 9 of 10                      Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                       Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                            Raichur By-pass
Q17     Do you think widening/rehabilitation of road will improve the following (Grade in %):
Items  Quality of life  New        Handicraft I  Toursm      Availability of   Others
/ Education  Employment      Local               Agricultural  Building
Industries             Products   Material
0-100%
Q18     Do you think widening/ rehabilitation of road will increase/decrease the following
(. the Box):
tems           anisation    Cultivation    New Diseases  I   Fire Wood      hers
Increase                III
Q19     Do you think widening/ rehabilitabon of your existing road will increase/decrease the following (. the
Box):
Items      Pollution Load  Transport   Drinking  Medical   Biological Wealth
Items    Air Water Noise Facilities    Water      Care     Forest   Wildlife  Others
AIr Wae   Nos               Supply
Increase
Decrease   _
Q20     Can you smgget any possible mitigation (control) measures to improve the environmental quality to
satisfac=v  wie in c  area:
Signature with Date
Name of the Scrutiniser:
Place:
Date:                                                             Signature
Appendices: Page /0 of 10                     Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                      EnvironmentalAsessment Report -
Imprwvement Project                           Raichur By-pass
Public Consultation
Place: Askihal and Eklaspur                      Date: 23-03-2003
a  _ -a.^  ,", ^ Near Agiulua Colee A';_ j
_  ~   ~~~~~ _  '- K : } e:..- 
^  \    PS ~~-gS 1                   ;_ 
Net Piary AgrcholturalClemies, Ekaspu
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I- .- 
Scott Wilson
PART I-ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                                       Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                             RaichurBy-pass
Public Consultation
Place: Govt. Primary School Premises, Eklaspur                      Date: 23-03-2003
-                                        .9               *-                   s
7                     -
.4 o__, o' Pi.
~~~-       _ _It,*; ,
Scott Wilslon7
PARTI - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highfways                                Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
Public Consultation
Place: Radha Krishna Temple Yard, Yarmaras                   Date: 23-03-2003
R-~(
:v          - -'1__'--
La
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                     Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                          Raichur By-pass
Annexure - 2
Public Consultation (Suggestions from Public)
RAlCHWR BY-PASS
Suggestions:
Name: 
Proression:~,j-
Address:         c~~~
):>103\(03                         ~  ~~~~~~~~Signature
Date   '                          J *  L 0 
Name:         A'/l I. L/K~~
Profession:  _Y4     '     4. -i
Address:,
Place: C  &                                               nature
Date:            °3-sB                                     tre
Scott Wilsoni
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                        Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                             Raichur By-pass
Annexure - 2 (Continued)
Public Consultation (Suggestions from Public)
RAICHUR BY-PAS
Suggestions:                                                    s f : - -e
2lcj  tfS  2rz_-C    wr1te 4a      4n       w- ,. : 6 '; .'  v
Name:              n) '  c-CoP
Profession: m.  &e  tD (A  (4       jh)
Address:  (.r-4   l-, A/-e e       )  1
Place: RO c 4*&
Date;
Suoessions: - _u   r
Name:      $t 
PrEofession:                                 0 a
Address:  (T-     *    -3
Place:    e                               ' 
Date:         3                                           ignature
Scotl Wilsoli
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways                    Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                         Raichur By-pass
Annexure - 3
Persons contacted for Public Consultation
Place: 1. Near Agricultural College, Askihal, Raichur  Date: 23-03-2003
2. Govt. Primary School, Yaklaspur, Raichur
S.-
No. Nanie            Age    Profession       Address
~~-.                                     .~~~ 'g ____
L    M        -          ____   ___    4 a.L 
i) lvlvvtC"  &0           cOceIi      Al^ 
9  m    U-tav'dg- C04144&e-1
-      5    k          w            .___
lo  Gwc                                          PM%cste_  :f @ 8
10~~~ V.               to
A -A ~    ~         .caPc
   ~    ~       6   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   akiP oop-     -
~ VtMJ~-hb~L    4-c  pUnE4j,%jp              U  -
Io   KT;sl-tO  S           coc&tt -         rjzk jje¶L  * 
I3                                     V E2ts  L   'e 
L i0                      cccli-                  4§
s~~~~~~~ colbg  2                  \° 
1 r- Elek2        4° el!             YCtZ
11 >N81 0^S~~~~~~~~~~~rlES P
Nameof Recorder:
Scott Wilsonl
PART I- ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)



Karnataka State Highways               Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvemenl Project                    Raichur By-pass
Annexure - 3 (Continued)
Persons contacted for Public Consultation
Place: Near Radha Krishna Temple, Yarmaras, Raichur  Date: 23-03-2003
No. Name           Age   Profession     Address .
No.__NameoWA.e
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -   C   O d I'C
2-  U3a'i.t'ZU'  4,5  c c ;dle  ya_ _ _ _ _ __6_ _
1 i- 40                ________ K
Name ofA4'$ Reorer -? jCJC~r; &
PART  ENVIRONMENTAL3IT5A CSEolSe SEct CE  Std
n .  4 b - ol , e  . YaAA M0 6
,  T,  X     z   ~~4ut AUvL t
, ,: 5 S,UMu   S 
X ~. 5au~         ;de L.zmo.
=*."~cc     iz   C        M%QEt:.)
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in            i-e AN ithJ D: j te
53  tnrLQ  52>  rendlit  YaiAR2~~~~~~~~~ScttWilol
PATI-EVRNETLIMATASSMN                   EA



PART - II
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
PLAN (EMP)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..



Karnataka State Highways                         Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                              Raichur By-pass
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION                       PARTICULARS                       PAGE NO.
1           Introduction                                            1-3
1.1         By-passes as integral part of KSHIP                      1
1.2         Raichur By-pass - Project Description                    I
1.3         EIA Report and EMP                                       2
1.4         Objective                                                2
1.5         Clearances to be obtained                                3
1.6         Components of EMP                                        3
2           Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures           3-8
2.1         Prevention of erosion                                    3
2.2         Gravel and Borrow pit Restoration                        4
2.3         Use and Disposal of Excavated Materials                  4
2.4         Land Acquisition                                         4
2.5         Avenue Plantation                                        4
2.6         Accidents and Road Safety                                5
2.6.1       Design Phase                                             5
2.6.2       Construction Phase                                       5
2.6.3       Operation Phase                                          5
2.7         Impact on Air Quality                                    6
2.7.1        Construction Phase                                      6
2.-.2      COperatior. Phase                                         6
2.8         Impact on Noise Level                                    7
2.8.1       Construction Phase                                       7
2.8.2       Operation Phase                                          7
2.9         Impact on Soil Quality                                   7
2.10        Impact on Water Resources and water Quality              8
2.11        Sanitation and Waste Disposal                            8
2.12        Aesthetics                                               8
3           Integration of EMP with the Project                     9-12
Conditions in Bid Document for Protection of Enviromnent  9
4           Environment Management Plan Implementation Unit         12-16
(EMPIU)
Actions taken by the PIU                                 15
The Role of Functionaries                                16
5           Environmental Monitoring                                16-22
Record Maintenance                                       17
6           Capacity    Development    through   Training   for     22-24
Environmental Management
7           Budget for EMP Implementation                           24-25
Fund   Allocation  for  Environment  protection  and     24
Enhancement
REFERENCES                                 26
TOC- Page I                        Scott Wilson
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnatakca State Highways                        Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                              Raichur By-pass
SECTION    I                   PARTICULARS                        PAGE NO.
TABLES
Table 1.1    By-passes selected by KSHIP                              1
Table 1.2    Clearances to be obtained for Phase II - Raichur By-pass  3
Table 1.3    List of Intersections for Improvement                    5
Table 1.4    Collaborating Agencies and related Tasks affecting the long-  14
term Functioning of PWD
Table 1.5    Details of Environmental Monitoring Requirements         18
Table 1.6    Parameters and Permissible Limits for Ambient Air Quality  19
Table 1.7    Permissible limits for Ambient Noise Level               19
Table 1.8    Drinking Water Specification                             20
Table 1.9    Estimated budget for the project                         25
APPENDICES
Appendix A   Guidelines for Preparation of Environmental supervision and  1
Monitoring Report
Appendix B   Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule       2-12
Appendix 1   Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Proforma                  13
Appendix 2   Water Quality Monitoring Pro forma                      14-15
Appendix 3   Ambient Noise Quality Monitoring Proforma                16
Appendix 4   Ambient Air Quality Standards                            17
Appendix 5   Primary Water Quality standards                          18
Appendix 6   Ambient Noise Quality Standards                          19
Apperdix 7   Draf+. Terms of Reference for Environen=t?  Training of  20
EMPIU Staff                                          l
ANNEXURE
Annexure I   Environmental Management Plan   Implementation Unit
(EMPIU) - Organigram
TOC. Page 2                        Scott Wilson
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PLAN
1.    Introduction
The Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project (KSHIP) is an initiative by the Public
Works Department (PWD) of the Governnent of Karnataka (GOK), under the proposed
World Bank loan, to undertake improvement of 2490 km of roads consisting of State
Highways and Major District Roads. These roads were selected on the basis of a Strategic
Option Study (SOS) carried out in 1996, the objective of which was to formulate a policy for
developing an effective network of regional roads. The road improvement program of the
GOK entails upgradation of 942 km of roads and Rehabilitation of the rest of the roads
(about 1339 km) based on Feasibility Study.
To facilitate realisation of this objective, the Government of Karnataka appointed M/s Scott
Wilson K irkpatrick o f U K a nd India t o w ork i n a ssociation w ith Consulting Engineering
Services (I) Ltd., New Delhi and IIE, Bangalore to constitute the Project Co-ordinating
Consultants (PCC). This PCC was assigned to carry out the Feasibility study for the road
upgradation and Rehabilitation. The GOK also c onstituted a Project Implementation U nit
(PIU), which was formed of experts drawn from different Departments of the Government.
The members of the PIU were professionals with experience in all aspects of road
engineering and also in ecology. The PIU was assigned the task of working in tandem with
the PCC.
1.1   By-passes as integral part of KSHIP
Tvs.o by-passes are recognised b:. 'SHIP as a part of Phase LT keepinig ir. view the increase
in traffic along the project roads following the improvement and to avoid future bottle necks
in the town/village areas. The Phase IE Project includes by-passes for 2 Towns - Raichur and
Bijapur. These by-passes are considered as additional corridors to the existing roads passing
through the settlements to facilitate smooth traffic flow. By-passes explored by KSHIP with
towns and village are listed in Table 1.1.
Table 1.1: By-passes selected by KSHIP
SI. No.   Settlement   KSEIP Links           Location           Length (Kin)
1    Bijapur        2A & 3A      Bijapur - Tikota (Phase I) &     6.7
Bijapur -Mudhol(Phase II)
2    Raichur        IA & 1B      Raichur - A.P. Border (Phase I)  7.6
& Kalmala - Raichur (Phase I)
1.2   Raichur by-pass - Project Description
About 7.6 Km from PWD Chainage km stone 196.700 on Raichur - Makthal Road (link IA
and SH - 13) to PWD Chainage km 5.500 on Raichur - Lingasugur/Kalmala Road (link lB
and SH - 20) of the proposed upgradation project road passes through the dry land. The total
construction period of the project will be 12 months. The extent of manageable length of
construction work in one year will begin from Km.196.700 on Raichur - Shaktinagar/
Makthal Road (Link IA and SH - 13) and end at PWD Km 5.500 on Raichur -
Lingasugur/Kalmala Road (link I B and SH - 20) along the by-pass road. Individual monthly
contract will be approx. 635-640m. To make the road stable and environment friendly,
major construction work will commence and be completed in the dry season by labour based
construction. During rainy season minor road works like transportation of materials for
future use, maintenance of roads etc. will be considered. The project description has been
Page I of 26                         Scott WIlsoi,
PART /I - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
given in detail in CHAPTER - 3 of Part I - ELA report. For a COI width of 30m, total land
requirement is 55.05 acres. Generated data and Baseline environmental conditions have been
described in detail in CHAPTER - 5 of Part I - EIA report.
1.3   EIA Report and EMP
The scope of the feasibility study included preparation of an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) Report on by-pass roads selected for upgradation. The EIA Report was
prepared as per the Guidelines of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) of the
Government of India (GOI) and to meet the requirements of the World Bank as per OP 4.01.
An Environment Management Plan (EMP) has already been formulated for the Phase I and
Phase II components. This EMP for Phase I and Phase II of the project has been accepted
and approved by the World Bank and is under implementation by the Project
Implementation Unit of the PWD. The EMP for Phase II was targeted at further
strengthening the Wing formed under the PIU to Monitor and implement the EMP as
formulated in Phase I. The EMP presented below addresses those stipulations fully and
comprehensibly for upgradation of by-pass roads in Phase-Il.
1.4   Objective
The EMP is the vehicle used to communicate the mitigation measures to the Government
and also to the Contractor. The objective of the EMP is to formulate an effective mechanism
to monitor and implement the proposed mitigation measures and procedure to be adopted for
sound environmental management of the Project corridors. The capacity building and
training needs of the pezsonnel are also addressed in the ETP. Keeping in mind the project
requirements, the Phase v END covers all the components comprehensively. Ahe EMVP has
been discussed betw-en the World Bank, the PIU, PWD and the PCC. The EMP has been
accepted and endorsed bv the PWD, Government of Karnataka.
Before implementation, every road development and improvement project in India has to
obtain environmental clearance from the appropriate quarters of the Government, the
procedures of which have been discussed in detail in Chapter-2 of the EIA report for Phase
II - Raichur By-pass. The letter of environmental clearance is to be seen as a conditional
agreement between the project proponent and the Government, wherein the project
proponent declares that all care will be taken to avoid causing unnecessary damage to the
ambient environment and to mitigate the impacts while implementing the given project.
PWD has adopted a pro-active course of actions for environment management of the roads
and play a major role in environmental protection and enhancement of the State's road
network. Table below lists the laws under which clearances will have to be acquired at the
state/central level for Phase II of KSHIP. The PIU has applied for clearances and approval to
these regulatory agencies.
This EMP has been prepared for the PIU (PWD) to set out the effective Environmental
Management requirements for the road works during construction and operation phase of the
project corridor to result in an environment friendly and stable Highway project.
1.5   Clearances to be obtained
The mitigation measures required for the project will be communicated to the Govt. only
through EMP. Based on the EMP, the environmental clearances will be issued by the
Government and further, road work will be implemented based on the feasibility design.
Page 2 of 26                         Scott WIlsoil
PART II - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
Clearances will have to be obtained at the state/central level for Phase II KSHIP by-pass
component and it is given in the following table (Table 1.2). The PIU has applied for
clearances and approval to these regulatory agencies. The cost of the project is less than Rs.
50 Crores and therefore, clearance from MoEF may not be required. The project area is
mainly the private land and trees to be removed for the developmental work, belong to
landowners. Therefore, clearance from the state may also be not required.
Table 1.2: Clearances to be obtained for Phase II - Raichur by-pass
SI.No.  Statutes                    Clearance to be obtained
1    Water (Prevention and Control No Objection Certificate and clearance from the
of Pollution ) Act, 1974    Karnataka State Pollution Control Board.
2    The   Air (Prevention  and No Objection Certificate and clearance from the
Control of Pollution) Act, 1981  Kamataka State Pollution Control Board.
3    The Environment (Protection)              Not applicable
Act, 1986. ELA Notification
dated   May    1994    and
subsequent amendments.
1.6   Components of EMP
This EMP report has been designed comprehensively, considering all the essential
components required for the project. The Environment Management Plan summarises the
enviromiental impacts of the project and presents measures, which will be implemented to
it-hnaz the adverse impacts of the project and tc. enhance the positive outcoin- of thle
projecL More specifically the EMP includes the following components:
Envronmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
Integration of EMP with the project
Environment Management Plan Implementation Unit (EMPTU)
Environmental Monitoring and
Capacity Development through Training
The contents under each of the above are discussed in details in the rest of this chapter.
2.    Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
The environmental impacts due to location, engineering design, impacts during construction
and operation phases have been discussed in detail in Chapter 6 of the Phase I EIA Report
and is also presented in tabular form as Appendix-I of the EMP. The primary impacts due to
the implementation of Phase II upgradation of by-pass roads and the associated mitigation
measures are discussed below under specific headings:
2.1   Prevention of erosion
Initially, the freshly consolidated fill areas will be prone to erosion. The mitigation aspects
of the erosion prevention is included in the design through specification on stabilization of
fill areas, selection of less eroding material, good compaction and consolidation and
eventual covering of exposed surface with turf.
2.2   Gravel and Borrow Pit Restoration
Soil with gravel (moorum) occurs extensively over nearly all parts of Karnataka, but is
generally associated with high clay fractions. Sand will be added to increase the suitability
of moorum for its use in the construction of road embankments. The moorum borrow pits
Page 3 of 26                         Scott Wilso,l
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
are generally located along the road corridors. Improper extraction of borrow materials from
the pits, inadequate rehabilitation leading to accumulation of water during rainy season and
disease vectors, potential loss of productive land, increase in erosion, etc. are impacts which
require to be mitigated.
The proposed mitigation measures, which will be implemented as part of the construction,
are:
Pits will be properly reclamated;
Cut faces will be merged with the slope of the adjoining terrain;
Bottom of the pits will be graded towards natural out-falls to prevent water accumulation;
The reclaimed area will be seeded to provide grass coverage.
2.3   Use and Disposal of Excavated Material
Some of the excess excavated materials will be utilised in the embankment construction of
the new road formation. The proposed mitigation measures include re-use of unsuitable
material as backfill in the reclamation of borrow pits. The lead and lift distances have been
included in the BOQ costs and are incidental to the Civil Works.
2.4   Land Acquisition
The Phase II by-pass upgradation component of the project will require acquisition of
private lands. This includes agricultural land. The legal procedures applicable in this regard
have been described in Chapter 2 of the EIA report.
The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), prepared separately for this project, addresses the land
acquisition and tlhe related compensation aspects of this project. Active publi . . onsultation
and dissemination of information was undertaken to formulate this plan.
2.5   Avenue Plantation
The procedures for obtaining permission to raise compensatory forest have been described
in detail in Chapters 2 and 6 of the EIA. Only 16 trees on private lands will be felled and
about 1,520 trees will be replanted as compensatory measures.
The required mitigation measures included in the project are:
Avenue plantation -
Mix of local species of trees and shrubs will be selected.
Saplings will be raised in nurseries and will be transplanted.
Adequate protection in the form of low cost fencing, regular maintenance and supervision
will be undertaken.
The plantation programme will be undertaken with public consultation and active
participation of the State Forest Department and supervised by the EMPITU.
2.6   Accidents and Road safety
2.6.1 Design Phase
Traffic studies have identified intersection areas with heavy traffic intensity and acute-angle
intersections, which require junction improvements. The locations of these intersections
have been noted in the following Table (Table - 1.3).
Page 4 of 26                         Scott Wilsonl
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
1Table - 1.3: List of Intersections for Improvement
Link   Chainage        Intersection with    Intersection Type
SH      MDR    Other Road
1 A   196.700  13                          Y-Type
MDR               Y-Tpe
MDR               Y-Type
1B    5.500    20        -      I -   _    Y-Type
Note: SH-State Highway; MDR- Major District Road; ODR- Other District Roads
The proposed mitigation measures include:
Improvement of junction points.
Placement of appropriate road-signage and road furniture to fore warn the road users.
2.6.2 Construction Phase
Short-term impacts associated with this phase will be traffic diversion and management and
construction management. A comprehensive Traffic Management Plan has been formulated
and included in Chapter 3 of the Detailed Engineering Report. The contractors during the
construction of the project will adopt this plan.
The required mitigation measure adopted include:
Establishing suitable traffic management system, with the concurrence of the Police
Department.
Assistance of the Police Department, to regulate traffic.
2.6.3 Operation phase
Accident hazards will be greatly reduced and the widened road will ensure smooth and fast
flow of traffic. The event that could pose potential environmental risk is the accident
involving vehicles carrying hazardous cargo. At present, most of the vehicles carrying such
cargo use National Highways. With better connectivity, some of the vehicles may use the
State Highways.
The required mitigation measures are:
Establishment of emergency response facilities to deal with accidental spillage of hazardous
chemicals and prevention of contamination of adjacent water-body through immediate
cordoning of the area of spillage.
Establishment of effective collaboration with the PWD Division responsible for handling of
the
i.    Emergency Response on National Highways.
ii.   Extension of the emergency response facility to the State Highways.
2.7   Impact on Air quality
Impacts on air quality happen in two situations and each requires specific mitigation
measure(s).
2.7.1 Construction Phase
Moderate air quality impacts during the construction phase of the project can be anticipated
due to the uses of construction machinery and formation of fugitive dust in and around the
construction sites due to vehicular movement and handling of materials. The SPM and RPM
levels are generally high in parts of Karnataka because of arid climate and well beyond the
Page 5 of 26                          Scotl Wi/son
PART II - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                          Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                               Raichur By-pass
prescribed limits in urban areas. Regulation of traffic and pedestrian movement is of
particular concern in the urban areas during construction, at junction point.
The required mitigation measures are as follows:
Asphalt and hot mix plants, Stone Crusher units should be located at least 500-metres away
from inhabited urban and rural settlements. These units should be located in downwind
direction to the nearby settlements. Guidelines issued by the State Pollution Control Board
on establishment of Stone Crusher Units would be adhered to.
Trucks carrying earth, sand or stone would be covered with "Taurpolin" to prevent spilling,
Transportation of fly ;ash requires very careful handling to avoid adding to the load of
suspended particulate matter along the routes. Use of slurry in covered trucks is the required
mitigation measure. Fly ash shall be conditioned with water as necessary at source to
prevent dusting enroute. It shall be delivered to the site in covered dump trucks to minimize
loss of moisture and dusting. Regular inspection and careful selection at the source shall be
carried out at all times.
Fugitive dust would be controlled by sprinkling water, and
Regular maintenance of machinery and equipment would be carried out.
Develop a green belt around the Plant site.
2.7.2 Operation Phase
There will be an increase in vehicular traffic following the implementation of the project.
Consequent rise in the level of vehicular emission is only to be expected on all road
segments in future.
The required mitigation measures incl-:ded ir the project are:
Creation of vegetation screen along the roadside having a two-tier planting arrangement to
absorb pollutants and arrest dust entrainment.
Maintenance of avenue plantation
As part of the Institutional Development Strategy, the project also plans to carry out:
i) Conducting black spot improvement study on the project road;
ii) Extension of the computerized accident analysis system (currently in use in Bangalore
and other cities) to the rest of the State roads and
iii) Providing training to the PWD, Police and other safety staff on accident investigation
and analysis techniques.
The outcome would be incorporated in the implementation of the project and form the basis
of on-going institutional and capacity development component.
Additional mitigation measures that the State may consider in the future include:
Phasing out of old vehicles,
Promotion of increased use of fuel-efficient engines,
Promotion of increased use of catalytic converters for petrol vehicles, and
Promotion of increased use of smoke traps for diesel vehicles.
It may be noted that the increase in traffic speed will reduce localized concentration of
pollutants and result of reduced congestion and idling.
2.8   Impact on Noise level
2.8.1 Construction Phase
Temporary impacts in the immediate vicinity of the project may occur during construction.
The magnitude of impact will depend upon the types of equipment used and on the
construction methods employed. Care would be taken to reduce such impacts by:
Page 6 of 26                         Scott Wilson
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
Asphalt and hot mix plants, Stone Crusher units should be located at least 500-metres away
from inhabited urban and rural settlements. These units would be located in downwind
direction to the nearby settlements. Guidelines issued by the State Pollution Control Board
on establishment of Stone Crusher Units would be adhered to.
Source-control through proper maintenance of all equipment.
Use of properly designed engine enclosures and intake silencers.
Where possible, locating construction equipment at least 250m away from inhabited areas.
Providing protection devices like earplugs to all workers near construction equipment.
Scheduling of project activities to minimise impacts.
Strict prohibition of construction activities between 10 P.M and 6 A.M. in residential areas.
2.8.2 Operation Phase
Increase in noise level is anticipated due to increase in traffic movement. The impacted areas
are basically the towns and the other places having a semi-urban profile and which function
as major market centres and where inter-modal transfer of commodities occur.
The required mitigation measures are
Proper management of traffic by the Police Department of the State Government
Enforcement of legal measures on unwanted increase in the noise level by the Police
Department.
Maintenance of avenue plantation to dampen traffic-related noise.
Adoption of special measures such as prohibition of hooting to control noise near sensitive
receptors like hospital, schools and administrative offices.
2.9   Impact on Soil quality
So-.ls of easterr, and- northem  Kamataka plateau are prone to erosion due to thlc-
characteristics. Periodic maintenance of the drains is the required rnitigation measure. In the
areas prone to soil erosion, clearing and grubbing, excavation, borrow and fill operations
shall be limited to the extent practicable.
The mitigation measures to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation include:
Designated storage sites for fill m aterial and adequate stockpiling to prevent erosion and
runoff related problems.
Construction of sediment basins, slope drains and use of temporary mulches, fabrics or other
control devices or methods necessary to control erosion and sedimentation.
Cut and fill slopes shall be seeded and turfed as required depending upon the site condition
and design requirements.
Embankment Stabilisation will be undertaken by prudent selection of fill material to prevent
erosion. Placement of stone pitching as per the design requirement and as specified in the
contract clause will be carried out.
The embankment slopes will be vegetated with native seed mix to prevent soil erosion.
Good construction practices coupled with responsible supervision and with the
implementation of mitigation measures explained above will reduce soil erosion and run off
during monsoon and unexpected showers.
Construction areas near culverts and bridges are likely to be prone to erosion, particularly
during monsoon season. Hence, construction activities for culverts and b ridges s hould b e
limited to dry seasons.
Page 7 of 26                          Scott Wdlson
PART II - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka Stite Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
2.10 Impact on Water Resources and Water Quality
Impact on Water Resources
Impacts may arise under different circumstances, each requiring specific mitigation
measure(s).
The required mitigation measures to be adopted are:
Where possible, undertake construction adequate number of bridges and culverts during dry
weather conditions and regular maintenance of all drainage structures.
Proper management of excavation materials, construction debris, site wastes and runoffs (by
proper disposal, for excaample), to protect the aquatic ecosystems.
Impact on water quality
No permanent impact is anticipated on water quality due to the project. Construction
activities may temporarily deteriorate surface water quality near the alignment through
increase in turbidity as well as in oil and grease. These impacts are of temporary nature and
will be handled through the proposed mitigation measures:
All water and other liquid wastes arising from construction activities will be properly
disposed off and will not be discharged into any water body without adequate treatment
Permission of the engineer and the concemed regulatory authorities will be obtained for
disposal of the wastes at the designated disposal points.
The natural water bodies will be protected from possible modes of pollution like runoff of
the earth material to t he w ater c ourse, b lockage o f d rains and c ulverts d ue t o s pillage o f
materials and other run off which contribute to siltation.
Details of temporary drainage system (including all surface channels, sediment traps,
washing basins and discharge pits) will be su'omitted tc Site EngineeT foi approval prio- to
commencing of construction works.
2.11   Sanitation and Waste Disposal
Sewage and domestic solid waste generated at the construction workers colony shall be
properly disposed off. Improper management of these solid wastes may lead to health and
hygiene related problems.
For labour camp development construction will be adopted to ensure that adequate
sanitation at the workers' colony is maintained. The basic mitigation measures are:
The contractor shall install adequate lavatories at the construction camp to cater to the
requirements of the workers.
The contractor at the campsites shall build Septic Tanks.
Proper collection system for domestic refuse and its segregation and disposal will be
ensured.
Periodic health check-ups of construction workers will be undertaken.
Develop a green belt around the Construction Workers Camp site.
2.12  Aesthetics
The project envisages plantation of about 1,520 trees and shrubs. The roadside plantation, in
addition to functioning as pollution screens, will add to the aesthetics of the road. Properly
designed road furniture will also contribute towards the attractiveness of the road to the
users.
Page 8 of 26                           Scoff Wilson
PART If - ENVIRONMENTAL MANA GEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
2.13 Impact on Wildlife:
Construction Phase:
The labours engaged in construction activity and at campsite will be advised and warned not
to hunt any wild life animals specified in Schedules I except in defence of oneself or of any
other person. In case of sighting of any wild life in the project area shall be immediately
brought to the notice of Engineer who intum shall intimate to the wild life warden under
intimation to the employer. Any wild animal killed or wounded in defence of any person
shall become property of the Government. A list of wildlife animals as per Schedule I is
enclosed in Annexure - II.
3.    Integration of EMP with the Project
The EMP is an integral part of the Project and an important component, which will be
implemented simultaneously as the project proceeds. The project has to be executed and
supervised for effective and efficient environmental management and timely completion of
the project. The budgetary allocations for EMP implementation would be a part of the
project costs so that the EMvPIU will receive funding to supervise and monitor the various
components and train the staff and develop capacity and expertise within the Department.
The EMP has been made specific to the project requirements taking into account the
environmental impacts and their respective mitigation measures. Although the conditions in
the Bid Documents are specified, the entire document on EMP shall be made a part of the
contracts for implementation of the project. The PWD of the GOK has to discharge
responsibilities by:
Making the implementation of the EMP an integral part of the project;
Providia.g strong support and co mmitment to the development of tli s'.aff; and
Assisting and facilitating the EMPIU to liaise with the relevant interface institutions.
All the relevant issues concerning the protection of the environment have been discussed in
the R aichur B y-pass E IA report prepared as per the Operational Policy (OP 4.01) of the
World Bank. For all practical purpose, the mitigation measures outlined in the EMP apply to
the Upgradation of the by-pass component.
Conditions in Bid Document for Protection of Environment
The Contractors' responsibilities in matters related to protection of enviromnent will be a
part of the B id Documents. The Consulting Supervisors will be held accountable for any
deviation and non-compliance caused by the Contractor. These conditions have been
included as part of the Bid Documents and are reproduced below for illustration. The
conditions are derived from General Conditions, Sections 111 (Precautions for Safeguarding
the Environment), 112 (Arrangement for Traffic During Construction), and others of the
"Specifications for Road and Bridge Works" by Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST),
1997. The contract clauses have been modified as appropriate and additional clauses have
been added where necessary.
(a) General
The contractor shall take all necessary measures and precautions and otherwise ensure that
the execution of the works and all associated operations on-site or of-site are carried out in
conformity with statutory and regulatory environmental requirements including those
prescribed elsewhere in this document.
Page 9 of 26                          Scott Wilson
PART It - ENVIRONMENTAL MANA GEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
The Contractor shall take all the measures and precautions to avoid any nuisance or
disturbance arising from the execution of the works. This shall wherever possible be
achieved by suppression of the nuisance at source rather than abatement of the nuisance
once generated. The provisions of this sub-clause shall however, be disregarded in respect of
emergency work required for saving life or the safety of the works.
In the event of any spoil or debris or silt from the sites being deposited on adjacent land, the
Contractor shall immediately remove such spoils, debris or silt and restore the affected area
to its original state to the satisfaction of the Supervisor Engineer.
Surplus excavation materials and topsoil shall, wherever possible, be used to reinstate
quarries or borrow pits or other areas as may be approved by the Supervisor Engineer. Such
materials should be spread in such a manner as to limit subsequent erosion and shall be re-
vegetated as existing ground cover dictates.
(b) Fuel and Chemical Storage
All fuel and chemical storage shall be sited on an impervious base within an embanked area
and secured by fencing. The storage area shall be located away from any watercourse or
wetland. The base and walls of the embankment shall be impermeable and of sufficient
capacity to contain 110% of the volume of tanks.
Filling and refuelling shall be strictly controlled and subjected to formal procedures. All
valves and trigger guns shall be resistant to unauthorised interference and vandalism and be
turned off and securely locked when not in use. The contents of any tank or drum shall be
Ce'early marked. Measurec shill be taken to cr.sure ;;at no contamination ha;:pm  or
discharges enter any drain or watercourses.
(c) Water Quality
The contractor shall prevent any interference with the supply to or abstraction from water
sources (including underground percolating water) as a result of execution of the works.
Areas where water is regularly or repetitively used for dust suppression purposes shall be
laid to fall to specially constructed settlement tanks to permit sedimentation of particulate
matter. After resettlement, the water may be re-used for dust suppression.
All water and liquid waste products arising on the sites shall be collected and disposed off at
location onsite or off site and in a manner that shall not cause nuisance or pollution.
The Contractor shall not discharge or deposit any matter arising from the execution of the
works into any place except with the permission of the Supervisor Engineer and the
regulatory authorities concemed.
The Contractor shall protect all watercourses as a result of the execution of the works.
The Contractor shall submit the details of his temporary drainage work system (including all
surface channels, sediment traps, washing basins and discharge-pits) to the Supervisor
Engineer for approval prior to comnmencing work on its construction.
(d) Air Quality
Page 10 of 26                          Scott Wilson
PART 11 -ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
The Contractor shall devise and arrange methods of working to minimise dust, gaseous or
other air bome emissions and carry out the works in such a manner as to minimise adverse
impacts on air quality.
The Contractor shall utilise effective water sprays during the delivery and handling of
materials when dust is generated and dampen stored material during dry weather.
Stockpiles of materials should be sited in sheltered areas or within hoarding, away from
sensitive areas. Stockpiles of friable materials shall be covered with clean tarpaulins with
application of sprayed water during dry and windy weather. Stockpiles of debris shall be
dampened prior to their movement, except where this is contrary to the specifications.
Any vehicle with an open load carrying area used for transport of potentially dust producing
materials shall have properly fitting side and tailboards. Materials having potential to
produce dust shall not be loaded to a level higher than the side and tail boards and shall be
covered with clean tarpaulin in good c ondition. The tarpaulin should be properly secured
and extended to at least 300 mm over the edges of the sideboard and tailboard.
During high wind, no dust generating operations shall be permitted within 200m of
residential areas having regard to the prevailing direction of the wind.
Construction vehicles and machinery shall be kept in good working order and engines tumed
off when not in use. Appropriate measures shall be taken to limit exhaust emissions from
construction vehicles, machinery and plant and the contractor shall include details of such
proposed measures in the mitigation arnd monitoring plan to be submitted to the C  .-pI --or.
(e) Noise
The Contractor shall consider noise as an environmental concem in his planning and during
execution of the works.
The Contractor shall use plant and equipment conforming to intemational standards and
directives on noise, vibrations and emissions shall include the details of measures for
abating noise at source in the mitigation and the monitoring plan to be submitted to the
supervisor Engineer.
The Contractor shall take all necessary measures to ensure that operation of all mechanical
equipment and construction processes on and off the site shall not cause any unnecessary or
excessive noise, taking into account all applicable environmental requirements. The
Contractor shall use all necessary measures and shall maintain all plant and silencing
equipment in good condition so as to minimise the noise emissions during construction
works. The Contractor's hours of working shall be limited to 8 A.M. to 6 P. M.
09 Transmission of Diseases
The Contractor shall take all necessary measures to prevent transmission of diseases
between the local inhabitants and the labourers engaged for the works, especially with
regard to sexually transmitted diseases. The Contractor shall install the necessary medical
facilities for this purpose.
Page II of26                          Scott Wi/so
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



I
i
I
I
i
i
Ii



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
The Contractor shall verify that check up for detecting the occurrence of sexually
transmitted diseases amongst the labourers engaged for the works are actually being carried
out and submit a certificate to that effect to the Supervisor Construction Engineer.
(g)   Traffic Safety
For all works involving improvements at/to the existing highway (junctions), the Contractor
shall, provide and maintain, during execution of the work, a passage for traffic, either along
a part of the existing carriageway under improvement, or along a temporary diversion
constructed close to the highway. Before taking up any construction, an agreed phased
programme for the diversion traffic on the highway shall be drawn up in consultation with
the Engineer.
The contractor shall take all necessary measures for the safety of traffic during construction
and provide, erect and maintain such barricades, signs, markings, flags, lights and flagmen
as may be required by the Engineer for the information and protection of the traffic
approaching or passing through the section of the highway under improvement.
(h)   Environment Enhancement
On completion of the works, the Contractor shall reinstate all areas with natural vegetation
to the satisfaction of the Supervisor Engineer.
The Contractor shall remove all old tyres and intemal tubes (if any) from within the limits of
site and subject to the agreement of adjacent landowners, from an additional area of 75 m
either side of the road centre line. The Contractor shall dispose of all materials in a manner
approved by the Superv-isor Engineer.
Where directed by the Supervisor Engineer, the Contractor shall improve and reinstate the
land on which informal roadside service area have been established by removing all debris
and contaminated soils, re-grading to natural ground levels and re-establishing the natural
vegetation where appropriate. All debris and contaminated materials shall be disposed off
site as approved by the Supervisor Engineer.
4.    Environment Management Plan Implementation Unit
Implementation of mitigation measures would be the responsibility of the Environment
Management Plan Implementation Unit (EMPIU) which will be set up as part of institutional
strengthening plan. Earlier, the Project Co-ordinating Consultants (PCC) had noted that the
PWD did not have an established EMPIU. Under the circumstances, the PCC proposed that
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), set up for working with the PCC, would be the best
organization to supervise the implementation of the Environment Management Plan. Staff of
the PIU, with appropriate training and exposure, should become competent to act as the
EMP Implementation Unit (EMPIU). Following discussions between the PCC, PRJ and
PWD, the EMPrIU framework was finalised and the appropriate expertise required during the
implementation of the EMP were identified. The EMPIU may be further modified and
strengthened, as the project is implemented.
The EMPRI will be assigned with specific responsibilities with regard to:
Monitoring progress of the project as per planned schedule of activities.
Exercising oversight over the implementation of environmental mitigation measures by the
contractors.
Page 12 of 26                         Scotl Wi/so,,
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANA GEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                          Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                               Raichur By-pass
Assisting the Site Engineers by providing appropriate environmental advise and solutions to
changes in engineering design and developing appropriate mitigation measures.
Documenting the experience in the implementation of the environmental process.
In collaboration with the Supervising Consultant's Environment Engineer preparing and
implementing training materials for the Public Works Department by incorporating the
experience of implementation processes and other issues concerning protection of the
environment.
Maintaining ongoing interfaces with the other relevant institutions in the context of the
works.
Staff of the EMPIU will ensure that all the approved mitigation measures would be
implemented in their spirit and by letters and that it (EMPIU) will prepare regular progress
reports for transmission to the regulatory authority by certifying that the relevant
environmental measures have been complied with during project implementation. The
EMPIU will be empowered to adequately discharge the above responsibilities in a manner
not detrimental to the given project.
The EMPIU shall be a specific functional unit under the Project Director of the PIU and will
be headed by a Senior Environmental' Engineer (of equivalent level to an Executive
Engineer of the GOK) and have three wings, the functions of which are stated below:
Environment Mitigation & Monitoring Wing - This will be headed by the Senior
Environment Engineer in-charge of the EMPIU and supported by five Assistant
Environmental Engineers;
Forestry & Enviromnment Enhanc=t W e - tC be headed by an Assistant Conservator cf
Forest and Range Forest Officers in the divisions to assist the Executive Engineers on
forestry aspects of the project.
Monitoring & Training Wing - to be headed by a Training Manager. This wing will be
under the Senior Environmental Engineer (Environment Mitigation & Monitoring Wing).
The three wings of the EMPIU shall maintain close interaction and co-ordination amongst
themselves as well as with the other Divisions of the PIU.
The EMPTIU would have the following authority:
Have access to all relevant project related documents;
Have access to all Government Orders issued for the appointment of and the conditions
stipulated therein for all Contractors and the Supervision Consultants;
Have access to the records maintained by the Contractors, including that of the Consulting
Supervisors;
Freedom to inspect the works under execution;
Record the circumstances requiring application of alternative cost-effective mitigation
measures;
Appoint specialists to monitor unanticipated social and environmental problems and to
obtain from them the appropriate solutions thereof;
Prepare and submit environment monitoring reports on works under execution at regular
intervals; and
Undertake any other tasks arising from and related to the implementation of the EMP.
In addition to the staffing of the EMPIU by local environmental staff, it is proposed that the
Construction Supervision Consultant (an external entity engaged to supervise the project)
would provide an experienced Environmnental Engineer who will assist in the staffing,
Page 13 of 26                        Scott Wilsonl
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
training and setting up of the EMPIU. This Engineer will also assist the EMPIU to develop
training material, develop supervision records and report preparation, assist in developing
monitoring contracts and reports, etc. It is anticipated that this would be a part time position
spanning over 4-6 months in the first year and 3 months in the second and third years of the
Consulting Supervision Contract.
The Contractors and the Consulting Supervisors are to be seen as the arms of the EMPIU.
Therefore, to appreciate their co-operation and to stimulate them to execute the works
should be seen as a major objective of management.
The PIU based on the suggestions of the World Bank and PCC Consultants have decided to
appoint an Extemal Agency to assist EMPIU in implementing the Phase I EMP for a
stipulated period. The PIU would appoint an External Consultant for Phase II EMP
implementation depending upon Phase II project requirements and capacity building aspects
of the EMPIU.
On receiving the approved EMP together with the documents appended thereto, the EMPIU
should note down all tasks and sub-tasks derivable thereof and to sequence its own activities
in consonance with the schedule of construction activities. The EMPIU should also require
the Supervisory Consultants' Environmental Engineer to prepare similar schedules of works.
Failure to achieve such concordance would impair progress and, ultimately, weaken the
EMPIU. In the long-term, EMPIU will have to develop capacity and expertise to liaise with
other agencies to handle issues and tasks that affect the efficient functioning of the PWD.
Table - 1.4 lists the interaction between the PWD and the Collaborating agencies.
Table - 1.4: Collaborating Agencies and Related Tasks Affecting the Long-term
-___ ____________________Functioning of PWD I
Si.          Agency                       Issues and Pro-actions
N o ._                         _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _    _
1   State Police Department  Traffic Management
Preventing Encroachment of ROW
Checks on polluting vehicles along with the State
Pollution Control Board
2   District Administration  Removing encroachment from PWD land
Land Acquisition
3   Department of Town and Set back distances for structures from the edge of the
Country Planning, GoK   PWD's RoW. Fixing Control lines to limit building
activity
Land Use Control and Planning in sensitive areas like
Schools, Residential areas, and Hospitals
4   State Forest Department  Avenue Plantation and Afforestation
5   Kamataka State Pollution  Pollution Monitoring
Control Board           Enforcement of pollution control laws in urban areas
along with Police Department
6   Karnataka        Power Establishing Power lines and Pylons beyond the ROW
Transmission            edge in urban and rural stretches
Corporation Limited
7   Department           of Laying Telephone cables, Telephone poles, Optical
Telecommunication       fibre Cables beyond the ROW edge
8   Department of Health    Establishing Accident Trauma centres along the
Services                corridor
Page 14 of 26                         Scott WI/sol?
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                          Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Projecr                               Raichur By-pass
Si.         Agency                      Issues and Pro-actions
No.
9   Public          Health Sanitary Facility in villages especially in Roadside
Engineering Department  villages
10   Urban and Rural Water Drinking water supply and Drains in the villages
Supply  and  Sewerage Laying of Water lines beyond the edge of ROW
Board
11   Department of Revenue  Land acquisition
12   Zilla  Panchayat  and Land acquisition, shifting of utilities, community
Gram Panchayat         participation in social development and environmental
enhancement
13  Irrigation Department   Delivery of irrigation water
Actions Taken by the PIU
Following the approval of the Phase I EMP of KSHIP by the Government of Karnataka and
the World Bank, the PIU has adopted a proactive approach leading to the formation of the
EMPIU in the PIU set-up.
The EMPIU formation has been initiated by the appointment of a Senior Environmental
Engineer of the rank of an Assistant Executive Engineer of the Government of Karnataka in
May 2%1. The PrT has appointed totally 5 Assistant Environmental Engineers of Assistant
Engineer rank and four ofthem are alread; in place in the divisional otfices and one in
ENfPIU. Four Range Forest Officers have been deputed to the PIU. The Divisional Forest
officers (DFO) have been advised to supervise the seedlings being raised in the nurseries.
The PIU and the EMPIU have understood the holistic approach to be followed for ensuring
sound environmental management. The tasks completed till date are listed below:
The State Forest department has consented to undertake the programme of Avenue
Plantation, Afforestation and Maintenance component of the plantation programme.
Annual budgets have been formulated in consultation with the Forest department for the
Avenue Plantation and Afforestation Programme for the Period 2001-2006.
The EMPIU has appointed Environmental Monitoring Consultants to carry out monitoring
of Environmental parameters like Ambient Air Quality, Noise level monitoring and Water
quality monitoring in the Phase I Upgradation and rehabilitation corridors.
Four Project Divisions and fifteen Projects sub-divisions have been sanctioned by the
Government for contract Administration and Management and positioning of the required
staff is uinder progress. Two Assistant Executive Engineers have been appointed and posted
at the site offices.
Training and awareness programme has been initiated for the EMPIU and associated field
staff.
Following further discussion with the World Bank Mission of February 2002 and the PCC,
the PIU has initiated the following tasks:
The EMPIU is appointing a Consultancy firm for assisting them in implementation of the
Phase I EMP in rehabilitation roads under PIU supervision.
The EMPIU has already conducted an orientation programme on Environmental
Management for Civil Contractors and its staff by engaging the Environmental Training
Institute of the Kamataka State Pollution Control Board.
Page 15 of 26                        Scota Wlso,i
PART II - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
The Role of the Functionaries
The major functionaries, extemal to the EMPIU, are the Contractors and the Consulting
Supervisors. As mentioned earlier it is proposed that the team of Supervisory Consultants
include an Environmental Engineer. This Supervising Environmental Engineer shall be a
civil engineer with post-graduate specialisation in environmental engineering. He should
have at least five years of working experience related to integration of environmental and
social issues in the design, construction and operation of transport projects (preferably in
intemational projects). Experience in construction management and operational maintenance
of highways would be preferred.
The major duties of the Supervising Environmental Engineer would be as follows:
Provide training to the staff of the EMPIU and others.
Review the implementation plan of the Contractor(s)
Assist EMPTU to supervise implementation of the EMP by the contractor
Develop good practice-construction-guidelines to assist the contractors in implementing the
EMP
Assist EMPIU to carry out periodic monitoring of air, noise and water quality to ensure
compliance with the requirements of the State and the EMP
Hold regular consultative meetings with the EMPRJ and Social Development and
Resettlement Cell to exchange information on the emerging s cenario while implementing
the EMP
In collaboration with the EMPIU, organising periodic environmental training programmes
and workshops for the contractors and the other members of the Consulting Supervisors
.ssist EMPrU to prepare and submit regular environmental monitoring ar.d implementation
progress reports.
5.    Environmental Monitoring
Monitoring will be carried out as part of the project implementation to record the actions
taken to check the environmental status of the project at pre-defined time. The monitoring
records will indicate whether progress is being achieved as planned and could form the basis
for any modifications to achieve compliance with the regulations. It is anticipated that the
monitoring records would yield data for comparison of the status of the environment at a
later time point. The monitoring will be carried out to meet the quarterly reporting
requirements as per the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board regulations and to ensure
compliance with the EMP.
In the context of environment management, the project would be monitored for:
Ambient Air Quality,
Ambient Noise Level,
Water Quality, and
Avenue Plantations
Monitoring should be carried out during:
Pre-construction Phase,
Construction Phase, and
Operation Phase.
Page 16 of 26                         Scott Wilson
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANA GEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
Adequate capacity to review the implementation of mitigation measures incorporated in the
project will be needed to meet administrative and legal responsibilities. Environmental
Monitoring Questionnaire is depicted in Appendix - A and Appendix - B.
Responsibilities for oversight will rest with the resident engineer staff including an
environmentalist or may be supplemented by some specialist consultant input, reporting to
the PWD - PIU (Environmental Unit). Parameters for monitoring of ambient air quality (as
per Appendix - 1), water quality (Appendix - 2) and noise level (Appendix - 3) are to be
followed and may be analysed by the environmental team of PWD Environmental Unit. All
monitored data is to ;be compared with standards of ambient air and noise level (CPCB,
1999, 2000) presented in Appendix - 4 - 6. Monitoring (Table - 1.5) will primarily involve
ensuring those actions taken are in accordance with contract and specification clauses and
specified mitigation measures. In this regard, if essential, environmental awareness training
as described in previous CHAPTER - 4, will be provided to the PIU (PWD) and Contractors
personnel to ensure this takes place effectively. The Project Director will visually assess the
Environmental Unit/Contractors practices and if high pollutant levels are suspected, further
monitoring by a laboratory recognised by KSPCB/CPCB, will be carried out to verify the
increased or decreased emission level and pollutants along the project road.
Along with generated data of environmental features, photographic records of site/locations
will provide a useful Environmental Monitoring tool. A full record will be kept as part of
normal contract monitoring.
Under the Environment (Protection) Second Amendment Rules 1993, water quality
discharge s tandards h ave b eer- established for surface water for its suitability for various
uses. It is a legal obligation of the Contractor that any discharge from the work site meets
the standard guideline. Regular monitoring of noise level and ambient air quality parameters
will also be carried out and described in the contract.
Record Maintenance
Environmental monitoring forms will be used for recording of environmental data. The
recorded data in these forms and requisite standards focus attention on environmental issues
and provide feedback for further monitoring. Mitigation and enhancement measures adopted
in final design will be explicitly identified under the Bill of Quantities (BOQ), so that
performance and completion is readily documented. Daily project diaries would record
environmental problems (spills, dust, noise, etc.) as well as safety incidents and will be
retained as part of accepted modem contract management and summarized in Environmental
Reports provided to the World Bank. All such monitored data are required to be preserved
for at least one year after completion of construction work and should be produced as and
when required for verification.
Based on the Phase II - Raichur EIA Report, 2 locations have been proposed for air quality
and noise monitoring in the upgradation route. For water quality monitoring 1 location has
been proposed in the upgradation route. The locations where air, noise and w ater quality
monitoring were carried out during the phase-II EIA study are given in Chapter 5 of the EIA
Report and Table - 1.5. However, the locations may be shifted during construction phase.
Page 17 of 26                         Scott Wilson,
PART 1I - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
Table - 1.5: Details of Environmental Monitoring Requirements
Parameters                    Particulars                     Phase      Responsible
_ Organisation
1.  Ambient Monitoring Stations                            Construction  Consultant/
Air Quality  I.STD/ISD Booth at Ch  Km 196.700 on Raichur -  and        PWD
Shaktinagar/Makthal Road (link 1A - SH - 13)  Operation
2. Agricultural College Campus, Askihal near Ch: Phases
5.500 on Raichur - Kalmala Road (link lB - SH 20)
Monitoring Parameters
(Appendix - 1)
SPM, RPM, S02, CO, NOx, Pb & HC
Monitoring Frequency
Once monthly (- 24 hourly) during earthwork during
construction and once in 3 months (seasonal) for 1
year during Operation Phase.
Length of Time
1 day for 24 hours
Monitoring Standard
Ambient air q uality s tandard i ssued b y CPCB/SPCB
(2000-2002) - Appendix - 4.
2.Noise      Monitoring Sites                              Construction  Consultant
Quality      1.STD/ISD Booth at Ch: Km 196.700 on Raichur -  and        PWD
Shaktinagar/Makthal Road (link IA - SH - 13)  Operation
2. Agricultural College Campus, Askihal near Ch: Phases
5.500 on Raichur - Kalmala Road (link IB - SH 20)
Monitoring Parameters
Noise level
Monitoring Frequency
Once monthly (- 24 hourly) during earthwork during
construction and once in 3 months (seasonal) for I
year during Operation Phase.
Length of Time
I day for 24 hours
Monitoring Standard
Existing Noise Standards fixed by the CPCB/SPCB
(2000-2002) to be followed for comparing the
monitored data - Appendix - 6.
3.Water      Monitoring Station                            Construction  Consultant
Quality      Stream between lan 1.4 - km 1.5 towards Mansalapur  and    PWD
Monitoring Parameters                         Operation
As per CPCB (1998-2002) depicted in Appendix - 2.  Phase
Monitoring Frequency
Once monthly - 24 hourly during earth work and I
day in each month per year during construction and
once in 3 months (seasonal) for I year during
Operation Phase.
Length of Time
I day for 24 hours
Monitoring Standard
Water Quality Standards fixed by CPCB/SPCB (2000-
2002) - Appendix - 5.
Ambient air quality monitoring would be carried out to yield 8-hourly a verages o ver 2 4-
hours on two days interspersed by a two-day interval in one week. The monitoring station
Page I8 of 26                           Scot Wilson
PART II - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
should be 20m from the central line of the road on any one side, preferably near habitations.
Air quality monitoring would be carried out for S02, NOx, SPM, RPM, CO and Pb. The
parameters and the corresponding permissible limits for Ambient Air Quality are given in
Table - 1.6.
Table - 1.6: Parameters and Permissible Limits of Ambient Air Quality
Pollutants        Time-              Concentration in ambient air
Weighted
Average      Industrial    Residential,  Sensitive Area
Area       Rural & other
Area_________  Areas
Sulphur             Annual Avg. 80,ug/m3      60ug/rm3         15,ug/m3
Dioxide(SO2)
24 Hours**   12ogg/m3      80ug/m3          30ui/m3
Oxides           o Annual*       80,ug/m3     60,ug/m3         15,ug/m3
Nitrogen(NO,)                    _
24 Hours**   120,ug/m3  X80,ug/m3           30,ug/m3
SPM                 Annual       360gg/m3     140,ug/m3        70ug/m3
24 Hours**   500 g/m3   X0O     m3          100gg/m3
RPM(Size<10,um)     Annual       120,ug/m3    60,ug/m3         50,ug/m3
24 Hours**   150lig/m3     100,uglm3        75,uig/m3
Lead(Pb)            Annual       1 g/m0.75gu0_5pg/m3
24 Hours**   1.5,g/m3      I pgg/m3         0.75gpg/rn3
Carbon              8 Hours**    5mg/m3       2mg/m3           lmg/m3
Monoxide(CO)                      ______
Monoxide_CO      _ 1 Hour       20mg/m3       10mg/m3          4mg/m3
Source: Standardsfor liquid effluents, gaseous emissions, automobile exhaust, noise and Ambient
Air Quality, Central Pollution Control Board, PCL/4/1995-96
* Annual Arithmetic Mean of minimum 104 measurements in a year taken twice a week
24 hourly at uniform interval
** 24 hourly/8 hourly values should be met 98% of the time in a year. However, 2% o
the time, it may exceed, but not on two consecutive days.
The permissible limits for ambient noise level are noted in Table - 1.7. The measurements
should yield hourly averages during day-time (0600 to 2100 hrs.) and night-time (2100 to
0600 hrs.) over 24-hours on two days interspersed by a two-day interval in a given week. In
most cases, the noise monitoring station will be located near the air quality sampling
stations.
Table - 1.7: Permissible Limits of Ambient Noise Level
Area Code     Category of Area         Limits in dB(A) Leg
Day Time        Night Time
A        Industrial area          75               70
B        Comunercial area         65               55
C        Residential area         55               45
D        Silence area             50               40
Note: (1) Daytime is reckoned in between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m.; (2) Night time is reckoned in between 9 p.m.
and 6 a.m.; (3) Silence zone is defined as area upto lOOm around such premises as hospitals. educational
institutions and law-courts. The silence zones are to be declared by the competent Authority. Use of vehicular
Page 19 of 26                          Scott Wilsoi,
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANA GEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                      Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                           Raichur By-pass
horns, loud speaker and bursting of crackers shall be banned in these zones. (4) Mixed categories of areas
should be declared as one of the four above-mentioned categories by the competent authority and the
corresponding standards shall apply.
The parameters for measuring water quality for the proposed monitoring locations are noted
in Table- 1.8. The measurements would be based on the samples collected from water-
bodies impacted by the construction and operation of the proposed project links.
Table - 1.8: Drinking Water Specification- IS 10500: 1991
Si     SUBSTANCE/       DESIRABLE LIMIT       PERMISSIBLE             REMARKS
No.     CHARACTE-                                 LIMIT
RISTIC
1     COLOUR,           5                     25               Extended  To 25 If Toxic
HAZEN UNITS,                                            Substance     Are     Not
MAX                                                     Suspected  In  Absence Of
Alternate Sources
2      ODOUR             Unobjectionable                       a)Test cold and when heated
b)Test at several dilution
3      TASTE             Agreeable                             Test to be conducted only
after  safety  has   been
established
4      TURBIDITY N T     5                     10
U, Max                                                  _
5      pH value          6.5 to 8.5           No relaxation    -
6      TOTAL             600                   600             -
HARDNESS (as
Ca C03 mg/lit)
7      IRON    (as  Fe   0.3                   1.0             -
mg/lit, Max
8      CHLORIDES(as      250                   1000            -
I Cl mg/lit Max
9      RESIDUAL          0.2                                   To be applicable only when
FREE                                                    water is chlorinated. Treated
CHLORINE,                                               at consumer    end. When
mg/lit Max                                              protection   against  viral
infection  is required, it
should be Min 0.5 mg/lit
10    DISSOLVED         500                   2000             -
SOLIDS     mg/I,
Max
11    CALCIUM (as Ca    75                    200              -
_____  ) mg/1 ,Max
12     COPPER (as Cu ) 0.05                    1.5             -
mg/i Max
13     MANGANESE(       0.1                   0.3              -
. Mn ) mg/I Max
14    SULPHATE     (As  200                   400              May be extended up to 400
So4 ), Max                                              provided (as Mg )does not
exceed 30
15    NITRATE       (as  45                    100
No3) mg/l, Max
16    FLUORIDE      (as  1.0                   1.5
F) mgA, Max
17    PHENOLIC          0.001                  0.002
COMPOUNDS
(as    C6H6OH)
mg/l Max
18     ARSENIC(as As)   0.05                  No relaxation    To be tested when pollution
.____  mg/l                                                    is suspected
Page 20 of 26                                 Scott Wilson,
PART It - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                          Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
Si    SUBSTANCE/    DESIRABLE LIMIT  PERMISSIBLE        REMARKS
No.    CHARACTE-                         LIMIT
R IST IC   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
19   LEAD(as    Pb) 0.05             No relaxation
20   ANIONIC        0.2               1.0
DETERGENTS
(as MBAS)mgAl
21   CHROMIUM(as    0.05              1.0          To be tested when pollution
_     Cr) mgAl                                      is suspected
22   MINERAL   OIL 0.01              0.03
23   ALKALINITY     200               600
In addition to the above monitoring, additional checks and monitoring would be initiated at
the asphalt mix plants, cement concrete mix plans and at the effluent discharge points at the.
construction camps. These sites would be monitored at the locations where they are
established and for the duration of their operation (mostly during construction). The plants
and construction carnps would be monitored for: air quality: limited to concentration of
Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM) and Respirable Particulate Matter (RPM) measured
over 24-hours;
Noise level: limited to 24-hours of observation and data being presented in dB (Leq); and
Water quality: limited to analysis of one sample measuring BOD5, TSS, pH, Total
Dissolved solids, Turbidity, Colour, Phenolic compounds, Mineral oil, Alkalinity and Total
& Faecal Coliform.
As mentioned earlier, monitoring during the Operation Phase will be carried out for ambient
air quality, ambient noise level and water quality at many of the monitoring stations used
during the construction phase. However, depending on the experience gained during the
construction m onitoring, t he m onitoring I ocations m ay b e changed, reduced or increased.
Monitoring will be discontinued at the sites of asphalt and cement/concrete mix plants and
machinery and campsites once these sites are abandoned.
It is anticipated that environmental monitoring will be contracted out to competent private
sector firms with capacity, capability and experience in carrying out such monitoring.
However, it is recommended that the EMPIU should seek information and advice from the
State Pollution Control Board in identifying the firms capable of carrying out such task.
The EMPIU would be the competent authority to appoint, monitor and supervise such
extemal agencies and to prepare the TOR for carrying out the monitoring. The budget for
carrying out the monitoring during the construction and operation will be included as part of
the EMP.
The data collected through during monitoring and onsite supervision would be used for
preparing monitoring reports for submission to the regulatory agencies, the World Bank and
the PWD. The information would be stored electronically for use in training, in developing
long-term trends, for future planning and for other uses. Regular monthly reports will be
prepared for intemal use and dissemination and quarterly reports will be prepared for
submission to the Bank, Regulatory Agencies and the PWD management. A consolidated
annual report will be prepared every calendar year and disseminated to the Bank, PWD and
the Regulatory Agencies.
Page 21 of 26                        Scott Wi/son
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANA GEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka SLate Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
Draft Guidelines for the Preparation of Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Report is
given in Appendix - A. Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Formats for the various
components like Site selection, Borrow Area Management, Air and Noise level Monitoring
and prevention of water pollution and soil erosion etc. have been enclosed as Appendix - B.
6.    Capacity Development through Training for Environment Management
The PWD needs to play a leading role amongst the other GoK Departments by integrating
the social and environmental issues in its day-to-day operation and in intemalising the
environmental and social issues in the future road development projects. To achieve this
goal, the Department has already initiated training programmes on road development and
environment management as part of this project. These training programme aim at training
and s ensitising the EMPIU Staff, Civil Contractors on the implementation aspects of the
EMP and to expose senior members of the PWD to environmental and social issues
associated with the highway projects. Such a group of senior staff c an then b e given the
responsibility of active dissemination of the culture of environmental and social
consciousness and ethics within the rest of the organisation.
Once the staff of the EMPIU has received training and has gained experience through the
implementation of the EMP, they should be ready to resume leadership role within the PWD
in providing training and in implementing future projects.  In order to disseminate
environmental experience gained by the EMPIU, each staff would be required to maintain
good records and prepare dissemination notes on specific issues and problems encountered
and resolved, and how t he e xperience gained c ould b e i ntegrated in future road projects.
Competent members of the EMPIU should be offered additional environmental training and
should be encouraged to train other staff.
Awareness of environmental issues is increasing through organised local meetings by
NGO's. However, in the context of road construction, there is limited appreciation of how
environmental issues might be addressed. So, training of PIU (PWD) and Contractor staff
will need to be undertaken in environmental assessment and health issues at various levels.
Short-term training will be required for the PD and some other PWD staff and the
contractor's staff to raise their level of environmental awareness. The network of Training
Institutions in India and the World Bank's Economic Development Institute - Environment
and Natural Resources Division and the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) carry out
regular training. An Environmental Unit is already set-up in PWD with specialized
personnel and if required, appropriate additional training will be undertaken to monitor
environment during and after construction.
Competent members of the EMPIU should be offered additional enviromnental training and
should be encouraged to train other staff.
The EMPIU has carried out periodic meetings and orientation training for the Project Staff.
The following meetings and workshops where instrumental in creating awareness and
sensitising the PIUJ field staff on environrnental issues related to road development.
Under 'Technology and Skill transfer' programme to PWD Engineers, EMPIJ conducted 2
days orientation training programme to 21 Assistant Engineers and 4 Assistant Executive
Engineers of PWD. During training the participants were introduced to the environmental
issues linked with highway proj ect and their mitigation measures. Procedure as per
Page 22 of 26                        Scott Wilson
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANA GEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
requirement of MOEF and World Bank for preparation of EIA was explained.
Environmental Screening, Scooping, Policy, legal and Administrative framework, project
description, analysis of altematives, baseline environmental set up, impact assessment and
mitigation measures and public consultation carried under KSHIP EIA study were
explained. Salient features of EMP, institution of EMPIU, Environment enhancement with
Avenue tree plantation and Social forestry programme including Contractual obligation to
protect the environment, good construction practices under the auspices of KSHIP were also
explained. Environmental Engineer of EMPIU, PCC, CSCI and EMP implementation
Consultant addressed the participants. Power point presentation was used during the session.
The trainees have been advised to acquaint themselves with the EMP implementation in the
field.
The introduction of modem design and construction methods, use of properly m aintained
standard equipment, asphalt and hot mix plants with scrubber result in minimum wastage of
resources and to maintain emission standards. To achieve all these, the institutional capacity
should provide proper environmental management of the project road.
The environmental training aspects of the EMPITU staff should encompass the following:
Understanding of the relevant environmental regulations and their application to the project.
Main impacts of the project on the environment.
Mitigation measures as given in the EMP and their implementation through incorporation in
the design, construction supervision and monitoring.
Duties and responsibilities of the Contractors, Supervisor Engineers. Supervising
Consultants, PIU and EMPIU.
Public/community consultation and it's role during the implementation of the pcvjec.
Liaison with other departments and relevant agencies (such as Forestry).
Supervision o f t he implementation o f t he E MP and s ocial i ssues d uring construction and
operation. Resolution of environmental and social issues and their reporting.
Monitoring during construction and operation.
Weekly, monthly and quarterly report preparations and submission.
Preparation of dissemination notes, holding of workshops, and training of other staff in
PWD.
Draft Terms of Reference for Training are given in Appendix - 7. The TOR will be refined
during the implementation of the project.
Page 23 of 26                         Scott Wilso,
PART II - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                            Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                 Raichur By-pass
7.    Budget for EMP Implementation
The budgets for project construction and implementation of the RAP components have been
computed separately by the PCC. The design and construction of the project involve a
number items such as erosion prevention, rehabilitation of borrow areas, safety, signage,
provision of temporary drains, etc. costs for which are included in the contract costs.
Therefore, these items of costs will not be seen as parts of the EMP budget.
The cost of environrmental mitigation measures for Phase II project has been estimated and
is presented in Table 7 under the Section - Budget for EMP Implementation (Phase II -
Environmental Management Plan). The budget includes cost estimate for environmental
mitigation m easures s uggested for the p roject c orridor p assing through the National Park
also. Therefore, no separate cost estimate for the project is provided.
Changes in Construction Contract Conditions will not be charged unless these are
significant. Cost of restoration, erosion control and other work related activities are included
as part of good engineering practice and no major additional costs are expected to apply.
No allowance has been made for mitigation measures included in road design including
drains and other works relevant to environmental up-gradation. In addition, the cost of
supervision of environmental mitigation work by the Environmental Consultant has also not
been estimated in this section as it is covered in the total cost of project supervision.
The budget includes cost estimates for the environmental enhancement and protection
measures and also for the finctiornng of EMvPIU during consa ctinj and ol-ccation phases.
The cost estimates arrived at are based on the type of impacts envisaged and the mitigation
measures required for the same and the related monitoring and training of personnel to be
undertaken. The costs may be modified based on the implementation of the project.
Fund allocation for Environment Protection and Enhancement
The proposed tree plantation programme involves plantation of about 200 trees per km at an
interval of about 10 m (about 100 trees per kilometre on each side of the road). Adequate
land is available for undertaking the plantation of the trees. The cost of Rs. 3 26 per tree
sapling is inclusive of the cost of tree guards/fences and the maintenance component for the
next three years. The money will be made available to the State Forest Department or to
private/community/NGO groups to undertake the plantation programme with the active
involvement of the EMPTU and the PWD. Healthy three-year-old saplings will be selected
for the purpose of the plantation programme and adequate tree guards will be provided. The
entities responsible for the plantation in their stretches will also be responsible for regular
watering and maintenance of the plantations. The budget also provides for additional
planting on public and community lands, school boundaries, etc. where such land and
opportunities are available.
Tamarind, Neem (Bevu), Dalbergia sissoo (White Beete) are the preferred tree species.
Prosopis juliflora (Bellary jali), Justica adhadota (Adasala), Caesalpinia bonduc (Gajaga)
and Euphorbia tirucalli (Kalli) shrubs may be developed as second tier plantation. 'The
Prosopis juliflora shrubs will involve periodic maintenance in the form of pruning the
branches and collection of the same to be utilised as firewood.
Page 24 of 26                         Scott Wi/so,,
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                           Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                Raichur By-pass
The present cost estimate includes only aesthetics and environmental enhancement of
Raichur by-pass (Table - 1.9). The cost estimated is Rs. 7,22,000. The costs may be
modified based on the implementation of the project.
Table 1.9: Estimated Budget for the project :
Particulars         Quantity              Unit Rate (Rs)    Total Cost Sub-total
_      _(Rs)                   (Rs)
Environmental Training and Dissemination                         20,000   20,000
Enviromnental Enhancement by Green Belt
Plantation Cost -   For 7.6 km            Approx.       Rs.    4,95,520   6,15,520
i. Avenue Plantation  Totally 1,520 trees  326/tree
ii. Social Forestry                       Consolidated          1,00,000
Approx. 1,00,000
Total Cost  6,65,520
Contingency ( 10%     66,552
Grand Total =   7,22,072
Grand Total (approximately) = Rs. 7,22,000
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)
The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) of Phase II Raichur By-pass has been prepared on the
basis of provisions contained in the document approved by Government of Karnataka
(GOK) entitled: Resettlement and Rehabilitation: Principles and Policy Framework for the
Kamataka State Highways Improvemen. Project.
Socioeconomic surveys were conducted on the upgradation roads, for a Corridor of Impact
of 30 m keeping in view the design requirements. These surveys were conducted between
March and April 2003.
There was a concerted effort to reduce impact on the number of families being affected. The
total number of Project Affected Persons (PAPs) is 461 and the total number of Project
Affected Families (PAFs) is 58. The total number of settlements to be affected is 5. The
extent of land acquisition from private owners necessary for road widening and other
improvements is 55.05 acres. The total resettlement and rehabilitation budget for Phase II is
Rs. 1.8 Crore.
Local level public consultations were conducted. The institutional and organisational
mechanisms required for the resettlement program has been outlined in Phase I RAP Report
and t he P hase II R AP i mplementation m echanism has been further refined by the Social
Development Resettlement Cell set up by Karnataka PWD-PIU with support from other
government agencies, non-governmental organisations/community-based organisations
based on their experience gained during Phase I RAP implementation. The RAP provides a
detailed and updated implementation schedule for Phase II Raichur by-pass.
Page 25 of 26                        Scott WIlsol?
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANA GEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
REFERENCES
CPCB (2000): Environmental Standards for Ambient Air, Automobiles, Fuels, Industries
and Noise. Central Pollution Control Board (Ministry of Environment and Forests),
Pollution Control Law Series: PCLS/4/2000-2001, Delhi, pp. 109.
MOST (1995): Specifications for Road and Bridge Works. Indian Road Congress on behalf
of Ministry of Surface Transport (Road Wing), Govt. of India, New Delhi, pp. 682.
Page 26 of 26                           Scott Wilson
PART 11 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                                                                   EnvironmentalAssessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                                                        Raichur By-pass
Appendix - I
Environmental issues, source of pollution and mitigation measuires dtiuring construction and operation phases
S.No.                         of~~~~Sorc  Polto    iiainMawa5Enforcernent/TS                                                      Implementing
l         ~~~S.No  | Environmental      | oreof Pollution         |Mitigation Menstirs                                             las             |O   aiat
Issue.I                                                                                                -   - IClause            Organisation
Construction Phase
*   Hot-mix lilati will he located 500rns away from habitat and
Guidelines issiued by the State Pollution Control Board on
establislhment o., Stotne Crusher Units would be adhered to. These
units shotild hr located in downwind direction to the nearby
settlements.                                               As per Technical
*   Use of mixing equipment will be equipped with dust removal  Specification    Contractor
Construction equipment        devices.                                                  Clause 106, 111
*   Regular maintenance of machinery and equipment would be    and 124
carried out.
*   Trucks carrying earth, sand or stone would be covered with
"traps" to prevent spilling and
*   Develop a green belt around the Plant site.
As per Technical
I        Air Pollution        Vehicular emission        *   Diversion road to be maintained in good shape and traffic  Specification     Contractor
regulated.                                                 Clauses I1I1 and
112
*   Sprinkling of water as necessary.
*   The vehicles with open-load carrying area shall be fitted with  As per Technical
Dust during minor earth       side and tail boards.                                      Specification
works or from spoil dumps  *  Materials shall not be loaded to a higher leevl than the side and  Clauses 111 and  Contractor
and from traffic movement     tail boards and shall be covered with a clean tarpaulin in good  301 and Annex-A
condition. The tarpaulin shall be properly secured and extend  to Clause 501
________________________      atleast 300mm over the edges of the side and tail boards.
As per Technical
Storage of construction                                                                  Specification
materials                 *   Sprinkling of water as necessary.                         Clauses' 11        Contractor
Annex-A to
___________________ ________________________________________________ Clause_501      _______
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                                                                  Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                                                       Raichur By-pass
Construction of Bridges or                                                             As per Technical
Culverts -                                                                             Specification
Earthwork and marginal    Earth materialI will he tiansported and dumped away from water  304 Annex-A of
spillage of construction  bodies.                                                      Clause 501 and     Contractor
materials causing                                                                      with permission
2        Water Pollution      temporary turbidity and                                                                of concerned
suspended solids                    .                                                  Department
Technical
Drainage                 Drains will be provided on both sides of the road on embankment  Specification   Contractor
Drainage          ~~~with planned out falls.                                     Sections 109 and  Cnrco
305
As per drawing
All wastewater will be diverted to a ditch that will be managed for the  and Technical
Wastewater logging       period of construction and after construction such ditches will be  Specification  Contractor
Ground water                                  filled and restored to original condition.                    Sections 111 and
3        GraPollution                                                                                                301
Human wastes and                                                                       As per Technical
wastewater at construction  Septic tanks/soak pits will be used of for defecation and  Specification
wastewater atconstruction Provide covered water storage tanks.                         Clause 120 and     Contractor
camp                                           122               ____________1
Scott Wilson
PART I- ENWRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                                                               Environmental Assessment Report -
Irmprovemenl Project                                                                                   Raichur By-pass
*   Traffic safety barricades will be erected on either side of road
with regulatory signs in habitat and sensitive/critical areas.
*   Construction plants such as hot mix equipment will be located at
least 500ms away from habitat and sensitive/critical areas. These
units would be located in downwind direction to the nearby
settlements. Guidelines issued by the State Pollution Control
Board on establishment of Stone Crusher Units would be adhered
to.                                                     As per Technical
*   Source-control through proper maintenance of all equipment.  Specification
4        Noise Pollution     Vehicles                 *   Use of properly designed engine enclosures and intake silencers.  Clause 106, 111,  Contractor
Construction machinery   *   Where possible, locating construction equipment at least 500m  112, 124 and
away from inhabited areas.                              Annex-A of
*   Providing protection devices like earplugs to all workers near  Clause 501
construction equipment.
*   Scheduling of project activities to minimise impacts. The
conditions of contract will stipulate the noise level permitted for
the construction equipment. In addition, the noise making
equipment will not be allowed to operate during night time
owing construction activities between 8 a.m. to 6 a.m. near
settlement areas.
Construction machinery                                                               As per Technical
5        Land Pollution      (leakage of oil, lubricant,  All construction machinery to be placed on an impermeable base.  Specification  Contractor
fuel spilling and their                                                              Clause 106
wastes)
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                                                                   Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                                                        Raichur By-pass
Major quarry site is located at 1-13km away from project road and
Sand from Krishna river basin (about 75 km) will be utilised. Gravel
- Moorum from quarry located at 4 -5 km away from project road.
Quarry sites will be restored by the following natural means
*   Proper reclamation of the pits,
*   Cut faces will be merged with the slope of the adjoining terrain,
*   Bottom of the pits will be graded towards natural out-falls to  As per Technical
Quarries/Borrow pits          prevent water accumulation.                               Specificaton       Contractor
*   The reclaimed area will be seeded to provide grass coverage.  Cu1
Disposal of Excavated Material of the road will be carried out as
follows:
*   Reuse of unsuitable material as backfill in the reclamation of
borrow pits.
*   Disposal of the excavated black top in abandoned stone quarries
X_________________________    with proper clay lining, if permissible.
*   Soil used for embankment will be good (unerodable) and     A   e  ehia
ll  Soil erosion on           embankment slopes will be surfaced.                       Specifrcation      C
embankment                *   The embankment slopes will be vegetated with native seed mix  Clause III, 300,  Cnrco
to prevent soil erosion.                                   306 and 307
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                                                                Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                                                     Raichur By-pass
The following measures will be taken:
Supply of clean drinking water,
Use of mosquito net or ointment,
Providing medical care for workers,
Appointing Medical Practitioner and
Educating workers, distributing contraceptives and awareness in the
form of posters or pamphlets, to check AIDS.
Sanitation and Waste Disposal
*   Sewage and domesticsolid waste generated at the construction
workers colony shall be properly disposed off. Proper
management of these solid wastes lead to avoid health and
hygiene related problems.
6   Labour Health  Construction camp   *   The applicable PWD specifications for labour camp development As per Technical
6  Labour Health     Constniction camp            will be adopted to ensure that adequate sanitation at the workers' Specification  Contractor
colony is maintained. The basic mitigation measures are:   ause
i)     The contractor shall install adequate lavatories at the
construction camp to cater to the requirements of the
workers.
ii)    The contractor at the campsites shall build Septic Tanks.
iii)   Proper collection system  for domestic refuse and its
segregation and disposal will be ensured.
iv)    Periodic health check-ups of construction workers will be
undertaken.
v)      Develop a green belt around the Construction Workers Camp
site.
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                                                                  Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                                                       Raichur By-pass
As per Technical
Advertising /Hoarding     *  Removal of such structures from ROW as necessary.         Specification      Contractor
Clause 201
The traffic management will be considered as follows
*   Fencing of camps,
*   Erection of traffic safety barricades painted with black and white
strips on either side of road with regulatory signs, markings, and
7        Accidents and safety                              flag/alter light wherever work will be in progress.
*   Prohibition of entry of general public at construction sites/camps,  As per drawing
*   Proper lighting facilities at construction sites/camps and  and Technical
Construction Camp/Sites      diversion,                                                Specification      Contractor
*   Use of Helmet at construction sites,                      Clause 11, 1 12
*   Use of mask where excessive dust forms and                and 120
*   Where there is no provision of diversion, traffic will be
controlled by signaling red and green flag in day and light in
night and
*   Maintenance of first aid kits and providing facilities whenever
_____________________  _________________________   required.
As per drawing
Installation of Standard Highway Safety Signage, marking to avoid  and Technical
Vehicles                 over taking of vehicles and fencing and Proper diversion road and  Specification  Contractor
traffic mnanagement.                                          Clause 111 and
______  _________________ _____________________    ____________________________________________________          112
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                                                                   Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                                                        Raichur By-pass
S.No.   I Environmental     T Source of Pollution      I Mitigation Measures                                           Enforcement/TS     Implementing
Issue               jClause                                                                                                     Organisation
Operation Phase
* Periodicals monitoring of air pollutants and if values exceed the
standard limits, suitable mitigation measures to be taken.
To avoid spillage of chemicals or any substances from Vehicles
l AirPoll nVehicular gaseous  carrying those hazardous substances, following measures will be              PWD in the
I    Air Pollution        Vehiculriasou            considered :                                                   PWD                PWDninl thure
*   Establishment tif emergency response facilities to deal with                 normalcourse
accidental spillage of hazardous chemicals and prevention of
contamination of adjacent water-body through immediate
cordoning of the area of spillage.
*   Emergency response facility to the State Highway by-pass.
*   Long term noise barriers are not needed because the noise from
road traffic after road construction is expected to reduce from the
2        Noise Pollution       Vehicular                    present level and                                          PWD               PWD
*   Periodical monitoring of noise level will be carried out. If values
. __________________________  exceed the standard limits, suitable measures will be taken.
Traffic and Vehicles      Maintenance of standard Highway Safety Signage and Traffic    PWD and Traffic    Traffic Police
3         Road Safety          Slow moving traffc       Management.                                                    Police            PWD
Lighting                  Maintenance of lighting.                                      PWD                PWD
Ref.: MOST (1995). Specificationsfor road and bridge works. Indian Road Congress on behalf of Ministry of Surface Transport (Road Wing), Govt. of India,
New Delhi, pp.682.
Scott Wilson
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                    Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                         Raichur By-pass
Appendix A
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Guidelines for Preparation of Environmental Supervision
And Monitoring Report
The main purpose of the Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Report is to document the
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) during the construction of the KSHIP.
The secondary purpose is to report on ongoing concems, issues which may have arisen during the
implementation of the EMP and mitigation measures applied, training carried out, community
consultations carried out during the construction and documentation of the results of environmental
monitoring carried out onsite.
The report should be prepared and submitted on a quarterly basis. Major elements of the reports are
given below. However, not all elements may apply during the reporting period.
The report should include:
*  For the overall project a brief description of the ongoing activities, completed and planned during
the next quarter;
*  Environmental training undertaken and planned giving the dates, duration, and locations of the
training, number of PWD and Contractors' staff trained, general contents of the training, etc.
*  Maps showing the locations of construction camps, haul roads, borrow areas, quarries, mixing
plants, environmental monitoring points, construction schedule, civil contract sections, etc.;
*  Environmental management at the construction camps and equipment maintenance and servicing
camps (water, sewage, garbage, health, living conditions, facilities for children and families,
recreation facilities, waste disposal, fuel and oil storage facilities, waste rratenal storage.
environmental awareness training programs, etc.);
*  Location of sensitive buildings, villages and areas (schools, hospitals, libraries, residences,
retirement homes, etc.) and how these areas are being protected during the construction;
*  Safety during construction (signage, diversions, traffic management, accident records, night time
protection etc.)
*  Supervision and control of construction material storage and transport (dust control, traffic,
congestion, safety noise, etc.) along the haul roads; number of watering trucks per contractor and
the record of their usage;
*  Handling of borrow areas, top soil, reclamation of borrow pits;
  Handling of the temporary drainage during the construction period;
*  Monitoring results of dust, noise, construction equipment emissions, etc. at the construction sites
and along the material transport roads; night time noise monitoring during the periods of night
construction and material transport;
*  Setting up of complaints handling system; records of complaints and how these are being
resolved; records of on going public consultation and how conflict issues are dealt with;
*  Monitoring data of the selected parameters (dust, noise, air emissions, water quality, etc.);
*  Photographic record of key elements.
Appendices: Page I of 20                    Scott Wilson
PART 1 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                     Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                          Raichur By-pass
Appendix B
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Construction Phase
Construction site and Service Area Details
Supervision Consultant:
Civil Contractor:                                     Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Km----- to Km-
Environmental Features of the Location
Terrain: Flat/Undulating/Rolling
Wind Direction:
Land use in adjoining area:
Name and Distance of settlements in a 2 km radius of the site
Mitigation    Measures     Chainage                         Construction Site
Employed                                Site       I Site       2  Site          3  Site       4
(Chainage)    (Chainage)   (Chainage)       (Chainage)
Dust Control Measures
employed
Traffic Management
Storage Site                                                                       i
Maintenance   Shed  and
service area            |                                                                        l
Furnish details of public consultation held with the local populace.
Supervised and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date)
Civil Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                           EMPIU/PIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page 2 of 20                     Scott Wilson
PART H1- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                        Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                             Raichur By-pass
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Construction Phase
Borrow Area Management
Employer:
Supervision Consultant:
Civil Contractor:                                        Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Km --    to Km--
Environmental Features of the Location
Terrain: Flat/Undulating/Rolling
Wind Direction:
Name and Distance of settlements in a 2km radius of the site
1     Location of     Distance from   Capacity of    Total quantity of  Quantity of Top  Location where
Borrow area     Construction    Borrow Area    Earth excavated   Soil excavated (in  Top soil has been
site                           (in Cu.m)          Cu.m)            stored
2    |Location where    Distance from storage site   | Quantitv re-laidiused  Total quantity of Earth
Top soil re-                                                           o -'  av2t-d (in Cu.m)
|___|_ laid/used        j
3     Quantity of Earth   Quantity reused              Details of disposal of  Location and details of area
obtained from                                   unused earth           where unused borrow material is
excavation of                                                          disposed
Existing Highway
Enclose a Sketch maps of borrow area locations and photographs indicating implementation of mitigation measures and
borrow area management. Furnish details of consultation held with landowners, farmers and lessors.
Supervised and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date)
Civil Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                               EMPIUtPIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page 3 of 20                       Scott Wilson
PART 1 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                  Raichur By-pass
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Construction Phase
Ambient Air Quality
Employer:
Supervision Consultant:
Civil Contractor:                                             Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Km------- to Km--
Environmental Features of the Location
Terrain: FlatfUndulating/Rolling
Wind Direction:
Name and Distance of settlements in a 2km radius of the site
SL.                                      Location ( to nearby settlements  Chainage   Installed Capacity of the
No    Plant Details                       and Prevailing Wind Direction)              AMP and Crushers
I     Details of AMPs and Crusher Plants                           _    _
AMP-I _1____                                                   _
AMP-2
__ _ Crusher- I                        _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
Crusher-2
_2  -    Mitigation Measures emrlo,ed  T AMP-I         i          Crusher-l I    Crusher-2   I
A) Air pollution  Control measures               :
adopted at the HMAP_;
i) Quantity of Water used for sprinkling         .         C
3     Details  of  Ambient  Air  Quality       Location          Chainage    Date and frequency of
Monitoring carried out at site. (Enclose                               Monitoring
Monitoring Report as annexure)
A Q -1Ij±                                                _  _  _  _ _    _ _  _  _  _  _ _
AQ-2                                                  I____         _
4     Details  of  Heavy   Vehicles  and     Total Number       Operational  Vehicles in Repair
Construction Machinery by types at each
location
Trucks/Dumpers
Tractors
Pavers
Rollers
Excavators
Graders
Enclose Photographs and Monitorkng Reports
Supervised and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date)
Civil Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                                    EMPIU/PIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page 4 of 20                           Scort Wilson
PART H - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                               Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                    Raichur By-pass
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Construction Phase
Noise Level Monitoring
Supervision Consultant:
Civil Contractor:                                              Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Km------- to Km    -
Environmental Features of the Location
Terrain: Flat/Undulating/Rolling
Wind Direction:
Land use in adjoining area:
Name and Distance of settlements in a 2km radius of the site
I     Details  of  Heavy   Vehicles  and     Total Number      No. of Vehicles    Day in week for     Frequency of
Construction Machinery by types at each                  in Repair        Periodic maintenance    complete
location                                                                                       overhauling and
servicing
Trucks/Dumpers    ____
_____  Tractors
__ _ Pavers                                                                  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _    _ _ _  _ _ _
Rollers__                                                                                          _  _  _ _
Excavators                         E
Graders                            !
2        Mitigation Measures employed   I AMP-I        :  WP-2      Crusher-I   ICrusher-2
A) Noise pollution Control measures
adopted at the HMP and Crusher Plants
3     Details of Safety equipment, earplugs  Total Workers at site            No. of Ear Plugs
etc., provided to Workers at construction                                  provided
Construction Site-I
Construction Site-2
4     Noise level Monitoring carried out at-site  Location           Chainage     Date  and  frequency  of
(Enclose Monitoring Repo  as annexure)                                      Monitoring
NQ-2
Supervised and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date)
Civil Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                                     EMPIU/PIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page 5 of 20                            Scott Wilson
PART 11- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                    Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                         Raichur By-pass
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Construction Phase
Prevention and control of Water Pollution
Supervision Consultant:
Civil Contractor:                                     Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Km---- to Km-
Environmental Features of the Location
Terrain: Flat/Undulating/Rolling
Wind Direction:
Land use in adjoining area:
Name and Distance of settlements in a 2km radius of the site
Sl.No. 1    Site Details       Measures adopted to prevent   Location        Chainage
runoff and contamination of
nearby water bodies.
Construction   site
Service Area-i
Construction   site
Service Area-2
Construction
Workers Camp-I_
Construction
Workers Cax-2_
SL.No.   Drainage  details  at  site  and  Location    Chainage  Sanitary  Facilities and
2        Construction Workers' camp                              Water availability in the
camp
Construction site Service Area-I
Construction site Service Area-2
Construction Workers Camp-I
Construction Workers Camp-2
Sl.No.3  Details  of   Water   Quality      Location         Chainage    Date       and
Monitoring carried out at site                                  frequency    of
(Enclose Monitoring Report as                                   Monitoring
annexure)
WQ-1
WQ-2
WQ-3                           _
Supervised and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date)
Civil Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                          EMPIU/PIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page 6 of 20                    Scott Wilson
PART 11- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                    Environmental Assessment Report-
Improvement Project                                         Raichur By-pass
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Construction Phase
Solid Waste Management
Supervision Consultant:
Civil Contractor:                                    Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Kn----- to Km-
Environmental Features of the Location
Terrain: Flat/Undulating/Rolling
Wind Direction:
Land use in adjoining area:
Name and Distance of settlements in a 2km radius of the site
Location                   Chainage      Method of     Storage (      If reused,    Method of
collection  Possibility of  mention area    Disposal
any re-use)   where utlised   (Details of
area where
_______ _______ disposed)
Construction site - I
Construction site - 2                                                        .
Include Details of Disposal Area along with a sketch map and photographs showing the
debns stwragt2 and management in the disposal site. Furnish details of consultation iielc1 witt
local populace prior to initiation of civil works
Supervised and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date)
Civil Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                          EMPIU/PIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page 7 of 20                    Scott Wilson
PART 11- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                      Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                           Raichur By-pass
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Construction Phase
Erosion and Sediment Control Measures at construction site
Supervision Consultant:
Civil Contractor:                                      Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Km---- to Km-,.
Environmental Features of the Location
Terrain: Flat/Undulating/Rolling
Wind Direction:
Land use in adjoining area:
Location            Chainage    Control       Measures Extent of other Protection measures
implemented          as completed at site
suggested in Contract
Enclose Photographs
Superviscd and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date)
Civil Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                     EMPIU/PIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page 8 of 20                      Scott Wilson
PART 1/ - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                     Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                          Raichur By-pass
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Construction Phase
Prevention and control of oil and chemical spills
Supervision Consultant:
Civil Contractor:                                     Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Kin------ to Km-
Environmental Features of the Location
Terrain: Flat/Undulating/Rolling
Construction     Chainage       Precaution   Method    employed    for Storage        and
Site                            Measures     storage,  disbursal  and   Disposal of used
adopted in   disposal of oily wastes   hazardous material
Field                                   and  other   solid
Field______________                    wastes
Furnish detailed information on disposal and enclose photographs
Supervised and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date'
Civil Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                    EMPIUIPIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page 9 of 20                     Scott Wilson
PART JI - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                   Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                        Raichur By-pass
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Construction Phase
Traffic Management and Safety
(Details of Traffic diversions, Safety Signage, Traffic supervision, Safety equipment
provided to the construction workers)
Supervision Consultant:
Civil Contractor:                                    Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Km---- to Km-
Environmental Features of the Location
Terrain: Flat/Undulating/Rolling
Wind Direction:
Land use in adjoining area:
Location      Chainage from Km---- to Km-   Details of Traffic  Safety  Measures
diversions       employed
Furnish details of consultation held with local populace prior to initiation of civil works.
Supervised and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date)
Civil Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                         EMPIU/PIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page 10 of 20                   Scott Wilson
PART It - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                       Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                            Raichur By-pass
KARNATAKA STATE HIGHWAYS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Construction Phase
Construction Worker Camps
Supervision Consultant:
Civil Contractor:                                       Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Km---- to Km-
Land use in adjoining area:
Construction Workers Camp.     Details
Details of its location with
Chainage
Proximity to any water source,
Amenities like provision of
drinking  water and    sanitary
facilities,
Solid waste Disposal system,
waste   water  treatment   and
disposal system
Availability of  fuel wood/fire
wood                          ___                                             ____
Health Check ups for workers and
its frequency
Nearest Town/ settlement with
Medical facilities and Distance
from Construction site
Enclose Photographs and location sketches
Supervised and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date)
Civil Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                EMPIU/PIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page II of 20                      Scott Wilson
PART 11- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                       Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                            Raichur By-pass
Environmental Supervision and Monitoring Schedule- Post Construction
Compliance Report
Contract Package:
Civil Contract Section:
Location:
Chainage: Km- to Km-
1. If any grievance/ problems expressed by the community during construction? Yes/No. If Yes give
details
2. Has there been any post c onstruction erosion or damage to the roadway? Ys/No. If yes, state
mitigation measures employed
3. Was there any spillage of chemicals/bitumen? Yes/No
4. Status of reclamation and restoration of Borrow pits / roadsides.
5. Status of Debris clearance from site
6. Status of the construction camp sites dismantling and restoration of the original state of land after
clearance of the debris and construction material
7. Photographs of Post Construction Compliance
Supervised and Checked by
(Name and Signature with Date)
CivD Contractor's Site Engineer:
CSC Site Engineer:                                      EMPIU/PIU Site Engineer:
Appendices: Page 12 of 20                      Scott Wilson
PART 11- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Appendix - 1
AMBIENT AIR QUALITY MONITORING PROFORMA
MONITORING LOCATIONS:
AQ 1 =
AQ2=
Sampling Stations  Air Quality
S.No.        Parameters       AQ 1      AQ 2    Standards   Protocol
I    Time of Sampling (hr)
2    Sampling Duration (min)
3    Flow Rate (m3/min)
4    Atmospheric     Max.
Temp. (°C)      Min.
5    SPM (4g/m3)
6    RPM (g.g /m3)
7    Oxides of Sulphur (as
SOx, jg/rl3)
8  Oxides of Nitrogen (as
NOx, jig/rn3)
Carbon Monoxide (as CO,
9  mg/rn3)                          _  _ __                 _  _
10    Lead (as Pb jig/rn3)
I1    Hydrocarbons
Appendices: Page 13 of 20              Scott Wilson
PART 11- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                             Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                  Raichur By-pass
Appendix - 2
WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROFORMA FOR SURFACE WATER
MONITORING LOCATIONS:
WQI =
WQ 2=
WQ3=
Monito ing Locations    Water Quality Standards  Protocol
Parameters               'W~2 1           Drinking      Surface    IS:
WQ1     WQ2    WQ3     Water         Water
Standards     Standards
Physical Parameters
Atmospheric Temp.
(OC)
Water Temp.(°C)
Colour     (Hazen
Units)
Odour
Turbidity (NTU)    _
Total Solids
Suspended Solids    _                       _                       _
Total    Dissolved
Solids
Chemical Parameters
pH                 _
DO
BOD (at 20°C for 5
d ay s)            _ _ _ __                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
COD
Total Alkalinity (as
CaCO3)
Total Hardness (as
CaCO3)
Calcium Hardness
(as CaCO3)
Magnesium
Hardness(as CaCO3)
Sulphates (as S04)
Phosphates (as P04)  L
Nitrates (as NO3)
Ammoniacal
Nitrogen
Chlorides (as Cl)
Fluorides (asF)
Calcium (as Ca)
Appendices: Page 14 of 20               Scott Wilson
PART 11- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                    Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                         Raichur By-pass
Magnesium (as Mg)_
Sodium (as Na)
Potassium (as K)
Boron (as B)
Heavy Metals                                                              .
Total Iron (as Fe),
Lead (as Pb)
Manganese (s Mn)
Organic
Phenolic
Compounds
Oils & Grease
Biological parameters
MPN
Total Coliforms
( /lOOml)
MPN
Faecal Coliforms
(/lOOml)
Note: All parameters are expressed in mg/l except pH and Odour and otherwise mentioned
along with the parameter.
Appendices: Page 15 of 20                   Scott Wilson
PART 1 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                          Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                               Raichur By-pass
Appendix - 3
AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL MONITORING PROFORMA
MONITORING LOCATIONS:
NQ1=
NQ2=
Monitoring  Category  Distance  Sound Level dB(A)  Range           Standard
Location    of Zone  from  the                    of               Limit in
Centre                      Sound   Protocol dB    (A)
line/Road  Mi. Max. Avg.    level            Leq
_________       ~~Edge  (mn)                 dB_ _ __ _(A) _ __ _
NQ1
Average =
NQ2 2_=__
Average =
Max. = Maximum; Min. = Minimum
Appendices: Page 16 of 20            Scott Wilson
PART 1 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                         Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                              Raichur By-pass
Appendix - 4
AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS (NATIONAL)
Time      Sensitive   Industrial  Residential,         Method of
Pollutants     weighted      Area         Area        Rural &          Methodmof
Average                             Other Areas       Measurement
Sulphur        Annual ^    15 ig/M3    80 gg/M3    60 gg/M3       1) Improved West and
Dioxide (SO2)                                                      Gaeke Method
24 j,ours`  30 jlg/rn3  120 jig/r3   80 jig/r      2) Ultraviolet Fluore-
_______________   ___________   ____________  scence
Oxides of      Annual      15 gig/mr3  80 ig/m3    60 ig/M3       1) Jacob and Hochheiser
Nitrogen as                                                         Modified (Na-Arsenite)
NO2            24 hours-   30 jig/r    120 jg/3    80 pg/r3         method
2) Gas phase Chemil-
uminescence
Suspended      Annual'     70 jig/M3   360 jg/M3   140 jig/M3     High Volume Sampler
Particulate                                                       (Average flow rate not
Matter (SPM)   24 hours    100 gg/M3   500 jig/M3  200 ig/rn3     less than 1.1 m3/ minute)
Repirable      Annual *    50 jig/rn3  120 jig/rn3  60 jig/rn3    Respirable Particulate
Pariculate                                                        Matter sampler
Matter (RPM)   24 hours-   75 jig/M3   150 tig/M3  100 jig/m3
size  <10  gim__              _ _  _   __ _ _  _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
Lead (Pb)      Annual *    0.50 Pg/M3  1.0 Pg/M3   0.75 jg/M3     AAS Method after
jig/rn3    _____________sampling using EPM 2000
24 hours    0-75 ig/rm3  1.5 ig/rm3  1.00 jg/M3    or equivalent filter paper
C2rbon         8 hours     1.0 mrirn3  5.0 mg/m3    2.0 mg/m3      Non Dispersive Infra Red
Monoxide (CO)  1 Nxi-             M3   10.0 Mg/r3      Mg/r3      (NDIR) Spectroscopy
1 hoLir      0  gm      100g/3       4.0mg3
* Annual arithmetic mean of minimum 104 measurements in a year taken twice a week 24
hourly at uniform interval
**24/8 hourly values should be meet 98% of the time in a year. However, 2% of the time, it
may exceed but not on two consecutive days
Note   National Ambient Air Quality Standard: The levels of air quality with an adequate margin of
safety, are to protect the public health, vegetation and property.
Whenever and wherever two consecutive values exceed the limit specified above for the respective
category, it would be considered adequate reason to institute regular/continuous monitoring and
further investigations.
Appendices: Page 17 of 20                       Scott Wi/so,,
PART 11- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                      Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                           Raichur By-pass
Appendix - 5
PRIMARY WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
Designated     Class of
Best Use       Water
Total Coliforms MPN/1 00ml shall be 50 or less
Drinking water
source (with      A      pH between 6.5 to 8.5
conventional              Dissolved Oxygen 6 mg/A or more
treatment)
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 5 days 20 OC 2 mg/A
or less
Total Coliforms MPN/100 ml shall be 500 or less
Outdoor bathing     B      pH between 6.5 to 8.5
(Organised)              Dissolved Oxygen 5 mg/I or more
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 5 days 20 °C 3 mg/A
or less
Total Coliforms MPN/100 ml shall be 5000 or less
xrcak (win tot      C      pH between 6 to 9
co1verdionai              Dissolved Oxygen 4 mg/l or more
beaMeft)
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 5 days 20 °C 3
mg/i or less
pH between 6.5 to 8.5 for Fisheries
Propagation of      D     Dissolved Oxygen 4 mg/I or more
Free Ammonia (as N) 1.2 mg/A or less
pH between 6.0 or 8.5
Irrigation,      E      Electrical Conductivity at 25 OC pmhos/cm Max 2250
Industrial
Cooling,                Sodium absorption ratio Max. 26
Controlled Waste
Boron, Max. 2 mg/I
Appendices: Page 18 of 20                    Scott Wilson
PART 1 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                 Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
Appendix - 6
Ambient Noise Level Standards
Limit in dB(A) leq
Area Code   Category of Area
Day Time            Night Time
A          Industrial Area           75                   70
B         Commercial Area            65                   55
C         Residential Area           55                   45
D           Silence Zone             50                   40
Note - 1 Day time is reckoned between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m.
Note - 2 Night time is reckoned between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m.
Note - 3 Silence zone is identified as area up to 100 meters around such
premises as hospitals, educational institutions and courts. The silence
zone is to be declared by the Competent Authority.
Note - 4 Mixed categories of areas should be declared as one of the four above
mentioned categories by the Competent Authority and the corresponding
standard shaU apply.
NOISE LIMITS FOR AUTOMOBILE (FREE FIELD AT ONE METER IN dB (A) AT
THE MANUFACTURING STAGE)
S.No.                     Type of Automobile                      Limits
(a)   Motorcylce, Scooters & Three Wheelers                       80
(b)   Passenger Cars                                              82
(c)   Passenger or Commercial Vehicles upto 4 tonne               85
(d)   Passenger or Commercial Vehicles Above 4 tonne and upto 12 tonne  89
(e)   Passenger or Commercial Vehicles Exceeding 12 tonne         91
Appendices: Page 19 of 20                 Scott Wilson
PART 11- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



Karnataka State Highways                                    Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                         Raichur By-pass
Appendix - 7
Draft Terms of Reference for
Environmental Training of EMPIU Staff
Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project
1. Introduction
The Kamataka State Highway Project (KSHIP), financed by the World Bank, integrates
environmental and social issues in the design, construction and operation of the Highway. An
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared and is integrated in the technical
specification and contract documents. The implementation of the EMP requires supervision,
monitoring and reporting by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). These duties will be carried out
by the Environment Management Plan Implementation Unit (EMPIU) which will be part of the PIU.
To successfully implement, supervise and monitor the EMP, the staff of the EMPIU will require
training. Training will also be provided to other staff of the PWD to sensitize them to environmental
and social issues associated with the planning, design, and implementation of the highway projects.
The scope of this TOR includes development and delivery of training to all staff of the EMPITJ, and to
the selected staff of the PWD and the successful Contractors.
2. Objectives
The main objectives of the enviromnental training are to impart to the staff of EMPIU and other
participants, an understanding of the environmental and social issues associated with the development
of infrastructure projects and mitigation of impacts on these issues through proper design and
implementation of mitigation measures during construction and operation of the project. The training
wouid review the regulatory regime, dhe role of public consulTation in project developrnt:nt,
supervision and monitoring of the project and reporting.
3. Scope
The environmental training should encompass the following:
*  Relevant regulations and their applicability to the project. Permits and clearances.
*  Main impacts of the KSHIP on the environment.
*  Mitigation measures as given in the EMIP and their implementation through incorporation in the
design, construction supervision and monitoring.
*  Duties and responsibilities of the Contractors, Supervisor Engineers, Supervising Consultants,
PIU and EMPIU.
*  Role of public/community consultation during project preparation and implementation.
*  Liaison with other departments and relevant agencies (such as Forestry).
*  Supervision of the implementation of the EMP and social issues during construction and
operation.
*  Resolution of environmental and social issues arising during construction and their reporting.
*  Safety during construction (signage, diversion, traffic management, etc.)
*  Rehabilitation of borrow areas, construction camps, etc.
*  Monitoring during construction and operation.
*  Weekly, monthly and quarterly report preparations and submission.
*  Preparation of dissemination notes, holding of workshops, and training of other staff in PWD.
Appendices: Page 20 of 20                    Scott Wilson
PART 1 - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



ANNEXURES
.1



Karnataka State Highways                                       Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                             Raichur By-pass
ANNEXURE I
FLY ASH
1. Handling of Fly Ash
Fly ash shall be conditioned with water as necessary at source to prevent dusting enroute. It shall be
delivered to the site in covered dump trucks to minimize loss of moisture and dusting. Fly ash
containing excess water, which leads to spillage during transport, shall not be used until suitably
dried. Regular inspection and careful selection at the source shall be carried out at all times.
The fly ash may require temporary stock piling on site if the rate at which the ash is supplied to the
project site is more than the contractor's demand for an efficient rate of placement. Whenever possible
this should be avoided. Where stock piling at the site is inevitable, adequate precautions must be
taken, to prevent dusting, by spraying water on stockpiles at regular intervals. Altemately, the surface
of the fly ash stockpile may be covered with tarpaulins or a thin layer of soil at bottom as well as top.
Stockpiling location should be away from settlement, water bodies and ground water collection
system. When traffic movements over fly ash laid in an embankment is necessary the fly ash shall be
kept moist to prevent dusting. Any person handling with fly ash during loading, unloading, laying
etc., should wear suitable protective clothing, gloves, and eye/face protection. In case of contact with
eyes, inse immediately with plenty of clean water for atleast 15 minutes. In case of contact with skin,
wash affected area thoroughly with soap and water. Children should not be allowed at fly as site.
Annenxure - II Page / of I                     Scott Wilsonl



Karnataka State Highways                                    Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                         Raichur By-pass
ANNEXURE - II
SCHEDULE I
(See Secs. 2,8,9,11,40,41,43,48,51,61 and 62)
PART I
Mammals
1[1. Andaman wild pig (Suslandamanensis)]
2 [I-A. Bharal (Ovis nahura)]
2[ 1-B. Binturong (Arctictis binturong)]
2. Blackbuck (Antilope cervicapra)
2[2-A. *******]
3. Brow-antlered deer or thamin (Cervus eldi)
3[3-A. Himalayan brown bear (Ursus arctos)]
3[3-B. Capped langur (Presbytis pileatus)]
4. Caracal (Felis caracal)
2[4-A. Catacean spp.]
5. Cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus)
4[5-A. Chinese pangolin (Manis pentadactyla))
1 [5-B. Chinkara or Indian gazelle (Gazella gazella bennetti)]
6. Clouded leopard (Neofelis nebulosa)
2[6-A. Crab-eating macaque (Macaca irus umbrosa)]
2 [6-B. Desert cat (Felis libyca)]
3 [6.-C. Desert ftx 5'ulres bucopus)]
7. Dugong (Dugong clugon)
217-A. Ermine (Mustela erminea)]
8. Fishing cat (Felis viverrina)
1[8-A. Four-homed antelope (Tetraceros quadricornis)]
2[8-B. ***]
3[8-C. ***]
3[8-D. Gangetic dolphin (Platanista gangetica)]
3[8-E. Gaur or Indian bison (Bos gaurus)]
9. Golden cat (Felis temmincki)
10. Golden langur (Presbytis geei)
3 [10-A. Giant squirrel (Ratu fa macroura)]
3[ 10-B. Himalayan ibex (Capra ibex)]
3[10-C. Himalayan tahr (Hemitragus jernlahicus)]
11. Hispid hare (Caprolagus hispidus)
3[1 I-A. Hog badger (Arctonyx collaris)]
12. Hoolock gibbon (Hylobates hoolock)
2[12-A. ****]
2[12-B. Indian elephant (Elephas maximus)]
13. Indian lion (Panthera leo persica)
14. Indian wild ass (Equus hemionus khur)
7[15. Indian wolf (Canis lupus pallipes)]
16. Kashmir stag (Cervus elaphus hanglu)
2[16-A. Leaf monkey (Presbytis phayrei)]
2[16-B. Leopard or panther (Panthera pardus))
Annexure I: Page I of 8                       Scott Wilson



Karnataka State Highways                                       Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                            Raichur By-pass
17. Leopard cat (Felis bengalensis)
18. Lesser or red panda (Ailurus fulgens)
19. Lion-tailed macaque (Macaca silenus)
20. Loris (Loris tardigradus)
3[20-A. Little Indian porpoise (Neomeris phocaenoides))
21. Lynx (Felis lynx isabellinus)
22. Malabar civet (Viverra rhegaspila)
1 [22-A. Malay or sun bear (Helarctos malayanus)]
23. Marbled cat (Felis marmorata)
24. Markhor (Capra falconeri)
I [24-A. Mouse deer (Tragulus meninna)
25. Musk deer (Moschus moschiferus)
3[25-A. Nilgiri langur (Presbytis johni)]
3[25-B. Nilgiri tahr (Hemitragus hylocrius)]
26. Nayan or great Tibetan sheep (Ovis arnmon hodgsoni)
27. Pallas's cat (Felis manul)
28. Pangolin (Manis crassicauclata)
29. Pygmy hog (Sus salvanius)
2[29-A. Ratel (Mellivora capensis)]
30. Indian one-homed rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicomis)
31. Rusty-spotted cat (Felis rubiginosa)
1( 31-A. Serow (Capricomis sumatraensis)]
3 [31-B. Clawless otter 'Aonyx cinerea)]
3[31-C. Sloth bear (Melursus ursinus)]
32. Slow loris (Nyeticebus coveang)
33. Snow leopard (Panthera uncia)
3[32-A. Small Travancore flying squirrel (Petinomys fuscopapillus)]
3[33-A. Snubfin dolphin (Orcaella brevirostris)]
34. Spotted linsang (Prionodon pardicolor)
35. Swamp deer (all sub-species of Cervus cluvauceli)
36. Takin or Mishmi takin (Budorcas taxicolor)
1[36-A. Tibetan antelope or chiru (Panthelops hodgsoni)]
3[36-B. Tibetan fox (Vulpes ferrilatus)]
37. Tibetan gazelle (Procapra picticauclata)
38. Tibetan wild ass (Equus hernionug kiang)
39. Tiger (Panthera tigris)
40. Urial or shapu (Ovis vignei)
41. Wild buffalo (Bubalus bubahs)
1[41-A. Wild yak (Bos grunniens))
3[4 1 -B. Tibetan wolf(Canis lupus chanco)]
Annexure 11: Page 2 of 8                         Scott Wilson



Karnataka State Highways                                         Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                              Raichur By-pass
PART II
Amphibians and Reptiles
1[1. ***]
2[1-A. *****]
3 [1-B. Audithia turtle (Pelochelys bibroni)
3 [1-C. Barred, oval, or yellow monitor lizard (Varanus flavescens)]
3[l-D. Crocodiles (including the estuarine or saltwater crocodile)
(Crocodilus porosus and Crocodilus palustris)]
3[1-E. Terrapin (Batagur baska))
1-F. Eastem hill terrapin (Melanochelys tricarinata)
2. Gharial (Gavialis gangeticus)
2[3. Ganges soft-shelled turtle (Trionyx gangeticus)]
3[3-A. Golden gecko (Caloductyloides aureus))
4. Green sea turtle (Chelonia myclas)
5. Hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata imbricata)
3[6. *****]
7. Indian egg-eating snake (Elachistodon westermanni)
8. Indian soft-shelled turtle (Lissemys punctata)
9. Indian tent turtle (Kachuga tecta tecta)
9-A. Kerala Forest Terrapin (Hoesemys sylratiea)
11. Leathery turtle (Dermochelys coriacea)
12. Loggerhead turtle (Caretta caretta)
13. Oliveback loggerhead turtle (L_pidochelys Clivacea)
14. Peacock-marked soft-shelled turtle (Trionyx hurum)
3[14-A. Pythons (Genus Python)]
3[14-B. Sail terrapin (Kachuga kachuga)]
14-C. Spotted black terrapin (Geoclemys hamiltoni)
2[15. *****]
2[16. ***]
2[17. ***]
1[17-A. ***]
Annexure 11: Page 3 of 8                           Scott Wilson



Karnataka State Highways                                     Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                          Raichur By-pass
PART m
Birds
I [1. Andaman teal (Anas gibberifrons albogularis)]
I-A. Assam bamboo partridge (BambUSiCOld fytchii)
I [1 -B. Bazas (Aviceda jercloni and Aviceda leuphotes))
I [1-C. Bengal florican (Eupodotis bengalensis)]
I -D. Black-necked crane (Grus nigricollis)
I-E. Blood pheasants (Ithaginis cruentus tibetanus, l.c.kuseri)
2[1-F. ***]
2. Cheer pheasant (Catreus wallichi)
2[2-A. Eastem white stork (Ciconia ciconia boyciana)]
4[2-B. Forest spotted owlet (Athene blewitti)]
4[2-C. Frogmouths (Genus Batrachostomus)]
3. Great Indian bustard (Choriotis nigriceps)
4. Great Indian hombill (Buceror, bicomis)
2[4-A. Hawks (fam.Accipitridae)]
4[4-B. Hooded crane (Grus monacha)]
4[4-C. Hombills (Ptiloaemus tickelli austeni, Aceros nipalensis, Rhyticeros undulatus
ticehursti)]
4[4-D. Houbara bustard (Chlamyclotis undulata)]
4[4-E. Hume's bar-backed pheasant (Syrmaticus humiae)]
4[4-F. Indian pied hombill (Anthracoceros malabaricus)]
5. jardon's courser (Cursorius b-torquatus)
6. Lammergeier (Gypaetus barbatus)
7. Large falcons (Falco peregrinus, F. biarmicus, F. chicquera)
4[7-A. Large whistling teal (Dendrocygna bicolor))
3 [7-B. Lesser florican (Sypheoticles indica)]
3[7-C. Mortal pheasants (Lophophorus impejanus, Lsclateri)]
8. Mountain quail (Ophrysia superciliosa)
9. Narcondam hombill (Rhyticeros (undulatus) narcondami)]
3 [9-A. Nicobar megapocie (Megapodius freycinet)
10. Nicobar pigeon (Caloenas nicobarica pelevvensis)]
4[10-A. Osprey or Fish eating eagle (Pandion haliaetus)]
2[10-B. Peacock pheasants (Polyplectron bicalcaratum)]
11. Peafowl (Pavo cristatus)
12. Pink-headed duck (Rhodonessa caryophyllacea)
13. Scalater's monal (Lophophorus sclateri)
14. Siberian white crane (Grus leucogeranus)
2[14-A. ***]
4[14-B. Tibetan snow cock (Tetraogallus tibetanus)]
15. Tragopan pheasants (Tragopan melanocephalus, T. blythii, T. satyra, T. temrninckii)
16. White-bellied sea eagle (Haliaetus leucogaster)
17. White-eared pheasant (Crossoptilon crossoptilon)
3[17-A. White spoonbill(Platalea ieucorodia)]
18. White-winged wood duck (Cairina scutalata)
Annexure 11: Page 4 of 8                        Scott Wilson



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                    Raichur By-pass
PART IV
Crustacea and Insects
3[1. Butterflies-and Moths
Family Amathusidae                    Common English name
Discophora deo deo                    Duffer, banded
Discophora sonclaica. Muscina         Duffer, common
Faunis faunula faunuloides            Pallid fauna
Family Danaidae
Danaus gautama gautamoides            Tigers
Euploea crameri nicevillei            Crow, spotted black
Euploea miciamus roepstorfti          Crow, blue-spotted
Family Lycaenidae
Allotinus drumila                     Darkie, crenulate/great
Allotinus fabius penormis             Angled clarkie
Amblopala avidiena                    Hairstreak, Chinese
Amblypodia ace arata                  Leaf blue
Amblypodia alea constanceae           Rosy oakblue
Amblypodia ammon ariel                Malayan bush blue
Amblypodia arvina ardea               Purple brown tailless oakblue
Amblypodia asopia                     Plain tailless oakblue
Amblypodia comica                     Comic oakblue
Amblypodia opalina                    Opal oakblue
Amblypodia zeta                       Andaman tailless oakbiue
Biduanda melisa cyana                 Blue posy
Callophyrs leechii                    Hairstreak, ferruginous
Castalius rosimon alarbus             Pierrot, common
Charana cephei!r                      Mandarin blue, Cachar
Chlioria othona                       Tit, orchid
Deudoryx epijarbas amatius            Comelian, scarce
Everes moorei                         Cupid, Moore's
Geryclus biggsii                      Bigg's brownie
Gerydus symethus diopeithes           Great brownie
Heliophorus hybrida                   Sapphires
Horaga albimacula                     Onyxes
Jamides ferraTi                       Caeruleans
Liphyra brassolis                     Butterfly, moth
Listeria dudgeni                      Lister's hairstreak
Logania Watsoniana subfasciate        Mottle, Watson's
Lycaenopsis binghami                  Hedge blue
Lycaenopsis haralclus ananga          Hedge blue, Felder's
Lycaenopsis purpa prominens           Common hedge blue
Lycaenopsis quadriplaga dohertyi      Naga hedge blue
Nacaduba noreia hampsonii             Lineblue, white-Upped
Polymmatus orbitulus leela            Greenish mountain blue
Pratapa icetas mishmia                Royal, dark blue
Simiskina phalena harterti            Brilliant, broadlanded
Annexure 11: Page 5 of 8                   Scott Wilson



Karnataka State Highways                               Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                    Raichur By-pass
Family Amathusidae                    Common English name
Sinthusa virgo                        Spark, pale
Spinclasis elwesi                     Silverline, Elwes's
Spindasis rukmini                     Silverline, khaki
Strymonidia mackwoodi                 Hairstreak, Mackwood's
Tajuria ister                         Royal, uncertain
Tajuria luculentus nela                Royal, Chinese
Tajuria yajna yajna                   Royal, chestnut and black
Thecda ataxus zulla                   Wonderful hairstreak
Thecla bieti mentera                  Indian purple hairstreak
Thecda letha                          Watson's hairstreak
Thecla paona                           Paona hairstreak
Thecla pavo                           Peacock hairstreak
Virachola smilis                      Guava blues
Family Nymphalidae
Apatura ulupi ulupi                   Emperor, tawny
Argynnis hegemone                     Silver-washed frifillary
Calinaga buddha                       Freak
Charaxes dumfordi nicholi             Rajah, chestnut
Cirrochroa fasciata                   Yeomen
Diagora nicevillei                    Siren, scarce
Dilipa morgiana                       Emperor, golden
Doleschallia bisalticle andamaria     Autumn ieaf
Eribcea moori sandakanus               Malayan nawab
Eriboea schreiberi                    Blue nawab
Eulaceura manipurensis                Emperor, Tytler's
Euthalia durga splendens              Barons /Counts/ Duchesses
Euthalia iva                          Duke, grand
Euthalia khama curvitascia            Duke, Naga
Euthalia telchinia                     Baron, blue
Helcyra hemina                         Emperor, white
Hypolimnas missipus                    Eggfly, danaid
Limenitis austenia purpurascens       Commodore, grey
Limenitis zulema                      Admirals
Melitaea shandura                     Fritillaries/Silverstripes
Neptis antilope                        Sailer, veriegated
Neptis aspasia                        Sailer, great hockeystick
Neptis columella kankena              Sailer, short-banded
Neptis cyclippe kirbariensis          Sailer, Chinese yellow
Neptis ebusa                           Sailer, lascar
Neptis jumbdh binghami                 Sailer, chestnut-streaked
Neptis manasa                          Sailer, pale hockeystick
Neptis nyctens                         Sailer, hockeystick
Neptis Poona                          Lascar, Tytler's
Neptis sankara                        Sailer, broad-banded
Panthoporia jina jina                  Bhutan sergeant
Panthoporia reta moorei                Malay staff sergeant
Annexure I: Page 6 of 8                   Scott Wilson



Karnataka State Highways                              Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                   Raichur By-pass
Family Amathusidae                    Common English name
Prothoe franckii regalis              Begum, blue
Sasakia funebris                      Empress
Sephisa chandra                       Courtier, eastem
Symbrenthia silana                    Jester, scarce
Vanessa antiopa yednula               Admirables
Family Papilionidae  I
Chilasa clytia clytia f. commixtus    Common mime
Papilio elephenor                     Spangle, yellow-crested
Papilio liomedon                      Swailowtail, Malabar banded
Parnassius aeco Seminifer            Apollo
Pamassius delphius                    Banded apollo
Pamassius hannyngtoni                 Hannyngton's apollo
Pamassius imperator augustus         Imperial apollo
Parnassius stoliczkanus               Ladakh banded apollo
Polyclorus coonsambilanga             Common clubtaill
Polyclorus crassipes                  Black windmill
Polyclorus hector                     Crimson rose
Polyclorus nevilli                    Nevill's windmill
Polyclorus plutonius pembertoni       Chinese windmill
Polyclorus polla                      Deniceylle's windmill
Family Pieridae
Apoiia harrietae harr;etae            Black veins
Baltia butleri sikkima                White butterfly
Colias colias thrasibulus             Clouded yellows
Colias dubi                           Dwarf clouded yellow
Delias sanaea                         Jezebel, pale
Pieris krueperi devta                 Butterfly cabbage/White 11
Family Satytiidae
Coelites nothis adamsoni              Cat's eye, scarce
Cyllogenes janetae                    Evening brown, scarce
Elymnias peali                        Palmfly, Peal's
Elymnias penanga philansis            Palmfly, painted
Erabia annada annada                  Argus, ringed
Erabia narasingha narasingha          Argus, mottled
Lethe, distarts                       Forester, scarce red
Lethe ddra gammiee                    Lilacfork, scarce
Lethe europa tamuna                   Bamboo tree brown
Lethe gemina Safuri                   Tytler's tree brown
Lethe guluihal guluihal               Forester, dull
Lethe margaritae,                     Tree brown, Bhutan
Lethe ocellata lyncus                 Mystic, dismal
Lethe ramadeva                        Silverstripe, single
Lethe ;atyabati                       Forester, pallid
Mycalesis orseis nawtilus             Bushbrown, purple
Parargemenava maeroides               Wall dark
Yothima dohertyi persimilis           Five ring, great
Annexure IL1 Page 7 of 8                   Scott Wilson



Karnataka State Highways                                        Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                             Raichur By-pass
Family Amathusidae                          Common English name
2[1-A.Coconut or Rubber crab (Birgus latro)]
2(2 dragonfly (Epioplebia laidlawi)]
Vide Notification published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt.II, Sec-3(i), dated 5th October
1977.
2 Vide Notification, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt.II, Sec-3(i), dated 2nd October,
1980.
3. Vide, S.O. 859(E), dated 24th November, 1986, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt.II,
Sec, 3(i) dated 24th November, 1986.
4. Vide Notification dated 29th August, 1977, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt.II, Sec3
(i) dated 3rd September, 1977.
5. Vide Notification, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Pt.II, Sec.3(i), 2nd October, 1980.
Annexure It: Page 8 of 8                          Scott Wilson



Kcn,wataka State Highways Imriprovement Project                                                                               Environmental Assessment Report - Raichur By-pass
Annexuro III
ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PIAN IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (EMPIU)
|N.L.R Pttshwe, K.E.S|
[rojct Director
B.S. Shekarappa, K.A.S
Chief Administrative Officer
Supervision                                               .,
Consultant -        _  M;               D. Nadat         4           V. Gopal
Environmental Engineer         Assistant Conservator of Forest
I\,ls SMIEC                                           ...                                           ..
. .  I    Documentation and            Mr-uturijaya Swam?.
.....I.....f_h - ..              Training                  RFO, Bangalore
Sl, Reghn*a.acvo Rao        Sad_ _  n vil^>lX*v   _   T                                             .
Additional RFO
.Syd Kamaluddin|    Bagakol                ]H. Belun                                 Sal KunIar    Fyokak         I   ikg7 I.FIgowda     l
|'v E   Fni Engg.)  A5ssEn, Er.g9            I Assi En. Engg  !  AssE Er. Egg       B. Doddam a
_    .                 V-    ' i                           _       _.~ 
Superintending Engineers/Executive Engineers PWD Divisions
Hirlyur, Ralchur, Gulbarga, Belgaum and Yellapur
PART 11- ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGAMENT PLAN (EMP)                                                      Scott Wilson



Karnataka State Highways                                               Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                                    Raichur By-pass
LABOUR CAMP
Dwelling Units
@1                                                                     1...m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
Nwetting Ur,t                                             1
Scott WI/So,,



Karnataka State Highways                                 Environmental Assessment Report -
Improvement Project                                      Raichur By-pass
SANITARY FACILITY
Sanitary facility
=_~~~~~~0 00015                             X) L3
-F11
LA Af
UXXC     s   E N,QH4S IUT301) 00IO
. rt,s, SaLT .. r  r             V
lm      In .d _      2m .    .-6u 
NOTES:           SECTION A-i             ". 00 C~~~~~UONRY WAL
1. INSPECTION CHAMBER (IC)
600x600x600 DEEP VJTH
AIRTIGHT MH COVER
2. SEPTIC TANK & SOAK PT
AS . PER SITF CONOilONS
Scott WEL10,,
AC SHEET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I



