E421
Volume 7
in association with
IIIE
Phase II - Final Environmental Assessment Report
on Segment of Corridor 13A passing through Dandeli Wildlife
Sanctuary and Anshi National Park
Executive Summary
Project Co-ordinating Consultancy Services (PCC)
for the Karnataka State Highways I  vement Project
IBRD Loan/Credit No. LN-4114    idar
Belga 
Ka    wart}J  gX   e             ,-
ba~~~durgav 1 d[X
Mangalor           g,u    alore 
Prepared for:
Govt of Karnataka
Public Works Dept.
(PIU KSHIP)
May 2003



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



TABLE OF CONTENTS



Kanatakca State Highwayins                    Final Dcift En?ironeiteical A.4ssessmenit Report on
Improvement P-oject                           Segment of Corridorl3A passing tlhrotig/i
Dandeli llildlife Sancnianr and Anshi N\ational Park
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION                      PARTICULARS                         PAGE NO.
IGeneral                                                   i
PART - I: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)
1.      Introduction                                               i
2.       Policy, Legislation and Administrative Framework         ii
3.       Project Description                                      iii
Analysis of Alternatives                                 iv
4.       Methodology                                              iv
5.       Existing Environmental Scenario                           v
6.       Public Consultation                                      vi
7.       Environmental     Impact      Assessment      and        vii
Mitigation/Enhancement Measures
8.       Environmental Management Plan of Dandeli Wildlife        viii
Sanctuary and Anshi National Park
9.       Cost Estimate of Environmental Mitigation Measures       ix
related to Forest Infrastructure Augmentation
PART - II: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
1.      Introduction                                              ix
2.       Institutional Strengthening                              ix
3.       Environmental Training                                   ix
4.       Environmental Monitoring and Reporting Procedures        ix
5.       Mitigation Plan                                           x
6.       Implementation Schedule                                   x
7.       Environmental Mitigation Costing                          x
Scott IVilson/CES/IIIE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



).,rnatakaSlate 5 j101' Ig)iu Jz I uzal       v z  i   l  t'I 1 RepJoJrt 0,,
hIzipirovemetnt Ptroject                  &'emeni ol  Co rr ir do13.1 passilng tIruz gh,
Dac,Lh Iie lid/If,d .Sapcrzca   and .-Jd,shi National Park
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
General
The project involves 2 laning of 28 km of Corridor 13A. also known as State Highway 95
D (SH-95) which passes through Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary and Anshi National Park.
This project corridor comes under Joida Taluk of Uttara Kannada district. The total length
of this corridor is about 88 Km. The most important feature of this corridor is that it offers
direct connectivity to the coastal areas of Karwar and also to the Dandeli Wildlife
Sanctuary and Anshi National Park. The Public Works Department (PWD). Karnataka is
the executing agency ofethe project.
As per Environmental Screening studies this project road has been categorized as B
Category Project. This means limited environmental impacts may occur due to the
project work and will be mitigated. Detailed reports have been prepared and presented:
Part I - Environrnental Impact Assessment (EIA)
Part II - Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
PART I - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)
1.    Introduction
The Karnataka State Highways Improvement Project (KSHIP) is an initiative by the
Public Works Department (PWD) of the Governmnent of Kamataka (GoK), under the
financial assistance of World Bank, to undertake improvement of 2300 km of -oads
consisting of State Highways and Major District Roads. The whole project has been
divided into two phases - Phase I and Phase II. In Phase I roads selected for upgradation
includes about 394 Kms. coming under Gulbarga, Raichur, Koppal, Bijapur and Bidar
districts. Upgradation is widening and strengthening of the existing carriageway. The
width of the existing carriageway - 3.5ms, 4.5 ms and 5.5ms, will be increased to width
of 7 ms. This widening involves cutting of trees, if any. And for major maintenance (i.e.
rehabilitation) in  Phase  1, total  roads  round  up  to  1027  Kms.  Major
maintenance/Rehabilitation involves only strengthening of the existing carriageway, but
does not involve cutting of any tree. Phase I project is under implementation stage. In
Phase II, roads selected for upgradation total up to 547 Kms. which are included under
Belgaum, Gokak, Bagalkot, Bijapur, Chitradurga and Bellary districts. In addition, around
428 Kms of roads have been selected for Rehabilitation, which come together under
Dharwad, Uttara Kannada. Belgaum, Raichur and Mysore districts.
Two corridors (I0A and 13A) passing through National Parks have been selected by
KSHIP as a part of the Phase II. Corridor IOA passes through Rajiv Gandhi National Park
and Corridor 13A passes through Dandeli Wild Life Sanctuary and Anshi National Park.
ES-i                             -Scott jlis,n, ,CES IIIE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



ka l 11r.ialAa  .SrcIr ' l.                I /l... :.   , i,trei! ! I.r !r,  :  ,,
Imp/)1I/i7- 01 I  I 'cl                    .crrrr/L//  I  ( ProjectrI  .  1 )llh'W   0  t/i'  ";I
I), mdeh I I I /lid/ h  .Srrrroiurl:r  rind   nVhr I   \ c.,t, InItIIP'.,A
Cor-idor I3A passes thlougih Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary and Anshii National Park for a
length of about 2S Kim. This stretcli of Corridor 13A passim, throuuh the Nlational Park, is
qualified for some special type of investment in linc with the World Bank's Operational
Policy 4.04 (Natural Habitat)
2.     Policy, legislatibn and Administrative Framework
i.     Environmental-Policv and Administrative Framework
Environmental Policy  and  Administrative  framework  involves the  Ministry  of
Environment and Forests (MOEF). Government of lndia. Divisional Forest Departmenit.
and Kamataka State Pollutioni Control Board (KSPCB). Enviroinmenltal Clearance is
required for the developmental work of this project road.
ii.    Legal Context
The legal responsibility for creationl. maintenance. up-gradation or abandonmiiienit of public
road rests with the PWD. Karnataka and other authorities like State Pollution Control
Board and State Forest Departmenit.
Other major elements of the Indiani legal context for Environmental IManagemrient are:
The Constitution provides for protection and improvement ol the environment and states
that il shall be thle clit olf evei-' citi:en of India to irotLeci aic(1 improve the national
environmnen, including fiorest. laies, rivers. and Wildlife and to have compassion for
living creatures.
Various legal enactments to protect environment are as follows:
i.     Water (Prevention and Control of pollution) Act of 1974 and Cess Act of 1977.
ii.    Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. 1981.
iii. Environment (Protection) Act, 1986
iv.    Forest (Conservation) Act. as amended in 1988.
v.     Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.
vi.    Policy Statement on Abatement of Pollution. 1992 affirming the government's
intention to integrate environmental and economic aspects in development
planning with stress on preventive aspects of pollution abatement and the Polluter
pays principle.
vii.   The Environmental Impact Assessment Notification. 1994 (by MOEF) S.0.60 (E)
under clause (a) of sub-rule (3) of rule 5 of the Environmental (Protection) Rules,
1986 invites objections from the public within sixty days from the date of
publication of the said notification, against the intention of the Central Govt. to
impose restrictions and prohibitions on the expansion and modernisation of any
activity or new projects being undertaken in any part of India unless
environmental clearance has been accorded by the Central Government or the
State Government in accordance with the procedure specified in notification No.
S.O. No. 80(E) dated 28'h January 1993 (MOEF. 1994; CPCB, 1998).
World Bank Policies
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)
The bank promotes and supports natural habitat conservation and improved land use by
financing projects designed to integrate into national and regional development, the
causes of natural habitats and the maintenance of ecolooical functions. The bank also
promotes the rehabilitation of degraded natural habitats. critical habitats. protected areas
_ S-ll                             j.   If I,rIm (C1ES 1111t
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



Kar naka State Il g/ict -(Is            I/  l iwrI.I n !tY)It l. ht I '.NcSlnlit RIcp/ti i oa
Iipr/tovelnCent Prolect                    SOt'Mtt1t oro  ( >01,l1(101 "I IS   VSi,g I/ll'C
DOIl'If I1 h/l/dhi  .S(ailt.l'aWT  and .4 I,sl11 .\ ltioial Palt-
and conservation of endangered plant and ainimal species.
If the environmental assessment indicates that the project would significantlv convert or
degrade natural habitats. the project should include mitigation measures acceptable to the
Bank such as appropriate, minimizing habitat loss and establishing and maintainiing
ecologically similar protected area and it should be techiically justified.
The World Bank also under its operational policy OP 4.04 stresses on conservation and
protection of natural resources and natural habitats. It also advises on adopting a
precautionar) approach to ensure environmentally, sustainable development. The Policv,
in addition to implemenltation of mitigation measures. encourages and supports capacity
development of national and local institutions for effective environmental planning and
management.
3.    Project Description
The present area of the Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary is 475 Sq. KCm. The latitudinal range
of Dandeli Wildlife sanctuary is from 14°12' to 15°12'N and the longitudinal range is
from 74°16' to 74°44'E.
The Anshi National Park is located in Joida Taluk of Uttara Kannada District on Dandeli
- Karwar road, about 60 kms from Dandeli and 35 kms from Karwar. The park area is
situated between 140 54' to 150 07' latitudes and between 740 151 to 740 30' longitudes
Corridor 13A, which is also known as the State Highway 95 (SH-95), starts of from
Ramnagar junction on National Highway 4A (NH-4A) near Londa in Belgaum District
and terminates at Sadashivgadh, which is very close to the National Highlway 17 (NH- 17)
in Uttara Kannada District. The NH-4 is a very important highway connecting Mumbai
port in the west with Chennai port in the east after passing through Bangalore, the capital
of Karnataka. The NH-4A connects the port of Goa with the NH-4. Similarly, the NH- 17,
which is also known as the Konkan Highway, links all the ports south of Mumbai along
the western coast. Its potential to emerge as a major transport corridor in the near future is
also very high. Corridor 13A would facilitate connection between these two major
transport corridors in addition to providing easier access to the fast growing industrial
complex in Belgaum to the Karwar port of Karnataka. In the recent past, several
manganese mines connected to Corridor 13 have been closed down. But with expected
rise in the price of manganese. these mines may be re-commissioned.
Corridor 13A connects the plateau in the east with the coastal plain in the west after
negotiating the steep escarpment of the Western Ghats. The proposed rehabilitation
corridor passes through Kumbarwada and Anshi villages with total population less than
2000. The project area comes under Karwar Forest Division, Kumbarwada and Anshi
ranges. The road traverses core zone and buffer zone of Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary and
Anshi National Park.
About 4.91 Km of Corridor 13A between (PWD Km 55.84) near Kumbarwada and
Kaneri river bridge (Km 60.75) passes through the Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary. About
22.66 Km of Corridor 13 between Km 60.75 and Km 83.41 passes through the Anshi
National Park.
ES-ihi                            Scou II ilsoit CES I/I
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



Karnataka Slat' lighghilu sl             / tihil lil  ii (jIIIILIiI(II/ . .i i'Si 1icilt   /U), I  O
Iniproverneai Project                    &SegncIlt/ ol l; C(a,d,ol 13. pnssimn. 1ihnu'/gh
D1 indeli If(7I/ Sanctan  ind,bishti \aanoaa/ Patk
Existing Road Condition
The established Right of Way (ROW) of this project corridor ranges from 18 to 26 m.
The width of the carriageway varies from 3.75 to 5.5 m. Routine and minor maintenance
work is undergoing on this road and in many stretches the new widenilng has contributed
to the improvement of the riding surface and also increase in width to 5.5m from the
existing 3.75m. Overatl condition of the road within the Park area is good and the
rehabilitation option to be adopted may be restricted to improve the degraded sections
especially in stretches where potholes and raveling have exposed the sub-grade. Providing
an overlay and establishing the earthen shoulders so as to do awvay with periodic
interventions like routine and minor maintenance would suffice in the recently overlaid
and newly wvidened stretches.
Existing pollution load is very small along the entire corridor. although the condition of
the carriageway is poor and the shoulders are damaged. Nevertheless, improvement of
road will help in reducing vehicular pollution. Moreover, the projected traffic growth
makes it necessary that some order of maintenance/rehabilitation is carried out in the
sections passing through the National Park. This could also be seen as a preventive
measure against possible accidents.
Traffic is increasing in this section due to general economic growth.
The entire project road traverses undulating and flat terrain with deep valleys and steep
hillocks. The geology of the project corridor consists of rocks belonging to Archaean
complex made up of peninsular gneises, granites and Schists. Three types of soil are
found. They are i) lateritic soil, ii) yellow loamy soil and iii) black cotton soil.
Analysis of Alternatives
Other than the rehabilitation alternative no other alternative route could be feasible.
Reason behind this would be that most land is fertile with settlements and land
acquirement may be more. Upgradation is prohibited in the park area.
As per standard design guidelines, the existing alignment is not conforming to the
requirements. The improvement of the existing road will be generally carried out within
the ROW. The standard design guidelines and dimensions in different sections will be
followed.
4.    Methodology
The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study was conducted with a detailed
reconnaissance survey for the purpose of recording the features along roadside and in the
adjoining area. Areas impacted due to anthropogenic activities and the manifest
expressions of the natural environmental processes were also recorded. The need for
traffic management was considered in relation to the road geometry as well as for
observed traffic congestion.
The above survey was followed by collation of data pertaining to the physical attributes
of the region in general and the proposed road in particular covering 28-km length.
Detailed information on physical, biological and human resources, cultural heritage and
human impacts were recorded and analysed. Subsequently, primary data on the ambient
quality of air, water and noise was collected.
ES-iv                               l'ilsolia CES IIIE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



Iij pr-o' ntlJl I'rol'ci .Plo                lllL lod i  ( i'111(h)) 1.' I /)(I lals ,' IIllli2/ i
1 md n ll,lc/  11  /Ii  .Mu111;,11u   1' 1111 .  h11.01i \ afiOnal I'illA
As part of the assessment. tllc rules and regulations governing env'ironmental assessment
and their application to the project and the institutionls responsible for providing the
clearances and for discharging those functions were charted. Thus from the regulatory
perspective. the environmental monitoring and reporting were identified as key issues.
To identifv and assess the probable impacts Upoin the environment from road desion,
construction and operation phases. close interaction \\as established withl the design
en6ineers.
Public consultations were carried out during the environmental reconniiaissance surveys.
The public consultationis were well attended by the local residents. gram panchavat chiefs.
NGOs and forest officials.
Based on the impact analysis and the public consultationis. a comprehensive Environment
Management Plan (EMIP) has been prepared for sound environment management during
the design. construction and operation phases of the project.
5.    Existing Environmental Scenario
Primary Data
Baseline conditionis of the project areas have been compiled after a wvalk over
environmiiental survey of the project area and as per informiiatioln available from various
Departments and literature and through Topographical Surveyn maps.
Climatic condition in the project area indicates that there is reduced atmospheric
temperature and rainfall. In general, the climate is humid and wet with averaoe
temperature of 210C - 340C and annual rainfall of about 4000mm.
Within the ROW, there are no municipal supply taps or open Nvells or hand pUlllps or tube
wells along the project area. People are mostly dependent on hand pumps and municipal
water supply for requirement of water for drinking and domestic purposes. These water
resources were found to be located outside the ROW.
As the corridor traverses sensitive areas of the National Park due care will be taken to
protect the wildlife.
Generated Data
Baseline data for air. water and noise was not available. Therefore, analysis was
undertaken for different parameters of ambient air, water and ambient noise quality
(important parameters) by Sneha Test House, BangJalore recognised by Karnataka State
Pollution Control Board. Bangalore.
Generated ambient air, noise and water quality data were compared with the standards
prescribed by CPCB. It was found that ambient air quality in the project area is good
except SPM (Suspended Particulate Matter) which is more than the prescribed limit. This
xvill perhaps increase during rehabilitation work of the project road but xvill be restored in
operation phase.
Ambient noise quality test result indicates that noise levels exceed the limit prescribed for
sensitive zones. It appeared to be within the limit only during night.
ES-v                              N ), I/tdsol CES 1111
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



Karna,tat oi ghwo Ih/atais s                Final Eniraonienial -Issessimen, Report on
In2provemen Prqieo i                        Sgmvnt ot'Cori- -dorl13 i passing lltroughl
Danilelt I dd/,l, Sanctuary and Anashi \atonal PatA
Four canals were noticed along the project corridor. The water qualitv test results indicate
that the wvater qualitv is within the surface water standard limits but not suitable for
drinking. Water Quality is suitable for land use/domestic purposes and does not affect
land.
The flora is very'well represented in the area. Wild animals were found to be very less in
number compared to other National parks/ Wildlife Sanctuary. Animal crossings were
found to be at 3 locations along the project route.
Illegal activities like poaching and smuggling of forest wealth were noticed but to the
minimal extent. And now the forest staff is controlling it.
Tourist strength is not high in the park. The rehabilitation work may increase the number
of tourists into the park.
Based on the screening studies this project road has been categorized as B Category
Project as the project emits moderate impacts that can be mitigated with proper measures.
6.     Public Consultation
Forest Officials including Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wild life), NGOs and
local community leaders, Stake holders and residents were consulted to know their
opinion about present environment, road condition and rehabilitation of the project road
with mitigation measures. Public consultations/interviews were carried out by directly
approaching the persons (above 19 years old age group) to know their views/reactions
about the negative and positive impacts of rehabilitation work of the project road.
The following are suggestions/opinions given by the interviewed people:
30% people said that plantation along the project road will reduce the pollution load (air
and noise level).
30% people said that rehabilitation of the road would increase cleanliness in the project
area and will reduce the number of accidents and pollution load.
20% people expressed that periodical checking of vehicles would reduce air and noise
level in the project area.
10% people spoke that strict implementation of rules and regulations of pollution check
will reduce the pollution load in the project area.
Forest officials suggested to provide fencing of forest boundaries to avoid man-animal
conflict. stopping the traffic completely 6 PM to 6 AM and good and attractive signage
for the publicity as well as protection of wildlife. They also expressed that recently
established nature camps would require further improvement in terms of interested staff,
training, parking and resting facilities. Fencing of forest boundaries is a dire need to
overcome smuggling of forest wealtlh by pilgrims during Ulvi fair season.
NGOs working for wildlife protection opined that it would be better if the movement of
loaded vehicles is checked regularly by proper management. Some of them expressed that
more number of water holes would be required for the betterment of wildlife.
ES-vi                             S.to, Il ilsonl CE S lIlE
vUCP>f ITflIC CIt I8AAARA 0%.



Karnataka State l-jighwlusi                Fial EAnvon,nxenital .4ssesstiient Report ott
Iniprov eineL1 Pr o;ect                    Segment f oCorridor 13.4 passing thriioiglh
Dandoli lIlidlik Sntcmuart and -ns/hi ANational Par k
Overall opinion of the public is that the improvement/rehabilitation of the project road
should be carried out at the earliest, but with mitigation measures to save the life of
animals as well as to increase the quality of life of the people.
All the above suggestions given by the public, forest officials and conservation NGOs
have been taken into account in the EMP.
7.    Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) & Mitigation Measures
Impact Assessment/Evaluation
Impact potential of the project road was estimated keeping in view the series of impacts
that will usually be triggered by the project activities according to Environmental
Evaluation System (EES), Matrix Method and Impact Network method. Impact
assessment according to EES, states that project without mitigation measures count 685
whereas project with mitigation measures count 815. Impact assessment matrix reveals
that overall impact score for project without mitigation measures was -1,585 and with
mitigation measures was +655. Thus, the project emits moderate impacts that can be
mitigated. Therefore, the present project may be accepted for developmental work.
Mitigation /Enhancement Measures
Several mitigation measures have been suggested for the impacts likely to occur due to
widening of existing two-lane, ranging from design phase to operation phase. It reflects
the detailed design and construction methodology, maintenance and installation of
construction equipment/machinery, environmental parameters, safety measures, traffic
management etc. which has to be taken out by the contractor under the guidance of site
engineer and as per contract clause.
Several enhancement measures have been proposed for the developmental work of the
project road based on standard design guidelines. Enhancement measures are given
concerning civil engineering work, activities and facilities provided for the construction
work. These enhancement measures will not only strengthen the existing road but will
also improve the environment of the project area after completion.
Mitigation Measures proposed are briefed below:
Other than topsoil of ROW, agricultural land for the construction purpose will not be
utilized. Even within ROW care will be taken to excavate or fill only those areas which
are necessary. Borrow pit soils will be tested. Only soil of un-erodible type and suitable
for embankment will be used. Chance of soil erosion will be limited and will be mitigated
by turfing of the embankment slopes. Quarries have been identified which are located
away from the National Park. Quarries and borrow soil will be purchased from the
approved owners for construction work. Quarries will b e rehabilitated after the
completion of the construction work.
Vehicular traffic is being increased these days at major link 13A and is expected to
increase further in future days. Proper mitigative measures in the form of traffic
management will be provided. Traffic calming measures in the form of rumble- strips,
build-outs and Chicane design will be adopted.
To overcome the adverse effects on the air environment during project implementation,
Construction Equipment/Machinery like Asphalt and Hot Mix Plants causing air
ES-vii                           Scott 11Itlson,CES/il11I.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY



Karnataka State /Itylzit-cais              Final Enizsro,ttnenital issessmen7t Report on
Improvement Prolect                        Segmlent of Corrldor 13. I passing il/ 0trglh
Dandeli Il1Idlle Sancntariv and Anshi .Vational Par-k
pollutants and dust, will be located away from the park area considering the downwind
direction and also will be located 5OOms away from the populated habitat. No excavation
or earthwork involving air pollution will be carried out inside the park/sanctuary.
To check contamination of water bodies the debris will be disposed off, in containers,
away from water bodies and also away from the park. Besides, sprinkling of water on
construction malerial and washing of dust off concrete, water (with or without oil and
grease) will be ultimately disposed off from construction sites.
In order to avoid further increase in noise level, noise producing heavy construction
machinery will be located away from the park and 5OOms away from the
settlements/township. On site, Construction machinery like the generator set will be fitted
with noise control device and used.
As the project involves only major maintenance of the corridor 13A passing through the
National Park and the Sanctuary, the impact on wildlife will be minimal.
To avoid the negative impacts of the project on animals like accidents and deaths, the
working schedule will be structured in such a way, so that the wild animals are not
affected much. Traffic calming measures considered in the design, help in the protection
of wild life.
The project implies that the quality of life in the surrounding area of the project would
enhance leading to induce development.
8.     Environmental Management Plan of Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary and Anshi
National Park
i.    Management Plan of the National Park
The Forest Department has prepared the Management plan of Dandeli Wildlife Sanctuary
and Anshi National Park. Present management plan includes issues on the following
1. Habitat Management,
2. Forest Protection Measures -
i.    Control of Poaching and Illicit Felling of Trees.
ii.   Fire Control and
iii.  Control of illegal removal of timber, fuel wood and non-wood Forest produce
3. Annual Census of Wild Animals
4. Timber Harvesting
5. Eco-tourism Development and
6. Mitigation of local problems.
ii.    Augmentation of Forest-Wealth and Conservation of wildlife
To augment the Forest wealth and Conservation of Wildlife the following aspects were
considered:
Road Development and Forest Conservation -
KSHIP has considered the following issues related to road development for the Forest
conservation
i.    Habitat conservation;
ii.   Prevention of accidental deaths of wvild anitnals;
iii.  Illegal activities of Poaching and Smuggling;
ES-vii,                          Scott iiilson CES IIIE
PV=r1T=%/ ITIQ/¢ IMMAtdPV



Kcarnzataka Stote Hi gKinv lts              iial Etai is on/lental .4ssessiew  Report oni
Iniprovemnent Project                       Segment ot Corridor 13.4 passing thlrouighi
Oandel, 11 Id/dle Soactuarv andd.41ishl National ParA
iv.   Protectioni of animal Crossings:
v.    Traffic management;
vi.    Security and Patrolling needs and
vii.   Environmental Mitigation Measures during implementation of the project
iii.   Funds for the Improvement of Infra Structure
Ftmds have been earmarked for the following:
1.    Maintenance of facilities and augmentation of buildings.
2.     Removal of weeds and tall grasses,
3.     Signage for conservation and protection of wildlife,
4.     Tourism Promotion and
5.     Logistice,l Support for the Forest Department for patrolling.
9.     Cost Estimate of Environmental Mitigation Measures for the National Park
The cost of environmental mitigation measures of the National Park has been estimated
and presented. The cost estimated is Rs. 31,79,825.
PART II - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
1.    Introduction
Environmental Management Plan has been prepared for the PIU (PWD) for the road
works during construction and operation phase. To make the road stable and environment
friendly major construction work will start and be completed in a single dry season from
October to June by labour based construction. During rainy season minor road works like
transportation of materials for future use and maintenance of roads will continue.
2.    Institutional Strengthening
The PIU (PWD) will be responsible for implementation of the environmental
management plan to mitigate the potential impacts of the project. The following
Organisations and their representatives will assist the PIU:
Supervising Engineering Consultant
Final Design Consultant
World Bank
Civil Engineers
Environmental Consultant and
Public Participation (Stakeholder and NGOs).
3.     Environmental Training
The PIU (PWD) and the Contractor staff will need to be trained at various levels. An
Environmental Managenient Unit is to be setup in PWD with specialized personnel. The
PWD will arrange appropriate training of the staff.
4.     Monitoring and Reporting Procedures
The frequency of monitoring. length of time, monitoring stations and record keeping
procedures in given format during construction and operation phase have been defined. If
any parameter will exceed the standard, suitably will be further monitored and mitigated.
ES-tx                            Scott 11,/yolro(i-:S /111:



Karnataka State Higilga vs                   Final Euii ironniental Assessment Report on
Inprovement Project                          Segmenw qtCorridorA3.1 passing throuigh
Dandeli 11 ildilk 5,anlctuaranad.4-nshi .\'ationalPark
5.     Mitigation Plan
The mitigation plan has been proposed separately for the construction and operation
phases. The contractor in accordance with appropriate clauses included in the contract
specifications will meet the requirements during construction. After construction is
completed, the PWD will maintain safety installation and monitor air and noise pollution
in the normal course and take action as needed.
6.     Implementation Schedule
The implementation of environmental mitigation plan will be coordinated with the
completion of design and likelv timing of the start of civil works. Circumstances may
require an increase in time allotted to various tasks in the detailed implementation
schedule. Such circumstances include natural calamities, seasonal factors, social and
economic concern, delay in environmental clearances, training of supporting staff and
financial constraints. This will require detailed co-ordination between the project
authorities and various Departments of the project implementation unit.
7.     Environmental Mitigation Costing
The cost estimate of environmental mitigation measures for this project has been
presented in Table 7 under the Section - Budget for EMP Implementation (Phase II -
Environmental Management Plan). Therefore, separate cost estimate is not provided in
this report.
ES-x                              -Scott IVIsonv'CES4IIIE
'-'Irf' IT IC Il IAfiA ANA nv



