Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3583-P
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION,
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$130 MILLION
TO THE
BANCO AGRARIO DEL PERU
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 18, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the differen-
tial between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate and
currency equivalents in 1982 and as of March 31, 1983 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1982                March 31, 1983
US$1              S/. 697.57                   S/. 1,238.57
S/. I             US$ 0.0014                   US$ 0.0008
S/. 1,000         US$ 1.43                    US$ 0.81
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARE         -  Agrarian Reform Enterprise
BAP         -  Banco Agrario del. Peru
(State-owned Agrarian Bank of Peru)
bpd         -  barrels per day
ERP         -  Economic Recovery Program
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
INIPA       -  Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y Promocion
Agropecuaria
(National Institute for Agricultural and Livestock               *
Research and Extension)
MA          -  Ministerio de Agricultura
(Ministry of Agriculture)
USAID       -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Banco Agrario del Peru (BAP)
Guarantor:                  Republic of Peru
Amount:                     US$130 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                      Repayable in 17 years, including four years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:            BAP would onlend the proceeds of the proposed loan
to the beneficiaries--individual farmers and
cooperatives--in soles denominated subloans.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Government. Effective interest rates would
average 71 percent for loans to commercial
farmers, with rates for small farmers of from 48
percent.   Most subloans for working capital would
have terms of up to 12 months, while those for
capital investment would have terms ranging
between three and 15 years, including grace
periods of up to four years.
Project Description:        The objectives of this project would be to
strengthen BAP, substantially increase the flow of
agricultural credit in support of the Government's
efforts to accelerate the growth of the sector and
improve the living conditions of Peru's farmers.
The project would provide both working capital and
medium- and long-term investment credits to
individual farmers and cooperatives for all types
of crop and livestock operations.  It would also
include agroindustrial projects. Over 21,000 farm
families would receive investment loans, and
BAP's on-going working capital program would be
increased by about 25,000 operations during the
project execution period. The project would
include technical assistance and training to
improve the efficiency of BAP's operations.
Finally, studies would be undertaken to (i) design
a rediscount facility in BAP to help stimulate
commercial bank lending for agriculture; and (ii)
complete preparation of a sugar rehabilitation
project. The principal risk facing the project
would be a drop in demand for agricultural credit
because of the recent substantial increase in
BAP's interest rates. Financial analysis,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
however, indicates that increased interest rates
can be absorbed by farmers, given the
profitability of the investment projects to be
financed. BAP is an experienced and reasonably
well-run institution and there is little risk
associated with its ability to carry out the
project.
Estimated Costs: (net of taxes)
Local Foreign Total
----US$ million-----
Investment Subprojects        41.5    54.3    95.8
Working Capital               64.3    27.5    91.8
Tech. Assistance
and Training              0.6      3.4      4.0
Base Cost            106.4    85.2   191.6
Price Contingencies           26.4    20.7    47.1
Total Project Cost        132.8   105.9   238.7
Front-end Fee                   -       0.3     0.3
Total Financing Required  132.8   106.2   239.0
Financing Plan:
Local  Foreign   Total
----US$ millions ----
BAP                           38.0     -       38.0
Government                    57.3      -      57.3
Beneficiaries                 13.7      -      13.7
Bank                          23.8   106.2   130.0
Total                     132.8   106.2   239.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY       1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
------------US$ million-------------
Annual        30.0    38.0    32.0    24.0         6.0
Cummulative  30.0    68.0   100.0   124.0   130.0
Appraisal Report:           Staff Apprais,al Report No. 4325-PE of May 16, 1983,



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO AGRARIO DEL PERU (BAP)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Banco Agrario del Peru (BAP) with the guarantee of the Republic of
Peru for the equivalent of US$130 million to help finance a sixth
agricultural credit project. The proposed loan would have a term of 17
years, including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk under the loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of an economic mission to Peru in July/August 1982 and of follow-up
missions in November 1982 and February 1983. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa.  There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions.  Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is
expected to remain the major energy source in Peru through the rest of this
century.  In the wake of the discovery of oil fields in the Selva, Peru's
domestic oil production more than doubled between 1977 and 1982 to over
195,000 barrels per day (bpd), and it became a net exporter of about 62,000
bpd. To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum exporter, the Government has
embarked on a strategy of accelerated secondary recovery and exploration



- . -
efforts to increase production and of rational pricing policies to contain
demaYnd groTwth.  Irices for domesticaliy consumed petroleum products have been
increased at regular intervals; by April 1983 a gallon of regular gasoline
cost US$11. 1   i1 n addeliti5on  new legislation was enacted offering special tax
incentives to domestic and foreign investors, and the response has been
positive.
(D.       As a resualt of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru s populat-ion growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period.  Since the
early 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the urbani-
zati.on- process and improved education.  But with declining death rates, popu-
lation continued to grow at about 2.5 percent p.a. between 1972 and 1981 and
is currently estimated at about 17 million.  Preliminary  census information,
still being confirmed, indicates a dran.atic-improvement in population
prospects.  The 1981 census indicates that fertility declined by 20 percent
during the past decade and that the current rate of population growth has
dropped to 2 2) percent pna*  The census also indicates that the reduction in
population arowth is most marked among the 65 percent of the population
living in urban areas.  The Government is conscious of the need to continue
to slow dow  : Peru s population growth rate and is supporting a family
planning program. _
Past Develo'ment Policies and Performance (1968-80)
7.         Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth. The pattern of asset
ownership ir. the economy changed drastically through nationalization of
production and distribution activities, and through a sweeping land reform.
Llowever, many of the policies carried out after 1968 had an excessive cost,
and their imolementation was inefficient.  Irn particular, expansionary fiscal
and credit policies between 1968 and 1977 produced strong inflationary
pressures and widening external gaps, To finance the fiscal and current
account deficits, Peru's external debt more than doubled between 1973 and
1977, reaching almost US$8.4 billion (including short-term indebtedness);
about two- hirds of GDP.
8.        In 197778, Peru's economic situation deteriorated substantially:
per capita GDP dropped by over six perc,ent, inflation accelerated to an
annual r-ate of about 100 percent and the banking system's net international
reserves dropped to a negati-ve level of US$1 billion.  By mid-1978, the
country was in the midst of a severe financial crisis, as it was no longer
able to service its foreign obligations, and the private sector could no
longer open new letters of credit for imports.
9.        Beginninig ini May 1978, the Government adopted a numlber of important
measures a4med at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation.  The Government also negotiated a stand-by
1/   Population data presented in Annex I will be updated in 'Later
President's Reports when confirmed figures are available from the
census.



- 3 -
arrangement with the IMF in support of the stabilization program, and carried
out major debt-relief operations. This enabled Peru to reduce the debt
service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1
billion to the 1982-1986 period.
10.       To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition
to the above-mentioned stabilization actions, included measures to open u:
the economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by
broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource
allocation in the private and public sectors.  These policy changes--together
with a declining domestic market because of the recession--resulted in a
major reorientation of industrial development, with a large increase in the
value of manufactured exports from about US$200 million in 1977 to the
US$750-800 million range in 1980-81. The Government also drew up a public
sector investment program that aimed at redirecting investment towards
projects of clear economic priority and with positive effects on production
and employment. In support of the ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million
Program Loan in May 1979.
11.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979. The
overall public sector deficit was reduced from 5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to
1.7 percent in 1979, and the more careful management of public finances had a
positive impact on the balance of payments. At the same time, an increase in
petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of Peru's terms of trade
generated a surplus in the current account of the balance of payments in 1979
and equilibrium in 1980. At year end 1980, the net reserve position had
improved to about US$1.3 billion. Growing incomes as a result of good
external sector performance and, in 1980, a reacceleration of public sector
expenditures, resulted in renewed growth of GDP, at an average rate of 3.9
percent in 1979-1980. However, the public sector deficit increased again to
six percent of GDP in 1980, and inflation exceeded 60 percent.
12.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new
constitution, written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections
were held in May 1980, and following his electoral victory, President
Fernando Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a
challenging economic and social situation with severe structural weaknesses
which had been only temporarily attenuated by the improvements in the terms
of trade and the resumption of growth. The new Government named an economic
team committed to a program of structural transformation of the economy based
on (i) opening up of the economy and increased reliance on market mechanisms;
(ii) encouragement of private sector initiative and reduced public sector
participation in economic activities (including divestiture of some of the
State-owned enterprises); and (iii) reorientation of public sector
activities, improving the efficiency of public sector investment and
management, and redirecting public sector resources to the areas with greater
needs (mainly infrastructure and social sectors). Its reliance on, and
promotion of, private initiative, in particular, distinguish the present
Government's philosophy and economic program from that of its immediate
predecessors.



13.        The Government made important headway in a number of areas.  It was
successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating, non-tariff
barriers and lowering tariffs, and in streamlining export incentives.  At the
same time, new legislation was enacted for the agricultural, mining and
petroleum sectors, offering greater incentives to investors. Substantial
changes were made in the financial sector, through upward adjustments in the
interest rate, reduction of legal reserve requirements and approval of
banking legislation promoting further liberalization and competition in the
financial system. The Government also made progress in correcting major
price distortions by reducing food subsidies, eliminating some price controls
and adjusting periodically public utility, and petroleum product prices.
Finally, the Government endeavored to rat:ionalize public investment and its
financing--an effort that was supported by a Bank-sponsored Consultative
Group meeting in May 1981--and initiated actions to strengthen public sector
institutions.
Recent Developments and Outlook
14.        In 1981, the first full year of the new Government, Peru had to
face a rapidly deteriorating international environment: world demand for
Peru's main exports declined, interest rates on the country's external debt
increased to an all-time high, and the terms of trade fell by 16 percent as a
result of lower export prices. The overall negative impact of these external
events on Peru's balance of payments was estimated at US$740 million. A
substantial recovery of agricultural output (with a growth rate of 10.6
percent) and an even faster growth of construction (mostly public) allowed
GDP growth of near four percent. However, industrial output stagnated,
mining fell by four percent, the public sector deficit increased to about
eight percent of GDP and the current account of the balance of payments
closed with a deficit of US$1.5 billion. Also, inflation accelerated to 73
percent and exceeded the rate of mini-devaluations.
15.        Peru entered 1982 with large internal and external disequilibria
that required serious stabilization efforts by the Government. Economic
activity was slowing down, world commodity prices continued to fall from
their low 1981 levels, and the public sector deficit, partly related to low
export prices, had also increased because of growing expenditures and delays
in some price adjustments (mainly domestic prices of petroleum products and
rice).  In spite of increasing social tension, the Government adopted an
austerity program designed to reduce the public sector deficit and regain
external equilibrium. At the same time, the minidevaluations were
accelerated and exceeded domestic inflation by a wide margin, thus restoring
part of the competitiveness lost in previous years. In June 1982, the IMF
approved an SDR 850 million compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement to support
Peru's stabilization and structural adjustment efforts.
16.        Despite the austerity program, the 1982 public sector deficit was
equivalent to 8.8 percent of GDP. The current account deficit in the balance
of payments was reduced slightly (to US$1.4 billion) in spite c,f lower export
prices, and all formal performance criteria under the EFF were met. However,
GDP growth slowed to less than one percent, industrial output fell more than
two percent, and inflation continued at more than 70 percent.



17.       The still sizable public sector and current account deficits,
combined with the reduced availability of external loans from international
commercial banks, forced the Government to accelerate the adjustment process
in 1983. New measures, recently adopted, include a large cut in public
investment, acceleration of price adjustments of publicly supplied goods and
services, and faster reduction of food subsidies, with the objective of
reducing the public sector deficit to 3.8 percent of GDP. Also, the
Government is following a restrictive monetary policy, and mini-devaluations
are in line with domestic inflation. In addition to the stabilization
measures, the Government is committed to continue the process of structural
adjustment of the economy through financial and trade liberalization,
encouragement of private investment and improved resource allocation in the
private and public sectors.  The Bank has an ongoing and frank dialogue with
the Peruvian Government on these issues.
18.       Economic activity during 1983 is expected to decline, with a fall
in real GDP of about five percent. All subsectors, except for mining, are
expected to fall, partly because of the restrictive monetary and fiscal
policy but partly because of bad weather, continuing weak international
demand for non-traditional exports and low commodity prices.
19.       During the first months of 1983, Peru suffered several natural
disasters, including heavy flooding in the northern part of the country, a
severe drought in the south, massive landslides in the central area, and a
change in the Humboldt current that will reduce the fish catch; all will
impose an extra burden on Peru's economic and social situation. A
preliminary estimate of the costs of replacing the infrastructure damaged by
the natural disasters amounts to US$400 millon (about 26 percent of the 1982
public investment budget). In addition, output losses are expected to be
substantial. In the petroleum sector, flooding of the Talara oilfields and
damages to the trans-andean pipeline are expected to cause a 4.6 percent drop
in oil production (to an average of 186,000 bpd), and an eight percent fall
in petroleum exports.
20.        Inflation during 1983 will also be affected by the landslides,
which have closed major road links causing food shortages in the capital.
Given the inflation rate during the first four months of the year (averaging
7.9 percent monthly), inflation during the calendar year 1983 is likely to
increase to a level of about 90 percent.  However, as the fiscal deficit is
reduced and the restrictive monetary policy continues, monthly inflation
rates are expected to decline gradually, to an annual rate of 65-70 percent
*        during the second half of 1983.
21.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, the country is expected to resume economic growth in 1984, and to
achieve a medium-term growth of about 4-5 percent per year and a manageable
balance of payments situation. Peru's balance of payments could, however,
become precarious if the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures
are being undertaken to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase
manufactured exports, the results of these endeavors may not come in time to
countervail the potential foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this
background, there is a continuing need for official development assistance,
including local cost financing. The prospects for Peru's economic recovery
will be closely related to economic performance in the industrial countries.



- 6 -
However, domestic policies will be a major determinant in restoring internal
and external equilibria and returning to the long-term growth path. In this
respect, the Government has so far demonstrated its intention and ability to
take measures to deal with the problems ifaced by the Peruvian economy, even
when they entail short-term sacrifices.
PART II - BANK C-ROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
22.       The Bank has approved 54 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,392.3 million, net of cancellations. About 27 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways arid ports), 18
percent for agriculture, 24 percent for the energy sector, 13 percent for
mining and industry, about nine percent for education, health, and urban
development, eight percent for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979
and one percent for technical assistance.
23.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursement status as of March 31, 1983 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As of this date, US$693.1 million was undisbursed.
Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of
counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this
period. Disbursements have improved, however, with vigorous efforts by the
Bank and Government to correct the situation by, inter alia, (i) opening a
Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and
(iv) Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution
and resolve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit.
Disbursements on project loans amounted to US$44 million in FY80, US$70.5
million in FY81 and US$75.8 million in FY82.  This compares with average
yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million during FY77-79.
24.       The main objectives of Bank lendling to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strengthening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of public sector
management and of local capacity to prepare, implement and operate projects
effectively; and (iv) the improvement of 'Living conditions for l-he urban and
rural poor.  In the past, Bank lending concentrated on infrastructure in the
transportation and power sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has
shifted to more directly productive fields--mining, petroleum, agriculture
and industry--to help Peru to strengthen iits balance of payments. Lending
for social sector projects has also grown and will be further stepped up in
the future.  The next operations that would be ready for the Executive
Directors' consideration include projects in primary education, power and
urban development.  As part of its assistance strategy, the Bank convened a
Consultative Group Meeting for Peru on May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government
arrange financing for its public investment program.



- 7 -
25.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 6.4 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1981, and
absorbed about 3 percent of the country's public external debt service in
1981. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign
debt by 1985 could reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt-service
would be around 4.5 percent.
26.       IFC commitments as of March 31, 1983 were US$56.3 million
(including US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the
Cuajone Copper Mining Project) of which US$34.6 million is held by the
Corporation. A summary statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1983 is
presented in Annex II.
27.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31,
1982 were US$1.0 billion and US$378.4 million, respectively, and their shares
of public debt service as of end-1981 were estimated at 0.8 percent and 0.7
percent, respectively.  In its future operations, IDB is expected to
emphasize lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and small scale
irrigation. USAID is expected to stress rural and urban development and
health.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Land and Water Resources
28.       Peru has a limited natural resource base for agriculture.  Of the
country's total land area of 1,285,000 km2, only about 3.7 million ha or
2.9 percent is arable and another 17 percent is natural pastureland.
Additional land could be brought into production, either by expensive new
coastal irrigation schemes or by providing basic infrastructure for more
remote areas, mainly in the Ceja de Selva, the jungle highlands in the Amazon
region east of the Andes.
29.       Of the country's three principal regions, the 130,000 km2 Costa,
which consists mainly of desert terrain, is the major agricultural area.
Agriculture in the Costa is limited to river valleys, and most of Peru's one
million irrigated hectares are located in this zone. Most irrigation and
drainage systems, however, are old and inefficient, and the Bank is currently
financing two irrigation rehabilitation projects designed to help deal with
this problem (Lns. 1403-PE of 1977 and 1771-PE of 1980). Where water is
available, conditions are generally favorable for crop production because of
good soils and near optimal solar radiation and temperatures. As a result,
productivity and farm incomes in this region are relatively high. The Costa
produces over 40 percent of the country's crops, including the major export
crops--sugar and cotton--as well as rice, maize, potatoes, citrus crops,
olives and grapes.



- 8 -
30.       The Sierra consists of rugged mountains and high valleys.  Of the
zone?s 335,000 km2, about seven percent are farmed and 43 percent are used
for grazing. The Sierra has about half the arable crop land in Peru, but--
because of the difficult topography, the severe climate and generally primi-
tive farming techniques--productivity is low and there is little scope for
putting new land into production. Most agricultural production is for
subsistence, and there is little use of fertilizers or other inputs. There
is a potential, however, for improving crop and livestock productivity
through research, extension and the increased use of production inputs. The
Bank is assisting in this effort with the Agricultural Research and Extension
Loan (Ln 2150-PE of 1982).
31.       The sparsely settled Selva east of the Andes accounts for 64 per-
cent of Peru's total land area. The region comprises two quite different
sub-zones: the Ceja de Selva--the highlands on the eastern slopes of the
Andes; and the Selva Baja--the jungle area around the Amazon and its tribu-
taries. Most of the soils in the Selva ]3aja are classified as marginal and
are suitable only for grazing and forestry. However, soils in the Ceja de
Selva are of better quality and can be used for cropping. Arable land in
this zone is estimated at 4.5 million ha of which less than 15 percent are
currently being exploited but spontaneous settlement is growing rapidly.
Fruits, coffee and tea are the main crops, although there is good potential
for livestock, rice and oil palm in some areas. The Government: is giving
priority to projects in this area since they constitute the best prospects
for expanding Peru,s agricultural frontier. The Bank is supporting this
effort with the Alto Mayo Rural Development Loan (Ln 2219-PE of 1982).
Agricultural Sector Performance and Government Policies
32.       The agricultural sector in Peru underwent a major decline during
the 1970s. In part, this was due to a serious drought from 1978-80, but the
sector's poor performance was brought about primarily by the policies of the
previous military Governments.  These included:  (i) an agricultural pricing
policy which did not provide adequate incentives to producers; (ii)
imposition of an inefficient State-run marketing system; (iii) insecurity of
land tenure owing to a far-reaching land reform; (iv) failure to effectively
organize and manage agrarian reform enterprises; (v) insufficient credit and
the dismantling of the extension and research support services for the
sector; (vi) a requirement that food crops be grown in place of non-food
export crops, primarily cotton, for which Peru enjoys a comparative advan-
tage; (vii) the concentration of public investment in large-scale coastal
irrigation projects with very long gestation periods; and (viii) failure to
support agriculture sector educational and training institutions, so as to
insure that they had the teaching staffs and equipment necessary to produce
an adequate supply of well-trained professionals.
33.       In 1981, agriculture contributed about nine percent to Peru's GDP
and employed about 40 percent of the labor force, as compared with 17 and 48
percent, respectively, in 1970. The value of food production in constant
prices increased by an average of 0.7 percent per annum during the 1970s.
The value of crop production actually declined at an average annual rate of
-0.6 percent in the 1970s, while livestock production increased at 3.3 per-
cent, largely because of the rapid growth of the poultry industry. During



- 9 -
the same period, population grew at an average of 2.9 percent per annum. As
a result, nutritional standards suffered, and the country's dependence on
imported foodstuffs increased.
34.      The volume of food imports--consisting mainly of wheat, rice and
other grains, dairy products and vegetable oils--increased by a total of over
20 percent between the early 1970s and 1980. At the same time, agriculture's
contribution to exports--mainly sugar, cotton and coffee--fell dramatically.
By 1980, the volume of major agricultural exports stood at only about 22 per-
cent of the 1970 level. In spite of these trends, Peru continued to maintain
a positive though shrinking balance of trade in agriculture through the
1970s. By 1981, however, the surplus had turned to a deficit totaling about
US$230 million.
35.       By the late 1970s, the military Government had recognized the
gravity of the problems facing the agricultural sector and the potential long
term economic and social impact of its decline. It began, therefore, intro-
ducing measures to reverse this trend. Consumer price subsidies on most
products were reduced or eliminated so as to make higher farmgate prices
possible. The requirement that food crops be grown was eased, and the
rebuilding of agricultural service agencies began. The Belaunde Government
has accelerated this effort. It has eliminated most consumer subsidies--the
major remaining one is a subsidy on rice which is now being phased out.
Export taxes have been reduced substantially and are scheduled to be fully
phased-out by 1983. An agricultural promotion law was passed in 1980, which:
(i) concludes the agrarian reform expropriation process; (ii) provides
selected tax incentives to investment; (iii) permits the private import and
export of most agricultural products and inputs; and (iv) opens up marketing
to private participation. In addition, the Government has reorganized and
strengthened sectoral institutions to improve the provision of services and
the execution of projects. The Bank is actively assisting in this effort and
has recently made loans for the National Institute for Agricultural and
Livestock Research and Extension (INIPA) and the National Agrarian University
to support improvements in research and extension activities and higher
agricultural education (Lns. 2150-PE and 2208-PE of 1982). The proposed loan
to BAP to expand and strengthen its credit program represents another major
step toward accelerating the growth of the agriculture sector.
36.       The Government's investment strategy for agriculture, as reflected
in its 1981-1985 public fixed investment program, is (i) to continue
development and rehabilitation of irrigated coastal areas where there is a
large sunk investment in deteriorated, inefficient irrigation infrastructure;
(ii) to develop the potentially rich Ceja de Selva; and (iii) to assist the
rural poor, particularly in the Sierra, through rural development projects.
The Bank is supporting this strategy through the loans mentioned in the dis-
cussion above and summarized in paras. 51-52.
37.       The Government's policy improvements, together with better weather
conditions in 1980-82 had a significant beneficial impact on agricultural
production. Between 1980 and 1981, agricultural output grew by over 12
percent, with production increases of 67 percent in rice, 38 percent in corn
and 21 percent in potatoes. Output increased by an additional five percent



- 1() -
in 1982. Future growth in output, however, will depend on the success of
Government efforts to improve support services, as well as on its ability to
promote the efficient development of the agricultural frontier in the Ceja de
Selva area.
Agrarian Reform
38.       The most important factor influencing agricultural production in
Peru in the 1970s was the agrarian reform. The reform was enacted in June
1969 and affected all farms larger than the equivalent of 50 ha of irrigated
land on the Costa. By February 1980, 11.6 million ha of land in about 16,500
farms had been expropriated by Government under the land reform programs;
this represented 48 percent of the total land in agriculture in Peru. An
area of 8.9 million ha was distributed to almost 400,000 families; these
represented less than a quarter of the rural population. Although about
eight percent of expropriated land was adjudicated to individual families,
most large estates were distributed intact to various forms of cooperative
agrarian reform enterprises (AREs), generally consisting of more than 2,000
ha per unit. This was true of the large coastal sugar and cotton estates, as
well as the cattle and sheep ranches in the Sierra. The balance of the
expropriated land (2.7 million ha) remains under State control for possible
future adjudication or other public use.
39.       While the agrarian reform achieved a more equitable distribution of
agricultural land in Peru, it was accompanied by low levels of investment
owing to the instability of land tenure which the program created. The land
reform also caused many of Peru's most technically sophisticated farmers to
leave agriculture. These factors--coupled with the negative impact of
Government policies summarized in para. 32 and the poor organization, manage-
ment and lack of cooperative spirit in the new AREs--were a significant cause
of declining production. In an effort to correct ARE problems, the Govern-
ment is requiring improved management as a condition for providing them with
assistance and credit. It is also preparing a rehabilitation project for the
sugar AREs, which are among the most important and have serious difficulties,
with assistance from a US$500,000 Bank Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advance; additional assistance for this is included in the loan proposed in
this report. For AREs in the Sierra, Government efforts and financial
support have not been successful in inducing most farmers to participate
fully in the cooperatives, and they continue to work their individual plots.
Some AREs in this region have already been disbanded by their members, and
more are likely to follow.
40.       Even though the agrarian reform improved the lot of its benefi-
ciaries, the approximately 78 percent of the rural population not benefited
by the agrarian reform is probably worse-off than before. During the 1970s,
the military Government concentrated most of the financial and manpower
resources made available to agriculture on the agrarian reform. Credit went
largely to AREs, and the Government's previous research and extension opera-
tion was dismantled to provide manpower to carry out the agrarian reform
process.   For landless workers, employment opportunities on the large
cooperative farms have become more scarce.. The Government is now trying to
rectify this situation by strengthening suipport services and expanding the
availability of credit for smallholders.



- 11 -
Institutional Framework
41.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) is generally responsible for
formulating the Government's sectoral policies and programs. Under a 1981
reorganization, the task of carrying out public sector agricultural and rural
development programs was made the responsibility of: (i) four administra-
tively autonomous institutes under the MA -- the most important of which Ls
INIPA, whose program to provide extension services to AREs and small fir7-,rs
is being expanded rapidly with support from a Bank loan (see para. 35), as
well as from the IDB and USAID; (ii) a number of independent project authori-
ties which administer major irrigation projects; (iii) regional developme-it
corporations which are responsible for small-scale local projects; and (i :)
special project units located in the Prime Minister's office, which prepare
and carry out rural development projects in the Ceja de Selva.
42.       Specialized services to the sector are provided by a public market-
ing company and the State-owned Agrarian Bank of Peru (BAP), which is the
main source of agricultural credit (discussed below). Until recently, the
marketing company had a monopoly on marketing rice, cotton and fertilizers
and on importing grains and powdered milk. Restrictions on private marketing
of most of these items have now been ended, although the Government will
retain a presence in marketing as a check on private traders.
Agricultural Credit and the BAP.
43.       Only about ten percent of the 1.8 million farm families in Peru
have access to credit through the banking system, about 93 percent of which
comes from BAP. During the 1970's BAP's credit went primarily to support the
agrarian reform program, while individuals, who represent about 75 percent of
all farmers, received little assistance. In recent years, BAP has sought to
provide a fairer share of credit to individual farmers.  Since 1978 lending
to individuals has increased from 40 to 52 percent of the total value of its
loans and is expected to continue increasing in line with the priorities of
the present Government. About 65 percent of agricultural lending goes to the
Costa, 20 percent to the Selva, and 15 percent to the Sierra.
44.       Almost all of BAP's lending which totaled US$640 million in 1981,
is short-term. Because it has limited domestic sources of longer term funds,
BAP's term lending is generally restricted to programs financed by inter-
national lending agencies. About one-third of BAP's funds come from a
Central Bank credit line, one-third from Government transfers (much of this
financed by foreign borrowing) and one-third from BAP's own resources,
including savings deposits. Commercial banks accounted the remaining seven
percent (US$50 million equivalent), all short-term. This is down from 35
percent of total bank credit to agriculture before 1970. Non-banking credit
comes from such sources as money lenders, equipment suppliers and distri-
butors of farm products and inputs. The amount involved is not known.
45.       Commercial bank agricultural lending declined in the 1970s,
primarily because of the uncertainty created by the agrarian reform, and a
prohibition on the mortgaging of agricultural land, which eliminated the



-1 12 -
principal source of security for loans.  The Government would again like to
attract the commercial banks to agricultural lending in order to increase the
flow of resources to the sector.  The proposed sixth credit loan would
include financing for the design of a rediscount facility to encourage
commercial banks to become more involved, once again, in lending to agricul-
ture (see para. 57).
46.        The BAP was created in 1975 as the successor to a previous govern-
ment agricultural bank. As in the case of other State development banks, the
BAP comes under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Commerce.  The Minister appoints four of' the seven BAP Board members,
including the President, who is also the chief executive offic:er of BAP. The
other three members of the Board represent the agriculture sector. BAP has a
staff of about 3400, including 650 professionals and a national network of 19
branch offices and 65 agencies.  There is substantial decentraLlization, and
only operations of over US$1.3 million e!quivalent for AREs and US$160,000
equivalent for individuals are submitted to BAP's head office in Lima for
approval.
47.        In general, BAP is a well-managed institution.  Given its
decentralized branch system, however, BAP needs to upgrade its information
system to provide more timely and complete reporting to management on such
matters as debt collection, subloan supervision, cash management, and distri-
bution of lending by crop to help assure proper planning. Although BAP's
problem with arrears appear manageable (overdue balances were nine percent in
1980 and increased to 16 percent in 1981, with increased lending), this is
difficult to gauge exactly because of the inadequate information system.
Improvement of this system has, therefore been included as an element of the
proposed project (para. 56). Also, BAP is short of personnel trained in
project, economic and financial analysis, and this problem will grow acute
with the expansion of its program. The project, therefore, would also
include a large-scale training component.
48.        BAP only reaches a relatively small number of farmers and the
growth of its lending program has been modest--3.4 percent per year in real
terms over the past five years. The fundamental problem has been BAP's
interest rates which were substantially below the rate of inflation. The
Government had to cover the resultant decapitalization of BAP with scarce
budget resources, which severely limited the growth of BAP's operations.
Until recently, the average effective rate for all BAP's loans was 45 per-
cent, compared with a 73 percent rate of' inflation in both 1981 and 1982.  In
order to correct this situation and to lay the foundation for an expansion of
its credit program to meet the needs of the sector, BAP--on April 1,
1983--put into effect a new interest rate system which substantially raises
interest rates for most farmers. Under this new system, rates would average
71 percent for commercial farmers with over 20 ha. Lower farmers would
receive about 2/3 of BAP lending. Lower rates (about 48 percent on working
capital subloans and 61 percent on investment credit) would be charged to
smaller farmers with farms of under 20 ha (see para 65-66 for details). This
change will substantially reduce the need for Government transfers to BAP,
although assistance will still be required to help fund the expansion of
BAP's credit program under the proposed project.



- 13 -
49.       Over the 1983-86 period BAP plans to increase, in 1982 constant
prices its short-term lending program by 17.6 percent and its medium-long
term lending by 93 percent. This would mean an overall increase in BAP's
operations on the order of US$300 million in the 1983-86 period. The pro-
posed Bank loan would finance about 40 percent of this expansion program.
The balance of the program would be financed by the IDB, BAP and the Govern-
ment. The BAP expansion plan is realistic in light of sectoral demand and
BAP's financial and program execution capacity.
50.       Although BAP earned profits in 1981 and 1982 (US$23 and US$30 mil-
lion equivalent, respectively), this was largely because the Government
provided foreign loans (from the IDB and commercial banks) as cost-free
transfers and BAP had access to a Central Bank line of credit at a highly
subsidized rate. The revised interest rate system described in para. 48
would enable BAP to earn a profit but this, however, will not be sufficient
to fully fund the projected increase in BAP's lending program. BAP will
still, therefore, require capital transfers from the Government for this
purpose (see para 62 below).
Previous Bank Operations
51.       In order to help spur Peru's agricultural development, the Bank has
made 14 loans to Peru totalling US$249.0 million. Five of them, in the
1954-1973 period and totalling US$55.0 million, were for agricultural credit
and were channelled through BAP and its predecessors (105-PE, 162-PE, 257-PE,
415-PE and 933-PE). In general, BAP's performance in executing these opera-
tions was good. The Performance Audit Report (Sec M81-465 of June 2, 1981)
for the fifth project (Ln. 933-PE of 1973) concluded that the project's rate
of return exceeded that estimated in the appraisal report (30 percent vs 26
percent). It noted, however, that the Bank did not use the loan as an effec-
tive instrument in discussions on interest rate levels with the Government.
Processing of the proposed sixth loan was held in abeyance until the Govern-
ment indicated that it was prepared to take satisfactory action on the
interest rate issues (para 48). Also, the fifth project suffered from the
deterioration of the research and extension services in the 1970s. The Bank
research and extension loan, approved in FY1982, is financing the rebuilding
of these services.
52.       Two loans (67-PE of 1952 and 98-PE of 1954), totalling US$3 mil-
lion, were for farm machinery imports. Another two (Loans 114-PE of 1955 and
418-PE of 1965), totalling US$24.4 million, financed irrigation works and
land settlement in the San Lorenzo area within the Chira-Piura basin. The
Performance Audit Report (Sec M78-43 of January 18, 1978) for the San Lorenzo
project financed by Ln. 418-PE concluded that the project achieved its basic
goals of increasing agricultural production and the incomes of rural poor.
The audit noted, however, the need for provision of better maintenance of
works, of a strong project unit, and agricultural support programs for irri-
gation projects. These findings were taken into account in the design of the
two most recent Bank-financed irrigation rehabilitation operations: the
First Irrigation Rehabilitation project and the Lower Piura project (Loans
1403-PE of 1977 and 1771-PE of 1979 for US$25 and US$56 million, respec-
tively). In 1980, the Bank approved its first rural development loan, a
US$15 million operation for the Puno zone in the Sierra (Loan 1812-PE).



- 14 -
Finally, in 1982 the Bank provided a US$40.6 million loan to support
re-establishing the agricultural research and extension system and a second
rural development loan of US$30 million for the Alto Mayo area of the Ceja de
Selva (Loans 2150-PE and 2219-PE). The status of Bank-financed agricultural
projects currently in execution is discussed in Annex II.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       This project has been under discussion with the Government since
1977 but, as mentioned above, processing of a Bank loan was held in abeyance
until the Government was prepared to introduce an acceptable system of agri-
cultural interest rates. The project was appraised in September 1982, after
the Government indicated that it would take action to resolve this issue.
The appraisal mission's report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report--Peru Sixth
Agricultural Credit Project" (No. 4325-PE of May 16, 1983), is being
distributed separately.  Annex III contains a Supplementary Project Data
Sheet. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 20-25. The Peruvian
Delegation was headed by Mr. Fernando Arellano, Financial Manager of BAP.
Project Objectives and Description
54.       The principal objectives of this project are (i) to strengthen BAP;
(ii) to substantially increase the flow of agricultural credit through
BAP--both for working capital and investment--in support of the Government's
efforts to accelerate the growth of the sector; and (iii) to improve the
living conditions of Peru's farmers. As explained in Part III of this
Report, the Government, over the past few years, has taken a series of policy
and institutional measures designed to revive the agriculture sector after a
decade of stagnation. Efforts to increasie the flow of agricultural
credit--an essential element of such a revival program--have been impeded,
however, by heavily subsidized agricultural interest rates.  The elimination
of most of this subsidization would enable BAP to expand its currently
limited coverage of the sector, while strengthening its own financial posi-
tion.
55.       The project, to be carried out between 1983 and 1987, would consist
of a line of credit of about US$220 million (US$126 million from the proposed
loan, US$37 million from BAP, and $57 million from the Government) for
lending throughout Peru. About US$105 million of this would be for 20,000
medium-long term loans for investment in irrigation infrastructure, land
improvement, establishment of perennial crops, livestock development, equip-
ment and agroindustry.  With contribution totaling about US$14 million from
beneficiaries, close to US$120 million in subprojects would be financed.
This would account for about 50 percent of total project costs. BAP would
also expand its working capital program in order to meet increased demand
generated by the expansion of farm operations under the investment lending
program, as well as to reach farmers who have not previously been recipients
of agricultural credit. Under the project, BAP's working capital loan
portfolio is expected to grow by about US$115 million by 1986, half of which
would be financed by the proposed Bank loan and half by the Government. The



- 15 -
project would make funds available for about 25,000 working capital loans,
which would be additional to BAP's current lending program. Working capital
lending would account for about 48 percent of total project costs.
56.       The project would include technical assistance to strengthen BAP's
information system and training program, which would account for about two
percent of total project costs. As noted in para. 47, BAP's information
system requires upgrading. Under the project, about 20 staff months of
consultants services would be provided to design and install an informatiin
system that would provide BAP's management with the data necessary to implove
decision-making in such areas as debt collection, subloan supervision and
lending operations.  Acquisition of the equipment required for such a sys em
would be included under the project. As also discussed in para. 47, BAP-;
-staff requires training in economic and financial analysis. About 60
staff-months of consultants services would be needed to analyze BAP's
training needs and to help design and carry out training programs to meet
them. These consultants would be hired by March 31, 1984 (Section 3.02(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Emphasis would be on training in loan appraisal,
project formulation, accounting and management and would also include
personnel from the MA and INIPA. About 30 staff-months of training abroad
would be financed under the project.  The cost of consultants' services is
estimated at about US$10,000 per staff-month for internationally recruited
and US$4,000 per staff-month for the locally recruited personnel. The
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment of all consultants
financed under the proposed loan would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The project would include US$500,000 for technical assistance to
design a rediscount facility (most likely to be located in BAP, since it has
expertise in agriculture lending) which would make resources available for
commercial bank lending to agriculture. Because commercial banks have not
been active lenders to agriculture (see para 45), BAP will have to continue
to be the major source of such credit over the next few years. With the
recent increase in most agricultural interest rates to commercial levels--
which eliminates below market interest rate competition from BAP--and the
Government policy of stimulating private agriculture, it may be possible,
however, to encourage commercial banks to begin agricultural lending and thus
expand the resources available for agricultural development. If a redis-
count facility is established, the Bank would be prepared to consider amend-
ing the loan documents to permit the use of funds from the proposed loan for
rediscounting commercial bank agricultural credit operations.
58.       Finally, additional financing would be made available under the
project to carry out a feasibility study for the rehabilitation of the major
sugar AREs. This study is being administered by a commission made up of
Government and sugar ARE representatives. As mentioned in paragraph 39, a
PPF advance was approved for the study but its cost, based on proposals
submitted by consultants in February 1983, will be greater than expected and
about US$300,000 in additional financing will be necessary. BAP would enter
into a subsidiary agreement with the Government by October 31, 1983 under
which the funds would be made available to the Government for the study
(Sections 3.06 and 3.04 of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements,



- 16 -
respectively). The execution of the subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for this component of the
project (para. 4(d) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
59.       BAP would be responsible for the execution of all project compo-
nents, except the sugar rehabilitation study. BAP would appoint a project
coordinator to serve as the principal liason between BAP and the Bank. He
would be responsible for (i) the collection of data on, and analysis of the
results of the project; (ii) the application of the operating policies and
procedures specified in the Loan Agreement; and (iii) reporting to the Bank
on project execution. BAP would keep the position of Project Coordinator
staffed at all times with an official who would have experience and qualifi-
cations acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that this position be filled
(Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).  In order to provide a basis
for planning its annual operations, BAP would, by September 30 of each
calendar year, prepare and submit to the Bank a draft lending program for the
following year. This plan would be drawn up in accordance with a methodology
acceptable to the Bank and would provide an estimate of the investment
programs BAP would help finance, their short and medium-long term credit
requirements, and the financial resources required to carry out this
program. The Bank would be provided with an opportunity to review and
comment on this program prior to its approval by the Government (Section 3.08
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
60.       Total project cost is estimated at US$238.7 million (net of taxes),
of which US$105.9 million, or about 44 percent, represents foreign costs.
Base costs are in September 1982 prices and price contingencies have been
estimated on the basis of projected annual international inflation of eight
percent in 1982 and 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, seven percent in 1985 and six
percent in 1986. Local price contingencies have been calculated in US dollar
equivalents on the assumption that variations in the exchange rate would
compensate for the difference between local and international inflation.
61.       Total financing required for the project is US$239 million, which
includes a US$324,190 front-end fee. The proposed Bank loan of US$130 mil-
lion equivalent would cover about 54 percent of total project costs (includ-
ing all the foreign exchange expenditures for investment subloans and half
the amount of the working capital component, which includes US$23.8 million
of local costs) as well as the capitalized front-end fee. Local cost
financing is justified by: (i) the importance of this project tio the
restoration of growth of the agriculture sector; (ii) the major policy
advance--the raising of most agricultural interest rates to market
levels--instituted in conjunction with the project; and (iii) the current
fiscal and balance of payments difficulties faced by Peru. Bank financing
of half the proposed increase in BAP's working capital program would permit
BAP to increase its support to the sector during a period of economic
austerity and thus enable the Government to move ahead with a critical
element of its program to increase agricuLtural production. Given Peru's



- 17 -
generally sound agriculture sector policies and a macroeconomic program which
is designed to help the country weather the difficult economic conditions it
now confronts, such Bank assistance is warranted and is consistent with the
Bank's recently approved special action program.
62.       BAP would finance US$38 million equivalent of project costs and the
Government would finance US$57.3 million. Project benficiaries would cover
the balance of project costs of US$13.7 million equivalent. The Governnment
would cover the foreign exchange risk under the proposed loan and BAP and the
Government would, by December 31, 1983, make arrangements for this purpose
satisfactory to the Bank. (Section 2.03(a) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Sublending Terms and Conditions
63.       All individual farmers, agricultural cooperatives and AREs in Peru
would be eligible to participate in the proposed project. Subloans would be
denominated in soles. While BAP provides terms of up to 24 months for work-
ing capital loans, based on past experience about 90 percent of these are
expected to be for less than 12 months. Investment loans would be for
between three and 15 years, including up to four years of grace. Individual
subloan terms would be determined on the basis of cash flow analysis. Sub-
borrower contributions to the costs of their investment project would be
based on farm size and location. Bank approval of a credit operation would
be required when a subloan to an individual borrower or cooperative would
result in an outstanding credit balance exeeding US$200,000 or US$1 million
equivalent, respectively (Para. B.4 of Schedule 5 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
64.       All subloans would be appraised in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to the Bank. As a basis for subloan appraisal, sub-borrowers
would prepare farm development plans with the assistance of BAP's field
officers. If the subloan is too small to justify preparing a farm
development plan, it would be appraised with reference to representative farm
models on the basis of a cash flow analysis. All subloans would have to be
technically feasible and economically and financially justified. Also,
enterprise sub-borrowers (AREs, cooperatives or private) would have to have
satisfactory management and a good credit standing (Paras. B.1 and 2 of
Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Interest Rates
65.       BAP's standard interest rates would be charged under the project.
A new level and structure of interest rates was put into effect by BAP on
April 1, 1983. BAP's previous interest rates averaged about 45 percent for
all loans. With this new interest rate structure, all loans over S/. 20 mil-
lion (about US$16,000) would be at rates averaging 71 percent, which would
be close to positive in real terms given expected inflation in the 65-70
percent range for the remainder of 1983 (see para. 20 above). Loans at these
rates would go to commercial farmers and, in 1983, the are expected to
account for about 2/3 of BAP's lending. Lower interest rates would apply to
loans under S/. 20 million (about US$16,000), and would average about 48
percent for working capital, and 61 percent for investment loans.



- 18 -
The SI. 20 million figure is a ceiling and represents the maximum amount of
financing that a farm of up to 20 ha might require. Thus, the subborrowers
at these rates would have farms of 20 ha or less. This is administratively
the simplest way to identify the target group of smaller farmers who would be
the intended beneficiaries of the interest rate subsidy. The S/. 20 million
limit would be adjusted from time to time by BAP, but could not be increased
by more than increases in a domestic inflation (Section 4.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
66.       These interest rates would be reviewed each semester by BAP in
order to insure that its rates remain in line with other commercial rates in
Peru.' The average rate of a representative sample of commercial banks would
be used as a benchmark. If there were greater than a three point or five
percent movement, whichever is higher, in commercial rate since the previous
semester, BAP's weighted average interest rate would be adjusted
accordingly. The first review of interest rates would be done by January 15,
1984 and rates would be adjusted, if necessary, by March 31, 1984.
Subsequent reviews and adjustments (if required) would be undertaken every
six months thereafter. The Bank would be advised promptly of the results of
each review (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition to
maintaining comparability between BAP interest rates and commercial rates,
BAP's rates to commercial farmers should not fall significantly below the
rate of inflation in Peru. In order to assure that this does not happen, BAP
would take action to correct its rates if they fell more than ten percent
below the rate of inflation (as reflected in the consumer price index) and
remained so for more than three months (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
67.       Because BAP will continue to finance loans at subsidized rates for
small farmers, it is still subject to possible decapitalization. In order to
protect BAP against this risk, the Governuent has agreed that it would
provide an annual equity contribution to BAP, as necessary, to maintain the
current value of BAP's equity in real terms (Section 2.03(b) of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). In addition, BAP's debt equity ratio (which was one to
one in 1982) would be limited to no more than five to one, in order to assure
that it maintains a reasonable level of capitalization as it borrows to
expand its operations (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
68.       Procurement of civil works, materials and equipment by subborrowers
would be through normal commercial channels, as it would not be practicable
to arrange for bulk procurement and international competitive bidding (ICB)
considering the large number of sub-borrowiers and the wide range of items to
be financed under the project. An adequate selection of farm machinery and
equipment is available through local and international suppliers and servic-
ing and supply of spare parts is satisfactory. For farm machinery and equip-
ment, BAP would require its borrowers to obtain quotations from at least
three sources of supply whenever feasible. BAP would make available to
sub-borrowers a catalog of suppliers of agro-industrial machinery from Bank
member countries, as well as their agents or their representatives in Peru.
Equipment needed for carrying out the improvement of the information system,
which would be determined by a feasibility study, would be procured under ICB



- 19 -
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. No disbursements would be made for such
equipment until an information system study, satisfactory to the Bank, has
been completed (Paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement). In
comparing local and foreign bids, local manufacturers would be given a margin
of preference equal to the prevailing duty rate or 15 percent of CIF costs of
imported goods, whichever were lower. Manufacturers from countries of the
Cartagena Agreement (or any other regional trade group satisfactory to the
Bank, of which Peru is a member) other than Peru would be given a margin of
preference over other foreign manufacturers equal to the difference in impsrt
duties charged by Peru, or 15 percent of CIF costs of imported goods,
whichever is lower.
69.       Disbursements from the loan would be made against eligible
expenditures as follows:
(a) under term loans, 45 percent of amounts disbursed to individual
farmers and cooperatives for irrigation infrastructure, land
improvement, construction, perennial crops and livestock;
(b) under term loans, 90 percent of amounts disbursed for
machinery, equipment and vehicles;
(c) 50 percent of amounts disbursed under working capital subloans
subject to a predetermined limit that would be set each year
(see para. 70); and
(d) 100 percent of total expenditures for consulting
services and 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local
expenditures for equipment for the information system.
Disbursements would be made against certified statements of expenditures for
(a) and (b). All other disbursements would be fully documented.
70.       The working capital lending to be financed by the proposed loan
would be incremental to BAP's existing operations. Bank loan funds would,
therefore, only be disbursed against the real increase in BAP's working
capital lending as estimated in the approved annual lending program (para 59)
up to an annual ceiling to be agreed upon between the Bank and BAP by
December 31 of each year until the project has been completed. If after a
review of the results of BAP's actual working capital lending during the
previous year, the Bank determines that the projected targets were not
achieved, the ceiling for the disbursement of working capital for the current
year would be reduced until the shortfall is made up (Section 3.09 and
Para. 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).  Once BAP's new
information system is installed (see para. 56), it will be administratively
feasible to direct incremental working capital subloans under the project to
those who are intended to be the beneficiaries of this program: (i) farmers
who are expanding their operations with new investments or technological
change; and (ii) farmers who have never previously received BAP credit.
Therefore, in addition to the requirement that working capital lending
financed under the proposed Bank loan be incremental, after the information
system begins operating disbursement of Bank loan funds will only be made for
working capital subloans to these categories of beneficiaries (Paras. 4(b)
and B.5(b) to Schedules 1 and 5 of the draft Loan Agreement, respectively)^



- 20 -
Project Benefits and Risks
71.       The project would significantly increase the financial resources
available to the agriculture sector, in support of Government efforts to
stimulate sectoral growth. The project would provide medium-and long-term
investment credit, which is currently scarce in Peru and would increase the
level of BAP's working capital operations. About 21,000 investment and
25,000 working capital operations would be financed. This would enable BAP
to reach new borrowers, primarly smaller private farmers who have not
previously had access to institutional credit.
72.       In conjunction with this operation, most of BAP's interest rates
have been raised to commercial levels, substantially reducing subsidies.
This will eventually lead to a more efficient allocation of resources in the
agriculture sector and will stem the decapitalization of BAP and make more
financing available to the sector. BAP's operations would be made more
efficient with the installation of an imtproved information system and the
strengthening of its training program. Also, a rediscount facility designed
to attract commercial banks to agriculture lending and increase the flow of
credit to the sector would be developed under the project.
73.       The value of production under the project is estimated to increase
from about US$30 million to about US$64 million in the tenth year of project
development. The economic rates of return on subprojects are expected to
range between 17 percent (for Sierra livestork operations) to 49 percent (for
small farms on the Costa). The crops whose production would be substantially
increased under the project include beef (337 percent increase), beans and
soybeans (300 percent), fruits and vegetables (68 percent), sorghum (59 per-
cent) and rice (48 percent). At full development, the project would improve
Peru's trade balance by about US$30 million per year through increased
exports (mainly cotton) and import substitution (rice, feed grains).
74.       For the families that would benefit from the medium-and long-term
credit program, the range of annual family income from farming activities is
projected to increase from a current level of US$340-US$5100 to
US$690-US$6250 at full development. In addition, many farmers would benefit
from the expansion of the working capital program. Farm employment is
expected to increase by over 5,000,000 person-days per year as a result of
the project.
75.       There is some risk of a drop in the demand for agricultural credit
because of the substantial increase in interest rates. Financial analysis,
by both the Bank and BAP, however, indicates that the increased interest
rates can be absorbed by farmers, given the profitability of the investments
to be financed. The elimination of price controls over the past few years
has enable farmers to pass on cost increases, so that increases in input and
credit costs do not endanger their incomes. There is little risk associated
with BAP's ability to execute the project. It is a reasonably well-run
institution and its performance should irmprove with the technical assistance
to be provided.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between BAP and the Bank, as well as the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank and the
Report and Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
77.       Special conditions of the project are referred to in the text and
listed in Section III of Annex III. A condition of loan effectiveness would
be that the project coordinator position in BAP be filled. Condition of
disbursement would be: (i) for the sugar study component of the project,
that a subsidiary agreement between BAP and the Government be signed; (ii)
for equipment for the information system, that a study for this system satis-
factory to the Bank be completed; and (iii) for working capital subloans,
that disbursements be within the ceiling agreed upon by the Bank and, after
the information system is installed, that such subloans go to farmers who are
expanding their operations or who have never received BAP credit.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Heav 18, 19R3
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                          ANiNE I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
TOTAL           1285.2                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     305.5              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 290.0       470.0    930.0                   1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    417.3        662.7    716.1                   1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0    13461.0  17379.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3        57.4      67.4                    65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (M4ILLIONS)                     27.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        48.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        7.9        10.5      13.2                    35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     33.3        45.0      55.5                    92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.6        44.3      42.9                    39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                         52.0        51.7      53.8                    56.1                     61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.4         3.9       3.5                     4.2                       7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.8       2.6                     2.4                       1.6
URBAN                              5.1         4.9       4.2                     3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.5         41.5      35.9                    31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0         14.8      10.9                     8.4                       9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.3         3.0       2.4                     2.1                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0       102.0      77.0                   110.0                    116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   98.3        97.2      97.5/c                 108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          64.0        60.1      59.27W                  66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        25.1      24.07F                  34.0                     35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     37.8        20.2       9.5                     5.6                       9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.4         53.1      58.1                    64.2                      67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          162.9       119.7      87.7                    64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             14.6        35.0      48.3                    65.6
URBAN                             30.2        58.0      60.0                    78.9
RURAL                              0.8         8.0      25.0                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        36.0      34.0                     59.3
URBAN                               ..        52.0      51.0                    75.3
RURAL                               ..        16.0        ..                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2011.7      1904.9   1532.4/c                 1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2205.0/d    1000.5     676.17W                1063.5                     634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            425.1       469.6    538.3/c                  477.4                     286.8
URBAN                            273.8/e     524.9    426.47W                  679.8                     192.0
RURAL                               ..      3055.2    5705.2/c                1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        19.0      23.0/c                  27.3                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.9         4.8/f
URBAN                              4.8         4.97        ..
RURAL                              4.9         4.67       ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.3         1.9/f
URBAN                              2.0         1.77?I
RURAL                              2.7         2.47       . 
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             26.0        32.0/f
URBAN                             50.7        54.3/f      ..
RURAL                              4.2         2.77        .



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
RTABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAgES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0        103.0     112.0                    104.3                     102.4
MALE                  95.0       111.0      115.0/c                  106.4                     107.1
FEMALE                71.0        96.0      1o8.07                   103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  15.0         30.0      50.0/c                   41.3                      60.2
MALE                  18.0        34.0       53.0Tc                   40.4                      66.4
,                               FEMALE                13.0        26.0       46.0/c                   41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)  19.9          17.1      18.3/c                   33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.6         35.5      40.2                     29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                          12.3         17.3      29.2                     16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         72.5/f    79.7                     79.1                       75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.8         17.1      18.6/c                   42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        108.0        135.1     147.5                    270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.2         29.3      50.2                    107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..        123.3      51.4/c                   63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.4            ..         .,                     2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3186.8       3891.8    5149.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.2         20.8      23.2                     24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              52.5         48.0      40.0                     31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.6         18.4      18.5                     23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.3         28.9      29.6                      33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 49.6         45.8      45.5                      50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               13.2         12.0      13.7                     16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.7       1.6                       1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0/
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64. 47i      61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2. 5T         1.97        - 
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.07j         7.07        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     235.0/c
RURAL                                ..           ..     180.0Fc                  184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     293.0/c                  518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     200.O7T                  371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      49.0/c
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972;  /g Personal income within labor force.
May, 1982



-24-                                                                             ANNEX I
WINIUM    DF SLAL INICATMPage    3   of   5
Note,  Althhugh the dct. Are 4rm  from assec   slaorally  lodWe  the toot *tcb ltett-ta   cod rAblei. it should .kes he t-td 0 th,                        Y h cy oYat  b. tOte-
-ttato.. ly Oaarsbaoan    of the 1eeb of ee.aadertot  afltote                         ....os w  sed h b  df f-ores  c-aslolM  L. c.ollstin  the dtet.  The da.. .... M55
chatI.... eafa1 to d-cthe orders of  el j              .  dloet. toasts. sod chas-stotle  coret  Rs   dOf ft.-!a meea    octle
The, estoat. Stoops eAl  (1) tho tm  oto .acry crtch at cte. .sAjeot.t ott,LA 121 A tco~ory 5509 sp               t . toeatethigh? arraelo                thea the c-tOry gtaap
of cht: ssjchn  sotttry (wept f ar   '118k lant             1   eotteraL    " gs   whet  "itddo  loos   North Aftos. acd tiddl. Ueat  La ch-at  hattoe   of Etaa
hatls-tlt-4a cftll. . L  the tatta. art"  date ott.   -es.. are yP.Pl.ttot eiltgbs  erithooto  aa.e. for -ash ledhoato  aed sh-t  oly -h..
eclor tty ot che  _Otctnla  to a geeti  ha. d"to fer chat hodlcat-r   SIa.. ch.   -rve.at  of corottila  Lse  Oh,. ltlodato., d.p-tda .s the  -vetibtlity of data
cod 4   o:~at alo..teethe. met he lterah-d he se1Atoa    ccssof  -s  totleetot to  ctho    These llayrgs.at cotl  osIa..  ol is -Mafis    tha rais  of
oaetsdsaar a  a  he  loog  ch.  -seerr  ocdtorefarses   Votoo.
ARI  (th..osadat  q...)                                                                               ?ooelo50Oohe   o    ;ytotaL orO   Art rural - Potpalatlo   (,et.L,
Tota  - Tetol  -aora. ar.      os6oa-        lest clase- act dsles   s..s.  1079 data.                  _vso  ost tstrl   d1"Ltsty oheo  _esestrai  octt of h.apita1 heat
eAstU.ltool.1_t L ---t  of lari-t.c.1ra  oare  sast ota-tily or p.aronotlt                            solo la      pfLt. cad PrOn-ts ge -rlad ePacialLsd hoapLtal cdr
for cr59.. yatcn         arhat -aa  kitche  gasd-s  or to It. (sIlos; 1979 data.                           !:tlet   ate.Osptl   r   aalaast    aetsl    tfa
0Y as Isaa   one yhY.eLcaa     9..tatbilthoasesysr s  pn Lpaly ...te
GNP Pt! CAPITA (OtOl - GNP par -apfta .iasat.t   at - -,as  n11,ate  -toe             a-                dIl.   t_t  A.r -c t LIaded.  tar1 hseiptsa    h.svr    or Loa health
oulatad by a.                  Mt"rsa  ice  ea Wtaeld las  hOles (1978-90 heLel; 1960.                o.d -d Loel ....... se  pt.asaetLy tetffd by a phyalshas Ihot by
10, Led18  date.                                                                                set.Loe       A a Allta  .oo.a.. Rldelfa.  -ss) ehich ol.a  Lt-pat taosacoe
dalestprstds A lIWted  -erci  of sfdi.1  fasilitle..   Fo  atatt-
lOccIO  COPStO'T17  FOR CPITA -fooe  tooscctti.o  sf  -erslal aoery (coL                      ti.al faTP-.. eohaO  hsaptteL        -lsld. 090a pnirsLpa1/aa... c I hoattaa
sod Ilattita. patrolc' !   tatosel tagt asd hydro-, nslL..  ato e.sthcral also-                       as   oa    optl.ba   rrrlhooploal  and  odical sod tetatlty11
trtolty) Ls killogs.a of ccclI eqojlvAla   par sastta; 1960. 1970. Ao  17                               cata.-    loeladhoop ttL    era  otlded  olY ao4a  tocal.
eata.                                                                                               Ad!Etetios   "t  eSol."" ted - Total_M fatr  f aacla    dsorateh-Sge
(reh-epitala  ditodde by sch  Osade  of  ado..
PCttJL,Ttol AND VITAL STTOISTICS
Totl  oesetOs.Ol-Tsr  thotede)-  e  f laly 1; 1960, 1507, .sd 19800                  H07S1NG
I1,rhafPopteasI=   irarostfot sosall - eatto of cohat. to ...a Ipsyclato-;                            Ihea-ah.l   oo.tett  ofA   osof Islrduala sh Htea                    N;r quetete
dl  aaod....t      ar f  tsatan  MY affect .. otabhlitty of data                                     s   c0h. eLai. al.    board.t or loJger nay or -y Oct ha loaoded to
a   .s toos ,.s; 1960, 1970. aad 1960 data,                                                    the hocchold f.srC a tatl re   porPoeca.
POaahcPoettote                                                                            hs.acor of esre                or FF rcetoteI cohn, Ltd totaI -  csg S.ee
Porolatlot I  scar 2000    . Crat ppcet prolcostlna  -r  hand o  1980                      lo   fycse  a   oet  01oht.Ld lotal eceuptad  --orettcaa
total1 ttptatoa by age  Mnt as 4a chair eataly  sad fattlllty  ra=e dellcg. r.aepetlrly.  ltralltSg  aculda oc-araataet otrosaa 
Prjs eParast... for  ctolity rats. o st of throc mfd    cts                                 sooLad pata.
Log  llf. sPosoasoY o  birth tOorcaltig alth c-tsry     pa,t capItalce                          ceat..   tHtlactrtYcs  (ssao      f dasllletl - total. urbot. cr4 rorl1
leve,  ca d feels Itfa  ePsooc,o, stb lilato As 77.5  ar.The ysra-                                        '"Ictlea  d-alinga  "chb elactoLcty L.Is , ito   q-aret  .. P..r..etap
asters for f-tarIlI, rte alec have theno Iaa ..           csI ogdLelie  . I                      of total.  rb... eat rara  dall        -atahet s_ly.
tactility a...otdtg to l.ce Maa  an. IRd Paot flastly ylIe.-inSPact.o ca
Utec   -cory 1. rhas caLcee  me of th.a. ohs. -o Ltbanlo     of aotallitY                   EDUCATION
ast ftarLIltY  tea. for pro)actta P-cPoa.-..Adl-etad It...Ilooa   tl501.t
S-t   .. cry oslcl       - Soc atasles-y yplat            thear  La os arooh ei...                           ..evchool -  -ote, eels ood fatola  - Croca tot.l  sal -1 e.d fral
the bL1th rat. Ia eq-   t  th. d.hcoct at. ecd also  Oh. age -ttrotooata-                           -ntoll-tt  of all age. at the yl.ary L-1a as p-rcro-oS  of tatpactiv
eels. cesetast.Th" . Is ahta'd eel, aftar   matlIt   cocoas  51               to                    pria  oy  shool-ag,                    -1oOte.;stlY  Wlocdsa childrar aSed 6-L1
tOe r-ylasass   1-01 of -itt ta  tcapr_dastl.oc a, flat-. nob  esaalosi                            ter    a djoeto:d for diffarast le-0h. of pri-ey aOscattoo; tea
.1  _aeso' Pe"ea   oel af ettly         Th s-tte -tory.LI.,sotat. cot                               euost          h     ..obas ..r.I  docetto   arl.ot y rossad 100 p-ersa
setta-d 00th % Ocba1e cf she pro_asacd"tharast.rsee              of the pop.1e s-                   tots !.om   -P"ylaar 'helovorah1ova  oh. offic. teshool AeS.
Is the yasr 2000, -d oh. crat  of ocolt-of f7 TotlLoy rat. tocreyla...                           Socod.y school   Oct01. talc cod faRot. - Co.eotdcsohotc;aaodt
_      -olee.1                                                                                     oaoterqloa   bet   foot Y-.raf aPtv-dyrat   lotttSttoO;
Y.o. atetlas   retlto   arche- h   esomaetoayyrlto                                                       o'oos    toc.,        t1"eOloL. or tea.cherIoooo    eoorlo    e   al1
.tea.11 hll b acce....eeLlY of 12 Os 17 yate. of Lea; o....ao.to-d-                                                                                           Pots    a ....teraly
Ma  o  h.-Oid-y-a  ppyt-Lcott per sqaae  kllasco   (110 ha--ers If                       loalclstlae   sretof ..,..dant( - V-.OoatloclIelel
total are; 1960. 1970 cod 1979 data,                                                             toled. Ocahotltl, iodsetrll. or oth.r yoe.ohich cyse-t  idadpad-
Per.,   h.ertctrlls  - Camotad sa ahoy  for LerlO .olttl ltd                                        -tty otrL  dayccttst  ofccotdrlasoto.
R           wt 16.  91   t  17  dlae.                                                   Prrltehrrai      tsr. cc    soder-   fore   tdt   saIld ho
tOsol.tlo  Ae   tcS oo   oasetl-Chlta   (0-Id Yaa ...                 k.g-e   (10-                    yrar   a   se      May(rt  Lcded by otaef 'tacera15 the
640  ...sl  cod tetrat (65 years ad  ...  L   coaOaa  of ai-erPop-                                   orectgale
Latbas; 1960. 1970. ad 1980 date.                                                                Adslt Ii-cat,s rate (.I'r..S)e  - Ltlt.r.taaeslta  last. as tct ad ord-toal
tooatsOoeh  aelacel-  oa      aaa  eetbrtso  totld I-eAaya-tec-     of tota  Odol pr                                                          aat Sa gd 15 Y.c.. e  er
peatyoylato   tot 10-0. 1007.aod 1970-60                    
topclat lot Groth SAta (terest  - other  - heecal ttoshrloala of -1hal popo-                     CONS0 TItTON
_itl .. fot 199040.. 1       _960- A0. eat 170-0.                                                2caoc   oe(a   hocterltoi-Peagrct   OpIsns
Crude Birth Rtet (Par Ihaecdl - tascal Iia bitche yar th-oesad of  id-y..r                                                                       ..c.ele    aathsrgt  ae  a    ocL=od ",srlacc   tera
splOe;1960, 1970, cod 1990 deO.,                                                              lIlt  cahiolc..
Crod. D.ath R-s  (      9r hocesdl - Aaoaa  dactha par ibosead  of aid-taco. Oc10 taa                           par   (s     1h         pat totsoorlonol - All tyyoa of rAn -v:reflo  -adI.
posals   960.r170, cad 1900 data.                                                           Irotett  getlphllo Pa r cooos  ofpstato;oldeo-
Ctse hstdoslc  R.t. - Aleag    ota  of dsaght.rs a   a    ill bac.s-ssedrcIe.I isstl    adlot y.ate he   elcSatteri.  of radI
hat oorall -ap-dootla partd If ab. op-arlan   p.....t gsee-e                if is fe-              -cetS . Iof f.t,; data  for r-cet yLt0 Oct ant h.  -ec-bl. slots
clllty taocelao-"Y flt-ycse  strarsal ettdis  L. 1960. 1970. eod 1990.                              sct -atrlsaaholi.h.d licasao .&
Uotily Ptaalct.   - Aootoa  Ooc(ypA'4s   A-Iersl  ec o.b                  f actpora                 TV      or...t.hosad caroLaclis;    TV rotev1r   fer broodo...t to
of bitth-tatsldvla  atrarhrEaotrtIslfeRtyp                                    Ftoo    praoa.        acaL  p l  yar thoo..ead pcPolatlot; e-ldeelcss   V  eavr
tslr  Pleco          .es     ...rso  ot of  arriclase   -' _acat.ga of -rrtle                       10 c.oatOrta  ad 10tet y     cErs a.eletra....  o.f T  cosca " Is  tffct.
50C   of. chd-b-targ ep  (15-44 y..crel ebs .   btrth-se -rl  de-i... to                           NettosPer ltoslellss1y.  (Per thl...a.d ocpal.,LanI    Sh-,a  the  -oesag  Ott-
all sertled eon         hose   Sg.  r.,.                                                           coltlos        f d       ....geera  lsstreo.ta.-apar'  daft sed ..A  pystidlea
Poblft.tioa  da-osd petooltly 0  rsdng-gaalse-. It ia .-eed ... 
taOO oND OtOITIfle                                                                                     toh   dIy          if  tapaat   leca  tou  t_e  coah.k
Itdat of Food Prodo.stlo  rat CLolte  1697-00               E.". of Pc, capIta  -tcL               Cioana        tstol  sooasoc IratCSo st(a   -l tc  the octetl of
PIedceglOa of al  food  tadse. predeta,to   slodsa east  sd f cad and                              tlolete  ..d   -t ls cr hs Y.ar,  lanledLOg ae        oeto drtse-Lo  cii,ee
aco  .Iaed Yar ee   eae   COSttd'         coser pejeay good    (a .aoe s  c..d ebil. -ita..
lactead of eogatl ahihet  edIble  a  noaal   .sric t   (e.g.cf                   a
tcate ...1.4edl.  Adgocasta prod.cet. of eash   -tcert It haa ..                            LAB0R F0RCE
_nobascI  _oace  psodoer p,Ise e.iehta; 1961-65. 1970, cad 1900 data.                            T-1c Lohor Fortc  Ithoaseadcl - Ocosoecally  -it-v  eroa   Lesedlog
pan day,  h-ioblla. .ppllU. cprc  dosetllo  plodratloe.  -sat   .eat coarable; 1960. 1970at10   et
eaat.  a   hcegaa L. etth..  ltcsla  sastte aflfead   ..aede.                               Fa-I. (ser-st  - ?el  aa   oo   aP.rs..sace of  -.te  labr for.
q-t ist .tla   d 10 foo  p-aneech. ea  t.lee   -s dltib a . aqoi-                                  Aefl-icul   r(Pa-ootl - hLaot for"e is fatele, forestry. OcatLog cad
Mait :eeeaetlatd by FAO hacat es phy.lLaclguel .-eda far  --Ie cAtt-                                  fi.ihlgaeyerc teg   of sotal lahe  Terse; 190  1070 cod 198  data.
sty ct Z   eclth coaelds-LcASvssin          cl aicrsa         body asbha., age                     lads..",oesst           Locor f-rs I- -   I,c,catotts   aaaot
Lt=mdethto    f pcpeIatles. cod  Lllaieg  10 polsasl 8crmes  soan  e.ct.ot. i                                iaster cod gs. caycatt   f total   bahr ftets
hasasheld 1-ss; 1961-65. 1970 aed 1977 dccc.                                                          190. 19 70 end190 dasa.
parg46..(PpX  ofooeelrce ear dY) - Proasta ctascas  of Par  -epoc.                                 picttsti.1lcatt   ptat      oe.e                la.ad fossle  - PettoLPetias or
c.tacpptttfsod  pa  day.  Oa  saplt   f too  ia sefis  .o abov.  ta-                   aclotteeorr"              sa     cattl  aa    n  teetl  laber f.... ..
qolresg    to   l   oaoc.etbhllehad by USD6 Proide for cli.m                                        ooeoee    f ctotl, eel. ood f-le  popreltlos of all aecs rpaepctlay;
eloatte  of  ~00    e  oftota  prctehe Par dsY std 20 eras of asleal cad                         190I90,cd1960dt.Ttc   r  sce   t   10   atOpatlas  coar
P,les.Psec.of ohah 10 gram  ebood he calel orsoals.  Then eten-                                     -stlaoltog   s-nttorr  o-f tepplt                       a   omtie  Itred.  A
art. Are lee   thea thoe. of 75 soas of oota1 proat.   eodA 23 eras of                              ft. s-slata   eAl  tn          . .tIo.e . ncoe.
aslel ootah   anLa arcg   tos the  -Ld. P-sPc..at by tAO is th. ThIrd                      tcoooso.  =aedean, Rat10    R.".t of posolatiet   adet 15 asd 65 sadea
W.,ld Food Sor"e; 1910   970 aed 1977 date,                                                         to she total taboo (0cc..
Par ..,Lt. Proaats  orl  re   ale  cod rcl.. -Proo.    sYt f food d.-
tiied (re   ell  ea   seeh   rsPar day; 191615, 1970 crM 977 data.                             INOCltE  DISTlIWI7TOt
Child Iee   14) loash Lace (Par thoosWt  - Aoaa-L teethe par Oht..... d L                          Po. ttaas   of roat  ls              (both It  -ath 0-0 khIi     - totelvd  y rlhohee
cge  r  1   ta te,a   hildldre  ia thie a9gg ...ap; 005O setdaelpha coaP                           .ysos .rlc.et 201 part-ro   pooroct 20 pt-snt, Ltd psoreat 40 p-oet-
toOt. deta derI-ed fr-   if It.csblsa; 1960. 170 Led 190  dat,                                    of ho...aholdo.
L,1f. SE--oc-t at Stith (sea-e-  -  udta-ree. out-  of tsar. of life   asoo                         The  -olee    atte    r   ayMepcsat   nooe    f Pe--rt  1I`oe
At bIrth; 196. 1970 act 9l80 dat.                -                                                 an  sheod ha istetyreteri rIch ooo.earblatctlt
Itfast Oc-ols late lcar tho....od) - Aeseal leathe;f  ofet  cde  oe  sc                            (elad        AalosPo -y[5c              "o I (1   s   a e            --o r end t-tal
of sca Par -h t.a.s.d Llas bilrhe; 1960, 190L      n  190dt.Osccayvry1005Io    I   httccaltlSl, 0 h L aIdedL
ACc..e ro Sate dete  fcareen of'C         lale  -toe.ch. rlll- aod coral -fn--otrittlooey  AdqcI.a  d1st pIt .. ..... Ll to-otrqalresoce  i. oat
hroyspa(total, oNh.  etr ir)t,t  aashesca   oel                                              todbe
octet .-h ae that Irs..poatdhrsls   pic,ai   alayele    a                                          ttlrlsv    oet  ho-mteal       00-thIr  of  rera aryetoupioc
P...rcctLge   of their  -ep-sto   orc- ssa    oauberc. 0 ProbIc                                    Pocrce1 lan-   of theocor   Irbes leol ia dett-d free the rota.l
toa-oLl  or eOesdpoao locatd -t oorc tootI 200 aetet. fre     tnc  aph                             Isel s-t,oLbasStfot higrh              ot0  lro   hottce
...eldcadc   halt! ahIreotth       hle- aotobl   of that h...e. I           1 In ua   rc      clae Porulotlcs                        .. halsfoclitaPov `t  "o )o ".l (rteos     ut
ra.-blaa          -I aod 11Py thcat the K.--'otf* or -ebsal  of the ho...ohold                   end rurel   Pacroto of pop.l.tios (urhaa eat toa)  h.o  re ".bhOOlC.t
do 000 h..e to eed a dlepopor.tolonc   pert ef the tay  on fetching the                            toot'.
Acosee  Es Osret  Dtp.Ioeal                   I rrsocfnolaln-ttl eroas. Jot rural 
(fuebe  of pacle'    tsa,.o...  O   toa) ae dO ht  - -tet  dtspoe.al a
ystcetOag.e of chair r-p-ssl-  Poyaitati_s  ftasreo   dL.pc...Isey LInclud
she -1l1-oad. act diapcal.l.sth on etftactoteaon.   f bt`a asar't
reef  taee-aot.  by -C.ar-bota  eyet    or sOtoe   at. of t pi   le   etd cha-
Porelatlcs urePhalc - "Pos'tls dlvidsd ot .ocat of pacattaLng  phy.l-                                                                       E-ecoct ad SOIL.I lana Di-i..lo
chase qeaIfed&     r,   e-di.eI anboo  at cal-aatoy J.-I.                                                                           _coanal  Acaltlysl asd trolotolose  icycp- -
"oIche   e  Orruehet P.roc-  sp tei     dIOlded.by o..rcahe fof   . petle g                                                                        HAY 1962
saleV eaMAelrdaa   cae   c aceat tasseY prastloal                        et aeLd
Otoels lalllarlce.



- 25 -
Page 4 o.f 5
ECONOMIC DIEVELOPMENT DATA
A C T C A I                                                     ESTIMATED       PROJECTED                GROWTH RATE (0 pi.c.                 1977
NATIONAL ACCONT-S                                         1965            1970           1970          1076          0077          1978          1979p          1980p           1080            1950           19-6-76      1976-80           1990-95      1 of
(aillians of U0  dolDars at 1977 prices)                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GDP
Grase Domestic Prad-ct                                   8902.5         10693.6       13376.8       13647.1        13639.6       13570.8       14079.0        14516.4        15082.5          18792.5             3.9          1.6         5.3             100.0
Gas from Terms of Trade                                  -610.9           130.0        -246.9        -179.4            0.0        -235.9         679.9          872.1          317.0            558.2            r            n.           n.e                0
Cross Domestic Encome (GDY)                              8291.6         10982.6       13129.9       13467.7        18 39 6       13334 9       14 75.9        1539 5         15399.5         1935.7               44          3.4         4.7              100.9
Esp rls                                                  1840.2          2190.1        2995.4        2697.7         2706.9        1999.7        2090.9         3004.6         3455.3          3724.7             3.5          2.7         4.4               19.9
Eap ats                                                  2314.3          2616.8        1906.9         1908.8        2129.5        2431.2        2730.1         2578.5         2632.6           2979.6           -1.7          7.8          2.9               15.6
Gxports, Daesm of Trade Adjasted                         1703.4          2746.8         1660.0        1729.4        2129.5        2195.3        3410.0         3450.6         2949.6           3537.8            0.1         18.9          0.5               15.6
Res.arae Gap, Terms of Trade Adjasted (-: sarplss)    136.8              -556.7        1325.4          968.3         577.3        -306.6       -1323.2         -446.0          505.7            186.9            n.a          n..          0.m               4.2
Total C-aeaopttao                                        6461.3          9669.0       11313.3       11694.9        12172.2       11272.3       11635.5        12545.7        12990.5          15787.9            5.4           1.9         4.7              69.2
Ial Co8upt                                               1967.1          1597 9        3142.0        2741 2        2044.7        175o.0        1902.2          239. 8         2914 7           3749 7            3.1         -3.3          9 3               15. 
Domestic menigs                                        91830.3          2154.6        1916.6        1772.9         1467.4        2062.6        3125.4         2944.9         2409.0           3562.9           -0.3         12.5         4.6                10.8
p/ pr_liefoery
PRICES IN US DOLLARS (1977 - 100)
Export Price Indea                                         32.9            46.5           87.4          90.6         100.0          97.7         148.6          175.4          164 3            243.4
Impart PrEi- Indoe                                         44.7            44.3          100.4          95.7         100.0         108.1         119.0          131.0          146.7            205.1
Ter-m  af Trade Endoa                                      73.6           105.0           87.1          94.7         100.0          90.4         124.9          133.9          112.0            118.7
Anaual Aceragei Exhange Rtes (Soles per 55                 26.8            38.7           40.8          57.4          83.8         156.3         224.6          288.7          416.0 7.e
GDP BY SECTOR                                                    SABOR FORCE                                                  LABOR PRODUCTIVlTY
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY                            Ie Utl1. of DR             Percens of           OrcMth                                      Prcet  of         Growth                                      Percent of            Gr-wth
ES 0973 PRECRO                                                     Dollore                    Total             lRate             IE  Thausands               Total            Rase             Ee US Delisre               AreragS Rste
1970         1980         1970      1980          70-80           190         190          1970     1980        70-80           1970        1980         1970       1980          70-80
Agricalt-re (ifl. fiahleg)                                   1534.2       1457.8          17.3       11.8        -0.5           2011.9     2248.0          48.0     40.0         1.1           762.6       648.5         36.1       29.4         -1.6
Iadastry (mfaing, sacef., esctr.-, constr.)                  3226.3       4712.4          36.5      38.1          3.9            769.1     1037.2          18.4     18.5        3.0          4194.9      4543.4         198.6      206.2          0.8
8ervices (alI others)                                        4084.8       6198.1          46.2      50.1           4.3          1407.6     2328.3          33.6     41.5         5.2          2902.0      2662.1        137.4      120.8          0.9
Total/Average                                                8845.3      12368.3         100.0     100.0           3.4          4188.6      5613.5        100.0    100.0         3.0          2111.8      2203.3        100.0      100.0          0.4
CENTRAL EOOERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                                                              E8TIMATED      PROJECTED
(as percent af Carrent GDP)                                    1965            1970          1975         1976         1977         1978           1979       1980        1981            9682
Cuarrent ReIe,ar                                                13.2           14.6          14.0          13.4        13.5         14.3          16.0        18.4         16.6          17.2
CurreatEpe-dltare                                               12.4           12.1          14.4          14.8        16.9         15.8          12.8        16.2         16.5          15.7
C_crent  svigo                                                   0.8            2.5          -0.4          -1.4        -3.4         -1.5           3.2         2.2          0.1           1.5
Capital Epedlitures                                             3.9             3.7           4.5           4.5         3.5          3.1           3.7         4.7          4.6           4.1
Ostereal Assistacce (Net)                                        1.0            0.5           2.3           1.8         3.0          0.4          -0.7         0.3          0.3            0
CORRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                               AC T U A L
(as perceot of Total Curreont Epesditure)                      1968            1973          1976         1977         1978                         DETAIL Or                                       19N1/35 Developent Plan
PD8LIC SECTOR                                      US $           2 Total
Education                                                       30.6           27.9          22.9          18.1        16.1                         INVESTMRNT PROGRAM                                Million
Eealth                                                           9.0            6.3           6.2           4.7         6.0                                                                         1981 Prices
Agricultare                                                     3.6             4.4           1.8           1.3         3.4
Ot4r Eco..noc Services                                          3.2             4.0           5.2           3.2         2.7                         Agriculturr, FiPhing                              1557.2            14.1
Geaerl ed erices (incladiog detenfe)                           46.4            42.7          46.9          54.1        45.2                         Iodestry, T-ourit  sod Miniag                       924.1            9.3
Dnterest so Dabt                                                5.4            11.3          10.8          15.1        24.1                          Eergy                                            288.1             24.2
Other                                                            1.9            3.3           6.2           3.3         2.3                         Tr-sp-rt -od Casaai-stios                         2547.2            23.0
Other                      1.8             3.3           6.2           3.5         2.5                         30~~~~~~~~~~ScIal sod Local Iatersest Projects    3367.6            230.4
Tatat Correct E.poadit-rso                                  100.0           100.0         100.0         100.0       100.0                                                                           3367.6            30.4
T 0 T 4 L                                    11084.2          100.0
NONEY AND CREDrT                                                 1973         1974         1975         1975         1976         1976        1977         1977         1978         1978         1979         1979          1988          1981 p
(Billions af solas oatstendiag
at the e-d of period)
Moe-y sod Qumsi-Moy                                              98.3        120.0        141.8        142.4        166.3        168.9       216.2        220.5        344.1        361.1        686.4        725.9         1305.1        1973.5
Baky Crcdit to Pubic Seetor                                      27.2         26.9         49.7         60.3        101.4        115.3       149.3        198.9        262.2        303.7        204.1        237.0          371.5         682.2
Bank Credit to Privare Sector                                    73.2         84.5        108.2        109.8        134.5        138.0       067.8        173.8        233.1        243.2        392.9        442.5          901.8        1521.9
Vnderlyi8g E-mhange Rate (S/. per U8)                           38.7         38.7         38.7         65.0         65.0         85.0        85.0        160.0        160.0        225.0        225.0        390.0          390.0         390.0
Sooy as Percene of GDP                                           25.0         24.3         22.6         22.7         20.0         20.1        18.9         19.3         18.7         19.6         19.9         21.1           23.5          20.7
consumer Pricr Iodex io Solos (1977=100)                       37.5         43.9         54.3                      72.4                    100.0                     057.8                     264.7                       421.4
Ac.a.l Percentage Chasge En:
Consumer Price lnd_IS  oles                                     9.5         16.9         23.7                      33.5                     38.0                      57.8                      67.7                        59.2          75.4
Brnk Credit to Public S-ctar                                   53.7        -1.2          84.8                      68.2                     29.5                      31.8                     -32.8                        56.8          83.6
Bank Credit to Pricate Sector                                 27.7          15.5         28.1                      22.4                     23.4                      34.1                      57.4                        81.2          89.8
LESS






L L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ 
-  -   A                       I                              "  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ----          ---
.    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .   .    .    .    .     .~~~~~~ ~
9! Z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 



I         I



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1983)
Amount
Loan                                                         (less cancellations)
Number     Year            Borrower            Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
--- US$ million ---
28 loans fully disbursed                                       448.9
949       1973    Republic of Peru         Education           23.0         0.3
1196       1976    Republic of Peru         Transport           76.5        12.7
1215       1976    Republic of Peru         Power               35.6         0.3
1283       1976    Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.          21.6         5.1
1358        1977    COFIDE                  Industry            35.0         2.9
1403       1977    Republic of Peru         Agriculture         25.0        17.0
S-ll        1978    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment        8.8         1.3
1771       1980    Republic of Peru         Irrigation          56.0        42.4
1806       1980    PETROPERU                Petroleum Prod.    32.5         12.6
1812        1980    Republic of Peru        Rural Dev.          15.0        11.9
1888       1980    Republic of Peru         Preinvestment        7.5         4.6
S-19        1980    SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.      5.0         3.9
1963        1981    CORPAC                  Aviation            58.0        56.8
1968       1981    COFIDE                   Industry            60.0        42.4
2018        1981    ELECTROPERU             Power               25.0        22.4
2064       1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry               26.0        26.0
2091        1982    Republic of Peru        Transport           93.0        93.0
2117       1982    PETROPERU                Industry             5.3         5.2
2139        1982    SEDAPAL                 Water Supply        40.6        39.7
2150       1982    Republic of Peru         Agriculture         40.6        39.2
2179        1982    ELETROLIMA              Power               81.2        81.2
2195       1982    PETROPERU                Petroleum           81.2        81.2
2204        1982    Republic of Peru        Technical Asst.    10.2         10.2
2208       1982    Republic of Peru         Education           17.3        17.3
2211        1982    Republic of Peru        Health              33.5        33.5
2219       1982    Republic of Peru         Rural Develop.      30.0        30.0
Total                                                   1,392.3
(           of which has been repaid                                 208.3
Total now outstanding                                   1,184.0
Amount sold                            18.3
of which has been repaid            18.3                  -
Total now held by Bank                                  1,184.0
Total undisbursed                                                     693.1



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Type of
Year                 Obligor                        Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960         Industrias Reunidas, S.A.          Home Appliances   0.2         -       0.2
1960         Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.        Bricks              0.3       -      0.3
1960         Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials           0.3      -       0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers             4.1       -       4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.                Cement              2.3      0.2      2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo           Cement              1.1      0.5      1.6
1975         Southern Peru Copper Corp.         Mining             15.0       -      15.0
1978/83      Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining              6.0      0.5      6.5
1980         Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.               Mining              2.7     0.5      3.2
1981         Sogewiese                          Leasing             3.0      0.1      3.1
1981         Consorcio Energetico de            Power
Huancavelica                     Transmission        4.5      -       4.5
1982         Palmas del Espino                  Palm Oil           15.0       -      15.0
1982         Sociedad Minera
Gran Bretana S.A.                Mining              3.0     0.5      3.5
Total gross commitments                               57.5      2.3    59.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             21.1      0.6    21.7
Total held by IFC                                     33.4      1.2    34.6
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                               25.0      -      25.0



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: Feburary 28, 1983.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses i- -he
project unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures.  In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution improved substantially and the project has now been
completed except for preparation activities for a second education project, An
extension of the closing date until February 28, 1983 was approved for such
preparation activities only, and full disbursement is expected shortly.
Loan 1196-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficuli:ies.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979). Although the project is moving well, an
extension of the closing date was made to permit its completion.
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced. The Closing Date will not be extended further and
disbursement is expected to be completed shortly.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-30                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Loan 1283-PE:    Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976:; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at over US$13.0 million. Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date was
extended to permit completion of the project.
Loan 1358-PE:      Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of this,
the Borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--agreed to finance projects
identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which would also
guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this action and
improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the credit line
has increased, and it is now fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:      Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation systems
are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is now complete and construction has started. The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-11-PE:    Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and all other components are being
implemented satisfactorily. The closing date was extended to permit completion of
the project.
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project implementation is underway and proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                          Page 5 of 7
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
August 31, 1984.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution is proceeding well. The closing date has been extended to
permit completion of the project.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
t
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The feasibility report for the phosphate fertilizer project has been
completed and final project preparation activities are now underway.
Loan S-19-PE:    SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans has been
reviewed. A plan of action to deal with the findings of this report is being
discussed with SIDERPERU.
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; US$58.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
Loan 1968-PE:    Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan of
August 19, 1981; Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
About US$30 million of this loan has thus far been committed and
US$17.6 million has been disbursed.
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Final design of a number of projects included in this loan, including
the Yuncan hydroelectric project, are now underway.
Loan 2064-PE:    Small-Scale Enterprise Project; US$26 million of June 16, 1982;
Effective Date: August 17, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Initial subloan requests are now under review.



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Loan 2091-PE:    Eighth Highway Project; US$93 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date: March 17, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Loan effectiveness was delayed because of the difficulty encountered
by the Government in meeting the loan agreement condition of installing qualified
candidates for senior positions in the Highways Directorate. This problem has now
been resolved and project activities are getting underway.
Loan 2117-PE:    Oil Refinery Engineering Project; US$5.3 million Loan of
September 17, 1982; Effective Date: January 20, 1983; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
Consultants are now being contracted.
Loan 2139-PE:    Lima Water Supply Project; US$40.6 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date: September 15, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1988.
Initial project execution activities are underway.
Loan 2150-PE:    Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$40.6 million
Loan of September 17, 1982; Effective Date: February 18, 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
Some project consultants, to be retroactively financed, have been
contracted and other project activities are getting underway.
Loan 2179-PE:    Sixth Power Project; US$81.2 million Loan of September 17, 1982;
Effective Date: May 12, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Initial project execution activities are now underway.
Loan 2195-PE:    Petroleum Production Enhancement Project; US$81.2 million Loan of
September 17, 1982; Effective Date:                ; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987.
Initial project execution activities are now underway.
Loan 2204-PE:    Public Sector Management Project; US$10.2 million Loan of
December 16 1982; Effective Date: April 21, 1983 ; Closing date:
December 31, 1985.
Consultants services have been contracted and work is underway on the
programming and budgeting and debt management components.
Loan 2208-PE:    Higher Agriculture Education Project; US$17.3 million Loan of
March 28, 1983; Effective I)ate:            ; Closing Date: December
31, 1988.
The conditions for effectiveness of this loan are now in the process of
being satisfied.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Loan 2211-PE:    Primary Health Project; US$33.5 million Loan of March 28, 1983;
Effective Date:              ; Closing Date: June 30, 1989.
The conditions for effectiveness of this loan are now in the process of
being satisfied.
Loan 2219-PE:    Alto Mayo Rural Development Project; US$30.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1983; Effective Date:               ; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
*         The conditions for effectiveness of this loan are now in the process of
being satisfied.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I:  TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project:  6 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                    BAP
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:         June 1980
(d)  Identification of the project:          June 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:         September 1982
(f)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:  April 25, 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:          October 1983
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
It has been agreed that:
a)   as a condition of loan effectiveness, the position of
project coordinator would be filled with an official whose
experience and qualifications are acceptable to the Bank
(para. 59);
b)   consultants for the design of the training program would be
hired by March 31, 1984 (para. 56);
c)   BAP and the Government, by October 31, 1983, would enter
into an agreement for making funds available for a sugar
rehabilitation study; the execution of this agreement would
be a condition of loan disbursement for the study
(para. 58);
d)   BAP would, by September 30 of each year, submit to the Bank
a draft lending program for the next year and provide the
Bank an opportunity to cormment on it (para. 59);
e)   the Government would make annual contributions to BAP as
required to maintain the current level of BAP's equity in
real terms and would cover the foreign exchange risk under
the Loan (paras. 62, 67);
f)   BAP's interest rates would be reviewed each semester by
BAP's management; if average commercial rates have moved by
more than three points or five percent, whichever is higher
since the previous semester, BAP weighted average interest
rates would be adjusted accordingly (para. 66);



- 35 -                                ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
g)   BAP's debt equity ratio would be limited to no more than
five to one (para. 67);
h)   for short-term lending, disbursements would be made to
finance the real increase in BAP's program; an annual
ceiling for Bank loan disbursement for short-term lending
would be agreed upon by BAP and the Bank by December 31 of
each year based upon BAP's annual lending program; in the
event of a shortfall in the projected increase in short-term
lending, the ceilings would be reduced until the shortfall
is made up. In addition, after BAP's information system is
installed, Bank loan disbursement would be made for
short-term loans (i) to farmers who had not previously
received BAP credit; (ii) which are complementary to
investment lending under the project; and (iii) for farmers
who are changing production technology or cropping pattern
(para. 70); and
i)   a condition of disbursements for the equipment for the
information system would be the completion of a study for
the system satisfactory to the Bank (para. 68).



