OFFICIAL
DOCUMIENTS LOAN NUMBER 2302 PE
Loan Agreement
(Sixth Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO AGRARIO DEL PERU
Dated i3A.A                        , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2302 PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR    CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANCO AGRARIO DEL PERU (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
.the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) part of the Project will be carried out by the Republic
of Peru (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and therefore the
Borrower will make available to the Guarantor part of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as followsi
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to. this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan'and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Investment Project" means a specific medium or long
term investment project included in the Project, to be carried
out by a Beneficiary and to be financed in part by means of a
Sub-loan;


﻿-2-
(b) "Beneficiary" means an individual farmer or a company
or a production or service cooperative to which the Borrower pro-
poses to make or has made a Sub-loan or a Short-term Sub-loan;
(c) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to a Beneficiary for an Investment Project, and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and "Short-term
Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made to a Benefi-
ciary and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
repayment of which does not extend beyond 24 months, and which is
intended for the financing of working capital of such farmer;
(d) "Sol" and the symbol "S/.  mean the currency of the
Guarantor;
(e)  "Ministerio  de   Agricultura"  means   Ministerio  de
Agricultura,  the   Guarantor's  Ministry  of  Agriculture;   and
"Ministerio de Economia" means   aisterio de Economia, Finanzas y
Comercio, the Guarantor's Miu, ry of Economy, Finance and Com-
merce;
(f) "Preferential Interest Rates" means the rates which, in
accordance with the decision made by the Borrower's Board of
Directors during its meeting No. 3032, dated February 23, 1983,
are applicable to Sub-loans and Short-term Sub-loans not exceed-
ing the amount limit of S/. 20,000,000, excluding Short-term
Sub-loans intended to finance the production of hard-maize for
livestock consumption and rice as such rates and limit may be
adjusted from time to time pursuant to the provisions of Section
4.03 of this Agreement;
(g) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be en-
t--ed into between the Borrower and the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Agreement;
(h) "INIPA" means Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y
Promocion Agropecuaria, the Guarantor's National Institute for
Agricultural and Livestock Research and Extensioni and
(i) "Credito Publico" means "Direccion General de Cr&dito
Publico, the General Directorate of Public Credit of the Guaran-
tor's Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loa2
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred thirty million dollars ($130,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to three -hundred twenty four thousand one hundred
ninety dollars ($324,190).
(b) On or promptly, after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a c:ommit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for


﻿-4-
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Inter-
est Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and AuAgust 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Commerce
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions in respect of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 5 (b) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D
and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial and agricultural practices
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out Parts C, D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ training, information, financial, management an d legal
c.onsultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such con-
sultants to be selected in accordance with principles and proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank, on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 and the provisions of Part D of Schedule 4 t'o this Agree-
ment.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall employ the consultants for Part C of
the Project not later than March 31, 1984.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to Beneficia-
ries under Sub-loans and Short-term Sub-loans on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Bank and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, in accordance with the operating policies and
procedures set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) 'The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree', each Sub-loan and each Short-term
Sub-loan, will be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall ob-
tain, by written contract with the Beneficiary or by other appro-
priate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower, including, in the case of any such
Sub-loan, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require' the Benefi-
ciary to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be


﻿-6-
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan be procured in accor-
dance with the provisions c  Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(2) such goods and services be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or joint-
ly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any rele-
vant records and documents; (iv) require that (1) the Beneficiary
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice, and (2) without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance shall Zover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; (v)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary;
and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure of such Beneficiary
to perform its obligations under its aforesaid contract with the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under Sub-loan
and Short-term Sub-loan contracts in such manner as to: (i) pro-
tect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the pur-
poses of the Projects
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for
Part D of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency free-
ly usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall make available to the
Guarantor the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category 5 (b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule


﻿- 7 -
1 to this Agreement under a subsidiary agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Guarantor, under terms and con-
ditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which,
inter alia, shall provide that withdrawals from the Loan Account
under the aforesaid Category 5 (b) pursuant to Section 2.10 of
this Agreement shall be deemed disbursements under the Subsidiary
Agreement and that the financial terms and conditions under this
Agreement in respect of repayment of the Loan ahd payments      of
interests, fees and charges herein, shall be deemed proportion-
ally applicable to the portion of the Loan made available under
the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall.
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or
auy provision thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall appoint and thereafter
maintain a project coordinator, whose qualifications and expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, to be in charge of, inter alia, coordinating
the collection of data on and analysis of, results of Investment
Projects and to be responsible for, inter alia, supervising the
application of the Project Operating Policies and Procedures
specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and' to act as liaison
officer between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) by September 30 of each year until the Project has been
completed, prepare and furnish to the Bank: (i) an annual lending
program for the following year and a medium-term plan for its
lending operations, such program to,include an identification of
the funds and their sources necessary to carry out such program;
and (ii) an estimate of short-and long-term credit requirements
of the Guarantor's agricultural sector for the following year;
such program, plan and estimate to be prepared in accordance with
a methodology satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable time to review and comment
on the plan and program referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section; and


﻿-8-
(c) have the program referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section commented on by Ministerio de Agricultura and approved by
Ministerio de Economia by December 31 of each year until the
Project has been completed.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, by December 31 of each
year until Part B of the Project has been completed to the satis-
faction of the Bank, determine a yearly limit to be applied by
the Borrower during the following year, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the aggregate amount of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan to be made under Category (3) of Schedule I to this Agr,xe-
ment, such limit to be determined on the basis of the program
referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of Section 3.08 of this Agree-
ment. The foregoing limit being subject to change from time to
time, as determined by the Bank, as such change shall be
necessary to achieve the purposes of Part B of the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, B, C, D
and E of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in such
Parts of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sit-s included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.


﻿-9-
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than eighteen months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be de-
rived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shail take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) each January 15 and
July 15, beginning on January 15, 1984, review its lending rates
and shall, promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank the results
of each such review; and (ii) not later than March 31 and Septem-
ber 30, respectively, adjust such rates, in accordance with a
methodology satisfactory to the Bank, as necessary to substan-
tially reflect changes in the interest rates prevailing in the
territory of the Guarantor whenever the changes in such rates
exceed three percentage points or five percent, whichever is
higher, during the semester immediately preceding each such re-
view.*
Section 4.04. The Borrower, at all times, shall not increase
the amount limits for Sub-loans or Short-term Sub-loans referred


﻿- 10 -
to in paragraph (f) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement on which it
charges Preferential Interest Rates by more than the increase of
the inflation rate prevailing in the territory of the Guarantor
in the period beginning on the date on which such amount limits
were last adjusted.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
separate accounts in respect of the Project, adequate to reflect,
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement and its financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of ir,ome and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, sepa-
rate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and


﻿- 11 -
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwiae agree (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, tha Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such prope,:ty or as security for the payment of debt incurred
for the purpose of financing the purchase of such property; or
(B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transac-
tions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the aggregate principal amount of debt of the Borrower
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than five times
the equity of the Borrower. For purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date, and
to the extent, the amount of such debt has become outstanding
pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii).
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing


﻿- 12 -
f or such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) The term "equity of the Borrower" means the sum of the
total unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves
of the Borrower not allocated to cover specific liabilities.
(d) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are   speci-
fied pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)  that the average interest rate being charged by the
Borrower on its loans is 10% below the inflation rate prevailing
in the territory of the Guarantor during three consecutive
months, provided, however, that the Preferential Interest Rates
shall not be taken into account for the purposes of this Sec-
tion;*
(b) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Guarantor's Legis-
lative Decree No. 201, dated June 12, 1981 or Supreme Decree No.
098-82-EFC, dated April 2, 1982, as amended to the date of this
Agreement which would materially and adversely affect the opera-
tions or the financial condition of the Borrower; and


﻿- 13 -
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such crea-
tion, acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the con-
duct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial con-
dition or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and person-
nel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)
of Section 6.01 shall occur;
(b) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 45
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) that the Project Coordinator referred to in Section
3.07 of this Agreement has been appointed; and
(b) that this Agreement has been duly registered by Credito
Publico.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been regis-
tered by Cr6dito Publico.


﻿- 14 -
Section 7.03. The date,                      is hereby spe-
cified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C, 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Agrario del Peru
Carabaya 543
Lima
Peru
Cable address:                     Telex:
AGROBAN                           2460 PE
Lima


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO AGRARIO DEL PERU
By                         RAsti
'Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation
of amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under           17,142,000        45% of the amount
Part A.1 of the                            disbursed under
Project                                    the Sub-loans
(2) Sub-loans under           31,707,000        90% of the amount
Part A.2 of the                            disbursed under
Project                                    the Sub-loans
(3) Short-term                45,893,000       50% of the amount
Sub-loans under                            disbursed under
Part B of the                              the Short-term
Project                                    Sub-loans
(4) Equipment under            1,640,000        100% of foreign
Part D of the                              expenditures and
Project                                    80% of local
expenditures
(5) Consultants Services:
(a) under Parts C, D      1,300,000        100%
and E of the
Project
(b) under Part F of         300,000        100%
the Project
(6) Fee                          324,190       Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(7) Unallocated               31,693,810
TOTAL         130,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the curreny of any country other than the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) any expenditure under Category (3) unless: (i) the sum
of the aggregate amount already disbursed under such Category
during the year in question plus the amount to be disbursed in
respect to such expenditure does not exceed the yearly limit
referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement; and (ii) in addi-
tion to the foregoing, after Part D of the Project shall have
been completed and the Borrower's improved information system
thereunder shall be fully operative, both in a manner satisfac-
tory to the Bank, short-term Sub-loans not complying with para-
graph B (5) (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c) any expenditure under Category (4) before the Bank has
been furnished with a study, satisfactory to the Bank, on the
investments needed for Part D of the Project; and
(d) any expenditure under Category (5) (b) before the Bank
has been furnished with evidence, satisfactory to the Bank that


﻿- 18 -
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the Guarantor and is legally binding upon them.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estiiaated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in arv way r-stricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eli-
gible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main purpose of the Project is to promote the develop-
ment of the Guarantor's agricultural sector through the provision
of credit to finance crop and livestock production and agro-
industries development and the improvement and expansion of the
Borrower's banking activities. The Project consists of the fol-
lowing Parts:
Part A:
Provision of credit to finance Investment Projects aiming
primarily at improving irrigation infrastructure, intensifying
cropping, increasing livestock production, and developing agro-
industries through Sub-loans for:
1.   The carrying out of civil works, establishing and main-
taining perennial crops and the acquisition and main-
tenance of livestock.
2.   The acquisition of machinery, vehicles and equipment.
Part B:
Expansion of the Borrower's short-term credit program
through the financing of working capital needs of Beneficiaries
through Short-term Sub-loans.
Part C:
Training of the Borrower's and the Ministerio de Agricul-
tura's and INIPA's staff in the areas of investment project for-
mulation and evaluation, accounting and banking techniques, and
operation and management of agricultural credit; and training of
Beneficiaries and prospective Beneficiaries in respect of the
Borrower's organization, policies, functions and services.
Part D:
Improvement of the Borrower's information system through the
upgrading of the Borrower's information procedures and computer
system, and the acquisition and utilization of related equipment.


﻿- 20 -
Part E:
Design of a rediscount facility within the Borrower's struc-
ture to enable other commercial banks to participate in medium-
and long-term financing of agricultural projects.
Part F:
Completion of a feasibility study on rehabilitation of the
Peruvian sugar industry.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1988
through   August 15, 2000                  5,000,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawals; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.
J


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
before maturity                                .18
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                .35
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                          .65
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                          .88
More than fifteen years
before maturity                               1.00


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Equipment for Part D of the Project shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders"of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 24 -
B.   Preference for Domestic and Regional Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Peru or in a country which is a party to the Cartagena Agreement
or to any other regional Agreement acceptable to the Bank and the
Borrower (any such Agreement hereinafter collectively and sever-
ally called the "Regional Agreement") may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions,
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following four groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Peru
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Peru equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
country other than Peru which is a party to the
Regional Agreement.
(4) Group D: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 25 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group D bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid or group D bid, for the purpose
of this further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-
exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
goods offered in such group C bid and group D bid; or (ii) 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid or the group C
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be se-
lected for the award.
5.   If, as a result of the further comparison under paragraph 4
above, a bid from group D is the lowest, and provided there are
taxes actually payable for the importation of goods offered in
the lowest evaluated bid from group C, as determined under para-
graph (3) above, all group D bids shall be finally compared with
such lowest evaluated bid from group C, after adding to the
c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each group D
bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount
equal to the smaller of (i) the positive difference, if any,
between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
would actually be payable for the importation of goods offered in
such group D bid and for the importation of goods offered in the
group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. price of goods to be
imported offered in such group D bid. If the lowest bid in such
comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected for the
award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group D, as deter-
mined under paragraph (3) above, shall be selected for the award.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods, works and services under Parts A and B
of the Project shall be procured by the Beneficiaries through
regular commercial channels from responsible suppliers, provided,
however, that, whenever feasible, contracts for farm machinery
and equipment will not be awarded (i) before price quotations
from at least three suppliers are obtained and (ii) for a price
higher than the lowest evaluated price so quoted. The Borrower
shall furnish to the Beneficiaries a catalog of suppliers of
agro-industrial machinery which shall include suppliers from
member countries of the Bank, Switzerland and Taiwan, and, as the
case may be, their agents or representatives in Peru.


﻿- 26 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid or to submit price quotations
and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for Part D of the Project:
(a) Before bids are invited or price quotations solicited,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid or the solicitations to quote
prices and the specifications and other bidding documents, toge-
ther with a description of the advertising procedures to be fol-
lowed for the bidding or for obtaining the price quotations, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders or price quoters.
(b) After bids or price quotations have been received and
evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder or price
quoter to which it intends to award the contract and shall fur-
nish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids or price
quotations received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or price quotations solicited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids or price


﻿- 27
quotations, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement of Consultants or Expert Services
1.   Extended lists (concurso abierto de meritos) will not be
used for inviting proposals from consultants or experts whose
services are to be employed for purposes of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement.
2.   Such consultants or experts shall be selected after inviting
proposals from a short list of firms or individuals. Such short
list will be sent to the Bank for approval and the invitations to
be issued will, in each case, set forth the criteria to be taken
into account for the selection of the individual or firm to which
the contract will be awarded. Such criteria will be determined
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Guarantor
or the Borrower, as the case may be, and will take price into
account in accordance with methods and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 above, the
Bank may under certain circumstances, as described in the Guide-
lines referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, sympathe-
tically consider the possibility of asking proposals from a sin-
gle firm or individual.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
Operating Policies and Procedures
A.   Beneficiaries
Sub-loans shall be made only to Beneficiaries whose own
financial resources are inadequate to develop their agricultural
potential.
B.   Sub-loan Processing
1.   Each Investment Project shall be appraised in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank and shall be based on:
(a) detailed development plans, including a farm budget, an
income and operating expense statement, and a financial cash-
flow; or
(b) a financial cash-flow and representative models when-
ever the size of such Investment Project or its similarity to
other Investment Projects so justifies.
The Borrower shall assist the Beneficiaries in the prepara-
tion of the Investment Projects.
2.   In appraising each Investment Project the Borrower shall
take into account whether:
(a) the corresponding development plan, if any, is techni-
cally feasible, financially viable and economically justified or,
if such is the case, the application of the corresponding repre-
sentative model to the Investment Project in question is econo-
mically justified; and
(b) the respective Beneficiary has satisfactory management
and credit standing.
3.   Approval of Sub-loans by the Borrower shall be based on the
technical and financial viability of the proposed Investment Pro-
jects. To this effect, the Borrower shall only approve Sub-loans
to finance Investment Projects, the rate of return of which is
equal to at least the opportunity cost of the capital which would
be made available to the respective Beneficiaries.


﻿- 29 -
4.   Approval of a Sub-loan by the Bank shall be required    when-
ever such Sub-loan would result in:
(a) the Beneficiary assuming an outstanding aggregate debt
in respect to Sub-loans and Short-term Sub-loans which would
exceed $200,000 equivalent, in the case of individual farmers; or
(b) the Beneficiary assuming an outstanding aggregate debt
in respect to Sub-loans which would exceed $1,000,000 equivalent,
in the case of cooperatives or companies.
5.   The Borrower shall provide Short-term Sub-loans to Benefi-
ciaries whenever the cash flow of the corresponding development
plan or representative model indicates such need, provided that:
(a) the sum of the aggregate amount of Short-term Sub-loans
already made by the Borrower during the year in question plus the
amount of the Short-term Sub-loan under consideration does not
exceed the yearly limit referred to in Section 3.09 of this
Agreement; and
(b) after Part D of the Project has been completed and the
Borrower's information system thereunder is fully operatione'
both in a manner satisfactory to the Bank: (a) the Borrower L-
not previously made a Short-term Sub-loan to the Beneficiar     in
question; or (b) the Borrower has made or will make a long-      c
medium-term Sub-loan to the Beneficiary in question; or (c) t*
Short-term Sub-loan meets short-term capital needs due to changes
of cropping pattern or production technology.
C.   Terms of Sub-loans
1.   Interest Rates - the interest rates which 3hall be applied
to each Sub-loan and each Short-term Sub-loans shall be the in-
terest rates specified in the decision taken by Borrower's Board
of Directors during its meeting No. 3032, dated February 23,
1983, as such resolution may be amended from time to time for the
purposes of Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
2.   Repayment Period - the repayment and grace periods of Sub-
loans shall be determined on the basis of cash flow projection of
Beneficiaries provided that:
(a) any repayment period shall not be less than three and
more than fifteen years; and


﻿- 30 -
(b) any grace period shall not be less than one and more
than four years.
3.   Beneficiaries' Contribution - each Beneficiary shall bear
the costs of his Investment Project in proportion to the size of
the farm which would benefit from such Investment Project, in the
case of individual farmers, or the size of the aggregate culti-
vated area, in the case of companies or cooperatives, such pro-
portion of the investment costs being:
(a) for farms or aggregate cultivated areas measuring up to
5 hectares in the Costa region or 10 hectares, when irrigation is
available, or 150 hectares, when irrigation is not available, in
the Sierra and Selva regions - 5%;
(b) for farmers or aggregate cultivated areas measuring
from 5 to 50 hectares in the Costa region or 10 to 100 hectares,
when irrigation is available, or 50 to 150 hectares, when irriga-
tion is not available, in the Sierra and Selva regions - 10%;
(c) for farms or aggregate cultivated areas measuring over
50 hectares in the Costa region or 100 hectares, when irrigation
is available, or 150 hectares, when irrigation is not available,
in the Sierra and Selva regions - 20%;
For the purposes of this paragraph, any contribution made or
to be made by a Beneficiary in connection with the respective
Investment Project, including cash, labor and inputs but exclud-
ing land, may be considered towards the bearing by such Benefi-
ciary of the respective proportion of the investment cost of the
respective Investment Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 3        day of D6 12, 198   .
FOR SECRETARY


