OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS LOAN NUMBER 2302 PE
Guarantee Agreement
(Sixth Agricultural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE LA NACION
Dated                           , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2302 PE
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              1983, between
REPUBLIC OF PERU (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco Agrario del Peru (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty million
dollars ($130,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
such loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS part of the Project will be carried out by the Gua-
rantor and therefore the Borrower will make available to the
Guarantor part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the
Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS Banco de la Nacion has participated in the negotia-
tion of this Agreement and has represented to the Bank that it
has discharged qll of its other responsibilities as financial
agent of the Guarantor pursuant to the Guarantor's Decreto
Legislativo No. 5 published in El Peruano on December 31, 1980;
and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrov,Ter, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement, have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guaran-
tor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual perform-
ance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carry-
ing out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to
be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expendi-
tures.
Section 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
shall:
(a) by December 31, 1983, make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, providing that any loss incurred by the Borrower in
connection with the payment of interest and other charges on, and
the repayment of principal of, the Loan and resulting from
changes in the rate of exchange between (i) dollars and soles and
(ii) dollars and other currencies in the Central Disbursement
Account, will be borne by the Guarantor. The Guarantor shall not
change or fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements;
(b) at least once in every calendar year provide the Bor-
rower with such equity contributions as shall be necessary to
maintain the value of the Borrower's equity in constant soles at
least at the level prevailing on the date of this Agreement; and


﻿- 3 -
(c) for purposes of this Section: (i) the term "Borrower's
equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital,
retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not allocated to
specific liabilities; and (ii) the term "Borrower's equity in
constant soles" means the value of the Borrower's equity as of
the date of this Agreement as expressed in soles and adjusted
from time to time to reflect changes in the indice de precios al
consumidor for the city of Lima, published by the Instituto
Nacional de Estadistica.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out Part F of the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural prac-
tices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying
out Part F of the Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 and the
provisions of Part D of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, con-
tract documents for Part F of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Guarantor: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part F of
the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in Part F of the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning Part F of the Project, its cost and,


﻿-4-
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Guarantor of any contract for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part F of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor shall prepare and furnish
to the Borrower a report for delivery to the Bank, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of Part F of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance
by the Guarantor and the Bank of their respective obligations in
respect to Part F of the Project under the Guarantee Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan in respect to
Part F of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall enter into and duly per-
form all its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) the Guarantor shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Part F of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other mat-
ters in respect of Part F of the Project relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
(b) The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by the Guarantor of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
luans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member.
(b) It is the policy of the Guarantor not to grant, in
normal circumstances, specific security to its lenders or to the
lenders of the subdivisions or entities referred to in paragraph
(e) of this Section.
(c) Notwithstanding the aforesaid, if any lien shall be
created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as securi-
ty for any external debt, which will or might result in a priori-
ty for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such
lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto,
and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation of such lien,
shall make express provision to that effect; provided, however,
that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such provi-
sion cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Guaran-
tor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the princi-
pal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equiva-
lent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(e) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or


﻿- 6 -
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Gua-
rantor.
Section 4.02. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part F of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for
carrying out Part F of the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Guarantor
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account for Part F of the Project; (ii)
retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records (con-
tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account for Part F of the Project; and
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Guarantor shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Commerce
of the Guarantor and the Director General of Credito PUOblico are
severally designated as representatives of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Economy, Finance
and Commerce
Avenida Abancay 5a Cuadra
Lima
Peru
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINDEF                             20187
Lima                              PU-MINDEF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Banco de la Nacion:
Banco de la Nacion
Avenida Abancay 491
Lima
Peru
Cable address:                     Telex:
Banco de la Nacion                25320 PE
Lima


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives   thereunto  duly  authorized, have    caused  this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/a
By7 gtRegional Vice President
Latin "America and tbp Caribbean
BANCO DE LA NACION
Byt                           de
AutWrized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reco-struction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  0      day of ___        3
.FOR SECRETARY


