Report No. PID8806
Project Name                     Mauritania-Power-Water Sector Reform (+)
TA Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Public Enterprise Reform
Project ID                       MRPE66345
Borrower(s)                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Implementing Agency
Address MIN OF ECON AFFAIRS AND DEV.;
MINISTRY OF WATER AND ENERGY
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 13, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 5, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 31, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
A. Sector BackgroundMauritania is a vast country with an area of 1.1
million km2, but with a population of only about 2 million people. The
rate of urbanization is high, however, with over 60t living in towns. The
capital city of Nouakchott, established only three decades ago, now has
about 730,00 inhabitants, or nearly a third of the country's population.
This is partly because of the impact of desertification, which has been
complicated by Mauritania's economic management performance which has seen
a checkered history. Since 1998, however, Mauritania's implementation of
structural policies have generally been satisfactory and hopes for a
better future for this poorly endowed country rest on mining, fisheries
and agricultural development in the Senegal valley. The Manantali dam,on
the Senegal River is the first major attempt to use the region's domestic
resources to meet the demand for commercial energy in Mauritania, as well
as Mali and Senegal. This large regional project is expected to be
completed in the year 2002. In the meantime, commercial energy supply is
entirely based on the import of petroleum products, which, in 1998,
totaled 315,000 tons, and served the mining, power, water, transport and
industrial sectors. There are no proven oil or gas reserves in
Mauritania. There have been extensive shallow offshore and some on-shore
seismic exploration activities and some 13 exploration wells have been
drilled. Two wells have demonstrated signs of oil and gas, but not in
commercial quantities. The Petroleum Law of 1988 and a Model Convention
that dates from 1994 regulate oil exploration. These two texts require
revision to maintain Mauritania's competitiveness.Until the early 80s
Mauritania exported woodfuels but due to population growth now the country
has become net importer of woodfuels to satisfy the household energy
sector's needs. The accessible forest cover has been estimated at 3.5
million or 3,5w of the total national territory. It is the most
important local energy source and mainly situated in the Senegal River
valley; however, given the dessert characteristics of the country, its
exploitation should be careful handled to avoid desertification. The wind
potential is substantial in the coastal regions, with relatively constant
winds and average wind speeds, which permit the production of



electricity. In the south and southeast of the country, the wind speeds
permit water pumping for human and livestock use. The solar energy
potential is also considerable, but hardly unused. Mauritania's water
resources are relatively limited. The surface water resources are
essentially those of the Senegal River, and its tributaries. However
there are considerable underground water resources, though characterized
by unequal geographic distribution. The situation is favorable in the
southwest, the south and southeast (large continuous sediments of the
Trarza, Toudeni, River Valley, total reserves estimated at 50 billion m
3), while it is not favorable in the rest of the country. Energy and
water policies, planning and coordination are the responsibility of the
Minister of Water and Energy (MWE), with the exception of woodfuels which
is overseen by the Ministry of the Environment?? (ME). MWE also currently
oversees parastatal companies such as SONELEC, which has the monopoly for
production, transport and distribution of electricity and potable water
throughout the country. The Nouhadibou Refinery, exploited by Naftal
(Algeria) has the monopoly for imports and production of petroleum
products. Four private oil companies are responsible for the distribution
of petroleum products, while two private companies are in charge of the
storage depots, viz. MEPP (Nouakchott, Nouadhibou), and SNIM (Zerouate).
The GoM has formulated an energy sector strategy which has resulted in the
implementation of a number of measures to improve sector performance, in
particular by privatizing SMCPP, restructuring SONELEC, liberalizing the
import, storage and distribution of petroleum products. Also, petroleum
products tariffs are now established in a transparent manner reflecting
their economic cost.B. Sector Issues:The major issues in the electricity
and water supply sectors are the high cost of, and the limited access to
electricity and potable water, and the inefficiency of SONELEC in the
provision of services. The number of clients per employee for the
electricity sector is 88 and for water is 76, or half of internationally
accepted standards. These problems result from the limited water and
energy resource base, inefficiencies due to a monopolistic situation, and
partly due to state interventions and the small size of the market. The
coverage level is low, especially in the rural area, which is only 4t for
electricity and 25t for water (sanitation is practically non-existent).
Lack of funds, low level of tariffs and operational inefficiencies have
not permitted SONELEC, the national utility in charge of the above three
sectors to expand its services adequately. Electricity Urban
electricity. SONELEC serves a total of 52,000 clients of which almost
35,000 are in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou; the remaining 17,000 clients are
in 17 consumption centers. During the 1978-97 period the GOM made
important efforts to increase coverage and service quality: (i) in
Nouakchott the production capacity as well as the distribution network,
were reinforced, in particular to the peri-urban areas; (ii) at
Nouadhibou, the main power station was rehabilitated and the distribution
system was extended to the peri-urban areas; (iii) the power stations and
the distribution network of the towns of Atar, Kaedi and Rosso were
rehabilitated; and (iv) 13 towns and the city of Ouad Naga were
electrified. The total investments realized by SONELEC during that period
amounted to about 33 billion Ouguiyas (about US$    --- ). Despite these
investments the number of clients which was 30.000 in 1995 has increased
only at a 4t annual rate.Rural Electrification. Access to electricity is
still incipient. Only 20 villages have been electrified as of 1998 of a
total of 3000, or less than lt rural coverage. Access to electricity in
rural areas is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for
- 2 -



socioeconomic progress. It will enable the provision of health and
educational services as well as productive uses resulting in an increase
of revenues and thus potentially stimulate the social and economic
development of the rural sector. Therefore, the GoM considers it to be a
major component of future investments. The GoM has initiated rural
electrification activities, through the Alize program, which have
demonstrated the financial and institutional viability of hybrid
solar-wind systems that are managed by the beneficiaries themselves, in
the areas where the wind regime is favorable. A follow-up program,
financed by AFD, is being executed and aims to electrify ?? villages.
However, a comprehensive and financially viable rural electrification
strategy that would results in a major increase in coverage is still to be
defined.Petroleum . The supply infrastructure of petroleum products
includes a refinery with a capacity of 1 million tons/year which is
located at Nouadhibou, complemented by two regional storage depots
(Nouakchott and Nouadhibou) and a network of private filling stations in
various locations. Naftal, an off-shore company, within the context of a
Mauritanian-Algerian convention, manages the refinery. Petroleum product
prices are indexed on international prices. The two regional storage
depots belong to private companies and are managed by MEPP, which belong
to one of the companies which is also owner of the distribution network.
A third important depot, at Zouerate, is managed by SNIM. A tanker of
4200 tons, and between Nouadhibou and Zouerate ensures the transport of
petroleum products between Nouadhibou (the main import center) and
Nouakchott, by SNIM; while between the regional depots and the dispersed
filling stations by private transporters.The annual consumption of
petroleum products is about 320.000 tons (heavy fuel oil for power
production, petrol for transportation, fisheries and power production, and
LPG for households). More than 60t is consumed in the Nouadhibou region
and Zouerate, and almost 40t in the southern part of the country.
SONELEC and SNIM jointly consume about 140.000 tons. The remainder, or
180.000 tons, is split between four distribution companies, one, which is
the sole LPG distributor.The Government regulates the sector through the
creation of conditions based on transparent competition between the
various sector operators and setting prices for petroleum products.
Prices reflect import costs and thus allows adequate remuneration for the
sector operators. However, there is a need to review the distribution
margins and to compare them with those of other countries so as to promote
more competition. The price of aviation kerosene and lubricants are not
regulated. They represent important revenue sources for the petroleum
companies.Household Energy. Since 1982, with assistance from the donors,
the GoM has launched an ambitious program for marketing LPG and
introducing improved woodfuel stoves. The consumption of LPG has
increased from 700 tons (1982) to 1700 tons (1997), though there is still
a large unmet demand. Despite these activities the consumption of
woodfuels continues to grow at a rate higher than the average annual
increment of the forest cover. National consumption is estimated to be
380.000 MT of fuelwood and 70.000 MT of charcoal, which represent a total
of 1.4 million MT of wood. Kerosene is consumed in small quantities,
mainly as a lighting fuel..Water and Sanitation SectorA. Urban In the
urban water sub-sector the GoM initiated, in 1982, a major rehabilitation
and investment program during the last decade. This program aimed at: (i)
reinforcing the water supply system of Nouackchott through the
implementation of six boreholes at Idini and a new transmission line
Idini-Nouakchott, increasing the storage capacity by building an overhead
-3 -



reservoirs of 1,000 m3 and a ground reservoir of 5.000 m3, and by
rehabilitating and extending the distribution network; (ii) reinforcing
the water supply system of Nouadhibou through the rehabilitation of the
transmission line, the construction of a pumping station at Boulanouar and
the rehabilitation of the distribution network, in particular in the
peri-urban areas; (iii) providing the water supply service to Aioun and
Atar; and (iv) carrying out water supply studies for 10 towns. These
investments have permitted (i) the improvement of the supply and coverage
of the population of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou due to the network
reinforcement in the peri-urban areas and the increase of the production
capacity of the Idini aquifer which increased from 24,000 to 35,000 m3/day
and that of Boulanouar which increased from 3,500 to 6,500 m3/day; (ii)
the realization of the new borehole field for Atar whose capacity is
currently 960 m3/day ensuring the supply of this town till 2005; and (iii)
the provision of the water supply service to the town of Aioun. Currently,
important development activities are in the process of being realized to
ensure the capacity needed to satisfy the growing demand. This mainly
concerns (i) the reinforcement and extension of the water supply systems
of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou (phase 2); (ii) the water supply systems of
9 towns; (iii) the rehabilitation and reinforcement of the water supply
systems of Kaedi and Mederdra; (iv) the water supply study for Rosso; and
(v) the study of the Nouakchott water production from the Senegal river
(Aftout-Es/Sahel).   Given the high investment cost related to this latter
operations, it is recommended that: (a) this infrastructure be postponed
as far as possible ; and (b) additional production be secured to the
maximum extent possible by new boreholes in the aquifers of Idini and
Tenadi, provided that careful consideration be given to the rational
exploitation of these aquifers, in line with the recommendations of the
existing hydrogeological studies. The supply of drinking water to
Nouakchott, Nouadhibou and some secondary towns is assured by SONELEC.
Within the framework of its four consecutive performance contracts
(contrat-plans: 1989-2000), SONELEC has demonstrated some progress (see
performance indicators in the table of   Annex...). However, the access
rate is still low, while the technical and non-technical losses are
substantial. Decree No. 93124 regulates the water distribution system.
However, to encourage private sector participation in the supply of
drinking water, it is necessary to establish a new legal and regulatory
framework. The urban sanitation sub-sector is grossly underdeveloped:
only Nouakchott has a small sewerage network serving part of the city
center and an activated sludge sewage treatment plant. It is necessary
that adequate attention be given to the development of sewerage systems in
densely populated urban quarters of all urban centers and to individual
sanitation (septic tanks) in other quarters and in the rural areas
(latrines). The development of the urban water sector has to be
systematically accompanied by an adequate development of sanitation
services, including the appropriate treatment and disposal of excreta.B.
Rural and peri-urbanIn rural areas the access to potable water is
marginal: only 10% of the 3,000 villages are provided with piped water.
Sanitation services are almost non existing. To remedy this situation the
Government is envisaging to invest in the rural water and sanitation
sector by implementing the strategy defined in 1990. This strategy
consists of intimately involving the villagers in the construction of
water supply and sanitation systems and entrusting them the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of those systems through an adequate training. The
investment would be funded by the Goverment. The villagers would
- 4 -



contribute in kind. O&M costs as well as part of the equipment renewal
would be at the charge of the villagers (see details in Annex A). In
small towns where water supply and sanitation services are not provided by
SONELEC, the responsibility of both services is entrusted to the communes
and other operators (small concessionaires). In rural areas the
responsibility for water supply and sanitation services is currently
entrusted to the villagers and to the Direction de l'Hydraulique (DH) of
the Ministry of Hydraulics and Energy.Given the unsastifactory quality of
both the construction and O&M provided by DH, the Government is
undertaking a profound reorganization of DH aiming at:(i) concentrating
the DH activities in the continuation and reinforcement of the current
Water Resources Service, in order that it become a performing one and
operate efficiently all over the national territory and substantially
improve the knowledge of the locations and yields of water resources
related in particular to specific demand in the frameworks of sector
investment programs. The DH would be called "Direction des Resources en
Eau which could be also entrusted the responsibility for studies and
planning of water resources utilization;ii) Shifting the responsibility
of operational activities to a new agency : the National Water Supply and
Sanitation Agency (Agence Nationale de l'Alimentation en Eau Potable et de
l'Assainissement-ANEPA), for which the draft creation decree is
available. This agency would be an EPIC (Etablissement Public a Caractere
Industriel et Commercial) with its own financial resources and would
operate in an autonomous way as a provider of water supply and sanitation
services to the peri-urban centers (not serviced by SONELEC) through
private concessionaires and to the rural areas (villages) through
user      associations to be created at each one of these villages.    The
funding of investments would be provided by the Government through its own
budgetary resources and donors contributions, by preference grants and
loans at concessional terms, given the social character of these
investments. The Bank already communicated to the Government her
comments on the draft creation decree of ANEPA. The Government prepared a
"rapport de presentation" of ANEPA giving the rationale of the proposed
reform. Upon the Bank's request, the Government is currently preparing a
report aiming at thoroughly justifying the proposed ANEPA, while giving
all information on the institutional set-up, organization, job
description, assets, staff, equipment, financial resources and budget; it
will deliver this report to the Bank by November 30, 1999. This would be
a condition of Board presentation.This report would be completed by TOR
for the tasks (cahier des charges) and procedure manual of ANEPA as well
as for identifying and training the operators of the water supply and
sanitation systems. The Bank would include in the proposed Project a
rural water and sanitation component (see Annex A) to test the newly
proposed institutional reform and the 1990 rural water supply and
sanitation strategy The lessons to be learnt by implementing this
component will enable the Government to competently tackle the water
supply and sanitation issues in future operations.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed project is to improve the
living standards of the population through increased access to safe
drinking water and electricity and to improve national competitiveness of
the economy by increased energy efficiency and lower costs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
- 5-



One of the main objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
discussed by the Board on May 21, 1997 is to promote private sector
development and public sector restructuring. This project will help
achieve this objective by: (i) helping to create an enabling environment
for private sector investment and growth through appropriate and effective
legal and regulatory reforms; (ii) improving basic infrastructure for a
more efficient private sector and encouraging job creation; and (iii)
promoting rural entrepreneurial development. The sector restructuring,
the legal reforms and the privatization of SONELEC (electricity) proposed
under the project will facilitate a more active participation of the
private sector in the production and distribution of water and electricity
to both urban and rural consumers. IDA's continued involvement is
crucial, because it will create private sector confidence in the
investment prospects that the energy and water sector in Mauritania
offers. Also, the Bank is well placed for this kind of operation due to
its unique experience with this kind of reforms both worldwide as well as
in the region (Cape Verde, Cote d'Ivoire, Mali), and in particular the
recently successfully achieved privatization of the power company in
Senegal. IDA involvement will also permit close coordination between
Mauritania's investment program in the power sector and the regional
development program planned by OMVS in which a large group of donors
expect IDA to play a lead role.
4. Description
1. Institutional reform (consultant service for:)
1.1. Establishment of legal and regulatory framework
1.2. Sonelec privatization
1.3 Media campaign
1.4 Strengthening of regulatory agency
2. Urban water (Consultant services for:)
2.1 Strengthening of direction de l'Eau
2.2 Other studies
3.1. Consultant services for decentralized water system ANEPA
3.2. Consultant services for establishing ADER + ANEPA
3.3. Consultant services for establishing the RE Fund
3.4. Provision of funds for the RE fund
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government -             18
IBRD
IDA                      18
Total Project Cost       0
6. Implementation
Project implementation period: The project will be implemented over a four
year period from July 1, 2000 to June 30, 2004.Executing agency: The
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development (MAED), in close cooperation
with the Ministry of Water and Energy (MWE), would have the overall
responsibility for the execution of the reform program. The GoM has
created a reform unit (UGP) within the MAED to prepare, conduct and
implement the reform program, supported by a technical committee (CPRESE)
constituted by the technical ministry (MWE) The CPRESE, under the overall
supervision of the UGP, will be responsible for the technical
- 6-



implementation of the reform process as well as the various studies in the
water and energy sector, including the technical supervision of the
implementation of the decentralized semi-urban and rural water supply
schemes. The Rural Electrification component would be executed under the
responsibility of ADER, which will be an autonomous agency. The Rural
water sanitation component will be executed under the responsibility of
ANEPA which will be an autonomous agency.Implementing agency: The
implementation agency of the project would be the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) of the Ministry of Water and Energy, which was established by a
Government decision of April 25, 1999. The PIU is headed by a national
coordinator and charged to pilot the implementation of the reforms in the
water, sanitation and energy sectors.Project administration: The Project
Manager heading the UGP would be responsible for supervising the
consultants financed by this project and ensuring proper procurement and
financial management. A procurement specialist and an accountant/financial
management specialist assist him. Procurement: Procurement under this
project would be carried out by the Special Procurement Commission for the
Water and Energy Sector Reform ("Commission special des marches pour la
reforme des secteurs de l'hydraulique et de l'energie"). The Special
Procurement Commission was established by Decree n. 99-03 of January 6,
1999 in order to expedite procurement under the water and energy sector
reform while maintaining transparency in the process of contract
awarding. The UGP procurement specialist will carry out the day-to-day
contract management activities and will organize working sessions with the
Special Procurement Commission to review bidding documents and bid
evaluation reports, and to make decisions on contract awards. An
assessment of the procurement capacity of the Special Procurement
Commission and the UGP was conducted during appraisal. Resulting from this
assessment is an agreed action plan in the Manual of Procedures geared to
ensure the capacity of UGP to administer procurement in an efficient and
transparent way.Accounting, financial reporting and audit: The
accountant/financial management specialist of the UGP will be responsible
for setting up project financial and accounting systems according to IDA
standards and to keep and monitor project accounts for each component.
Project accounts, special accounts and an independent auditor acceptable
to IDA will audit all disbursements under Statement of Expenses (SOEs)
annually according to international standards. The annual audit report
will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year.Monitoring and evaluation: UGP will be in charge of monitoring
progress via performance indicators. Monitoring and evaluation will be
guided by the Project Design Summary in Annex 1 and the Manual of
Procedures. The Manual of Procedures specifies reporting responsibilities
for each component, which will enable the UGP to generate and submit to
the Bank quarterly progress reports. The Bank will have at least eight
supervision missions and conduct annual progress reviews. A mid-term
review will allow the Government and the World Bank to jointly review
number of issues of the project design and progress. The Government will
transmit to IDA a project implementation completion report, within six
months of Credit-closing.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the management of the grid and its extension program
is expected to be ensured by: (i) a stable new regulatory framework which
will provide clear and transparent rules for sector operators and for the
rights of consumers, and (ii) the selection of a suitable operator during
-7 -



the privatization process. ADER and the corresponding financial
mechanisms will meet unsatisfied demand for electricity in rural areas. To
that end the Government, with IDA support, has decided to establish a lean
but efficient institution. Technical assistance would be dedicated to
establish a core team of well trained professionals and to prepare
implementation guidelines. Specifically the creation of ADER would ensure
the technical and financial sustainability of the proposed RE component of
the project. Consumers'willingness to pay on a full cost recovery basis
for urban services and O&M costs (and possibly at least part of the
equipment renewal) for rural areas would ensure the overall project's
long-term sustainability. A similar approach would be allowed in the case
of semi-urban and rural water supply and sanitation project which aims at
promoting community management of water supply and sanitation, by
achieving cost recovery for O&M and possibly for equipment renewal.
However, the funding of investment would be the responsibility of the
Government.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons have been learned from activities where the Bank has financed, or
is financing, similar sector restructuring operations (e.g. Senegal, Mali,
Cape Verde, Madagascar, Guinea). Experience in other countries shows that
commercialization, legal reform, regulation and restructuring are all
crucial to energy and water sector reform. However, by themselves these
steps are not sufficient. There is a need also to attract private sector
investment and to privatize assets.   Finally, experience both in the
region and worldwide shows that ownership and political commitment to the
project objectives, up front before the project becomes effective, are
essential for timely and effective implementation of such reforms.In light
of these lessons the proposed project has been designed to ensure a high
degree of commitment. The government has signed a Water and Energy Sector
Policy Letter as well as a general reform oriented Economic Policy
Letter. The Government has created a UGP, supported by a sectoral
"Cellule d'Appui" to oversee and pilot these reforms and has already
started the preparatory necessary steps for sector restructuring and
privatization of SONELEC (electricity) by hiring an investment bank to
assist in the formulation of the new legal and regulatory framework and to
design the privatization strategy. In addition, the Government has
engaged the services of a communications firm to prepare the general
population and the sector operators in particular for the privatization of
SONELEC and the restructuring of the water and energy sectors.OED's review
of Bank RE experience in Asia, as well as that by EMTEG on the success
factors influencing RE projects, concluded that rigorous economic and
financial analysis of rural electrification projects and an increased
attention to cost recovery are the key to successful project
implementation. Consequently, operational guidelines for ADER must
include a careful financial and technical analysis of proposed schemes
before approving any credit. ADER will also assume a significant
supervisory role for the lender, to ensure the long term viability of the
suppliers. The local operators, whether individuals or cooperatives, will
be also be required to run the RE operation as a business. All RE
projects should: (i) operate on a full cost-recovery basis; (ii) provide
adequate consumer information; and (iii) ensure adequate management skills
in local implementing organizations. The financing of solar home systems
projects must: (i) overcome the first cost barrier created by their high
initial cost (relative to conventional alternatives) to gain an adequate
- 8 -



potential market size; (ii) establish responsive and sustainable PV sales
and distribution infrastructure; and (iii) provide quality products and
services. In case NGOs and village cooperatives projects, the promoters
should be responsible for the projects and must operate them on a full
cost-recovery basis. Also, the projects should include adequate training
and information for consumers under their capacity building component.
Community ownership of village diesel schemes improves village self-help
capabilities, strengthens community relations within the village, aids
cost recovery and promotes environmental awareness. Finally, Government
incentives (including taxes, duties and subsidies) must be consistent with
national and sector objectives to ensure sustainable and long-term impact.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project would have favorable effects on the
environment. Any environmental concerns with regard to the power sector
in general are being addressed in the framework of the privatization of
SONELEC, where environmental liabilities are to be evaluated and
mitigation measures entrusted to the new operator. In the petroleum
sector the project is supporting overhaul of petroleum product
specifications, in particular the reduction of lead in gasoline and sulfur
in gas oil.The mission identified potential environmental issues in the
areas of SONELEC's waste disposal practices and the reuse of waste water
for agricultural purposes. At the moment, these practices do not
constitute a significant threat to the environment. However, in the long
run, the cumulative effects of these sector-wide practices across the
country will cause serious environmental and health problems, particularly
when power and water operations expand in 5-6 years. The current law does
not prohibit this type of waste disposal.For example, waste water and
waste oil generated at the main power station in Nouakchott are dumped
into the sand 30 km to 60 km outside the city; at times, waste oil is
burned in an incinerator at the facility. At the regional power stations,
waste water is emptied into adjacent gardens, while waste oil is dumped
into the sand. The sand in the disposal areas is darker than the rest, and
under the surface, the soil is black. Thus, the sand is not as absorbent
as thought.Waste water generated at SONELEC's sewage treatment facility in
Nouakchott is channeled into adjacent vegetable gardens; when the facility
malfunctions, raw sewage is released. The health impacts of this practice
are unknown. Supposedly, farmers do not mind using the waste water as it
is provided to them free of charge. Due to technical problems resulting
from a dilapidated sewage network, the facility can only treat 4t of the
city's sewage. The remainder (96w of Nouakchott's sewage which is picked
up by trucks from individual systems) is dumped into the sand outside the
city. In the context of project preparation, the Investment Bank in
Mauritania will conduct an environmental audit. This audit will focus on
the environmental conditions at SONELEC's facilities, remediation measures
in view of potential environmental damage, the costs of such remediation
measures, and the financial responsibilities of the new operators. The
Bank will review this report and comment on it as appropriate. The Bank
will develop a set of environmental regulations for the electricity and
water sectors in Mauritania. The Government will review and approve these
regulations which subsequently will form an annex to Mauritania's
environmental law. The draft terms of reference for the development of
environmental regulations are contained in the environmental annex.
-9-



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Willem M. Floor
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-3251
Fax: 202-473-5231
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
PID processed by the InfoShop week ending March 17, 2000.
- 10 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



