Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 20472 MAU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.4 MILLION
(US$9.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR AN
ENERGY/WATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 23, 2000
ENERGY TEAM / AFC15
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
UM 1,000 = US$ 4.838
US$ I = UM 206.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                 Agence Francaise de Developpement
ANEPA               Agence Nationale de l'Alimentation en Eau Potable et de l'Assainissement
BTO                 Back to Office Report
CA                   Cellule d'Appui Technique
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CPRSE                Cellule de Pilotage de Reforme de Secteur Eau/Energie
EMP                 Environmental Management Plan
EPIC                Etablissement Public a Caractere Industriel et Commercial
FMI                  Financial Management Initiative
HIPC                 Highly Indebted Poor Countries
LPG                  Liquid Petroleum Gas
MAED                 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
MEPP                Mauritanienne d'Entreposage des Produits Petroliers
MWE                 Ministry of Water and Energy
MHE                 Ministry of Hydraulique and Energy
NGOs                 Non Govemment Organizations
OPT                  Office of Post and Telecomunications
PE                  Public Enterprise
PFP                 Policy Framework Paper
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PMR                  Project Mangement Report
PRGF                Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RWS                  Rural Water and Sanitation
SMCPP               Societe Mauritanienne de Commercialisation des Produits Petroliers
SNIM                Societe Mauritanienne d'Industrie Miniere
SOE                 Statement of Expense
SONELEC             Societe National de l'Electricite et de l'Eau
SP                   Strategic Partner
UGP                  Unite de Gestion du Programme de Reforme du Secteur Parapublic
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:    Mark D. Tomlinson
Task Team Leader:    Willem Floor



MAURITANIA
ENERGY/WATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key perfornance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         8
3. Benefits and target population  .                                                     9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             I 1
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             12
2. Financial                                                                            13
3. Technical                                                                            13
4. Institutional                                                                        13
5. Environment                                                                          14
6. Social                                                                               15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       16
2. Critical risks                                                                       17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       17



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             17
2. Other                                                                               17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           17
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           19
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          23
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    24
Annex 5: N/A                                                                              27
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        28
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      38
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    39
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   40
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             41
Annex 11: Declaration of Sector Policy                                                    43
MAP
No. 25935



MAURITANIA
ENERGY/WATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTG1
Date: May 23, 2000                               Team Leader: Willem M. Floor
Country Manager/Director: Hasan A. Tuluy         Sector Manager/Director: Mark D. Tomlinson
Project ID: P066345                              Sector(s): BR - Public Enterprise Reform
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
Li Loan        M Credit        Li Grant        L] Guarantee    Li Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 9.9 million
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0                                     Service charge: 0.75%
Financig Ptan:     Souroee                                  Loal . - -Foretan            TQtai
GOVERNMENT                                                     1.00          0.00           1.00
IDA                                                           0.10           9.80          9.90
Total:                                                         1.10          9.80          10.90
Borrower: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY          212002    -. Z                      2004.
Annual|    35           3.0          2.9        0.5
Cumulative     3.5          6.5         9.4         9.9
Project implementation period: 07/01/2000- 06/30/2003
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2003
,CS PAD F-r,, Rv M.rel, 2X






A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the proposed project is (i) to restructure the legal and institutional framework
of the water/sanitation and energy sectors to create an environment for private sector participation; and (ii)
to prepare future investments in the water/sanitation and energy sectors (urban) and rural.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators are: (a) abolition of all monopolies, in the power and water sectors; (b)
separation of the water and electricity activities; (c) bring the electricity part of SONELEC to privatization
and its water part under public and private partnership; (d) establishment of sector regulation based on a
cahier de charge and a system of "capped" tariffs; (e) establishment of the principles for setting tariffs
reflecting economic costs explicit in the regulatory instruments; (f) development of a strategy and the
technical and institutional delivery mechanisms for RE and rural water/sanitation activities; and (g)
completion of studies on water adduction, water distribution network, wind farm at Nouadhibou and
hydrocarbons prices and technical specifications.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16595                    Date of latest CAS discussion: 6/ 17/97
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
The project objectives are fully consistent with the agreed CAS (Date of latest CAS discussion: June 17,
1997, Document Number: 16595), which calls for reforms in the public utilities sector, as well as with the
PRGF program agreed between the IMF and the Bank. The Government of Mauritania has been
implementing a wide range of policy, economic and sectoral reforms under its structural adjustment
program since 1992. It then has confirmed its commitment to the implementation of a coherent set of
ambitious second-generation reforms in a Declaration of Economy Policy (November 1998) and adopted a
Declaration of Policy for the Water and Energy Sectors (September 1998). The Government's readiness to
implement these reforms and to claim ownership of the process has been confirmed at the highest levels
during the 1999-2002 PFP discussions and the preparation of the HIPC Decision Point document.
An important component of the structural reform program is the public enterprise (PE) reform strategy,
which was defined in 1998 and calls for the Government to deepen its efforts to restructure the PE sector.
This would include: (i) privatizing or liquidating five public enterprises in the fisheries, industry, insurance
and mining sectors; (ii) reducing significantly the Government's shareholding in six other public enterprises
in the commerce, port, air transportation, maritime transportation, and small-scale fisheries; and (iii) more
specifically, the Government is, inter alia, committed to privatizing Air Mauritania, abolishing the
monopoly in the power and water-supply sectors, and privatization of the electricity part of SONELEC, and
privatizing the telecommunications wing of OPT. Meanwhile, for the enterprises remaining in the
Government's portfolio strict monitoring of performance contracts will focus on: adequate annual
budgetary allocations to cover the consumption of services by the Government as well as by institutions
covered by Government guarantees; more realistic calculation of water, electricity, and telecommunication
costs and rates; sustained implementation of measures to lower utilities costs (including through reducing
the number of illicit users and technical losses) and minimize the quarterly adjustrnents of tariffs. The
prices of petroleum products will be adjusted monthly to reflect changes in international prices, while the
- 2 -



revision of marketer margins is expected to encourage greater competition in the sale of petroleum products
and to lower the price of fuels and electricity. Significant progress has been achieved under this program.
Economic growth is estimated at 4.7 percent, mainly on the strength of commerce, construction, and
transportation activities. Inflation was contained at about 4.7 percent, reflecting the pursuit of prudent
financial policies.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A. Sector Background
Mauritania is a vast country of 1.1 million sq. km. with a population of only about 2 million people. The
rate of urbanization is high, however, with over 60% living in towns. The capital city of Nouakchott,
established only three decades ago, now has about 730,000 inhabitants, or nearly a third of the country's
population, partly because of the impact of desertification. The country's economy rests on mining,
fisheries and agricultural development in the Senegal valley. As mentioned above, Mauritania has
established a good track record of adjustment and reform on the macroeconomic, social and political fronts.
Substantial structural reforms have been implemented and fiscal consolidation has been achieved.
Reflecting this effort, GDP grew by an annual average of close to 5 percent since 1992 and there has been
significant improvement in social indicators, although 50 percent of the population remains under the
poverty line.
Energy. Mauritania energy resources are scarce. The Manantali dam, on the Senegal River is the first
major attempt to use the region's domestic resources to meet the demand for commercial energy in
Mauritania, as well as Mali and Senegal. This large regional project is expected to be completed in the year
2002. In the meantime, commercial energy supply is entirely based on the import of petroleum products,
which, in 1998, totaled 315,000 tons, and served the mining, power, water, transport and industrial sectors.
There are no proven oil or gas reserves in Mauritania. There have been extensive shallow offshore and
some on-shore seismic exploration activities and some 13 exploration wells have been drilled. Two wells
have demonstrated signs of oil and gas, but not in commercial quantities. The Petroleum Law of 1988 and
a Model Convention that dates from 1994 regulate oil exploration. These two texts require revision to
maintain Mauritania's competitiveness.
Until the early 80s Mauritania exported wood fuels but due to population growth the country has now
become net importer of wood fuels to satisfy the household energy sector's needs. The accessible forest
cover has been estimated at 3.5 million or 3,5% of the total national territory. It is the most important local
energy source and mainly situated in the Senegal River valley; however, given the desert characteristics of
the country, its exploitation should be carefully handled to avoid desertification. The wind potential is
substantial in the coastal regions, with relatively constant winds and average wind speeds, which permit the
production of electricity. In the south and southeast of the country, the wind speeds permit water pumping
for human and livestock use. The solar energy potential is also considerable, but almost unused.
Water. Mauritania's water resources are relatively limited, with the majority of the country's population
relying on insecure and low quality surface water resources. The surface water resources are essentially
those of the Senegal River, and its tributaries. There are considerable underground water resources, though
characterized by unequal geographic distribution. The situation is favorable in the southwest, the south and
southeast (large continuous sediments of the Trarza, Toudeni, River Valley, total reserves estimated at 50
billion m 3), while it is not favorable in the rest of the country. Most of these resources have a relatively
insecure supply and are at risk of contamination from shared use by livestock.
-3 -



Institutional setup. Energy and water policies, planning and coordination are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Water and Energy (MWE), with the exception of wood fuels, which is overseen by the Ministry
of the Environment (ME). MWE also currently oversees parastatal companies such as SONELEC, which
has the monopoly for production, transport and distribution of electricity and potable water throughout the
country. The Nouadhibou Refinery, exploited by Naftal (Algeria) has the monopoly for imports and
production of petroleum products. Four private oil companies are responsible for the distribution of
petroleum products, while two private companies are in charge of the storage depots, viz. MEPP
(Nouakchott, Nouadhibou), and SNIM (Zerouate). The Government has formulated an energy sector
strategy which has resulted in the implementation of a number of measures to improve sector performance,
in particular by privatizing SMCPP, restructuring SONELEC, liberalizing the import, storage and
distribution of petroleum products. Also, petroleum products tariffs are now established in a transparent
manner reflecting their economic cost.
In rural areas the responsibility for water supply and sanitation services is currently entrusted to the
villagers and to the Direction de l'Hydraulique (DH) of the Ministry of Hydraulics and Energy. Given the
unsatisfactory quality of both the construction and O&M provided by DH, the Government is undertaking
a profound reorganization of DH aiming at:
(i) concentrating the DH activities in the current Water Resources Service, to ensure that it operates
efficiently, improves the knowledge on the location and yields of water resources and performs studies and
planning of water resources utilization; and
(ii) shiffing the responsibility of operational activities to a new agency: the National Water Supply and
Sanitation Agency (Agence Nationale de l 'Alimentation en Eau Potable et de l 'Assainissement-ANEPA),
for which the draft creation decree is available. This agency would be an EPIC (Etablissement Public a
Caractere Industriel et Commercial) with its own financial resources and would operate in an autonomous
way as a provider of water supply and sanitation services to the peri-urban centers (not serviced by
SONELEC) through private concessionaires and to the rural areas (villages) through user associations to
be created at each one of these villages.
B. Sector Issues
The major issues in the electricity and water supply sectors are the high cost of, and the limited access to
electricity and potable water, and the inefficiency of SONELEC in the provision of services. The number of
clients per employee for the electricity sector is 88 and for water is 76, or half of internationally accepted
standards. These problems result from the limited water and energy resource base, the small size of the
market, inefficiencies of the state-owned utility and its monopolistic situation, and partly due to state
interventions. The coverage level is low, especially in rural areas, which is only 4% for electricity and 25%
for water (sanitation is practically non-existent). Lack of funds, high level of tariffs and operational
inefficiencies have not permitted SONELEC, the national utility in charge of the above three sectors to
expand its services adequately (for more details see section E).
Electricity. Urban electricity. SONELEC serves a total of 52,000 clients of which almost 35,000 are in
Nouakchott and Nouadhibou; the remaining 17,000 clients are in 17 consumption centers. During the
1978-97 period the Government made important efforts to increase coverage and service quality: (i) in
Nouakchott the production capacity as well as the distribution network, were reinforced, in particular to the
peri-urban areas; (ii) at Nouadhibou, the main power station was rehabilitated and the distribution system
was extended to the peri-urban areas; (iii) the power stations and the distribution network of the towns of
-4 -



Atar, Kaedi and Rosso were rehabilitated; and (iv) 13 towns and the city of Ouad Naga were electrified.
The total investments realized by SONELEC during that period amounted to about 33 billion Ouguiyas
(about US$150 million). Despite these investments the number of clients which was 30,000 in 1995 has
increased only at a 4% annual rate. The Government is unable to provide additional funds to the sector and
thus, any major increase in the coverage has to be done with private financing.
Rural Electrification. Access to electricity in the rural areas is still incipient. Only 20 villages have been
electrified as of 1998 of a total. of 3,000, or less than 1% rural coverage. Access to electricity in rural
areas will enable the provision of health and educational services and potentially stimulate the social and
economic development of the rural sector. Therefore, the Government considers it to be a major component
of future investments. The Government has initiated rural electrification activities, through the Alize
program, which have demonstrated the financial and institutional viability of hybrid solar-wind systems
that are managed by the beneficiaries themselves, in the areas where the wind regime is favorable. A
follow-up program, financed by AFD, is being executed and aims to electrify 30 villages. However, a
comprehensive and financially viable rural electrification strategy that would result in a major increase in
coverage is still to be defined.
Petroleum. The supply infrastructure of petroleum products includes a refinery with a capacity of I
million tons/year which is located at Nouadhibou, complemented by two regional storage depots
(Nouakchott and Nouadhibou) and a network of private filling stations in various locations. Naftal, an
offshore company, within the context of a Mauritanian-Algerian convention, manages the refinery.
Petroleum product prices are indexed on international prices. The two regional storage depots belong to
private companies and are managed by MEPP, which belong to one of the companies, which is also owner
of the distribution network. A third important depot, at Zouerate, is managed by SNIM. A tanker of 4,200
tons, ensures the transport of petroleum products between Nouadhibou (the main import center) and
Nouakchott, by SNIM, while transport between the regional depots and the dispersed filling stations is done
by private transporters.
The annual consumption of petroleum products is about 320,000 tons (heavy fuel oil for power production,
petrol for transportation, fisheries and power production, and LPG for households). More than 60% is
consumed in the Nouadhibou region and Zouerate, and almost 40% in the southem part of the country.
SONELEC and SNIM jointly consume about 140,000 tons. The remainder, or 180,000 tons, is split
between four distribution companies, one of which is the sole LPG distributor.
The Government regulates the sector through the creation of conditions based on transparent competition
between the various sector operators and setting prices for petroleum products. Prices reflect import costs
and thus allow adequate remuneration for the sector operators. However, there is a need to review the
distribution margins and to compare them with those of other countries so as to promote more competition.
The price of aviation kerosene and lubricants are not regulated. They represent important revenue sources
for the petroleum companies.
Household Energy. Since 1982, with assistance from donors, the Government has launched an ambitious
program for marketing LPG and introducing improved wood fuel stoves. The consumption of LPG has
increased from 700 tons (1982) to 1,700 tons (1997), though there is still a large unmet demand. Despite
these activities the consumption of wood fuels continues to grow at a rate higher than the average annual
increment of the forest cover. National consumption is estimated to be 380,000 MT of fuel wood and
70,000 MT of charcoal, which represent a total of 1.4 million MT of wood. Kerosene is consumed in small
quantities, mainly as a lighting fuel.
-5 -



Water and Sanitation Sector
Urban. The supply of drinking water to Nouakchott, Nouadhibou and some secondary towns is assured by
SONELEC. Within the framework of its four consecutive performance contracts (contrat-plans:
1989-2000), SONELEC has demonstrated some progress. However, the access rate is still low, while the
technical and non-technical losses are substantial. Decree No. 93124 regulates the water distribution
system. However, to encourage private sector participation in the supply of drinking water, it is necessary
to establish a new legal and regulatory framework.
The Government initiated, in 1982, a major rehabilitation and investment program during the last decade.
This program aimed at: (i) reinforcing the water supply system of Nouackchott through the implementation
of six boreholes at Idini and a new transmission line Idini-Nouakchott, increasing the storage capacity by
building an overhead reservoir of 1,000 m3 and a ground reservoir of 5,000 m3, and by rehabilitating and
extending the distribution network; (ii) reinforcing the water supply system of Nouadhibou through the
rehabilitation of the transmission line, the construction of a pumping station at Boulanouar and the
rehabilitation of the distribution network, in particular in the peri-urban areas; (iii) providing the water
supply service to Aioun and Atar; and (iv) carrying out water supply studies for 10 towns. These
investments have permitted (i) the improvement of the supply and coverage of the population of Nouakchott
and Nouadhibou due to the network reinforcement in the peri-urban areas and the increase of the
production capacity of the Idini aquifer which increased from 24,000 to 35,000 m3/day and that of
Boulanouar which increased from 3,500 to 6,500 m3/day; (ii) the realization of the new borehole field for
Atar whose capacity is currently 960 m3/day ensuring the supply of this town till 2005; and (iii) the
provision of the water supply service to the town of Aioun.
Additionally, major investments are being considered to satisfy the growing demand. This mainly concerns:
(i) the reinforcement and extension of the water supply systems of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou (phase 2);
(ii) the water supply systems of 9 towns; (iii) the rehabilitation and reinforcement of the water supply
systems of Kaedi and Mederdra; (iv) the water supply study for Rosso; and (v) the study of the Nouakchott
water production from the Senegal river (Aftout-Es/Sahel).
The urban sanitation sub-sector is grossly underdeveloped: only Nouakchott has a small sewerage network
serving part of the city center and an activated sludge sewage treatment plant. Adequate attention must be
given to the development of sewerage systems in densely populated urban quarters of all urban centers and
to individual sanitation (septic tanks) in other quarters and in the rural areas (latrines). The development of
the urban water sector has to be systematically accompanied by an adequate development of sanitation
services, including the appropriate treatment and disposal of excreta.
Rural and peri-urban. In rural areas the access to potable water is marginal: only 10% of the 3,000
villages are provided with piped water. Sanitation services are almost non existing. To remedy this
situation the Government is envisaging to invest in the rural water and sanitation sector by implementing
the strategy defined in 1990. This strategy consists of intimately involving the villagers in the construction
of water supply and sanitation systems and entrusting them the operation and maintenance (O&M) of those
systems through an adequate training. The Government would fund the investment. The villagers would
contribute in kind. O&M costs as well as part of the equipment renewal would be at the charge of the
villagers. In small towns where water supply and sanitation services are not provided by SONELEC, the
responsibility of both services will be entrusted to the communes and other operators (small
concessionaires).
-6 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Government's development strategy as reflected in a policy letter issued in October 1998 is based on a
major reform for the electricity, water and sanitation sectors. The objectives of the reform are to: (i)
improve the global performance of the three sectors and increase population access to services at
affordable prices; (ii) reduce the production costs of water and electricity which now constrain economic
development and the economy's competitiveness; and (iii) mobilize private capital for these sectors to
reduce their burden on the public sector finances. The reform will be characterized by: (i) the abolition of
the public service monopoly and encouragement of competition and transparency, (ii) setting of tariffs that
reflect economic costs, (iii) modification of the legal and regulatory framework to encourage private sector
investment, and (iv) the privatization of SONELEC's electricity operations as well as the involvement of
private investors in the operations in the water and sanitation sectors. To implement Government policies
to increase access to electricity, the concession agreement with the privatized SONELEC would spell out
specific targets for increasing connections in the urban areas. In accordance with new Government
policies, tariffs should ensure cost recovery.
The reform process will be carried out in three phases. Phase one consists in the preparation of the legal
and regulatory framework and the launching of the bidding documents for the selection of a strategic
partner (SP) through an international competitive tender with pre-qualification. In phase two, 49 percent
of the SONELEC shares will be transferred to the SP. In this stage, full responsibility for management
and operations of SONELEC will be transferred to the SP. In phase three, one year later, the SP and other
private investors, but not the State will invest to increase SONELEC's capital and thus the State's share in
SONELEC will be reduced to at least 49 percent. This process should be completed by end October 2001.
The project finances technical assistance for the establishment of the legal and regulatory framework, for
bringing SONELEC (electricity) to the point of privatization, for the institutional strengthening of
regulatory authorities and for a media campaign oriented to disseminate the features of the reform process
and to gain public support.
The new Electricity Law, under preparation, will create a regulatory body for the power sector. Its
constitution, duties and procedures, will be detailed in the new law. However, Mauritania has no
regulatory tradition and lacks knowledgeable professionals. To ensure that the regulatory agency will be
well established, properly staffed and has adequate implementation guidelines, it would need substantial
technical assistance to be operational by October 2001, the ultimate date for the implementation of the
sector reforms. The proposed project therefore finances a comprehensive program of technical assistance
that covers the provision of expert advice and training on the regulatory. functions, tariffs, concessions,
computing and managing information.
The Government's strategy for the power sector also includes a number of actions to increase electrification
ratios in rural areas as well as the management of water supply and semi-urban and rural areas by local
structures. The overall strategy is aimed at fostering development of village electrification and semi-urban
and rural water supply through local participation and cost-recovery. The proposed credit would also
finance TA aimed at supporting the development of delivery mechanisms for rural water and electricity
services.
As to the petroleum sector, in 1987, the Government has formulated a sector strategy, which has resulted in
improvement of sector performance. In particular, it has led to the privatization of SMCPP, the
liberalization of the import, storage and marketing of petroleum products, whose tariffs are transparent and
reflect import cost. The new activity is based on the progressive withdrawal of the State from productive
-7 -



activities. Competition between sector operators will be encouraged and a regulatory framework will be
formulated and applied by the Government. Its principles will be based on the need for transparency,
security and the need to attract new operators. To that end the Govemment will initiate legal and
regulatory reforms which enable third-party access to storage depots and transport by pipeline for
petroleum products.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative             Bank-   e   of
Component                   Sector         Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
.  $$1l    Total    _US $M    _Ln  ncln
Revision of legal and institutional  Privatization       3.20       29.4       2.70      27.3
framework
Preparation of investment program   Institutional        7.70       70.6       7.20      72.7
Development
0.00        0.0      0.00        0.0
Total Project Costs                     10.90      100.0      9.90      100.0
Total Financing Required                     10.90      100.0       9.90      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Government's program of reforms for the electricity and water sectors aims at the State's withdrawal
from operational activities and the establishment of a stable and transparent environment to promote
private investors' interest in the supply of these services. The sector reform will be completed within a
period of two years and is based on the following principles: (i) abolition of all monopolies for the supply
of electricity and to deepen the Government's decentralization policy; (ii) the establishment of a legal and
regulatory framework and tariffs that reflect economic costs; (iii) the restructuring of the water and
electricity sectors to enable the operation and management of the sector by the private sector; (iv) the
privatization of SONELEC's electricity operations, including transfer of assets to a private investor; and
(v) the partnership between public and private sector of the operations of water and sanitation facilities
currently under SONELEC administration.
-8 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefit of this project is to create an enabling environment for a sustainable development of the
electricity and water sectors, which will lead to more competition and better sector performance, and
increased access to services. Targeted population is the people of Mauritania as a whole. However, the
decentralized RE implementation and financing schemes, prototypes and models developed under this
project will aim at significantly increasing the institutional, technical, economic and financial capability for
providing decentralized power to the rural population. In the petroleum sector the higher level of
competition and increased levels of service would benefit the economy at large. The demonopolization,
decentralization and the placing under public and private sector of the water/sanitation supply activities of
SONELEC would permit a faster increase of coverage for peri urban and rural population which would
result in better living conditions and health of the targeted population. The target population therefore
includes (i) all categories of consumers, in particular those not yet having access to modem energy services,
and (ii) both local and foreign private sector entrepreneurs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation period: The project will be implemented over a three year period from July 1,
2000 to June 30, 2003.
Executing agency: The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development (MAED), in close cooperation
with the Ministry of Water and Energy (MWE), would have overall responsibility for the execution of the
reform program. The Government has created a reform unit (UGP) within the MAED to prepare, conduct
and implement the reform program, supported by a cellule d'Appui (CA) constituted by the technical
Ministry (MWE). The CPRSE, under the overall supervision of the UGP, will be responsible for providing
technical advice concerning the reform process as well as the various studies in the water and energy sector.
Implementing agency: The implementation agency of the project would be the UGP through its Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), which was established by the Government on April 25, 1999. The PIU is
headed by a Project Manager who has been charged to pilot the implementation of the reforms in the water,
sanitation and energy sectors.
Project administration: The Project Manager heading the UGP/PIU would be responsible for supervising
the consultants financed by this project and ensuring proper procurement and financial management. A
procurement specialist and an accountant/financial management specialist will assist him.
Procurement: Procurement under this project would be carried out under IDA procurement guidelines by
the Special Procurement Commission for the Water and Energy Sector Reform ("Commission speciale des
marches pour la reforme des secteurs de I 'hydraulique et de I 'energie"). The Special Procurement
Commission was established by Decree no. 99-03 of January 6, 1999 in order to expedite procurement
under the water and energy sector reform while maintaining transparency in the process of contract
awarding. The UGP/PIU procurement specialist will carry out the day-to-day contract management
activities and will organize working sessions with the Special Procurement Commission to review bidding
documents and bid evaluation reports, and to make decisions on contract awards. An assessment of the
procurement capacity of the Special Procurement Commission and the UGP/PIU was conducted during
appraisal. Resulting from this assessment is an agreed action plan in the Manual of Procedures geared to
ensure the capacity of UGP/PIU to administer procurement in an efficient and transparent way.
-9-



Accounting, financial reporting and audit The accountant/financial management specialist of the
UGP/PIU will be responsible for setting up project financial and accounting systems according to IDA
standards and to keep and monitor project accounts for each component. Project accounts, special accounts
and an independent auditor acceptable to IDA will audit all disbursements under Statement of Expenses
(SOEs) annually according to international standards. The annual audit report will be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation: UGP/PIU will be in charge of monitoring progress via performance
indicators. Monitoring and evaluation will be guided by the Project Design Summary in Annex I and the
Manual of Procedures. The Manual of Procedures specifies reporting responsibilities for each component,
which will enable the UGP/PIU to generate and submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports. The Bank
will have at least eight supervision missions and conduct annual progress reviews. A mid-term review will
allow the Government and the World Bank to jointly review number of issues of the project design and
progress. The Government will transmit to IDA a project implementation completion report, within six
months of credit closing.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
To attain similar objectives of increasing coverage in the electricity and water sector, an alternative would
have been to provide financing to SONELEC. However, as the Govemment has decided to restructure the
power and water sectors and to privatize the electricity part of SONELEC, the proposed project is expected
to result in more stable and efficient way of providing such services. Financing of decentralized rural
electrification systems as well as grid extension in urban and peri-urban areas, where economically
feasible, will be continued, but executed and operated by the private sector.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue              -       Project          j      (PSR) Ratings
.__ __ __     _(Bank-financed prjets onlX)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Encourage investor in pursuing    Private Sector Development        S             S
opportunities in the private sector and  Capacity Building Project
strengthen the financial sector.  Credit 2730 -MAU, active
(approved 5/95)
Strengthen the Government's long-term  Mauritania Public Enterprise  S            S
capacity to devise and implement  Sector Institutional
public enterprise (PE) reforms,   Development and Technical
including better management and   Assistance Project
development'of the telecom services of Credit 2167-MAU, closed
OPT and encouragement of the creation 06/98
of postal savings subsidiaries.
-1 0 -



Support the extension of the       Public enterprise Sector         HU            HU
Government's structural adjustment    Adjustment Program
program by deepening the reform in the Credit 2166-MAU, closed
PE sector, through establishing a legal 04/95
and institutional framework, as well as
financial restructuring of key PE's and
divestiture.
Promote private sector development by Private Sector Development     S             S
improving the legal and institutional   Program
framework and consolidating financial Credit 2726-MAU, closed
sector reforms.                    12/97
To expand access to communication    Telecommunication and postal    S             S
services through establishing a legal   sector, Reform project
and institutional framework favorable  Credit (approved 6/99)
to competitive private supply of
telecom infrastructure.
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons have been learned from activities where the Bank has financed, or is financing, similar sector
restructuring operations (e.g. Senegal, Mali, Cape Verde, Madagascar, Guinea). Experience in other
countries shows that commercialization, legal reform, regulation and restructuring are all crucial to energy
and water sector reform. However, by themselves these steps are not sufficient. There is a need also to
attract private sector investment and to privatize assets. Also, experience both in the region and worldwide
shows that ownership and political commitment to the project objectives, up front before the project
becomes effective, are essential for timely and effective implementation of such reforms.
In light of these lessons the proposed project has been designed to ensure a high degree of commitment.
The Government has signed a Water and Energy Sector Policy Letter as well as a general reform oriented
Economic Policy Letter. The Government has created a UGP, supported by a sectoral "Cellule d'Appui" to
oversee and pilot these reforms and has already started the preparatory necessary steps for sector
restructuring and privatization of SONELEC (electricity) by hiring an investment bank to assist in the
formulation of the new legal and regulatory framework and to design the privatization strategy. In
addition, the Government has engaged the services of a communications firm to prepare the general
population and the sector operators in particular for the privatization of SONELEC and the restructuring of
the water and energy sectors.
- 11 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower has issued an Energy, Water and Sanitation Sector Policy Declaration in September 1998,
which is attached as Annex 11 outlining its policy commitments and the timetable to achieve the policy's
goals, which include the privatization of SONELEC, restructuring of the electricity, water and sanitation
sectors as well as the creation of decentralized electricity and rural water delivery mechanisms. Also, the
Borrower, under a Project Preparation Facility financing, has hired an investment bank to assist in the
privatization and restructuring process, and has established a project implementation unit to pilot this
ongoing operation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
One of the main objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on May 21,
1997 is to promote private sector development and public sector restructuring. This project will help
achieve this objective by: (i) helping to create an enabling environment for private sector investment and
growth through appropriate and effective legal and regulatory reforms; (ii) Creating an environment in
which basic infrastructure will be improved for a more efficient private sector and encouraging job
creation; and (iii) promoting rural entrepreneurial development. The sector restructuring, the legal reformns
and the privatization of SONELEC (electricity) proposed under the project will facilitate a more active
participation of the private sector in the production and distribution of water and electricity to both urban
and rural consumers. IDA's continued involvement is crucial, because it will create private sector
confidence in the investment prospects that the energy and water sector in Mauritania offers. Also, the
Bank is well placed for this kind of operation due to its unique experience with this kind of reforms both
worldwide as well as in the region (Cape Verde, Cote d'Ivoire, Mali), and in particular the recently
successfully achieved privatization of the power company in Senegal. IDA involvement will also permit
close coordination between Mauritania's investment program in the power sector and the regional
development program planned by OMVS in which a large group of donors expect IDA to play a lead role.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Though no rate of return is calculated for this project, it is estimated that the total project cost would be
recovered in two to three years. Additionally, the benefits of the proposed project will be substantial over
the medium-term. Attracting private capital is expected to provide incentives to improve both financial
performnance and end-use efficiency through a reduction in the currently high levels of technical and
commercial losses. The privatization of services should provide for the adequate allocation of scarce
resources benefiting the country's economy and allowing the State to focus on electrification, water supply
and sanitation projects for the poor.
A review of current financial performance of SONELEC for 1999 is presented in Annex 4. It shows that,
even with tariffs that are high, profits amount only to about 2% of billings. It is expected that the changes
in sector regulations, industry structure and ownership will result in incentives to contain costs and reduce
current SONELEC inefficiencies. A rough estimate of the benefits arising from improved operational
performance is presented below on the basis of January-September 1999 operational data provided by
SONELEC to the appraisal mission.
- 12-



Electricity sector. Clients per employee, at 88 are half of international standards. Overall losses at 26%
are at least 10% over normal standards. Generation costs, at about US$8.7 cents/kWh are high by
international standards. It is estimated that after privatization production costs could be reduced to level
compatible with international standards. The production costs could be reduced at least US$2 cents/kWh,
and losses would be reduced to 15%. The corresponding savings for lower generation and losses would be
around US$7.2 million per year.
Water supply sector. Clients per employee, at 76 are low of international standards. Overall losses at
35% are at least 20% over normal standards. Production costs, at about US$72 cents/cubic meter (average
for 1999) are very high considering that the water is collected from deep wells and does not need any
treatment apart from chlorination. It is estimated that after privatization production costs could be reduced
to level compatible with international standards. The production costs could be reduced at least US$42
cents/cubic meter and losses to 15%. The corresponding benefits for the economy would be around
US$4.4 million per year.
Other. The expansion of coverage for the electricity and water supply systems is expected to result in the
medium-term in substantial improvement of the living conditions and the health of the population. Though
these benefits are substantial they are not quantifiable.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
N/A
Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal impact comes from: (i) reduction or elimination of budgetary allocations to SONELEC, and (ii)
taxes paid by private operators. The Government intends to increase substantial coverage for both water
and electricity and extend sanitation services as well. If SONELEC is not privatized, it would need
substantial financial support to comply with these objectives. The targets for increasing coverage are at
about 10,000 consumers per year, with an estimated cost of about US$2.5 million per year. Thus, the
reduction in fiscal burden is estimated at US$8.2 million per year composed by US$5.7 million per year
due to elimination of current SONELEC financial deficits, plus US$2.5 million per year due to the private
investor taking over the financing of expansion of services which otherwise should have been provided by
the State.
3. Technical:
Through financial incentives, it is expected that more appropriate and low-cost technology will be utilized
to extend electricity and water services to consumers.
4. Institutional:
The project will establish an institutional and regulatory environment, which aims to attract private sector
participation and investment in the water, sanitation and energy sectors.
4.1 Executing agencies:
N/A
4.2 Project management:
Project Implementation Unit The Govermment has created a reform unit (UGP) within the MAED,
which will be responsible for guiding the restructuring exercise as well as for the execution of the various
- 13 -



studies. UGP, through its Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be responsible for: (i) coordination of
project implementation; (ii) management of: (a) procurement, including all contracting for works and
purchases and the hiring of consultants; (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation; (c) the
contractual relationship with IDA, and (d) financial record keeping, the Special Account and
disbursements.
Accounting, financial reporting and audits. The UGP/PIU staff includes an accounting specialist, who
maintains all accounts and auditing requirements. A summary financial report would be included in the
six-month progress reports. Project Accounts, the Special Account and all procurement, including
Statements of Expenditures, would be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA. Audit
reports would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (June 30).
The selection of external auditors is a condition for effectiveness. The existing UGP accounting system
will be adjusted to enable PMR disbursement at the latest by mid-term review. This means that it will be
able to produce: (a) monthly/quarterly and annual financial reports (including, a Sources and Application
of Funds statement and a balance sheet, if necessary); and (b) quarterly reports such as: (i) summary of
Sources and Uses of Funds; (ii) Contract Expenditure Report - Goods and Works; (iii) Contract
Expenditure Report - Consultants; (iv) Procurement Management Report - Goods and Works, and (v)
Procurement Management Report - Consultants.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Not later than 45 days after each semester, the UGP will submit to IDA
six-month progress reports covering all project activities, including procurement, and a financial summary
report.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None.
4.4 Financial management issues:
None.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
IDA carried out a partial environmental assessment in October 1999. The conclusion of that mission is
that overall, the project would have favorable effects on the environment. Under the project, a set of
environmental regulations for the electricity and water sectors will be developed. The Government will
review and approve these regulations which subsequently will form an annex to Mauritania's environmental
law. Additionally, any existing environmental problems related to power installations to be privatized will
be addressed in the framework of the privatization of SONELEC, where environmental liabilities are to be
evaluated and mitigation measures entrusted to the new operator under the concession agreement. In the
petroleum sector the project is supporting overhaul of petroleum product specifications, in particular the
reduction of lead in gasoline and sulfur in gas oil.
The mission identified potential environmental issues in the areas of SONELEC's waste disposal practices
and the reuse of waste water for agricultural purposes. At the moment, these practices do not constitute a
significant threat to the environment. However, in the long run, the cumulative effects of these sector-wide
practices across the country will cause serious environmental and health problems, particularly when power
and water operations expand in 5-6 years. The current law does not prohibit this type of waste disposal.
For example, waste water and waste oil generated at the main power station in Nouakchott are dumped into
the sand 30 km to 60 km outside the city; at times, waste oil is burned in an incinerator at the facility. At
- 14 -



the regional power stations, waste water is emptied into adjacent gardens, while waste oil is dumped into
the sand. The sand in the disposal areas is darker than the rest, and under the surface, the soil is black.
Thus, the sand is not as absorbent as thought. Waste water generated at SONELEC's sewage treatment
facility in Nouakchott is channeled into adjacent vegetable gardens; when the facility malfunctions, raw
sewage is released. The health impacts of this practice are unknown. Supposedly, farmers do not mind
using the waste water as it is provided to them free of charge. Due to technical problems resulting from a
dilapidated sewage network, the facility can only treat 4% of the city's sewage. The remainder (96% of
Nouakchott's sewage which is picked up by trucks from individual systems) is dumped into the sand
outside the city.
In the context of SONELEC privatization the investment bank will conduct an environmental audit. This
audit will focus on the environmental conditions at SONELEC's facilities, remediation measures in view of
potential environmental damage, the costs of such remediation measures, and the financial responsibilities
of the new operators. IDA will review this report and comment on it as appropriate.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Under the project, a set of environmental regulations for the electricity and water sectors are being
developed. The Government will review and approve these regulations which subsequently will form an
annex to Mauritania's environmental law. Additionally, any existing environmental problems related to
power installations to be privatized will be addressed in the framework of the privatization of SONELEC,
where environmental liabilities are to be evaluated and mitigation measures entrusted to the new operator
under the concession agreement.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: October 1999
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the enviromnental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The stakeholders (SONELEC, MWE, MENV) have been consulted through field consultation at the
environmental screening stage.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
To implement Government policies to increase access to electricity and water services, the concession
agreement with the privatized SONELEC (electricity part) and with the private partner operator for the
water/sanitation supply system would spell out specific targets for increasing connections in the urban
areas. In accordance with new Government policies, tariffs should ensure cost recovery. The
Government's strategy, as reflected in the letter of development policy for the power sector also includes a
number of actions to increase electrification ratios in rural areas as well as the management of water supply
and semi-urban and rural areas by local structures. The overall strategy is aimed at fostering development
of village electrification and semi-urban and rural water supply through local participation and
cost-recovery. In the future, a universal access agency is expected to help in this effort by: (i)
- 15 -



disseminating information and training, (ii) providing technical support, (iii) providing financial assistance,
and (iv) acting as institutional facilitator. By decentralizing the supply of water in semi-urban and rural
areas and entrusting its management to local structures on a cost-recovery basis the Government aims to
extend water service to a larger number of customers.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Government would launch an information and promotion campaign about the reform and its benefits
for the economy at large and for consumers in particular. Beneficiaries in the urban and peri urban areas
are expected to favorably receive these changes as they would result in increased coverage and better
quality of services. The preparation of the delivery mechanisms for rural water and electricity services in
particular, as well as other components of the project, will provide inputs to the PRSP process.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not Applicable.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not Applicable.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not Applicable.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do anv of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicabiity
5 Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             Z Yes EL No
L Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                     C Yes O No
El Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                     El Yes O No
EL Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       El Yes 3 No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   E Yes N No
L Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    El Yes Z No
L3 Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               I Yes Z No
Li Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               O Yes 3 No
O Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     L Yes 3 No
C3 Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          Li Yes 3 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental preparation is underway.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the management of the grid and its extension program is expected to be ensured by: (i)
a stable new regulatory framework which will provide clear and transparent rules for sector operators and
for the rights of consumers, and (ii) the selection of a suitable operator during the privatization process.
- 16 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Miimizat0io  Meiasr
From Outputs to Objective
Interest by private sector to invest        M         Legal framework would create favorable
environment for private sector participation.
Regulatory agency is autonomous             M         Transparent rules and good training of RA staff
effective institution                                 and govt. services; concession agreements
embody rights and obligations of operators,
including recourse for dispute settlement
From Components to Outputs
Sustained political commitment to sector    N         Continued sector and macro-economic dialogue
reform
Overall Risk Rating                         M         Close monitoring
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A.    Borrower to select an extemal audit firms for the project acceptable to the Association.
B.    Borrower to ensure that the following three positions at UPI are staffed by suitably qualified and
experienced personnel, satisfactory to IDA, namely: (i) the project coordinator; (ii) the procurement
specialist; and (iii) the accountant and financial management specialist.
C.    Borrower to open an account in a commercial bank in Mauritania acceptable to IDA (the Project
Account), and deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to US$100,000, to finance the
Borrower's contribution for expenditures under the Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
D.    Borrower to establish a computerized accounting and financial management system in PIU
acceptable to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
I 1. b) Not applicable.
X 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
- 17 -



project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Z 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Willem Floor                      Mark D. Tomlinson                    san A. Tuluy
Willem M. Floor                   Mark D. Tomlinson                          T>Jluy
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director              untry   n ,ger/Director
-   ~                        Joel Mawen                        M              ra
Acting SectoW  Manager                ng Country Director
AFTG1                            AFC15
- 18 -






Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MAURITANIA: ENERGY/WATERISANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
Key -Performanc
Hierarchy of ObjectveAs        Indicators    :      ffftcrWOSAO      to   - riica1lAsmPtions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:     Sector! country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Opening public utilities to  Increase of number of power Annual reports by  Maintenance of
private sector investment to and water consumers  Regulatory Agency,        macro-economic policy.
improve over time coverage through the grid by 25% by  SONELEC, Ministry of
and quality of service for an 2010.               Energy & Water, and
increasing population at                          national statistics.
affordable prices.
Project Development      Outcome / Impact         Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
Revision of the legal and    Electricity law and  Journal officiel.         Sustained willingness of
regulatory framework of the regulations adopted and                         private sector to invest in
power and water sectors.   published in the Journal                        the power and water sectors;
Officiel; sale of SONELEC                          Government pays its water
completed by beginning of                         and electricity bills on time.
2001.
Preparation of an investment Identification of urban water Consultant reports.
program for: (a) the urban  problems, solution and
water sector, (b) rural water action plan; TA aimed at
and electrification; (c)  identif-ying delivery
rational use of resources.   mechanisms for rural water
and electricity services;
tender documents for
windpark.
- 19-



Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. (i) Water and electric  (i) abolition of all monopolies Supervision reports; new  Sustained political
sectors restructured; (ii)  in the power and water      concessions.                commitment to sector reform;
electric activities of Sonelec   sectors; separation of the                         interest by private sector to
privatized; (iii) private   water and electricity activities                        invest.
participation in the water  by end-2000; (ii) privatization
operations of SONELEC       of the electricity part of
introduced.                 SONELEC and management
of the water sector by the
private sector by the beginning
of 2001; (iii) sector regulation
based on a cahier de charge
and a system of capped tariff
by end-2000; (iv) the
principles for the tariffs
explicitly defined in the
regulatory instruments,
reflecting economic cost by
end 2000.
2. Regulatory Agency        Official decree.            2. RA Annual report.
operational.
3. Water transmission,      Detailed action program ready Consultant report available.
distribution and expansion    for submission to investors
studies completed.          (private and concessional).
4. Technical and safety     Norms and standards adopted Decrees published.
standards for petroleum     by end 2001.
products as well as a new
price structure for petroleum
products.
5. Other energy studies    Action program for energy    Consultants' reports available.
completed.                  savings being implemented;
tender documents for
windpark ready; action
program for rural water and
electrification ready for
submission to donors.
-20 -



Ke ~tOw0ance
Hierarchy of biJetive          ln0     s         Monhoring   Evaluation    Crfflcal Assurptins
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                        Outputs)
1. Institutional reform.  1. $3.2 million Information 1. Electricity law,  1. Sustained political
memorandum; bidding     implementation regulations. commitment to sector
documents. Training plan                         reform.
and study tour reports.
2. Consultative Studies.
UGP plus MWE Capacity  $7.7 million               Training manuals;
building; operating cost                          contracts; financial reports.
UGP; water study;
hydrocarbon study; wind
farm study.
Development of RE and                             Govemment decrees.
RWS delivery mechanisms.
Development of energy                             Govemment implementation
savings action plan for the                       plan.
public sector.
-21 -






Annex 2: Project Description
MAURITANIA: ENERGY/\ATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.20 million
1. Sectoral Reform. The component consists of: (i) the financing of technical assistance to the Government
for the services of a consultant to create the legal and regulatory framework for electricity and
water/sanitation sector and for the services of an investment bank to prepare the water and electricity's
sector restructuring, including bringing to the point of privatization of the electricity activities of
SONELEC; (ii) information campaign to mobilize consumer and SONELEC support for the reforms and
privatization of SONELEC; and (iii) strengthening of the regulatory capability.
Project Component 2 - US$7.70 million
2. Consultative Studies. The component consists of funding for: (i) an operational cost for UGP and other
agencies; (ii) study updating the water transport system; (iii) study on water distribution services and
expansion of services; (iv) study of hydrocarbons that will review the price system for petroleum products,
create regulatory capability, review the product specifications; and identify technical specifications as well
as of the safety norms for the sector for all petroleum products; (v) study to define and design action plan
for the promotion of energy savings in the public service sector; (vi) feasibility study and development of
tender documents for a wind park at Nouadhibou; and (vii) development of technical and institutional
delivery mechanisms for RE and RWS services to rural areas.
-22 -






Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MAURITANIA: ENERGYIWATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
Local   I  Foreign         Total
Proiect Cost By Component                US $million  | US $million    US $million
1. Institutional reform                                    0.50         2.70          3.20
2. Consultative Studies
(a) UGP training and operating cost                        0.20          0.50         0.70
(b) Water studies                                          0.00          2.00         2.00
(c) Hydrocarbons study                                     0.00          0.50         0.50
(d) Noudhibou wind farm study                              0.00          0.50         0.50
(e) Development of RE and RWS delivery mechanisms          0.00          1.40         1.40
(f) Development of energy savings plan; support to MWE     0.30          1.00         1.30
for capacity building
3. PPF                                                     0.00          1.00         1.00
Total Baseline Cost                                        1.00          9.60        10.60
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00          0.20         0.20
Price Contingencies                                       0.10          0.00         0.10
Total Project Costs               1.10         9.80         10.90
Total Financing Required               1.10         9.80         10.90
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                        0.00          0.20          0.20
Services and training                                        0.80          8.40          9.20
Operating Expenditures UGP                                   0.30          0.20          0.50
Refinancing of PPF                                           0.00          1.00          1.00
Total Project Costs      1.10          9.80         10.90
Total Financing Required      1.10          9.80         10.90
- 23 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MAURITANIA: ENERGYNWATERISANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The benefits of this project, though large, cannot be quantified. The main benefit of this project is
to create the basis for a sustainable development of the electricity and water sectors, which will
lead to better sector performance, and increased access to services. In the petroleum sector the
higher level of competition and increase levels of service would benefit the economy at large. The
demonopolization, decentralization and the placing under private administration of the water
supply activities of SONELEC would permit a faster increase of coverage for peri urban and rural
population which would result in better improving living conditions and health of the targeted
population. The target population therefore includes (i) all categories of consumers, in particular
those not yet having access to modem energy services, and (ii) both local and foreign private sector
entrepreneurs.
-24 -



MAURITANIA
ELECTRICITY-WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Operational Results of SONELEC - 1999
Exchange rate 1 US$ = 207 MU
ACTUAL                                    IMPROVED
PERFORM.
Local Currency                       Dollars
A. ELECTRICITY
1. Energy balance
Generation                        GWh                   206.9 GWh                206.9            180.7
Sales                             GWh                    153.6 GWh                153.6           153.6
Losses                            GWh                     53.4 GWh                 53.4            27.1
Losses                            %                      26% %                    26%              15%
2. Financial performance
Production Costs                  MU billion         3,738,643 US$ million         18.1            12.6
Distribution Costs                MU billion         1,134,341 US$ million          5.5             5.5
Total Cost                        MU billion         4,872,984 US$ million         23.5            18.2
Unit Cost - Production            MU/KWh                  18.1 US$ c./kWh           8.7             7.0
Unit Cost - Distribution          MU/KWh                   7.4 US$ c./kWh           3.6             3.6
Unit Cost - Total                 MU/KWh                 31.7 US$ c./kWh           15.3            10.6
3. Commercial performance
Price -Average                    MU/KWh                 32.6 US$ c.kWh            15.7            15.7
Billings                          MU billion         5,006,186 US$ million         24.2            24.1
Unpaid Bills                      %                       18%                                      10%
Collections                       MU billion         4,115,085 US$ million         19.9            21.7
4. Financial performance
Operational Surplus (deficit)     MU billion         (757,899) US$ million        (3.7)             3.5
Operational Surplus (deficit)     %                      -16% %                                    19%
- 25 -



B. WATER
1. Water Balance
Production                      MM cu.mt              15.6 MM cu.mt.          15.6           11.9
Sales                           MM cu.mt.             10.1 MM cu.mt.          10.1           10.1
Losses                          MM cu.mt.              5.5 MM cu.mt.           5.5            1.8
Losses                          %                     35% %                   35%            15%
2. Financial performance
Production Costs                MU billion         610,527 US$ million         2.9            1.4
Distribution Costs              MU billion         893,776 US$ million         4.3            3.0
Total Cost                      MU billion        1,504,303 US$ million        7.3            4.5
Unit Cost - Production          MUlcu.mt.             39.1 US$ c./kWh         18.9           12.0
Unit Cost - Distribution        MU/cu.mt.             88.1 US$ c.1kWh         42.6           30.0
Unit Cost - Total               MU/cu.mt.            148.3 US$ c.lkWh         71.6           42.0
3. Commercial performance
Price - Average                 MU/cu.mt.            156.0 US$ c.kWh          75.4           75.4
Billings                        MU billion        1,582,880 US$ million        7.6            7.6
Unpaid Bills                    %                     31% %                                  10%
Collections                     MU billion        1,087,439 US$ million        5.3            6.9
4. Financial Performance
Operational Surplus (deficit)   MU billion        (416,864) US$ million      (2.0)            2.4
Operational Surplus (deficit)   MU billion           -28% %                                  54%
C. CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
Production Costs                MU billion       4,349,170 US$ million        21.0          14.08
Distribution Costs              MU billion        2,028,117 US$ million        9.8           8.56
Total Cost                      MU billion        6,377,287 US$ million       30.8           22.6
Collection                      MU billion        5,202,524 US$ million       25.1           28.6
Operational Surplus (deficit)   MU billion      (1,174,763) US$ million       (5.7)          5.92
Operational Surplus (deficit)   %                    -18% %                                  26%
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
- 26 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MAURITANIA: ENERGY/WATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
(Not Applicable)
-27 -






Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MAURITANIA: ENERGYIWATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Equipment will follow Bank Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and A ugust 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Selection of Consultants will be based on Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. Mauritania's
procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local
regulations.
The project will be implemented by the Para-Public Sector Reform Program under the Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Development, responsible for co-ordinating the overall privatization program in
Mauritania, including the Energy-Water-Sanitation sector reform supported by this project through its
Project Implementation Unit (PIll). The Project Implementation Unit is headed by the Project Manager.
The Ministry has already extensive experience with managing projects. However because it has no
particular experience in Bank Project, the PIU will be assisted by an (i) Accountant/Financial
Management Specialists and a (ii) Procurement Specialist to monitor procurement activities and ensure
timely project execution.
In Mauritania, all public procurement of works, goods and services on behalf of the state, government
organizations, public enterprises and local governments should be procured in accordance to the general
rules established by Decree N. 93-011 of January 10, 1993. Article 56 of this Decree establishes the
Central Procurement Commission ("Commission Centrale des Marches") which is in charge of the
procurement of all contracts with a contract value equal or exceeding 10,000,000 UM (approximately
US$50,000). The Country Procurement Assessment Review of February 1999 and an Institutional
Development Grant have both addressed problems with the capacity of the permanent Central Procurement
Commission and provided for its future reinforcement. In view of the above, procurement under this
project will be carried out by the Special Procurement Commission for the Energy-Water-Sanitation Sector
Reform ("Commission special des marches pour la reforme des secteurs de 1 'hydraulique et de 1 'energie"
). The Special Procurement Commission was established by Decree N. 99-03 of January 6, 1999, as
derogation to Article 56 of Decree N. 93-011 of January 10, 1993, to expedite procurement under this
project while maintaining celerity and transparency in the process of contract awarding. In the past, similar
provisions have been made for ad-hoc procurement commissions responsible for procurement for projects
such as the new electric plant of Nouakchott, the electrification of 13 cities, the Nouakchott-Atar road, a
major water management system and a petrol tank. This arrangement is particularly suited for this
technical assistance project given the high importance of transparency and the short time frame. This
Special Procurement Commission will work closely with the Project Manager and the Procurement
Specialist within the PIU. It will expeditiously handle all procurement matters for the project. This model is
also foreseen for the overall sector reform and privatization program of which the Power-Water sector
reform program.
A General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development Business and will be updated annually
for all outstanding procurements. A timetable listing all procurement steps was prepared with the borrower
during identification and will be regularly updated. A detailed procurement plan of goods and services is
annexed to the Manual of Procedures.
- 28 -



During appraisal, the Government has submitted: (i) the draft of Manual of Procedures including target
time periods for various procurement phases, (ii) the procurement plan for the first year of project
implementation, (iii) the program of a one-day training on the Manual of Procedures for all stakeholders
involved; and (iv) the draft contract to recruit a procurement specialist into the PIU, to work closely with
the Special Procurement Commission.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the proper monitoring of procurement. The Government
gave assurances that it will: (i) use the Manual of Procedures a finalized version of which was submitted
and discussed during negotiations, (ii) use the Bank's standard bidding documents and bid evaluation
reports for International Competitive Bidding, (iii) use the Bank's standard request for proposal, evaluation
reports and model contracts for the consultants' services; and (iv) apply the procurement procedures and
arrangements outlined in the Manual of Procedures.
The Manual of Procedures was approved during negotiations and was referenced in the Development
Credit Agreement. The Government has agreed that the Manual of Procedures will only be modified with
prior IDA approval. The procurement plan will be updated on regular basis, in particular during
semi-annual reviews to compare target times and actual completion. The Government also will give
assurance during the negotiations that it will take the necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases
do not exceed the following targets periods mentioned below:
Procurement phases:                Maximum time framne (number of weeks):
- preparation of bidding document           6 (3 for small contracts)
- preparation of bids by bidders            6-12 (3 for small contracts)
- bid evaluation                            4 (2 for small contracts)
- signature of contracts                    2
During implementation, all bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and draft contracts transmitted to
IDA for review will contain an updated copy of the procurement plan. Procurement confirmation will be
collected and recorded as follows: (a) prompt recording of contract award informnation by the Project
Implementation Unit and (b) comprehensive semi-annual reports by the Project Implementation Unit
indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates
of allowances for contingencies, (ii) revised timing of estimated procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award and experience with completion time and completion costs for individual contracts,
and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
Procurement methods (Trable A)
1.1 Goods and Equipment (US$0.20 million)
Procurement of Goods and Equipment will follow Bank Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
The project will support the procurement of Institutional Reform including computer software and
hardware, other office equipment, furniture and supply for the Regulatory Agency, for the Project
Implementation Unit, as well as for the Special Procurement Agency.
1.1.1 National Competitive Bidding (NCB) (US$0.12 million)
Contracts for the purchase of goods and equipment valued at less than US$50,000 per contract may be
procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs
- 29 -



3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
1.1.3 National Shopping (US$0.08 million)
The management information systems, computer hardware and software, other office equipment and
furniture, estimated to cost less than US$5,000 per contract up to an aggregate not to exceed US$0.03
million in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
1.2 Consultant Services, Studies, Training and Workshops (US$9.9 million)
Consultancy services would be contracted following procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999. The Standard Request for Proposals and Conditions of Contract as developed by
the Bank would be used for all contracts. Simplified contracts may be used for short-term assignments, i.e.
those not exceeding three months, carried out by firns or individuals.
The project will support consultants' services in Power and Water Sector Reform mainly for (i) the
establishment of the legal and regulatory framework, (ii) the execution of the privatization transaction of
SONELEC, (iii) Updating Water Adduction, (iv) Water Distribution Services, (v) the launching of a
communications campaign, (vi) Hydrocarbon Competitive Assessment, (vii) the Nouadhibou wind energy
park feasibility, and (viii) capacity building purposes.
Contracts above US$200,000 will be advertised in the Development Business to obtain expression of
interest before establishing the short-lists. Specific Procurement Notices requesting expression of interest
from consultants interested to assist the Government in (i) the preparation of the power/water sector
reform, and (ii) the preparation and execution of the privatization of SONELEC, have already been
published in volume 22-No. 508 issue of development business, dated April 16, 1999.
1.2.1 Quality and Cost Based Selection (US$7.10 million)
Consultants' services for technical assistance, studies and training financed under this project shall be
normally selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection is based on
Quality and Costs (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before combining quality and cost
evaluation. Short lists may comprise, on exceptional basis and with the Bank's prior agreement, entirely
national consultants, if the assignment is below US$50,000 in accordance with the provisions of
Paragraphs 2.7 of the Guidelines.
1.2.2 Consultant Qualification (US$2.05 million)
For specialized assignments, for which the need of preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is not
justifiable, the Borrower may prepare TORs, request expressions of interest and information on consultants
experience and competence relevant to assignment, establish a short list, and select the firm with the most
appropriate qualifications and references in accordance to the provisions in Paragraph 3. 7 of the
Guidelines. UN Agencies and NGOs may be included in the short list, as participation and local knowledge
is essential for carrying out the assignment; and will be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Paragraphs 3.13 and 3.14 of the Guidelines.
1.2.3 Individual Consultants (US$0.70 million)
Services valued at less than US$50,000 per contract which do not require firms and can be procured by
Individual Consultants e.g. for small assignments, studies, organization of or lecturing at seminars,
workshops or study tours will be selected through comparison of qualification and experience among those
expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly in accordance of the provisions of Section V of
- 30 -



the Guidelines.
The project manager, the procurement agent and the financial management agent/accountant for the Project
Implementation Unit, as well as the legal, economic and technical experts for the Regulatory Agency will
be recruited with IDA non-objection based on comparison of three CVs, proposed by the Govemment.
1.2.4 Training
The project will finance training relevant fields in the country and abroad. The program containing names
of candidates, cost estimates, courses, period of training and institutions selected would be reviewed by
IDA semi-annually. The Govemment will also submit a final report not later than three months after the
training is completed.
1.3 Operating costs (US$0.50 million)
1.3.1 Project Audit (US$0.05 million)
For audits of standard nature, such as the project audit, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will be used: the
firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided technical proposals received the minimal score.
1.3.2 Incremental operating expenses (US$0.45 million)
Other operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred in the Power and Water Sector Reform,
the Special Procurement Commission or the Regulatory Agency on account of program implementation,
management and supervision, including rent, office supplies and small office equipment, operation and
maintenance, administrative and secretarial support but excludes salaries of officials of the borrower's civil
service, the purchase of vehicles or petrol.
2.1 Goods and Equipment
All contracts for procurement of goods costing more than US$50,000 per contract will be subject to IDA
prior review. All other contracts will require post review. The review process will cover about 50% of the
total value of the amount contracted for goods.
2.2 Services
Prior review will be required for consultancy services valued at more than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract with firms and at more than US$50,000 per contract with individuals. The project audit in any
case will be subject to prior review. The technical evaluation report will be submitted for IDA
non-objection before the financial envelopes are opened. All other contracts will be subjected to post
review. For training abroad or in the country, the program containing names of candidates, cost estimates,
courses, period of training and institutions selected would be reviewed by IDA semi-annually. The review
process will cover 87% of the total value of the amount contracted for consultants' services. Selective
post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply to about one in three contracts a
year.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements of the IDA credit will be made for goods, services and training, and operating expenditures
that are eligible for IDA financing. The credit would be disbursed over a period of three years, taking into
- 31 -



account that the credit closing date will be six months after the project completion date. The disbursements
would be fully documented at the time of submission of withdrawal application, except for expenditures
which would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOE).
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs)
Withdrawal applications shall be fully documented for all expenditures against which loan disbursements
would be made, except for the following contracts for which loan disbursement would be based on SOEs
certified by the Project Manager: (a) goods under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each;
(b) contracts of consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each or with individuals costing
less than US$50,000 each. Documents supporting SOEs shall be retained by the PIU and made available
for review as requested by auditors (including technical audits) and by the World Bank supervision
missions.
Special account
(a) Special account under Traditional Disbursements Procedures
To facilitate disbursements, the Government would open an IDA Special Account at a commercial bank for
IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation of this account would amount to
US$1,000,000. The authorized allocation shall be limited initially to an amount of US$500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit account plus the total amount of all outstanding
commitments entered into by the Association shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1.2 million. Each
replenishment request will be accompanied, as necessary, by an up-to-date bank statement and a
reconciliation statement.
(b) Special account for Withdrawals made on the basis of Project Management Reports
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount
equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has
determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said
project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount of one
million six hundred thousand Dollars (US$1,600,000).
Government counterparts (US$1.0 million)
The Government's counterpart funds needed to cover 90% of local operating costs and 90% of local costs
of goods and consultants' services and will be deposited by the Government in a Project Account at a
Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA. The Government will make an initial deposit of UM 80 million
(approximately US$100,000) representing about a year of project expenditures which will be a condition to
project effectiveness, and will subsequently replenish the account on a yearly basis. The Government
counterpart funds will also include the financing of a three-year digressive subsidy to the new postal entity.
- 32 -



Financial Management
During appraisal an action plan for the establishment of a financial management system has been agreed on
between the Bank and the UGP's Project Implementation Unit (PIU). According to this plan, a system for
cash management, accounting, internal control and financial reporting would be fully in place prior to
project effectiveness. The PIU will establish a financial management system, acceptable to IDA, which will
provide the PIU and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures. In
addition, before effectiveness a (i) full-time project accountant/financial management specialist will be
recruited; (ii) a Y2K compliant financial management software will be purchased; and (iii) an external
audit firm will be contracted. The financial management system will include accounting, financial reporting
and auditing elements.
Accounting
Internal account controls for the project are set out in detail in the financial procedures of the Manuel of
Procedures to be satisfactory for providing reasonable assurances that accounts are properly recorded and
resources safeguarded. The accounting system for the PIU will be computerized using appropriate and
Y2K compliant software.
Financial reporting
The PIU will provide quarterly activity reports. The annual financial statements of the project will be
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Mauritania and will include at
least (i) a summary of sources and uses of funds, (ii) a project balance sheet, and (iii) a statement of the
special account. The financial statements will be-submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of
the fiscal year.
The Bank is introducing the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). During appraisal it was
assessed by a certified financial management specialist on the project team that the project satisfies the
Bank's minimum financial management requirement. However, the project does not have in place an
adequate project financial management system that can provide with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information on the status of the project using Project Management Reports (PMR) based
disbursements. While an assessment has been made that the PMR procedures would not be appropriate for
the Project initially, there is a need to ensure that the systems put in place are operating effectively. The
monitoring and evaluation process will include quarterly activity reports, which are consistent with the
PMR requirements. The financial, procurement and output monitoring systems will be reviewed as part of
a supervision mission 18 months after effectiveness to assess whether it would be appropriate to move to
PMR disbursements at that time.
Auditing
The financial statements of the project will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The
selection of an appropriate auditor will be condition to effectiveness. The auditor will provide an opinion
on: (i) the project's financial statements, (ii) statement of expenditures (SOEs), (iii) special accounts, and
(iv) a management report on internal controls outlining any recommendation for improving internal
accounting controls identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
- 33 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category         1tC                                       N.B.F.     TotsI Cost
1. Works                          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
2. Goods                          0.00          0.20          0.10          0.00         0.30
(0.00)        (0.20)        (0. 1 0)      (0.00)       (0.30)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00          9.90          0.00          9.90
and training                    (0.00)        (0.00)        (9.10)        (0.00)        (9.10)
4.1ncremental Operating cost      0.00          0.00          0.70          0.00          0.70
UGP                              (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.50)        (0.00)        (0.50)
Refinancing of PPF                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                          0.00          0.20          10.70         0.00         10.90
(0.00)        (0.20)        (9.70)        (0.00)       (9.90)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
- 34 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           7.10      0.00      0.00       0.05      1.35      0.70       0.00      9.20
(6.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.05)    (1 .35)    (0.70)    (0.00)    (8.40)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.70      0.00      0.00       0.70
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.70)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.70)
Total   7.10      0.00      0.00      0.05      2.05       0.70      0.00      9.90
(6.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.05)    (2.05)    (0.70)    (0.00)    (9. 1 0)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 35 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurerent             Prior Review
-Expenditure Category    (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                  Above US$50,000               NCB                US$0.05 million
Below US$50,000              NCB                 Post Review
National shopping
3. Services                                                                  All TORs or
and Training                                                              sole source contracts
are subject to IDA Prior
Review
(a) Firms                 Above US$100,000             QCBS                US$0.10 million
Below US$100,000            CQ, LCS                Post Review
(b) Individuals           Above US$50,000                CQ                US$0.01 million
Below US$50,000               CV                  Post Review
Operating Cost UGP             Audit                    LCS                  Prior Review
US$0.05 million
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$7.20 million
corresponding to about
89% of project cost
including PPF
Refinancing
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 36 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Goods                                      0.10               100% of foreign; 90% of local
expenditures
Consulting Services and Training           8.10                          100
Operating Expenditures UGP                 0.50                          90
Refinancing of PPF                         1.00
Unallocated                                0.20
Total Project Costs                        9.90          __ ___               _      =_
Total                                      9.90
- 37 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MAURITANIA: ENERGY/WATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
Project Schedulei                                  Plannd d,t -                 h               I
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                            6
First Bank mission (identification)              10/25/99                     10/25/99
Appraisal mission departure                      04/10/2000                   04/10/2000
Negotiations                                    04/27/2000                    04/27/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development; Ministry of Water and Energy; SONELEC
Preparation assistance:
[PPF, trust funds, cofinanciers, etc.] PPF: US$1 million
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Willem Floor                      Task Team Leader/Senior Energy Planner, AFTG 1
Heman Garcia                      Principal Power Engineer, EMTOG
Eric Daffem                       Principal Energy Economist, EMTOG
Richard Verspyck                  Principal Water and Sanitation Specialist, AFTU2
Cheikh Abdallahi Ould Houeibib    Economist, Resident Mission of Mauritania, AFMMR
Ahmedou Ould Hamed                Procurement Officer, AFMMR
Sergio Caligari                   Water and Sanitation Specialist (Consultant)
Other Staff Contributing
Hans Wabnitz                      Counsel, LEGAF
Bernard Abeille                   Principal Procurement Specialist, AFTQK
Adriana Florez                    Procurement Analyst, AFTQK
Wolfgang Chadab                   Disbursement Officer, LOAAF
Francoise Perrot                  Operations Analyst, AFC 15
Dawit Yohannes                    Team Assistant, AFTG1
Lily Wong                         Team Assistant, AFTG1
Quality Assurance Team
Douglas Barnes                    Energy Planner, SASEG
Tonci Bakovic                     Senior Energy Specialist, INFEG
- 38 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MAURITANIA: ENERGY/WATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Implementation Manual
Project Information Document
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Appraisal Report, Aide-memoires and BTOs
9th year PFP matrix
Project Preparation Facility Letter of Agreement
C. Other
Water, Sanitation and Energy Sectors Policy Declaration
Electricity Law
Manual of Procedures
*Including electronic files
-39-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MAURITANIA: ENERGYIWATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions       disbursements
Project ID   FY   Borrower                    Purpose                                   IBRD     IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
MR-PE-55003  1999 GOV OF MAURITANIE       NUTRITION (LIL)                                 0.00      4.90      0.00      4.82      0.00      0.00
MR-PE-57875   1999 GOVT OF MAURITANIA     MINING SECT CAPACITY                            0.00     15.00      0.00     14.85      0.32      0.00
MR-PE-63791   1999 GOVOF MAURITANIA       TELECOM POSTAL REFRM                            0.00     10,80      0.00     10.71      0.00      0.00
MR-PE-35689  1998 MINISTRY OF HEALTH &    HEALTH SECTOR INVEST                            0.00     24.00      0.00     22.63      4.43      0.00
MR-PE-1875   1997 SOCI                    RAINFEDNATRESMGT                                000      18.00      0.00     14.63      1.11      0.00
MR-PE-46650   1997 GOVERNMENT             REGIONAL POWER                                  000      11 10      0.00      7.60      561       0.00
MR-PE-1874   1996 OMVS                    PUBLICRESOURCEMGMT                              0.00     21.14      0.00      3.84      330       0.03
MR-PE-34106  1996 MINISTRYOFPLAN          INFRAST&PILOTDEC.                               0.00     14.00      0.00      8.66      9.17      0.00
MR-PE-1857   1995 ISL. REP. OF MTA        GENERAL EDUCATION PR                            0.00     35.00      0.00     16.54     20 98      0.00
MR-PE-38661   1995 GOVT OF MAURITANIA     FINIPRIV.SCTR.CAPACI                            0.00      7.20      0.00      1.63      2.36      2.36
MR-PE-1864   1994 GOVERNMENT              AGRIC SERVICES                                  0.00     18.20      0.00      5.26      339       0.00
Total:       000      179.34       0.00     111.17    50.67      2.39
MAURITANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval             Company                                Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic         Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1996                    AEF Mayo Fish                          0.00       0.24      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.24      0.00       0.00
1996                    GBM                                    4.00       0.00      0.20       0.00      4.00       0.00      0.14       0.00
1997                    AEF Codipal                            0.00       0.47      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.47      0.00       0.00
1997                    AEF STEP                               0.68       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.68       0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:               4.68       0.71      0.20       0.00      4.68       0.71       0.14      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                    Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                  0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
-40 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MAURITANIA: ENERGYIWATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
Sub-                                                   917/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                        :                   Saharan       Low.         .     . ._.. ..
Mauritania     Africa   Income       Development diamond'
1998
PoouIation. mid-vear (tililons)                          2         65 628   3.S15                  Lf      tac
GNP nerEcanila (Atlas method. US$)                      410        480       520
G(NP (Atlas method. riSs billions)                        (t      304      1 844
Averaoe anrnual growth. 1992-98
Pooulation (%:                                           28         2.6       1.7
Labor force f(%                                          2 8!       2.6       1 9      GNP                               Gross
Mgost recernt estimate (latest vear avaIlabte.. 1992.981                              per                              primary
c-apit                        AnmtlmAnt
Povartv (% of ooDulatton below national Dovertv line)
Urban Dootlatipo 1% of total vooulation)                 55         33        31
Life exaectanca at birth (vearI                          53         51        63
Infant mortlaitv (oer 1f0004T,ve births)                 92         91        69
Child marriutrition (% of children under St              23           .                          Access to safe water
Accress to safe water (% of orautation)                  64         47        74
Illiteracv f(1 ofDoooUlatior aee 15+)                    62         42        32
Gross orimarv enrollment IS of school-aoe oAmulation)    79         77       108                   MdMuritania
Male                                                   84..       84       113                   Low-income group
Female                                                 75       .69        103
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       19979    19S
Economic ratios'
GDP  lJSS billions)                           0,82      1.02      1.10       0.99
Gross domestik investmenViGDP                 24.7      253      17 5       21.0
F.norts of snoods and servireslG nP           2R.A      43 P      3*4:r      41 1                     Trade
Gross domestic savinos/aDP                   -10,8       9.7       84         8.0
Gross national savinos/GDP                      ..       8.8      8a5         9.6
Cu.jrrent ancouint balancr/GOfP              -17       -128         1 0      -24
Interest Davmonts/G[)P                         1 i       3 1        3.1       3.3     Domestic                      Investment
Total debtiGDP                                84.2    198.7      223 5      261 1      Savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                    15.2      23.3       19 4      23.2
Present value of debt/GDP                        -               161t           .
Present value of debt/exoorts                                    353.0
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   199043
(averace annual orowthl
GDP                                   0.7      3.5       4.5,       3 5       4.7                   Mauritania
GNP oer caoita                       .0 5      12        2 2        1 7       2.0                   Low-income group
Exnorts of aoods and services         7.2     -0,3    -171          87        8.66
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output andinvestment(#)
1% of GDP)
Acriculture                                   29.2      32.3       24.6      24.8
Industrv                                      29.8      26.8      29.7       29.5     so
Manufacturing                                  ..    12.1         9.9       9.1
Services                                      41.0     40.9       45.7       45.7      oil7
Private consumotion                           54.1      69.4      78.0       78.2    -5s
General oovernment consumDtion                56.7      20.9       13.7      13.8                     GD            GO' GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                 64.1      59.6      48.8       54.1
(averace annual orowthl                    1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports %)
Acriculture                                    3.1       3.8       5.1        6.1     60.
Industrv                                       3.7       2.9      -0.8       -1.1
Manufacturina                                  ..    -1.2       -21.9      -0.9    30
Services                                       -0.2      3.7       10.8       5.4
Private consumotion                            1.7       5.6        1.6      13.6.6_
General oovernment consumDtion                 -9.0     -4.2        2.4       5.6                        95
Gross domestic investment                     14.4       3.4       15.9     -17.5    30
Imoorts of ooods and services                  3.1       0.5     -11.7       13.7                   Exports     *Irmports
Gross national oroduct                         2.1       3.7        4.8       4.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the couintrv (in holdl comnared with its inornme-rnmin averane If data are missinn the diamond will
he incomnlete
-41-



Mauritania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1977     1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             12
Consumer prices                                   .       8.2        4.5       8.0
Implicit GDP deflator                           6.4       9.4        6.2       8.8
4.
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                    .     32.1       26.9      27.6             93    94    95    9i    97    9B
Current budget balance                            ..      8.5       10.3      10.3                    GDP deflator  - S  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..    -3.0         4.2       2.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                      401        413       369      600
Iron                                             .      133       216        217
Fish                                                    268        197       151     400
Manufactures                                    .
Total imports (cif)                               .      383        384       387
Food                                            ..      105         92        94     200
Fuel and energy                                 ..       35        103        81
Capital goods                                   ..      130         73        71 
92   93   94   95   99   97   98
Exoort orice index (1995=1001                     ..      85        100        88
Imoort orice index (1995=100)                             94        100        88                  a Exports      i mports
Trrms of trade 11995=1001                                 90        101        100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
fUSS millions)                                 1977     1987       1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   179      447        435       409       2
Imports of goods and services                   363      606        536       538         T
Resource balance                               -184     -159       -101       -129                                     97
Net income                                      -43       -78        -52       -40
Net current transfers                           105      107        164       145      -4
Current account balance                        -122     -130         11        -24      -
Financing items (net)                            72      112         42        56
Changes in net reserves                          50       18        -53        -32     -ID
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS millions)           51                 204       206
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)               45.6      73 9      151 9     189.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            523    2,020       2,453     2,594
IBRD                                            0       91          5         4     '              2
IDA                                            24      126        372       408                  G20 A4         B40
Total debt service                               28      108         97        109
I BRD                                           0        6          2         2                                        10
IDA                                             0        1          5         8
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                         66        156         0
Official creditors                             38      102         33         -5                                       583
Private creditors                              29       -6         -2        -2          E: 1,197
Foreign direct investment                                2          3         0
Portfolio equity                                         0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                     4       43         29        24      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   6       51         34        24      B- IDA     D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                            0        6          4         5      (C- IMF                        r. -1Sh-rt- 
Net flows                                       6       44         30        19
Interest payments                               0        1          3         3
Net transfers                                   6       43         27        16
Development Economics                                                                                                       971/99
- 42 -






Additional
Annex No.: 11
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Honor - Fraternity - Justice
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR THE
WATER AND ENERGY SECTORS
September 23, 1998
A.    INTRODUCTION
1. The Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania is elaborating a major economic reform program
with the objective of promoting sustained economic growth in order to improve the quality of life of the
population.
2. To achieve these objectives, the Government is determined to reform the public sector by: (i) focusing the
State's role on developing and monitoring the implementation of economic policies; (ii) disengaging the State
from operational activities; (iii) establishing the necessary framework to attract private sector initiatives to
develop industry, build infrastructure, and provide public services; and (iv) increasing government investment
in the social sector.
3. With the assistance of its development partners, Mauritania has been carrying out a major basic
infrastructure program to improve the quality of life of its people and lay the foundation for sustainable
development via a harmonious land management policy directed at improving the population's access to water
and energy and developing the country's water and energy resources.
In addition to playing a central role in the economic development of Mauritania, the water and energy
sectors are the prime focal points for promoting progress and modernizing the country.
Although considerable progress has been made in the two sectors, Mauritania remains largely underserved
in both areas. This is so because the country is extremely vast and unevenly inhabited, and because
multi-centered sedentarization has occurred as a result of recurrent droughts in recent decades that have
spawned massive population shifts from rural areas to the outskirts of urban agglomerations.
Given this situation, efforts to provide the infrastructure needed to expand water and electric power
services will present a strategic challenge in the years ahead.
4. To meet this challenge, structural reforms will be needed to improve sector performance, rationalize
management of water and energy resources, and create an institutional framework for the sectors consistent
with the dynamics of economic and social development in Mauritania.
5. This letter describes the policies, strategies, and general actions which the Mauritanian Government has
decided to implement in the water and energy sectors. The letter focuses on the current status of the sectors and
the key features of the development policy being applied to them.
-43 -



B. CURRENT STATUS
B.1. Water sector
B.1.1 Energy sector
6. Surface water resources consist essentially of those of the Senegal River and its tributaries and storage
dams located throughout the territory.
7. Mauritania also has substantial groundwater resources, although there are significant disparities depending
on geographical location. The situation is favorable in the southwest, south, and southeast (large continuous
sediments in Trarza and Taoudeni, stretches in the river valley, with high and reliable flow rates and total
reserves estimated at 50 billion m3), and less favorable in the rest of the country (discontinuous stretches of
water and less predictable resources).
B.1.2. The urban water subsector
8. The authorities implemented a major rehabilitation and investment program for the urban water subsector
during the past decade aimed at (i) strengthening the Nouakchott water supply system by drilling six boreholes
at Idini, increasing storage capacity (by building a water tower with a capacity of 1,000 m3 and an
underground tank holding 5,000 m3), and rehabilitating and extending the distribution network and the
Noukachott-Idini line; (ii) reinforcing the water supply system in the town of Nouadhibou by rehabilitating and
extending the network, particularly in the peri-urban areas; (iii) supplying water to Aioun and Atar; and (iv)
conducting water supply studies for ten other towns.
9. These investments (i) improved water supply to and coverage of the populations of Nouakchott and
Nouadhibou as a result of network improvements in the peri-urban districts and an increase in the production
capacity of the Idini pumping station from 24,000 m3/day to 35,000 m3/day and of the Boulanouar station
from 3,500 m3/day to 6,500 m3/day; (ii) provided a new well field in Atar with a capacity of 960 m3/day, thus
assurance the town's needs will be met through 2005; and (iii) supplied water to Aioun.
10. Significant development efforts are currently under way to promote sector growth and satisfy increasing
demand. These include (i) reinforcement and extension of the water supply systems in Nouadhibou and
Nouakchott (phase 2); (ii) provision of water supply systems to nine towns; (iii) rehabilitation and
reinforcement of the water supply systems in Kaedi and Mederdra; (iv) a study of the Rosso system; and (v) a
study of Nouakchott water production from the Senegal River (Aftout-Es-Sahel).
11. On the regulatory front, Mauritania has a water code (decree 93124) dealing with management of the
distribution system. A legislative and regulatory framework needs to be established to interest the private
sector in providing drinking water services.
12. SONELEC handles water distribution and production in Nouakchott, Nouadhibou, and a number of
secondary towns. Under three performance contracts (1989-1998), SONELEC made significant progress
meeting the specified performance criteria (see the table annexed to this report). However, there still are
weaknesses to be overcome. The rate of coverage is still inadequate and technical and non-technical losses
remain high. Profit margins on water sales are satisfactory; they remain low in the electric power sector.
-44 -



B.1.3 The semi-urban and rural water subsector
13. Activities in this subsector during the past decade required an investment of nearly UM ten billion, raising
the number of outlets from 400 to more than 2400 productive water points. These operations increased the
coverage rate from 30 percent to over 66 percent. However, the financial stability of operations in the
secondary centers is dependent for the time being on a sizeable subsidy from the State.
B.1.4 Sanitation and environmental health
14. The sanitation subsector is rudimentary, and is limited to a small network in central Nouakchott managed
by SONELEC.
B.2 The energy sector
B.2.1 Energy resources
15. Mauritania has no commercial sources of energy. The modem energy sector is totally dependent on
imported petroleum products. However, household energy needs are satisfied for the most part with local
energy resources, including wood fuel and charcoal and, to some extent, solar and wind energy.
16. In the light of this situation, in 1987 the Govemment formulated a sector strategy which led to the
implementation of a series of measures to put the sector on a sound footing and improve its performance.
SMCPP was privatized; SONELEC was restructured; and the import, storage, and distribution of petroleum
products were liberalized and petroleum product tariffs are now transparent and reflect their economic costs.
17. Mauritania has no proven oil or natural gas reserves. There have been some shallow seismic offshore
activities (30,000 km) and some on-shore seismic activities. Eleven off-shore wells and two on-shore wells
have been drilled. Oil exploration is governed by the 1988 petroleum code and a model joint oil production
contract (1994). These two texts require ongoing revision to maintain Mauritania's competitiveness.
18. The forest cover - estimated at 3.5 million hectares, or 3.5 percent of the national territory - is the primary
source of energy. However, only 0.6 million ha are accessible and are located mainly in the Senegal River
valley. Wind energy potential is substantial in the coastal regions, with the relative constant winds and average
wind speeds needed for electric power production. In the south and southeast of the country, wind patterns
make it possible to pump water for human and agricultural use. There is also considerable solar energy
potential.
B.2.2 The petroleum product subsector
19. The supply infrastructure for petroleum products includes a refinery in Nouadhibou with a capacity of one
million tons/year, two regional storage depots (in Nouadhibou and Nouakchott), and a network of private
distribution stations in various locations. The refinery is managed by an offshore company under an agreement
between Mauritania and Algeria.
20. Petroleum prices in Mauritania are indexed on international prices. The two regional storage depots are
owned by private companies and are managed by MEPP, a technical exploration firm owned by these
companies, which also own the distribution networks. A third depot, in Zouerate, is operated by the SNIM
group.
-45 -



21. Petroleum products are transported between Nouadhibou (the main entry point) and Nouakchott by a
4,200-ton tanker; SNIM provides transport services between Nouadhibou and Zouerate; and private operators
handle transport between the regional storage depots and the distribution stations.
22. Annual consumption of petroleum products is approximately 320,000 tons (heavy fuel oil for power
production, diesel fuel for transport, fisheries, and power production, and LPG for households). More than 60
percent is consumed in the Nouadhibou and Zouerate region, and nearly 40 percent is used in the southern part
of the country, transiting via the Nouakchott depot.
23. SONELEC and SNIM jointly consume 140,000 tons of petroleum products. The rest of the market - some
180,000 tons - is split among four distribution companies, one of which is the sole distributor of LPG.
24. The Government establishes prices for petroleum products and the maximum profits sector operators may
earn under a complex pricing system which has not been altered since 1990. Additional studies are needed to
review the distribution margins and compare them with those of other countries. The prices of aviation
kerosene and lubricants are not regulated. These products represent a significant source of profits for
petroleum companies.
25. The primary short-term objective is to ensure the reliable transport of supplies to the southern part of the
country, a task requiring the construction of infrastructure for the delivery and storage of petroleum products in
the protected area of Port d'Amitie. A study is under way to ascertain the technical, financial, and institutional
requirements for building this infrastructure.
B.2.3 The electric power subsector
B.2.3.1 The urban power subsector
26. Progress in the subsector during the period 1987-97 included: (i) a number of investments in Nouakchott,
which strengthened production capacity and extend the distribution network, particularly to peri-urban areas;
(ii) in Nouadhibou, the power plant was rehabilitated and the network was extended to peripheral districts; (iii)
power plants and power networks were rehabilitated in Atar, Kaedi, and Rosso; (iv) 13 towns were electrified;
(v) electric power was brought to Ouad Naga; and (vi) Tintane was electrified.
27. With these investments, the number of customers rose from 30,000 in 1995 to 58,000, an increase of 98
percent during the past three years.
28. The investment program implemented in recent years has focused on: (i) electrification of Tintane; (ii)
extension of the Nouakchott power plant and power grid; (iii) extension of the Nouadhibou power plant and
grid; and (iv) extension of power networks in 13 towns. In addition, a high-voltage line is being installed to
transmit hydroelectric power from the Manantali dam to Nouakchott, and interconnection of the country's
power grids is being studied.
29. These works are expected to make it possible to satisfy power requirements (except in Nouadhibou) to the
year 2012, and to improve service substantially.
30. The cost of these investments by SONELEC was approximately UM 33 billion. SONELEC will be able to
repay the debt appropriately.
- 46 -



B.2.3.2 Rural electrification
31. Rural electrification is still in its early stages, with only 20 towns out of a total of 3,000 having electric
power as of 1998. Access to electricity in rural areas promotes social development and, in particular,
facilitates access to health and educational services. Access to electric power also enables the population to
engage in productive income-generating activities, thus promoting the economic and social development of the
rural sector. The power sector is therefore a major component of future investments.
32. The Government has initiated rural electrification activities (through the Alize program) which have
demonstrated the financial and institutional viability of hybrid solar-wind systems managed by the beneficiaries
themselves in regions where wind energy is reliably available. However, a policy for structuring the rural
electrification sector still has to be elaborated.
B.2.4 Household energy
33. For the past ten years the Government, with donor support, has been implementing an ambitious program
to market butane gas (LPG) and improved wood fuel stoves. These efforts notwithstanding, the rate of wood
fuel consumption remains far higher than the natural regeneration capacity of the forest cover, a situation which
exacerbates desertification.
34. National consumption is estimated at 378,000 MT of wood fuel and 68,000 MT of charcoal, representing a
total of 1.4 million MT of wood. The demand for wood fuel - which is met by harvesting the country's fragile
forest resources - results in the annual clearing of 840,000 MT of natural forest cover.
35. Butane gas distribution has increased substantially since 1982 as a result of significant investments in
storage, bottling, and distribution equipment and infrastructure. Consumption of butane gas rose from 700 T in
1982 to 17,000 T in 1997, and there is still considerable unmet demand in rural areas.
C.    OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES
C.1 The water sector
36. The Government has established the following policy objectives in order to promote the sustainable
development of the water sector: (i) continuously improve access of the entire population to sufficient
high-quality drinking water, with an emphasis on the poorest inhabitants; and (ii) increase sector capacity,
given its role in the overall effort to combat poverty and improve health conditions and public health.
C.1.1 Water resources
37. The Govermment's objective is to improve the long-term management of water resources by learning more
about the country's groundwater resources and developing national capacity in this area.
In particular, the Government, with assistance from experts, will determine the sustainable level for
development of the Trarza sediments and will study the drinking-water demand curve.
C.1.2 The urban water subsector
38. The Government's primary objective in major urban centers will be to ensure that demand for water is
-47 -



satisfied. To this end, production in Nouakchott will increase over the medium term from 35,000 m3/day to
60,000 m3/day, and the distribution network will be strengthened to increase the coverage rate from 35 percent
to 80 percent. In Nouadhibou, production will be increased from 6,500 m3/day to 18,000 m3/day, again over
the medium term.
39. In both these towns, efforts will focus on increasing network density, linking private systems, and
establishing privatized water points.
40. In other towns, the focus will be on infrastructure to improve the rate of coverage and service quality.
41. The secondaiy objectives will be to (i) supply every town with 5,000 or more inhabitants with running
water; (ii) encourage privatization of communal water points, with beneficiaries paying for the water they use;
and (iii) build water distribution systems and devise a rate structure providing the poorest inhabitants with
improved access to water
42. The urban water strategy should: (i) free the subsector from financial dependence on government subsidies;
(ii) guarantee customers that foreseeable demand will be met over the medium term at affordable prices; (iii)
improve production and distribution methods in underserved areas; (iv) identify optimal technical, economic,
and institutional alternatives for planning and ensuring the consistency of selected production and distribution
investments; (v) gradually improve service levels and the rate of return for water supply service in large towns;
and (vi) provide water to the poorest members of society at adjusted tariffs, while endeavoring to prevent water
from being wasted by requiring those who consume more water to pay a penalty rate.
43. To implement this strategy, it will be necessary to step up efforts relating to production, coverage, water
quality, and tariffs. To this end, and bearing in mind the challenges involved in ensuring that services remain
competitive, the Government - in cooperation with its development partners - will implement institutional
reforms of the water sector reflecting the decentralization policy now in place and the requirements dictated by
the poverty reduction effort.
In this connection, the Government plans to revise regulations governing the water sector (the water code
and subsequent texts). Activities in the sector should be evaluated, restructured, and adapted to standards with
a view to ensuring the ultimate transparency of sector management. To this end, on the basis arrangements
following further studies, the Government will establish a national regulatory body for the water sector alone or
a dual-sector entity for the water and power sectors. Private capital will ultimately have to be sought to finance
costly investments. As an example, the Nouakchott drinking water supply project (Aftout-Es-Sahel) will be
executed with the assistance of a private strategic partner under a BOT arrangement.
44. With these objectives in mind, the State will need to create a stable and transparent environment that will
encourage private investors to provide services, the aim being to improve the rate of coverage significantly by
extending existing systems. Tariffs should be maintained at levels ensuring sustained operational efficiency and
compatibility with poverty reduction objectives, in accordance with arrangements to be studied.
45. Water sector reform will be completed by late October 2001 and will be based on (i) the establishment of a
new legal and regulatory framework to promote private sector participation in the provision of water supply
services; (ii) the creation of a public/private partnership tailored to the Mauritanian context and structured to
achieve the Government's objectives; (iii) rationalization of water prices to reflect their economic cost; and (iv)
separation of the urban water sector from the rural and semi-urban water sector.
Features which should be incorporated in the public/private urban water subsector include the functional
-48 -



separation of management responsibilities (production, distribution, customer service), in accordance with
arrangements to be developed once a study has been carried out. However, the option of retaining a shared
functional approach should not be discarded. In any event, SONELEC's "water" assets will remain the
property of the State. In addition, it will be necessary to define the optimum area for development and decide
whether the regulatory approach should be sectoral or multi-sectoral.
The reform of the urban water subsector will also take the following factors into account:
*      The impact of institutional reforn on staffing requirements and skills;
*      The financial impact;
*      The social aspects of institutional reform;
*      Distribution of responsibilities with respect to the financing of investments for sector development;
*      The roles and responsibilities of the various actors with respect to sector management (the State,
the regulatory body, municipalities, operator[s], consumers);
*      Poverty reduction (improved coverage rates and service levels for the poorest inhabitants:
*      The impact of each option on the financial stability of the sectors; and
Institutional arrangements and implementation mechanisms.
46. Furthermore - and bearing in mind the strategic importance of ensuring an ongoing reliable supply of
drinking water to Nouakchott - the Government plans to execute the Aftout-Es-Sahel project as a BOT or
similar operation with a private strategic partner. The partner will be able to have a stake in the water sector
operator.
47. The specific measures required for the reform of the water sector and for the BOT operation are set out in
the attached timetable.
C.1.3 The semi-urban and rural water subsector
48. To supply water to rural areas, the Government intends to encourage local initiatives and management of
water supply operations and to promote cost-recovery arrangements conducive to adequate operations and
maintenance over the short term, as well as total financial independence.
49. Moreover, in view of its desire to refocus the role of public institutions, the Government plans to
decentralize the execution and management of water supply programs and to gradually turn the construction of
water systems over to the private sector via BOO or BOT operations.
50. In addition, govemment policy in the subsector will focus on restoring some balance to the natural
environment, encouraging communities to assume responsibility for infrastructure, promoting local initiatives,
and involving the private sector in works execution and management.
51. Given the substantial need to be met and the desire to ensure the sustainability of the works executed,
-49 -



beneficiaries will be asked to pay a greater share of the investment and shoulder a higher amount of recurrent
costs under a suitable cost-recovery policy.
52. In keeping with the State's efforts to redirect its mission, the Government will disengage from works
construction and maintenance activities, and public institutions involved in the sector will focus on the priority
tasks of designing, planning, and programming activities; preparing projects and serving as contracting
authorities; researching and managing water resources; and drafting and implementing regulations. In tandem
with this approach, the organizational and management capacities of concessionaires (communities and private
operators) will be strengthened.
53. Accordingly, selective criteria should be applied when deciding where to build new water points, including
consistency with land development policy, prior identification of actual needs, assessment of users'
organizational and financial capacities, and objectives with respect to sanitation and hygiene.
54. Efforts will focus on the global management of groundwater and surface water resources, with particular
emphasis on ensuring complementarity. The water resources developed will be monitored regularly - with
attention to both quality and quantity - via a resource monitoring network.
55. The Government will undertake the institutional reform of the water and sanitation sector in accordance
with the attached timetable.
C.1.4 Sanitation and environmental health
56. Considerable work will be needed to upgrade and develop the sanitation subsector, given the massive
urbanization of Nouakchott and Nouadhibou and the sedentarization that has occurred throughout the country.
C.2 The energy sector
C.2.1 Resources
57. The Government's oil exploration policy will focus on intensifying the search for oil to increase the
likelihood of finding commercial deposits. To this end, the Government will revise existing incentives to
encourage oil companies to conduct exploration activities in Mauritania, and will provide access to available
data. The Government will step up its efforts to inform international oil companies of Mauritania's potential
and will develop a promotion strategy. To support this effort to promote petroleum exploration, the department
responsible for exploration activities should be in a position to update summary reports and participate in all
promotion agreements. Regarding the country's wood resources, a framework for forest sector activities should
be established to provide the investments needed to improve resource management and should be accompanied
by regulatory and fiscal measures. The strategy will focus on (i) preparing a master wood fuel supply plan
(including classification of areas to be developed and shifting harvesting activities to different geographical
areas); (ii) modernization of the charcoal subsector (rationalization and organization of the charcoal industry);
and (iii) development of the forest cover by village cooperatives.
C.2.2 The petroleum subsector
58. In 1987 the Government formulated a sector strategy which led to the implementation of a series of
measures to put the sector on a sound footing and improve its performance. SMCPP was privatized, the
import, storage, and distribution of petroleum products were liberalized, and petroleum product tariffs are now
transparent and reflect their economic costs. Under this new strategy, the State will gradually disengage itself
- 50 -



from all productive activities in which it is involved. Competition among all sector operators will be
encouraged. The Government will introduce and monitor regulations governing the industry. The regulations
will be designed to meet transparency and safety requirements in order not to discourage new operators.
59. The Government will introduce legislative and regulatory reforms very soon to allow third-party access to
storage facilities and transport by pipeline for petroleum products.
60. Effective immediately, the oil price structure will be updated monthly to reflect fluctuations in world prices
and in the exchange rate for the ouguiya. A study will be carried out by March 1999 to determine the optimum
price structure with a view to including revised provisions on taxation and profits in the draft budget for 2000.
C.2.3 The electric power subsector
C.2.3.1 The urban power subsector
61. The Government's objective in the urban power sector is to (i) significantly improve power supply
coverage for the population in the safest possible manner at prices consistent with household living standards
and (ii) accelerate the electrification of urban areas.
62. To this end, the State will need to disengage itself from all operational activities and create a stable and
transparent environment in order to encourage private investors to provide services and, with this in mind, to
increase coverage rates substantially by extending existing networks and bringing power to towns that currently
have no service. Tariffs should be maintained at levels compatible with an ongoing effort to ensure operational
efficiency and with the country's poverty reduction objectives.
63. The power sector reform will be completed by October 2001 and will focus on (i) abolishing the national
monopoly on providing service and pursuing the decentralization policy; (ii) establishing a new legal and
regulatory structure to encourage the private sector to provide electric power service; (iii) restructuring the
sector to enable the private sector to take over operations; (iv) privatizing SONELEC's assets and power
operations; and (v) rationalizing tariffs to reflect the economic cost of electricity.
The following actions will be taken to move forward with privatization:
SONELEC's monopoly will be abolished;
-      SONELEC will be privatized, a process that will begin with preliminary studies and preparation of
bidding documents for the selection of a strategic partner via international competitive bidding;
-      SONELEC's capital will then be divided in two stages: Initially, 49 percent of its assets will be
sold to the strategic partner and the State will retain control of the remaining 51 percent. At the latest 24
months after this initial phase, and in any event by the end of October 2001, the strategic partner and other
private investors, but not the State, will invest to increase the capital, decreasing the State's share to less
than 49 percent. The strategic partner will have sole responsibility for managing SONELEC and will
appoint a managing director at the outset. Without infringing on the partner's management responsibilities,
the partner will be urged to appoint a Mauritanian managing director (assuming this person is equally
qualified). The State will appoint a commissioner to the future power company who will be authorized to
oppose decisions concerning a precise, explicit, and clearly defined list of topics where such decisions
might jeopardize the general strategic interests of the sector. The strategic partner will also be expected to
staff the company with as many Mauritanian senior staff as possible and provide training for senior and
- 51 -



other categories of staff..
64. The reformed sector will have the following characteristics:
*      Monopolies will be abolished;
*      SONELEC's water and power activities will be separated in accordance with the arrangements
outlined in paragraph 45;
*      SONELEC's assets and power operations will be privatized;
*      The power sector will be regulated by a set of specifications. Tariffs will be established using a
ceiling price system, and the principles underlying the system will be clearly defined in the regulatory
instruments and will reflect economic costs.
65. The specific measures required to reform the electric power sector may be found in the attached timetable.
C.2.3.2 The rural power subsector
66. The strategy will focus on creating institutional machinery. Accordingly, (i) an entity will be established to
conduct promotional activities, provide technical and financial support, and monitor rural electrification; (ii)
electric power cooperative unions representing beneficiaries will be established and will be given investment
management and cost recovery responsibilities; (iii) a rural electrification fund -to be financed by the State,
donors, and beneficiaries -will be established to provide new investments and renovate existing facilities; and
(iv) the establishment of new private enterprises will be encouraged to build, install and operate infrastructure
components.
C.2.4 Household energy
67. The objectives of the Government in this sector are (i) to satisfy household requirements; (ii) promote the
use of LPG; and (iii) protect Mauritania's forest resources.
68. To attain these objectives the Government will develop a long-term strategy drawing on lessons learned
from earlier activities and will consider various possible alternative energy sources for household use (peat, for
example).
69. The strategy will focus on: (i) regenerating and protecting the forest cover; (ii) enhancing the energy
efficiency of wood fuel; and (iii) reducing the demand for wood fuel by substituting butane gas and kerosene.
70. Necessary legislative and regulatory reforms will be implemented in order to take the decentralization
policy into account and provide guarantees to ensure controlled forest management and the transfer to rural
households of resources resulting from forest development activities.
D.   ACTION PLAN
The specific measures (to be taken by the Government by June 30, 2000) required to implement the reforms
described herein are listed below. An implementation timetable is attached.
- 52 -



D.1. Water
*      Study to devise a long-term  management strategy for surface water and groundwater, in
accordance with a master plan for the water sector;
*      Assessment of all the country's water resources, broken down by network type, dewatering
method, consumption patterns, etc.
*      Study of the review of the regulatory structure (preparation of texts implementing the water code);
*      Study of the drinking-water demand curve;
*      Study of possible institutional options for Mauritania once the zones most suitable for development
have been identified;
*      Engineering study of the Aftout-El-Sahel project and determination of the optimum  level of
development for the Trarza sediments; and
*      Execution of the Aftout-El-Sahel project with a private strategic partner as a BOT or similar
operation.
D.2 Energy
D.2.1 Petroleum products
*      Study to determine optimum conditions for supplying petroleum products to the southern part of
the country;
*      Study to develop a policy for butane gas distribution;
*      Third-party access to storage depots;
*      Implementation of a regulatory system for the petroleum sector (downstream); and
*      Revision of the petroleum code.
D.2.2 Urban power
*      Assessment of SONELEC's consolidated power operations and of 15 electrified towns;
*      Preparation of all legislative and/or regulatory instruments for the electric power sector.
D.2.3 Rural power
*      Establishment of a decentralized rural electrification fund; and
*      Establishment of incentives to encourage the creation of new private enterprises to build, install,
and/or operate rural electrification systems.
- 53 -



Mohamed Ould Nany                         Mohamed Salem Ould Merzoug
Ministry of Economic Affairs              Ministry of Water and Energy
and Development
EVOLUTION OF PERFORMANCE CRITERIA
1989                   1997
Power production (GWh)                      105                    190.2
Water production (millions of m3)           11.4                   16.7
Technical/commercial return (electric power)  79.2%                83.7%
Technical/commercial return (water)         45.7%                  75.2%
Bill collection rate                        65%                    85.1%
Customer receivables (months in arrears)   6.5                     1.5
Turnover (millions of UM)                   2041                   5900
Operating results                          -296                    431
*Self-financing capacity                   641                     2,196
Return on investment                        0.5%                   4%
Debt service ratio                          60.6%                  30%
*Translator's note: The self-financing capacity - also called "self-financing ratio" is normally expressed
as a percentage. The figures here are not percentages.
- 54 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 25935
18' 0   ,   -      1600               14 0                120- 1              100            A     c ~er0                    ALGERIA
AS nish
MAURITANlA                                                                           30    NoAt N    MIALIA \
PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                             M A L
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                              'Tombouctou
-------- TRACKS .                                                                             SENEGA''                 O     ,NIGER
-i4~-RAILROADS                            ~~'                                                                        ~oe
0     SELECTED TOWNS                                              -uam
280 .               REGION CAPITALS                              MO  R 0C O                            A             f HA   / i
  AIRPORTS                                                  ROCCO_____________28___
Jj.   PORTS                                             -         8        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The boundaries, colors, denominations
REGION BOUNDARIES-                                                              To Trindouf   and ony otr information shown on
INTERNATIONAL                                                                                 this map do not imply, on the part of
The World Bank Group, any judgment
BOUNDARIES    -           =N/                                                    .          on the legal status of any territory, or
-*~      o !  \   suany endorsement or acceptance of
such boundories.
0 p  ,  100 - :2p00-- 300-                                                  ,'         j _0                      ALGERIA
260 '.0p ..'                                                                                                                              26-
KILOMETERS   ,; ' 6
A--: - I- -  ,:1 a n f ,' e   - -  i              To La'Youn     B o         '
.:     --  : ,JFORMER                              jt,\"-"
24           o                        SPANISH                                   ZEMMOUR                                                   24-
SAHARA!-
Zou6rat            '---.v  ''.'i "                      4
Fd6rik         ---      ~       ~            
Tour6ine
22e             /.-'   _/                                                                                                                 220
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Nou  =hibo      Lpnouar "                                                                                 /un
DAKHLET  ,9                         At8i                    A D R A R                         /
NOUADHIO.I                                                                                                   'I
200                           INCH!0RI !           -         Chingueti                                    ,
I  j          AkiU jt,            tOuuietf\X 
N'oufimgha  t        t-'L P                         '        //
-N: 'tn9I8~o.                                          ...... L _._ .z ' ....HODH ECH
:Talmasso2wt'             TAGANT
,~   AquisiI  FaTi                         .... ~-,~ ch         /      CHARGU
180        NOUAKCHOC                                                                              /                 GU1
-   Boutilia Laha                 |                                  0 ,S,.  1                      '
Ju6reuH O13H                      /I 
Ayo0n el At,6o0O
SENEGAL                                KMA                                                   L            1
1A' 18'                160                 1,40                                    10,                  8                   6-           149
FEBRUARY 1995



