Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3377 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Energy, Water and Sanitation Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3377 MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 2000, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated September 
23, 1998, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to develop its power and water sector (the Program) 
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
Page  2
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"CA" means Cellule d’Appui Technique, the Project technical 
support unit within MHE (as hereinafter defined), as established by 
Arrêté No.:364, dated April 25, 1999;
(b)
"Mauritanian Ouguiya" and "UM" mean the currency of the 
Borrower;
(c)
"MAED" means Ministère des Affaires Éonomiques et du 
Développement, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Affairs and 
Development;
(d)
“MHE”
means Ministère de l’Hydraulique et de l’Energie, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Water and Energy;
(e)
“Nouadhibou” means the coastal port city in the territory of 
the Borrower;
(f)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement, dated June 28, 1999;
(i)
"Project Manual of Procedures" and “PMP” means the Manuel de 
Procédures adopted by the Borrower in its form as transmitted by letter, 
dated May 6, 2000, referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement containing, inter alia, institutional arrangements, work-plans, 
monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to be used for the 
purpose of implementing the Project, as the same may be amended from time 
to time with the approval of the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Manual of Procedures;
(j)
“SONELEC” means Société Nationale de l’Eléctricité et de 
Page  3
l’Eau, the national power and water company, established pursuant to 
Decree No. 75/170 of the Borrower, dated May 23, 1975, as amended by 
Decree No. 90/154, dated October 22, 1990;
(k)
“SPC” means the special procurement commission for the 
water, sanitation and energy sector reform, established pursuant to 
Decree 99-03, dated January 6, 1999;
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(m)
“UEP” means Unité d’Exécution du Projet, the Project 
implementation unit in MAED, established pursuant to Arrêté No. 799, 
dated July 11, 1998; and
(n)
"UGP" means Unité de Gestion du Programme des Réformes, the 
Borrower's Project management unit responsible for public sector reform 
in MAED, established pursuant to Arrêté No. 799, dated July 11, 1998.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  4
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15, commencing 
September 15, 2010, and ending March 15, 2040. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on March 15, 2020 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical 
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan outlining the 
future strategy of the water, sanitation and power sectors; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit into the Project Account an 
amount equivalent to $100,000 to finance the Borrower's contribution to 
the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account, during Project 
implementation, such amounts as shall be required for Project 
implementation; and
(d)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in 
accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used 
exclusively to finance expenditures under the Project other than those 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen months after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
Page  7
following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish to the 
Association no later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
The Borrower has:
(a)
opened the Project Account and deposited therein the initial 
deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
appointed the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement;
(c)
appointed in UEP specialists with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association, namely: (i) the project 
coordinator, (ii) the procurement specialist, and (iii) the accountant 
and financial management specialist, all in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(d)
established a computerized accounting and financial 
management system in UEP, acceptable to the Association.
Page  8
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for economic affairs and development is designated as the representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Affaires Économiques et du Développement
Ministère des Affaires Économiques et du Développement
B.P. 238
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile: 
MP Nouakchott
840 MTN
222-25110
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized Representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s/ Ahmed Ould Khalifa Ould Jiddou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  9
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
 6,000,000
100%
services and training
(3)
Operating
   400,000
90%
costs
(4)
Refunding of
   800,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b) of
Advance
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
   100,000
TOTAL
 7,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, audits, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, administrative support, 
communication and utility services, travel and supervision costs but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for 
goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, and for 
expenditures for services under contracts with firms costing less than 
$100,000 or with individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
Page  10
notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, a 
special deposit account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this 
Agreement and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “eligible Categories” 
means Categories 1, 2, and 3 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule 1.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B 2. of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
6.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B 2. of 
this Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Page  11
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
7.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of up to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount of up to $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,200,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or 
requests for deposit into said Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed said Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Page  12
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposit into said Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or 
at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part 
B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of said Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount of one 
million six hundred thousand Dollars ($1,600,000).
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the living standard of 
Page  13
the population in the territory of the Borrower through increased access 
to safe drinking water, sanitation and reliable electricity supply 
through the revision of the legal and institutional framework for the 
water, sanitation and energy sectors to create an environment for private 
sector participation and prepare future investments in these sectors.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Sector Reform
1.
Regulatory provisions:
Carrying out studies for the preparation of laws, regulatory 
decrees and administrative texts pertaining to: (a) enabling SONELEC’ 
privatization through separation of the power and the water sector; (b) 
regulating (i) electricity generation and distribution, (ii) water supply 
to rural areas in the territory of the Borrower, and (iii) access of 
private operators to the petroleum sector; (c) insure decentralized 
water, sanitation and energy services to suburban and rural areas in the 
territory of the Borrower; (d) establish the required institutional 
mechanisms to effectively furnish said services, and (c) establish 
technical and safety standards for petroleum products; through the 
provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Water, Sanitation and Energy Sector Reforms
Carrying out feasibility studies with a view to: (a) rehabilitate 
and expand the water, sanitation and energy supply service in suburban 
and rural areas of the territory of the Borrower; and (b) to strengthen 
the use of renewable energy resources, through the provision of technical 
advisory services.
3.
Information Campaigns:
Carrying out information, education and communication campaigns in 
the territory of the Borrower to advise power, water and sanitation 
service consumers of impending changes through the acquisition of goods, 
provision of technical advisory services and training.
4.
Strengthening Institutional Capacity
Strengthening the capacity of MAED and UGP to initiate and 
supervise the regulatory reform process and the administrative capacity 
of SONELEC to adapt to new operating objectives through the acquisition 
of goods, provision of technical advisory services and training.
Part B:
Water and Sanitation Services
Strengthening the technical, administrative and logistical capacity 
of MHE and CA to design, implement and supervise efficient water and 
sanitation supply services within the territory of the Borrower; through 
the provision of technical advisory services and training of selected 
staff in MHE and CA.
Part C:
Energy Supply
1.
Strengthening the technical, administrative and logistical capacity 
of MHE and CA to design, implement and supervise efficient energy supply 
to rural areas in  the territory of the Borrower; through the provision 
of technical advisory services and training of selected staff in MHE and 
CA
2.
Carrying out a feasibility study developing a wind-power park in 
Nouadhibou and selected locations in the territory of the Borrower 
Page  14
through the provision of advisory services.
Part D:
Petroleum Sector
Carrying out a study to reorganize the petroleum sector through the 
provision of advisory services.
Part E:
Project Management and Supervision
Administration, coordination, supervision and evaluation of Project 
implementation through the provision of technical advisory services and 
training for selected staff in CA, UGP and UEP and  the acquisition of 
equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B, namely that to the extent practicable, contracts for 
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  15
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to exceed $50,000 
equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
Shortlists for consultants services under contracts estimated to 
cost the equivalent $50,000 or less, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2,7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for specialized assignments may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines and paragraph 3 of Annex I thereto.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for advising MAED on privatization issues and under Part 
A.4. of the Project, shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines and paragraph 3 of Annex I 
Page  16
thereto.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
General
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project 
Manual of Procedures and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, or waive any provision thereof if, 
in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
B.
Coordination and Management
2.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
the indicators set forth in the Project Manual of Procedures and 
summarized in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
3.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project:
(a)
maintain the following staff with qualifications and 
experience, satisfactory to the Association in UEP: (i) the project 
coordinator, (ii) a procurement specialist, and (iii) a specialist in 
charge of financial management and accounting. The Project Coordinator 
Page  17
shall be responsible for furnishing to UGP and the Association, for 
review and comment, quarterly Project progress reports.
C.
Annual Reviews
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish through UEP to UGP and the Association, 
quarterly, for the first time by October 30, 2000, or such other date as 
the Association shall agree, until the time the Association shall receive 
the Project Management Reports referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, for its review and comments, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule 4, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date;
(b)
furnish to the Association, within four weeks following the 
submission of the report referred to in the preceding subparagraph, the 
comments of, if any, and the approval of, UGP to said report, and
(c)
review with the Association, within four weeks following the 
submission of the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, said report and the report referred to in subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter.
D.
Specific Actions
6.
The Borrower shall within twelve months following Effective Date 
furnish to the Association for review and approval the studies referred 
to in Part A 1 (a) of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation and Evaluation Indicators
1.
Submission to Parliament, promulgation and publication in the 
Official Journal, of laws in the water and electricity sectors, 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Establishment of a regulatory framework based on the laws in the 
water and electricity referred to under paragraph 1 above, satisfactory 
to the Association.
3.
Bringing SONELEC (electricity part) to the point of sale 
(contractual agreements approved), and preparation of a management 
structure for SONELEC (water part) finalized, in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in the Program.
4.
Increase of SONELEC’s (electricity part) capital through the 
strategic partner by an amount bringing his share to a minimum of 51% of 
total capital in accordance with the Schedule set forth in the Program.
5.
Development of institutional and technical mechanisms to 
efficiently deliver water, sanitation and energy services within the 
territory of the Borrower and establishment of the corresponding 
investment program.
6.
Start of implementation of the action plan to promote energy 
Page  18
savings in the public sector.
7.
Publication of tender documents for a wind energy park at 
Nouadhibou.
