                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 36329

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (PPFI-Q1660 IDA-33770)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.4 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                             MAURITANIA

                                                FOR AN

  ENERGY/WATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                              June 28, 2006




Energy Sector
Country Department 15
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                Currency Unit = Ouguiya (UM)
                                    UM 1,000 = US$ 3.64
                                        US$ 1 = UM 251.45

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1      December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADER     Agence de Développement de l'Electrification Rurale
         (Agency for Rural Electrification Development)
ANEPA    Agence Nationale de l'Eau Potable et de l'Assainissement (National Potable Water and
         Sanitation Agency)
APAUS    Agence de Promotion de l'Accès Universel aux Services
         (Agency for the Promotion of Universal Access to Services)
ARM      Agence de Régulation Multisectorielle (Multisectoral Regulatory Agency)
CA       Cellule d'Appui Technique (Technical Support Unit)
CPRSE    Cellule de Pilotage de Réforme de Secteur Eau/Energie
         (Water/Sanitation Sector Reform Steering Committee)
CDMT     Cadre des dépenses à moyen terme (Medium-Term Expenditure Framework)
CNRE     Centre National des Ressources en Eau (National Water Resources Center)
EPIC     Etablissement Public à Caractère Industriel et Commercial
         (Semi-Autonomous Public Enterprise)
GIRM     Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
HIPC     Highly Indebted Poor Countries
MAED     Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
MHE      Ministry of Hydraulic and Energy
PARSEAE  Projet d'Appui à la Réforme des Secteurs de l'Energie, de l'Assainissement et de l'Eau
         (Energy/Water/Sanitation Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project)
RHDP     Regional Hydropower Development Project
SOMELEC  Société Mauritanienne d'Electricité (Mauritanian Electricity Company)
SNDE     Société Nationale des Eaux (National Water Company)
SONELEC  Société Nationale de l'Electricité et de l'Eau
         (former National Water and Electricity Company)
UEP      Unité d'Exécution de Projet (Project Implementation Unit)
UGP      Unité de Gestion du Programme de Réforme du Secteur Parapublic
         (Public Sector Reform Program Management Unit)



                              Vice President:       Gobind T. Nankani
                     Acting Country Director        Nils O. Tcheyan
                             Sector Manager         S. Vijay Iyer
                          Task Team Leader          Kwawu Mensan Gaba

                                           MAURITANIA
ENERGY/WATER/SANITATION SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
   6. Sustainability                                                                  8
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
   9. Partner Comments                                                              12
   10. Additional Information                                                       24
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
   Annex 8 New Legislation, Institutional Reorganization, and Studies               34
   Annex 9 MAP IBRD 33445                                                           36

Project ID: P066345                                                  Project Name: ENERGY/WATER/SANITATION
                                                                     SECTOR REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Kwawu Mensan Gaba                                       TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: ENERGY/WATER/SANITATION SECTOR                           L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1660; IDA-33770
                            REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Legal institutions for a market
                            economy (P); Pollution management and environmental health (S); Climate change (S); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/08/2000                                     Effective:                           10/26/2000
     Appraisal: 04/03/2000                                         MTR:                             11/19/2002
      Approval: 06/13/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA/MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC
                                           AFFAIRS AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Nils O. Tcheyan                                Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 S. Vijay Iyer                                  Mark D. Tomlinson
Team Leader at ICR:             Kwawu Mensan Gaba                              Willem Floor
ICR Primary Author:             Charles Sterling; Kwawu
                                Mensan Gaba


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The development objective of the proposed project was twofold: (a) restructuring the legal and
institutional framework of the water/sanitation and energy sectors to create an environment for
private sector participation; and (b) preparing future investments in the water/sanitation and
energy sectors, urban and rural. Objectives would be accomplished through legislation, institution
building, privatization initiatives in the provision of electricity and water services, and completion
of project-funded studies.

3.2 Revised Objective:

N.A.

3.3 Original Components:

Revision of legal and institutional framework. This component consisted of: (a) financing of
technical assistance services to the Government of Mauritania (GIRM) to create the legal and
regulatory framework for electricity and water/sanitation sector and for the provision of
investment banking services to prepare the sectors for restructuring, with emphasis on the
privatization of the electricity-related activities of the national power and water company (Société
Nationale de l'Eléctricité et de l'Eau­ SONELEC); (b) financing an information campaign to
mobilize staff and consumer support for the privatization of SONELEC; and (c) strengthening of
the regulatory capacity.

Preparation of an investment program. The component consisted of funding for: (a) the
operational costs for the Public Sector Reform Program Management Unit (UGP - Unité de
Gestion du Programme de Réforme du Secteur Parapublic) within the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Development (MEAD) and other agencies; (b) a study for the update of the water
transport system; (c) a study on water distribution services and of their expansion; (d) a study of
the hydrocarbon sector, including a review of the pricing system of petroleum products, the
creation of regulatory capability, a review of product specifications, and a review of the sector's
safety standards; (e) the preparation of an energy savings action plan for the public service sector;
(f) a feasibility study of, and the preparation of bidding documents for, a wind park at
Nouadhibou; and (g) the development of technical and institutional delivery mechanisms for rural
electricity and rural water supply services.

Cost
                                                           (US$)                 Rating

Revision of legal and institutional framework            $3,200,000                U
Preparation of investment program                        $7,700,000                 S
3.4 Revised Components:

The credit closing date was extended first to December 31, 2004 and a year later to December 31,
2005. The first extension was granted for one year, mainly to allow for the completion of the


                                                   - 2 -

reform in the water sector and the re-launching of the power company privatization process. The
second extension was granted to allow for completion of the reform process and ARM capacity
building on the basis that the privatization objective remained achievable under a revised strategy
agreed between IDA and the Borrower.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

In 1998, the GIRM issued a "Letter of Development Policy for the Water and Energy Sectors,"
declaring its commitment to facilitating substantial support of private capital for the development
of the water and electricity sectors. This goal was fully consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), agreed between the GIRM and IDA, and with the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF), agreed between the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the
Bank/IDA. According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), "the Government's readiness to
implement these reforms and claim ownership of the process has been confirmed at the highest
levels during 1999-2002 PFP [Policy Framework Paper] discussions and the preparation of the
HIPC [Highly Indebted Poor Countries] Decision Point document."

The Energy/Water/Sanitation Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project (PARSEAE) was
prepared in the context of the Regional Hydropower Development Project (RHDP; completed in
June 2004), which aimed to improve the capacity of Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal to meet their
increasing demand for electricity supply. In early 2000, with the assistance of a foreign
investment bank, the GIRM prepared a four-step plan to privatize the electricity-related activities
of SONELEC. These steps comprised: (a) legal and regulatory reform; (b) internal and external
analysis of the national power and water company; (c) technical aspects of separating
SONELEC's water and electricity activities (although this eliminated the economies of scope for
such a small system); and (d) implementation of a privatization strategy.

The policy framework was timely implemented to take advantage of the growing trend of private
sector participation in the region. The Malian and Senegalese power companies were privatized in
1998 and 2000, respectively, under a concession scheme to improve sector efficiency, reduce
fiscal losses, and increase investments and access, thus eventually maximizing the impact of the
RHDP. In Mauritania, the country risk and concomitant feasibility of privatizing electricity assets
outright were underestimated. A retrospective review, performed several years later in 2004,
attributed the difficulty of attracting private investors to a combination of external factors, notably
the sharp reduction in foreign direct investments following the September 11, 2001 event, the
Argentina crisis, the Enron scandal, and internal structural handicaps, such as: (a) the relatively
small size of the Mauritanian electricity sector; (b) its dependence on operating subsidies; (c)
likely pressure from the Government to expand access to unprofitable customers in poor urban
areas and isolated districts; (d) weak commitment by the Government to discourage fraud; and (e)
past history of non-compliance with tariff revision mechanisms. Furthermore, once Mauritania
reached the HIPC completion point and was granted debt relief, it appears that there was no
longer a strong incentive for the Government to sustain an undivided commitment to reforms in
the water and energy sectors. This was clearly exemplified by its reluctance to take enabling
decrees (decrets d'application)to complete the vital regulatory framework, which should have
been in place before committing to a privatization indicator, i.e., prior to appraisal since appraisal
should be an assessment of the project's readiness for implementation. In the absence of a


                                                   - 3 -

conducive regulatory framework, clearly it was not. From the outset, the quality at entry was
unsatisfactory because the PARSEAE set ambitious goals in a fluid environment, with a
"one-fits-all" strategy and within a very short timeframe (the initial project duration was limited to
three years). The Bank indeed needs to try and better understand the "political economy" of
reforms and of private participation in infrastructure.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Achievement of this primary objective was unsatisfactory. The project initiated a critical
institutional reform process, setting in motion a series of actions leading to the drafting and
ratification of laws and regulations intended to provide an enabling environment, which included a
regulatory framework. With the goal of abolishing all monopolies in the water and power sectors,
new legislation authorized, inter alia, the divestiture of SONELEC and formation of separate
semi-autonomous enterprises (EPICs) for water/sanitation and electricity: Société Nationale des
Eaux (SNDE) and Société Mauritanienne d'Electricité (SOMELEC). The PARSEAE also
facilitated significant interaction and improved the dialogue and coordination among all
institutions involved in rural and semi-rural water supply.

Measured against the objectives of the national poverty reduction strategy, access to water,
electricity, and telecommunication services grew in rural areas as a result of increasing funding
allocations and better resource utilization. Newly created entities, National Potable Water and
Sanitation Agency (ANEPA - Agence Nationale de l'Eau Potable et de l'Assainissement) and
Agency for Rural Electrification Development (ADER - Agence de Développement de
l'Electrification Rurale) are currently implementing numerous water supply and electrification
projects in rural areas. Another new entity, the Agency for the Promotion of Universal Access to
Services (APAUS - Agence de Promotion de l'Accès Universel aux Services), has initiated
additional projects. However, it should be recognized that further work is needed to streamline
the responsibilities of these institutions, notably those of APAUS, to address overlapping and
even conflicting mandates. Unfortunately, despite the 2004 credit closing date extension, the
PARSEAE has achieved little in terms of coordination and harmonization.

Private sector participation in the provision of urban water and electricity services suffered a
major, irreversible setback. The privatization of SOMELEC, with emphasis on the sale of
electricity assets, was one of the principal macroeconomic objectives of the reform, a trigger for
the HIPC Completion Point. For that reason, the Bank's counterpart for the project was the
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development (MEAD) rather than the Ministry of Hydraulic
and Energy (MHE). Because of MEAD's focus on economic matters, it was not the most
appropriate ministry to spearhead the operation. MEAD understood and concurred with the
reform goals, but was unable to take the necessary steps to foster the creation of enabling
conditions for energy sector transformation and development. Possibly, MEAD's position may
have been influenced by the prospect of increased oil revenue streams to support a public-financed
service delivery mechanism and the failure of public-private partnerships in Mali and Senegal.
The fundamental cause of the PARSEAE's partial failure to achieve its development objective and
in its approach is in the PAD (Annex 1). Based on the sector indicators, the project's ultimate



                                                  - 4 -

goal was to increase the access to power and water services in Mauritania. The core of the sector
reform aimed to improve efficiency, raise service quality, expand access, and foster economic
growth. There was a wide range of options, from purely public interventions to purely private
ones, and for most countries, public-private partnership approaches are appropriate. The project
objective and design focused narrowly on utility privatization rather than setting a higher-level of
objectives, such as increasing access and efficiency, and analyzing a wide range of alternatives to
achieve this objective. Efforts to refocus the privatization strategy to attract private investment
failed because the GIRM's commitment to reforms declined and the country's political
environment worsened. The second development objective, composed of studies leading to future
investments, was achieved, although financing for the investments has not yet been secured.
Overall achievement of development objectives was unsatisfactory.


4.2 Outputs by components:


Revision of legal and institutional framework (US$3.2 million equivalent, at appraisal;
US$2.6 million equivalent, actual; Rating: unsatisfactory):

In January 2001, ARM was created to provide the regulatory framework for the power and water
sectors. Electricity and water codes were passed. In the electricity sector, the law was passed in
2001, but enabling decrees have not yet been promulgated. Technically, SOMELEC is not in
compliance with the provisions of the electricity law, which provides that the Government has
formally to license an operator. Consequently, ARM has no real power to regulate SOMELEC
and the GIRM has not yet taken any remedial action. In August 2005, a coup took place in
Mauritania. Since then, the new authorities have been grappling with national cross-cutting issues
such as governance and have not been forthcoming on electricity sector reform. In light of the
new politico-economic context in Mauritania, no progress was recorded on the sector reforms.
The project closed on December 31, 2005 short of achieving its key regulatory and institutional
objectives.

Legal Framework. Restructuring the legal framework has been further compounded by the
lingering old legislation. Although new laws superseded the old ones, the latter were not entirely
abandoned in practice. The hydrocarbon law remains suspended awaiting a petroleum code and
the development of a new national energy policy. Other pending pieces of legislation are the
application decree of the hydrocarbon law, a decree addressing environmental matters relative to
water and electricity, and the law to combat the theft of water and electricity services. Annex 8
lists the new legislation adopted under the project.

Institutional Framework. The newly-created entities have an, albeit imperfect, existence caused
by the absence of enabling decrees. Delays were the result of: (a) inexact interpretation of new
and old legal texts; (b) lack of operational synergy; (c) an absence of documented procedures; (d)
lack of institutional cooperation; and (e) inadequate communication and training. These new
agencies' overlapping roles and responsibilities, as well as conflicting mandates, indicate a need
for functional redefinition to maximize the synergy needed to achieve the goal of universal access
to basic infrastructure services. Annex 8 lists institutional reorganization achievements under the
project.


                                                 - 5 -

Privatization of Electricity. With the assistance of a foreign investment bank, the Government
adopted a privatization model where the private operator owns the assets and holds the majority
financial interest in the privatized company. This model grants the new operator a license to: (a)
produce, transport, and distribute electricity; (b) purchase large quantities for resale; and (c) sell
electric energy. To provide potential investors with sufficient information, an inventory of
SONELEC's electricity assets and an audit of its accounts were performed. The Government
hired a consultant to validate the work carried out by the investment bank and to draft the tender
documents for the privatization of SOMELEC. In January 2001, the Government issued an
invitation to tender for pre-qualification, under international competitive bidding. The start was
promising. Five international groups were pre-qualified: AES (USA), ONE (Morocco), Tata
(India), Union Fenosa in association with the Mauritanian group GBM-Bouamatou
(Spain/Mauritania), and Vivendi Environment in association with the Mauritanian group AON
(France/Mauritania). The Tata Group withdrew shortly before the first round of transaction
document negotiation. The interest of several of the remaining pre-qualified parties was shaken
by the impact of the September 11, 2001 events, the Argentina crisis, and the Enron scandal. By
January of 2002, AES and Vivendi received instructions from their respective headquarters to be
very selective in their new investments. Because of limited competition, the GIRM feared that
privatization might not succeed, or that it would have to award the transaction at below the
company's value. In May 2002 in an attempt to increase investors' interest in privatization, the
GIRM obtained IDA support to complete the privatization process through its partial risk
guarantee program. An IDA guarantee would have mitigated certain sovereign and political risks
and eliminated most risks of government performance vis-à-vis the privatized company. Union
Fenosa dropped out of the competition two days before the bid submission date. Ultimately, there
was a single offer from ONE of Morocco. At US$13 million, it was slightly above the net value
of SOMELEC's assets. The Privatization Commission immediately declared the bidding process
unsuccessful. It considered the competition process to be flawed since ONE knew before the bid
submission date that it was the sole bidder. The GIRM also wanted to dispel the rumor that it
was selling country's assets cheaply to foreigners merely to reach the HIPC completion point. In
2003, on the basis of a consultant's evaluation, the Government re-launched the privatization
process after strong reluctance on account of an unfavorable political environment. The
evaluation covered the technical, economic, and financial aspects and presented various
possibilities for involving the private sector in electricity service; to wit, a concession, a leasing
contract or affermage,and a management contract. After due consideration, the GIRM chose a
transitional arrangement where it would retain primary responsibility for the investment in
electricity infrastructure over the short- and medium-term while laying the foundation for further
privatization. This option ignored the increased perceived country risk and the deterioration of
SOMELEC's financial position, caused by the oil price increase. The GIRM also wanted to
change the mission of the regulatory agency (ARM) into an advisory role and put the
implementation of the regulatory framework on hold. This was a major departure from its
original privatization objectives.

Private sector participation in the water/sanitation sector. The mid-term review concluded that
discussions relating to private sector involvement should be postponed pending progress on the
Aftout-Nouakchott Water Distribution Project. Mauritanian authorities and the public have very



                                                  - 6 -

different views on the privatization of water owing to its symbolic value - and the vital need for
water in a desert country; thus, it was decided that the private provision of water services would
have to follow the privatization of SOMELEC.

Preparation of future investment program (US$7 million equivalent, in PAD; US$7.7
equivalent, actual; Rating: satisfactory): Annex 8 lists the studies completed under the
project, including a number of additional ones not originally envisaged. The study on prices,
standards, and security of hydrocarbons in Mauritania is still ongoing.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable. See Annex 3.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable. See Annex 3.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development was marginally satisfactory. The PARSEAE reinforced overall
institutional capacity by providing needed equipment, technical assistance in the form of studies
and expert advice, as well as staff training through seminars, study tours, and productive,
sectorwide workshops. The communication and information campaign needs considerable
strengthening, especially in the case of highly sensitive sector reforms where country ownership is
critical for success. The overall institutional development impact was modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

(a) High sovereign and country risks, compounded by the bankruptcy of Enron were the principal
exogenous constraint to attracting private investors. Even though some of these external factors
are unforeseeable, the original project design underestimated the risks.

(b) Political instability in Mauritania started when the country experienced several political
setbacks in 2003, which culminated with the ousting of President Taya in 2005.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(a) Delays in the issuance of decrees enabling the new water and electricity codes hindered
progress in institutional restructuring.

(b) Delays in approval of contracts for follow-on studies and actions were incurred.

(c) High staff turnover in ministries, directorates, and agencies seriously undermined policy



                                                     - 7 -

dialogue and progress in institutional reform, especially after the HIPC Completion point was
reached.

(d) Functional overlap and bureaucratic infighting undermined the effectiveness of new created
agencies: ADER, ANEPA, and APAUS.

(e) Electricity tariffs remained the same in local currency from 2000 - 2004 in contravention of
the contractual plan between the GIRM and SOMELEC. The plan provided for revisions
whenever the cost of inputs increased by more than 5 percent. Failure to increase tariffs has
resulted in severe liquidity problems in the face of an annual average inflation of 4.6 percent in
Mauritania over a three-year period. As a consequence, net cash flow from current operations,
taking the variation in working capital into account, was negative of US$400,000 equivalent in
2003. In the absence of regular tariff increases, SOMELEC's financial situation will continue to
deteriorate and the company will need further operating subsidies, as well as indirect subsidies
(e.g. government investment financing).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

(a) Multi-sectoral and multi-agency cooperation were managed effectively by the Project
Implementation Unit (UEP).

(b) Implementation of the communication and information campaign, critical for the success of
country ownerhip, was largely ineffectual.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The credit was too large for the initial project design and activities. The procurement process led
to substantial savings, especially on the cost of advisory services for the privatization of
SOMELEC. These savings allowed for the completion of additional studies to consolidate the
energy and water sector knowledge bases and for substantial capacity building. The actual project
cost (US$11.29 equivalent) exceeded the appraisal estimate (US$10.90 equivalent) by
US$390,000, or 3.6 percent, due to exchange rate fluctuation between the SDR, the Euro, and
the US dollar. The proposed Urban Water and Sanitation Project (UWSP) assumed the studies
related to urban water supply systems within the scope of its own PPF. These studies comprised
the implementation of SNDE's financial model and support for the preparation of enabling
decrees for the water code. Credit proceeds were reallocated in December 2004 and in June 2005,
after it became apparent that the GIRM would not implement sector reform process as amended.
The freed-up resources permitted: (a) the acquisition of equipment, staff training, and operating
costs needed to strengthen ARM and other sector institutions, especially since the IDA-financed
Poverty Reduction Support Credit had been put on hold because of governance issues; and (b)
further coverage of operating costs incurred by UGP.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The discovery of oil in Mauritania marked the beginning of a new era of stable revenues


                                                     - 8 -

prompting the GIRM to shift its strategy from a private sector-led growth in the energy and water
sectors to a public sector delivery mechanism. The GIRM has started mobilizing public financing
for the expansion of generation capacity in major cities (Nouakchott and Nouadhibou) and of
distribution networks. Sustainability is therefore uncertain and unlikely. The Government states
that it intends, inter alia, to take measures to apply the new laws that would render the new
institutional arrangements operational, and develop mechanisms to promote public-private
partnership, with emphasis on communicating to the private sector the business opportunities in
the energy sector. On the contrary, reform is no longer a top priority in the current political
climate.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Legal and institutional reform is no longer a top priority in the current political climate. The
GIRM has ignored efforts to revive the dialogue on reforms.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank helped prepare and later approved a poorly designed investment operation. It should
have analyzed in-depth the country risk factor perception on electricity privatization. It might
have then: (a) delayed project processing until the requisite legal framework was in place and a
number of viable privatization options had been discussed with the Borrower; (b) negotiated
conditions in the form of dated covenants or conditions of credit effectiveness on actions related
to the operational and financial viability of SOMELEC to ensure the new enterprise's readiness for
privatization; and/or (c) limited the project scope by deferring electricity privatization to a
follow-on operation. During project preparation, the Bank was of the opinion that the private
sector was best suited to assume the daunting tasks of improving the financial, technical and
operational performance of utilities, and eventually expanding electricity access in the African
countries. In 2002, after repeated difficulties, the Bank started to tone down this particular policy
position. The conference on Private Participation in Infrastructure in Africa, held in June 2005,
provided additional insights on what has and what has not worked. The Energy Sector Board
recently issued an operational guideline. If certain elements contained in that guideline had been
available during project preparation, project design would likely have been different. Moreover,
in preparing that operation, the Bank determined that economic and financial benefits were not
sufficiently quantifiable and, therefore, did not carry out economic and financial analyses. Even
the selection of the SIL instrument is questionable as the goals of this operation provide a better
fit with technical assistance criteria. Bank performance was unsatisfactory.


7.2 Supervision:

On the basis of the mid-term review, the Bank reasonably concluded that the GIRM's
commitment to the project remained strong and that its objectives were achievable. The project
core team included the necessary expertise in energy, regulation, and water/sanitation in line with



                                                  - 9 -

the multisectoral nature of the PARSEAE. The team persistently engaged in a dialogue with the
GIRM with the result that the electricity privatization strategy was recast and implementation
timetable revised. The team then offered to support fully the GIRM's effort to adopt a private
sector participation model compatible with the international energy market and the operational
and financial performance of SOMELEC. It convinced MEAD to undertake a market analysis
and further diagnostic studies to assess the viability of various options for private investment in
the sector. It continually pressed the GIRM to promulgate decrees enabling new legislation to
make the new institutions operational. It placed special, greatly needed emphasis on
strengthening the regulatory capacity within the energy sector. It also sought to strengthen
central coordination of activities related to semi-urban and rural electrification. On the rural
water and sanitation sub-sectors, the team drew on extensive support from the World
Bank-sponsored Africa Water and Sanitation Program based in Dakar. Several missions were
conducted discuss the necessary conditions for urban water supply development and strategies to
set up an appropriate management structure for SNDE. Given the complexity of the reform
process, the credit closing date was extended twice and for two years to achieve substantial
institution building and consolidate country ownership. Bank involvement, in the remaining time,
led to modest but real progress in reforming and strengthening the institutional framework in the
energy and water/sanitation sectors. That progress continued during a period of political
turbulence. However, as the Bank might have increased its leverage to obtain more substantial
results, its overall performance during supervision was unsatisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In view of poor quality at entry, Bank performance must be considered unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The GIRM performed in a satisfactory manner following expert advice on matters of legal and
institutional reform in anticipation of private sector involvement. In that regard, it worked in
close collaboration with IDA and the consultants to devise a preliminary timetable for the
preparation and implementation of a privatization scheme.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The GIRM did not promulgate important enabling decrees or address any of the issues relating to
institutional instability, which were a barrier to private investment. Although initially GIRM's
commitment and ownership were strong, it already showed signs of weakness by 2002. An early
indicator of its ownership of the reform process was its eagerness to reach the completion point of
the HIPC initiative in May 2002. Subsequently, it summarily nullified the privatization bidding
process, rather than attempt to come to better terms with the sole, albeit qualified, bidder. This
was a radical change in GIRM's position, revealing an increasing reluctance to move the reform
agenda forward; therefore, its performance was unsatisfactory.


7.6 Implementing Agency:




                                                  - 10 -

UEP within UGP, and the Technical Support Unit (CA) carried out their implementation roles in
a satisfactory manner. UEP handled cumbersome administrative procedures and procurement
issues, and ensured compliance with financial covenants, including the timely submission of audit
reports.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower shifted priorities away from privatization of electricity and did not seek private
sector involvement in urban water supply services. This shift undercut any reasonable expectation
that the project's key performance indicators would be achieved. Despite the implementing
agency's good work on tasks unrelated to policy and decision making, the Borrower's overall
performance was unsatisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned


Whenever private sector participation is included as an objective and key output indicator, it is
necessary beforehand to examine in depth the political, economic, and sectoral contexts. The
analyses performed in this regard should offer alternatives for private sector investment amenable
to the national and international political and economic situation, together with the terms and
conditions likely to attract potential investors. Clearly, the private sector is unlikely to invest in
places where risks, lack of financial markets, lack of conducive policy support, and poor
infrastructure discourage investment. We have experienced this in many countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa. The question is how far privatization can be pushed in power sector reform and what are
the public and private roles in providing electricity services, particularly in Africa.

To ensure understanding and expand ownership of the institutional reform process,
communication and other institutional capacity gaps need to be assessed through an internal audit
and bridged through appropriate staff training and information campaigns at the early
implementation phase.

Undivided political commitment remains an essential element for a reform process of such a
sensitive nature. A sound strategy has to be implemented in order to sustain it over a long period,
given the context of changing country conditions and leadership. As seen in the project, the HIPC
completion and debt relief had a definite impact on government commitment to reforms. The
initial political commitment substantially decreased after attaining the HIPC completion point.
For the remaining three years of project life, no comparable substitute was found to keep the
reform momentum. From the outset, it is thus necessary to ensure adequate funding of reform
"accompanying" measures, possibly as a post-privatization support package; otherwise, it is
difficult for a technical assistance project to have an impact or show any substantial gains in an
effort to reform institutions, build capacity, or improve performance. In the case of Mauritania,
the RHDP was designed to provide additional generation capacity and the PARSEAE to help
attract private sector participation so that it could better utilize the capacity and further expand it.
However, the scope of the RHDP was limited as the demand for electricity grew at a rate



                                                  - 11 -

substantially higher than anticipated. As a result, Mauritania has to develop subsequent
generation capacity. It also needs funds to improve business operations (e.g., upgrade of billing
system and of business environment, maintenance of distribution networks). Unfortunately, as the
project was purely technical assistance, it was impossible to enhance company operations
ultimately to facilitate a positive outcome. In addition, because of the difficulty of bringing
closure to the reform process, other donors adopted a wait-and-see approach, which further
penalized the sector development plan. Overall, the PARSEAE private sector development model
had a limited, if not negative, impact on electricity sector development as witnessed in most
Sub-Saharan African countries.

Focusing on the sector fundamentals of cost recovery tariff and financial viability is a key element
of the sector reform and essential to ensure sustainability. As noted in the paragraph, demand for
electricity services grew substantially over the course of the project and as the reform was not
progressing at the intended pace, there was a reduction in sector investments, thereby further
reinforcing the supply-demand imbalance. The Mauritania case poses again the question of
infrastructure development in Africa: do we sequence sector reforms before investment or do we
conduct them in parallel, while preserving industry fundamentals (e.g., cost recovery tariffs,
targeting of subsidies to ensure fiscal sustainability)? If the ultimate goal of a project is to
increase access to power and water services, the project should first address the fundamental
issues facing the sector such as cost-recovery tariff and sustainable subsidy schemes. The reasons
for the difficulties in attracting the private sector are dependence on operating subsidies, pressure
to expand access to unprofitable customers in remote areas, and non compliance with tariff
revision mechanisms. These issues have to be addressed up-front before engaging the private
sector; otherwise, no matter who will provide the services, it will not be a financially viable and
sustainable business. The recently published World Bank Group operational guidance for sector
reform provides some avenues in this respect; however, a thorough case-by-case approach is
needed for each country.

Studies for future investments are useful only to the extent that financing of recommended
investments will be made available either through local resources or through multilateral and
bilateral assistance. These resources and potential envelopes should be known to some degree in
advance of undertaking such studies. They should be taken into account in budget planning and
financial projections.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

(This is a summary of the Borrower's completion report, which is attached.)

The project concept, planning, and preparation conformed to the principles of the "Development
Policy Declaration for the Water and Energy Sectors (1998), but did not cohere to the
Government's "Public Enterprise Reform Strategy" (1998). The project design gave priority to
the electricity subsector, which predominated over other targeted sectors and subsectors and the
privatization objective over other aspects of institutional reform. The project design did not



                                                   - 12 -

provide for mitigation of the principal project risk. The strategy to private SOMELEC failed
because: (a) the privatization scheme in the initial tender documents called for 70 percent
capitalization; (b) there was a dearth of bidders with credible offers; (c) a single scenario was
planned; (d) unforeseeable economic, financial, and political risks arose; (e) production and
delivery of electricity services remained technically and financially weak; and (f) investments over
the past five years did not take into account rapidly growing urbanization. Restructuring the legal
framework has led to considerable confusion owing to the continued enforcement of older laws
that were superseded by newer ones. On the other hand, the PARSEAE has undoubtedly
contributed to improving the efficiency and quality of services provided by the beneficiary
institutions, due in large part to the project's impact on human resources development.
Institutional restructuring resulted in ministerial reorganization, separation of electricity and
water/sanitation, and the creation of multiple new entities, although they are not fully operational
and their mandates overlap. The studies are expected to enhance the dialogue with multi- and
bilateral partners in development, although they did not pay adequate attention to the political,
economic, and sectoral context needed to prepare for the privatization. The overall performance
of the water/sanitation sector has improved due to a more central role in policy formulation and
sector regulation. In the face of numerous constraints and unforeseeable events, the Borrower's
overall performance was satisfactory. The Bank, on the other hand, was largely responsible for
inadequate project preparation, which was mitigated during implementation by efforts to
reexamine the privatization scheme.




                                                  - 13 -

Borrower's contribution to the ICR (in French)


                         REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
                                         ----------------------------
       MINISTERE DES AFFAIRES ECONOMIQUES ET DU DEVELOPPEMENT
                                     ------------------------------------
    Projet d'Appui à la Réforme du Secteur de l'Eau, de l'Assainissement et de l'Energie
                                                PARSEAE
                                           ------------------------
              Contribution au Rapport de fin d'Exécution du PARSEAE


1. Contexte du Projet

La Mauritanie a adopté, en 1998 : a) - une «Déclaration de Politique de Développement des
Secteurs Eau et Energie ­ DPD/EE », comme principale référence en matière de développement
desdits Secteurs ; Et b) - une déclaration d'orientation en matière de réforme des Entreprises
publiques.

La Déclaration de politique sectorielle Energie, Eau et Assainissement recèle les principales bases
de l'amélioration durable de l'accès des populations à l'énergie et à l'eau potable.

Elle traduit la nécessité de promouvoir le développement des Secteurs Eau et Energie à travers
quatre axes stratégiques : (i) Recentrage du rôle de l'Etat sur ses fonctions essentielles et
structurantes d'élaboration de politiques et de contrôle de leurs mises en oeuvre ; (ii)
Désengagement de l'Etat des fonctions opérationnelles ; (iii) Création des conditions nécessaires
pour attirer les initiatives du secteur privé vers le développement industriel et pour la fourniture de
services d'infrastructures et de services publics ; et (iv) Accroissement de l'investissement social
de l'Etat.

2. Objectif du Projet

Le «Projet d'Appui à la Réforme des Secteurs de l'Eau, de l'Assainissement et de l'Energie ­
PARSEAE », initié avec l'assistance de la Banque Mondiale, a démarré en octobre 2000, en droite
ligne la problématique nationale et des axes stratégiques définis à cet effet pour les secteurs
Energie, Eau et Assainissement.

Il avait deux objectifs de développement : a) ­ Restructurer le cadre légal et institutionnel des
secteurs Energie et Eau/Assainissement pour créer un environnement permettant la participation
du secteur privé; et b) ­ Préparer les futurs investissements dans les Secteurs de l'Energie et de
l'Eau/Assainissement en milieu urbain et rural.




                                                    - 14 -

Ces objectifs étaient et restent en phase avec les objectifs nationaux définis dans a) - la Déclaration
de Politique de Développement des Secteurs Eau et Energie de 1998 et b) ­ la déclaration
d'orientation en matière de réforme des Entreprises publiques de 1998

3. Composantes du Projet

Composante 1 : Réforme sectorielle ( USD 3,2 Millions)

Cette composante consistait à : a) ­ financement de l'assistance technique pour créer le cadre légal
et réglementaire des secteurs de l'Electricité, l'Eau et l'Assainissement et les services pour une
banque d'affaires pour préparer la restructuration des secteurs de l'Eau et l'Electricité jusqu'à la
privatisation des activités électricité de la SONELEC ; b) ­ campagne d'information pour
mobiliser les consommateurs et la SONELEC pour soutenir la réforme et la privatisation de la
SOMELEC ; et c) ­ renforcer les capacités de régulation.

Composantes 2 : Etudes de consultants (USD 7,7 Millions)
Cette composante visait : a) - à financer le coût de fonctionnement de l'UGP du Projet) et autres
Agences ; B) ­ la mise à jour de l'étude pour l'approvisionnement en eau ; c) ­ l'étude sur la
distribution de l'eau et l'extension des services ; d) ­ étude sur les hydrocarbures ; e) ­ étude pour
définir et préparer un plan d'action pour la promotion des économies d'énergie dans le secteur
public ; f) ­ étude de faisabilité et préparation de dossier d'appel d'offre pour un parc éolien à
Nouadhibou et ; g) ­ développement des mécanismes de mise en oeuvre des services eau et
électricité en milieu rural.

4. Indicateurs de performance du Projet

Les principaux indicateurs de performance de ce Projet sont : a) ­ la fin des monopoles dans les
secteurs de l'Energie et de l'Eau ; b) ­ la séparation des activités eau et électricité ; c) ­ la
privatisation du volet électrique de la SONELEC et la partie eau sous un partenariat public-privé ;
d) ­ établir la régulation sur la base d'un cahier de chargé avec un système de tarifs plafonnés ; e)
­ établir les principes pour la fixation des tarifs reflétant les coûts économiques dans les
instruments de régulation ; f) ­ développement d'une stratégie et des mécanismes de mise en
oeuvre des services eau et électricité en milieu rural ; g) ­ exécution des études sur le réseau de
distribution d'eau, le parc éolien à Nouadhibou et le prix des hydrocarbures, normes techniques.

5. Bilan par rapport aux objectifs de développement

Le principal objectif qui était la privatisation de la SOMELEC n'a pas été totalement atteint.
Cependant, ce Projet a impulsé, dans une large mesure, une restructuration du cadre légal et
institutionnel des secteurs ciblés, conformément à l'esprit des Déclarations de politiques
gouvernementales pour les secteurs en question. Cette réforme institutionnelle n'est pas encore
achevée ; Elle repose sur un cadre légal et réglementaire en cours d'élaboration. Il reste encore
dans les circuits d'approbation quelques projets de lois, règlements et décrets d'application pour
assurer une meilleure lisibilité du cadre légal et institutionnel de la réforme en cours.




                                                   - 15 -

Le second objectif est atteint. Le Projet a effectivement contribué de façon très significative à
l'amélioration de l'efficacité des principaux acteurs institutionnels des secteurs ciblés, et ce, à
travers : a) ­ un programme soutenu de formation des ressources humaines, b) - l'accroissement
du niveau d'équipement des services traditionnel (mobiliers de bureau, outils informatiques,
moyens de transport, etc.) et c) - la réalisation des études. Les études réalisées dans le cadre du
Projet ont contribué, dans une certaine mesure, à combler le retard de la Mauritanie dans le
domaine des études sectorielles de base ; Et elles constituent une importante source
d'informations jamais réunies par ailleurs. Toutes choses qui contribuent au développement des
capacités.

6. Bilan par rapport aux réalisations du Projet

Les principales réalisations concernent : a) - La loi sur la régulation multisectorielle et l'extension
des compétences de l'Autorité de régulation aux secteurs Energie et Eau (ARM); b) - La mise en
oeuvre de l'ARM grâce aux appuis divers en moyens humains et techniques ; c) - L'élargissement
de l'éventail des acteurs avec l'APAUS et l'ADER ; d) - Le développement des capacités des
acteurs à travers la formation des ressources humaines, l'équipement et la réalisation des études de
base ; e) - Les lois portant respectivement code de l'électricité et code de l'eau ; et l'ouverture
des secteurs à la concurrence par la levée des monopoles ; f) - La séparation des volets eau et
électricité de la SONELEC et la création de la SOMELEC et de la SNDE ; g) - L'amélioration
incidente des performances de la SOMELEC en terme d'évolution des taux de desserte ; h) -
L'amélioration incidente des performances de l'électrification rurale avec l'ADER et l'APAUS ; i)
- La restructuration des organigrammes des départements ministériels en charge des secteurs
Energie ; j) - Les études ayant trait à la SOMELEC, à l'ARM, à l'APAUS, à l'électrification
urbaine et rurale, aux hydrocarbures et prix et tarifications et aux secteurs Eau/Assainissement ;
k) - La restructuration des organigrammes et des modes de fonctionnement des Ministères en
charge des secteurs ciblés.

Les résultats qui étaient attendus mais non totalement réalisés concernent : a) ­ la privatisation du
volet électrique de la SONELEC et la partie eau sous un partenariat public-privé ; b) ­la
régulation des secteurs sur la base d'un cahier de charges avec un système de tarifs plafonnés ; c)
­la fixation des tarifs reflétant les coûts économiques.

7 - Commentaires sur le bilan global de la réforme institutionnelle

Le cadre légal et réglementaire n'est pas totalement achevé dans aucun des secteurs concernes par
le projet. La loi portant « Code de l'électricité » a été adoptée, mais ses décrets d'application ne
sont pas approuvés. La SOMELEC, en dépit de la recherche active de partenaire n'est pas encore
privatisée faute d'acquéreur.

La loi portant « Code de l'Eau » a été adoptée, mais ses décrets d'application restent encore dans
les circuits d'approbation. La loi portant sur la régulation multisectorielle a été adoptée, mais pour
son application, un travail de clarification reste à faire pour éviter des équivoques dans
l'interprétation des missions, attributions et prérogatives respectives des principaux acteurs des
Secteurs ciblés.



                                                  - 16 -

La restructuration du cadre légal et institutionnel n'est pas terminée. En effet, le toilettage des
textes et leur harmonisation devra être poursuivi pour développer le partenariat public-privé.

Les nouvelles institutions créées de par ce processus de restructuration (ARM, APAUS,
SOMELEC, SNDE, ANEPA, CNRE, etc.) sont fonctionnelles bien que le cadre juridique et
réglementaire reste à finaliser. Cette restructuration qui n'est pas encore achevée s'est
malheureusement traduite par une certaine absence de synergie opérationnelle entre les différents
acteurs institutionnels. Par ailleurs, cette restructuration du cadre légal et institutionnel n'attire pas
encore suffisamment le Secteur privé, comme en témoigne l'absence de partenaires stratégiques
privés dans les Secteurs Electricité..

Par ailleurs, le Programme de Communication et d'Information du Projet (PARSEAE) sur la
pertinence et les enjeux de la restructuration du cadre légal et institutionnel n'a pas eu l'impact
escompté sur les acteurs et décideurs nationaux, notamment en ce qui concerne la privatisation du
volet électricité de la SONELEC.

Une large concertation reste nécessaire entre les différents intervenants et, en particulier, entre les
Ministères sectoriels (en charge de l'Eau, l'Energie, l'Environnement, ..), l'ARM , l'APAUS,
l'ADER, l'ANEPA , la SOMELEC et la SNDE.

Il en est de même pour l'articulation sans équivoque entre les missions de l'ARM , de l'APAUS,
de l'ANEPA, de l'ADER. Pour la mise en oeuvre de la loi sur l'Accès universel, certaines
difficultés rencontrées sur le terrain restent à lever.

8. Impact sur le développement institutionnel

Le projet a contribue au renforcement des capacités des institutions des Secteurs Energie, Eau et
Assainissement, suivant trois axes d'intervention : a) - Appui matériel sous forme de fourniture
de biens d'équipements (équipements informatiques, mobiliers de bureau et logistiques de
transport) ; b) - Appui technique sous forme de fourniture de services de consultation pour des
études et le recrutement d'experts ; c) - Formation du personnel à travers des séminaires, des
stages de courtes durées et des voyages d'études.

Les principaux bénéficiaires de ces appuis sont le Ministère des affaires Economiques et du
Développement (MAED), les Ministères sectoriels (Energie, Eau et Assainissement), l'Agence
Nationale de l'Eau Potable et de l'Assainissement, l'Autorité de Régulation Multisectorielle et
l'Agence de Promotion de l'Accès Universel des Services.

De par son appui matériel, le PARSEAE a incontestablement contribué à l'amélioration de
l'efficacité d'intervention et de la qualité des services des institutions bénéficiaires. Il en est de
même pour l'impact des formations reçues. L'appui en ressources humaines (consultants et
experts en poste) a également eu un impact positif sur le développement des capacités
institutionnelles. Cependant, l'impact du Projet sur le développement institutionnel aurait été plus
important s'il n'y avait pas une forte mobilité des ressources humaines et des institutions



                                                   - 17 -

gouvernementales.

9 . Enseignements tirés de cette expérience

Les principales leçons que l'on peut tirer de ce Projet sont les suivantes.

9.1 - Au niveau de sa conception

L'évolution des contextes politique, économique et énergétique national et international aurait dû
être suffisamment prise en compte dans la stratégie de privatisation du volet électricité de la
SONELEC ; ceci aurait probablement conduit à des scénarios alternatifs crédibles.

9.2 ­ Au niveau de son exécution

La restructuration inachevée du cadre légal et institutionnel (comme c'est le cas actuellement) est
lourde de conséquence pour la Mauritanie. Elle a en effet désarticulé le cadre institutionnel
existant, ce qui impose la nécessité de sa poursuite. Par ailleurs, l'on devrait mieux comprendre le
caractère dynamique de tout processus de réforme institutionnelle.

9.3 ­ Au niveau du financement

Pour l'affectation des moyens financiers d'un Projet d'appui institutionnel, il aurait été plus
adéquat d'assurer un certain équilibre entre le coût des études et celui des autres composantes non
moins importantes qui favorisent l'appropriation du projet par ses bénéficiaires et le
développement des capacités des acteurs nationaux (les campagnes de communication et
d'information, la mise en oeuvre des cadres d'échange et de concertation, la formation des
ressources humaines, l'amélioration du niveau d'équipements des services traditionnels, la
diffusion et vulgarisation des résultas d'études).

9.4. Principaux facteurs qui ont affecté la réalisation du projet sont :

Sur le plan positif

      Le ferme engagement politique du gouvernement à travers sa « Déclaration de
         Politique de développement des Secteurs Energie et Eau/Assainissement ».

      La performance du management de l'UEP en matière d'impulsion et de suivi de la
          réalisation des différentes composantes du projet ; et

      La performance du management de l'UEP, pour assurer une coordination
          multisectorielle du Projet et obtenir en temps réel les appuis politiques nécessaires
          pour l'exécution du Projet.




                                                 - 18 -

Sur le plan négatif

        La faillite retentissante de la Société « ENRON », un géant mondial du Secteur
           électricité.

         Le retard dans l'adoption des Décrets d'application des lois d'orientation de la
           réforme institutionnelle relative aux « Codes de l'Electricité et de l'Eau » ;

         Les difficultés de l'Entreprise publique (SOMELEC) sur le plan économique,
           financier et technique résultant en particulier de l'évolution du cours des
           hydrocarbures sur le marché mondial; et

         Le faible impact de la campagne de communication et d'information sur la réforme
            institutionnelle.

10 ­ Performance du Gouvernement et de la Banque

10.1 - Au niveau de la conception du Projet,

Le Gouvernement et la Banque auraient pu être plus lucide lors de la préparation du prêt, pour
relever certaines insuffisances au niveau de la conception du Projet et qui tiennent à : a) ­ la
prédominance de la réforme du secteur Energie (notamment du sous-secteur électricité) sur tous
les autres secteurs pour réforme institutionnelle ; b) ­ la prédominance de l'objectif de
privatisation du volet électricité de la SONELEC sur tous les autres objectifs du projet ; c) ­ la
dépendance de la réforme institutionnelle du sous-secteur électricité à la réussite de la privatisation
du volet Electricité de la SONELEC ; d) ­ la sous estimation de l'environnement politique et
économique national et international pour la privatisation d'un service public d'électrification ; et
e) ­ l' absence de scénario B au cas où le scénario A (privatisation du volet électricité) n'aurait
pas abouti.

10.2 - Au niveau de la supervision de l'exécution du Projet,

La supervision de la mise en oeuvre du Projet à travers l'UGP, l'UEP et le CA s'est bien déroulée;
et l'UEP s'est assez bien acquittée de sa mission. Le Gouvernement a manqué de performance en
ce qui concerne l'absence de prise en compte du changement du contexte politique et énergétique
national et international pour réorienter la stratégie et les objectifs du projet, notamment par
rapport à la privatisation de la SOMELEC. Par ailleurs, l'instabilité des institutions
gouvernementales et la mobilité des ressources humaines des institutions étatiques n'ont pas été de
nature à faciliter un suivi cohérent de la mise en oeuvre du Projet.

11 . En définitive

Le problème de fond reste toujours d'actualité en Mauritanie, à savoir : la nécessité de
promouvoir durablement l'efficacité du secteur Energie pour favoriser la compétitivité de
l'économie nationale et améliorer durablement le cadre de vie.



                                                  - 19 -

Les deux objectifs de développement du Projet sont toujours en phase avec les objectifs nationaux
définis dans a) - la Déclaration de Politique de Développement des Secteurs Eau et Energie de
1998 et b) ­ la déclaration d'orientation en matière de réforme des Entreprises publiques de 1998.

La réforme institutionnelle initiée avec l'appui du Projet n'est pas encore achevée, elle manque
encore de clarté. Il reste une série de lois, règlements et décrets d'application que le
Gouvernement n'a pu prendre, pour des raisons de calendrier. Mais ceci n'entame en rien sa
volonté d'arriver à une meilleure lisibilité du cadre légal et institutionnel de la réforme en cours.

L'appropriation du Projet par ses principaux bénéficiaires n'est pas encore effective, pour en
asseoir la durabilité des résultats atteints. Les faiblesses dans l'appropriation du Projet par ses
principaux bénéficiaires constituent la principale insuffisance qui découle de l'impact limité des
efforts de communication, d'information et de sensibilisation sur les enjeux et les mécanismes du
projet. Cette faiblesse concerne aussi bien les mécanismes de la réforme institutionnelle que la
capitalisation des résultats des études réalisées.

Tout ceci milite pour la poursuite de la réforme en cours afin d'arriver à des options adaptées aux
contextes politique, économique et énergétique national et international.

Ainsi, il est important de :

1 ­ Poursuivre et finaliser le cadre légal et réglementaire pour plus de clarté de la réforme ;
Prendre les mesures nécessaires pour rendre opérationnel les outils juridiques et institutionnels
acquis dans ce cadre sur la base d'une réévaluation globale de la réforme engagée.

2 ­ Développer les mécanismes de promotion du partenariat public-privé ; Et mettre l'accent sur
le volet communication en direction du secteur privé pour le faire connaître les opportunités
d'affaires dans le secteur énergie.

3 ­ Renforcer les mécanismes d'appropriation du projet par ses bénéficiaires.

4 ­ Réexaminer les formes d'implication du secteur privé dans le marché électrique urbain et rural,
notamment en ce qui concerne la SOMELEC.

5 ­ Renforcer les mécanismes de coordination sectorielle (Eau Assainissement) élargie sous la
tutelle du Ministère en charge du secteur.

6 ­ Favoriser une meilleure prise en compte du sous-secteur Assainissement.

7 ­ Rendre disponible les acquis documentaires (études, fiches techniques, compte rendu de
formations, etc.) du projet pour une meilleure exploitation par les acteurs intéressés.




                                                  - 20 -

8 ­ Poursuivre la coopération avec la Banque et les autres institutions internationales pour
finaliser la restructuration du cadre légal et institutionnel en cours et préparer les futurs
investissement dans les secteurs ciblés.

9 ­ Assurer les mécanismes permettant de rendre dynamique cette réforme ; Et insérer cette
réforme dans les Programmes du Cadre Stratégique de Lutte contre la Pauvreté, notamment au
niveau de la composante Bonne gouvernance.

12. Annexes

12.1. Annexe 1 : Tableau des indicateurs de résultat


         Objectifs de               Indicateurs d'impact             Indicateur   Indicateur    Résultat
     Développement du                                                 original    révisé à la      Final
          PARSEAE                                                                   RMP
 Restructurer le cadre légal et Une loi sur l'électricité et la                               Réalisée
 institutionnel des secteurs de régulation est adoptée et publiée
 l'eau et l'assainissement et   au journal officiel
 de l'énergie pour créer un
 environnement permettant la
 participation du secteur
 privé.
                               La vente de la SONELEC est         2001                        Pas réalisé
                               achevée
 Préparer des programmes        Diagnostic et plan d'action pour                              Pas
 d'investissements futurs dans l'eau urbaine ;                                                réalisé
 les secteurs de : (a) eau      Identification des mécanismes
 urbaine ;                      de fourniture des services d'eau                              Réalisé
 (b) eau et électrification     et d'électricité en milieu rural ;
 rurale (c) gestion des         Dossier d'exécution pour le                                   Réalisé
 ressources                     parc éolien




                                                         - 21 -

       Impact des                   Indicateurs de Résultats             Indicateurs à     Résultats Final
       composantes                                                        l'évaluation
Restructuration des        Fin des monopoles dans les secteurs de       Fin 2000          Pas
secteurs de l'eau et de    l'eau et de l'énergie                                          réalisé
l'énergie
                           Séparation des activités eau et énergie      Fin 2000          Réalisé
                           Privatisation de la partie Electricité de la Début 2001        Non
                           SONELEC                                                        Réalisé
                           Gestion de la partie eau par le secteur      Début 2001        Non
                           privé                                                          Réalisé
                           La régulation du secteur est basée sur un Fin 2000             Non
                           cahier des charges et un système de                            réalisé
                           tarification plafonnée
                           Les principes de la tarification sont        Fin 2000          Non
                           clairement définis dans les instruments de                     Réalisé
                           la régulation et prennent en compte les
                           coûts économiques.
Régulation des services    Autorité de Régulation est crée                                Réalisé
                           Autorité de Régulation est réellement                          Non
                           opérationnelle                                                 réalisé
Etudes pour la             Programme d'action détaillé prêt pour                          Pas
transmission, la           soumission aux investisseurs                                   Réalisé
distribution et l'extension
des services d'eau
Standards techniques et    Normes et standards adoptés et décrets                         Réalisé
environnementaux et        publiés.
structure de prix pour les
produits pétroliers
Autres études pour         Programme d'action pour les économies                          Non
l'énergie                  d'énergie mis en place                                         Réalisé
                           Dossier d'exécution pour le parc éolien
                           prêt
                           Programme d'action pour le                                     Réalisé
                           développement de l'eau et de
                           l'électrification en milieu rural prêt pour
                           soumission aux bailleurs.




                                                      - 22 -

12.2. Annexe 2. Budget et exécution financière du Projet

BUDGET GLOBAL

       CATEGORIE              BUDGET          DECAISSEMENT              EN COURS      DISPONIBLE
                              INITIAL
    Equipement               1 340 000,00             1 051 196,19         287 823,00         980,81

    Consultant et            6 968 000,00             5 823 855,07       1 139 166,50       4 978,43
    Formation

    Fonctionnement           1 340 000,00             1 341 172,56         99 000,00    -100 172,56

    P. P. F.                   134 000,00               134 000,00                 0,0          0,00

    Non Alloué                 134 000,00                       0,00               0,0   134 000,00
             Total            9 916 000,00             8 350 223,82      1 525989,50      173786,68




BUDGET EXECUTE PAR ANNEE INCLUS LES PREVISIONS AU 30 AVRIL 2005

    A N N E E            2000        2001          2002         2003        2004         2005    T O T A U X
    Equipement          56 589,48  102 396, 15  190 393, 32   340 614, 29 121 758,59   527 267,36 1 339019,19
    Consultations      119 941,09 1 292 565,81 1 573 04,22  1 077 78,10   663 390,27 2 236 42,08  6963 021, 57
    & Formations
    Fonctionnement      13 172,30  102 512,84   115 439,27    183 346,66   360 099,37 665 602,12 1 440 172,56
          Total        189 732,87 1497 474,80 1 879 236,81 1 601 239,05 1 145 248,23 3 429 11,56  9 742 213,32




12.3. Annexe 3. Liste des études réalisées

1 . Etudes prévues et réalisées

1. Plan d'investissement en électrification rurale a été réalisé.
2. Etude sur les Hydrocarbures : prix, normes et sécurité des hydrocarbures en Mauritanie.
3. Etude diagnostic des potentialités en économies d'énergie dans le secteur public
4. Etude de Faisabilité et la préparation d'un dossier d'Appel d'Offre pour un parc éolien à
    Nouadhibou
5. Etude d'appui à la mise en place de l'Autorité de Régulation Multisectorielle (ARM).
6. Inventaire des points d'eau au niveau des Régions des deux Hodhs et de l'Assaba.
7. Inventaire et évaluation des besoins de redimensionnement des réseaux piézomètriques
8. Appui à la privatisation des activités de fonçage de puits.
9. Elaboration de 2 plans d'investissement en hydraulique dans les régions du Brakna et du
    Hod Chari.




                                                - 23 -

10. Elaboration d'une stratégie d'assainissement en milieu rural et semi-urbain.
11. Plan de développement à Moyen Terme de l'ANEPA (Agence Nationale pour l'Eau Potable
    et l'Assainissement)
12. Diagnostic de la situation de la SNDE.
13. Réseau de distribution de Nouakchott.

2 . Etudes non prévues et réalisées

14. Etude sur l'élaboration de la stratégie d'Accès universel aux services régulés de base
15. Définition d'une Stratégie nationale d'accès universel ;
16. Organisation du fonctionnement de l'APAUS (Agence de Promotion de l'Accès Universel
    aux Services de base) ;
17. Etude relative à l'inventaire physique des immobilisations du secteur électricité de la
    SONELEC ;
18. Audit des états financiers de la SOMELEC ;
19. Plan d'investissement de l'électrification urbaine ;
20. CDMT Energie;
21. CDMT Eau;
22. Etudes « Energie et Pauvreté »
23. Etudes « Eau et Pauvreté »
24. Renforcement des capacités des services de l'hydraulique et des collectivités locales en matière
    de planification et de police de l'eau ainsi que les services régionaux de l'ANEPA
25. Etude organisationnelle de la DHA
26. Contribution à la mise en place d'un cadre législatif réglementaire et normatif du secteur de
    l'Eau
27. Plan de formation et de renforcement des capacités des ressources humaines de la DHA et de
    l'ANEPA
28. Programme de mise en oeuvre de la réforme du secteur de l'eau.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Electricity law and regulations adopted and   Achieved                                      Achieved
published in the Journal Officiel.
Identification of urban water problems,       Achieved                                      Achieved
solution and action plan.
TA aimed at identifying delivery mechanisms                                                 Ongoing
for rural water and electricity services.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Abolition of monopolies in power and water    Partially achieved; water and electricity     Partially achieved; water and electricity
sectors; separation of                        activities separated by end-2000.             activities separated by end-2000.
water and electricity activities by end-2000.
Privatization of the                          Not achieved.                                 Not achieved.
electricity part of SONELEC and
management of the water sector by the
private sector.
Official decree.                              Achieved.
Detailed action program ready for submission Achieved.
to investors (private and concessional).
Norms and standards adopted by end 2001. Partially achieved.                                Partially achieved.
Action program for energy savings being       Partially achieved; wind park implementation Partially achieved;
implemented; action program for rural water   plan is ready; action program for rural water unchanged.
and electrification ready for                 and electricity development ready for
submission to donors.                         submission to potential lenders; action plan
                                              for energy efficiency is not yet in force.

1End of project




                                                                 - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Institutional reform                                      3.20            2.60              81

 2. Consultative Studies
(a) UGP training and operating cost                          0.70            1.82             260
(b) Water studies                                            2.00            2.00             100
(c) Hydrocarbons studies                                     0.50            0.50             100
(d) Noudhibou wind farm study                                0.50            0.50             100
(e) Development of RE and RWS delivery systems               1.40            1.40             100
(f) Development of energy savings plan; support              1.30            1.47             113
     to MWE for capacity building
3. PPF                                                       1.00            1.00             100


Total Baseline Cost                                         10.60           11.29
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.20
 Price Contingencies                                         0.10
                          Total Project Costs               10.90           11.29
                    Total Financing Required                10.90           11.29
The Project benefited from the appreciation of the US$ during the 2000-2001 period.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.20         0.10         0.00          0.30
                                   (0.00)          (0.20)      (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.30)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         8.90         0.00          8.90
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (8.10)         (0.00)       (8.10)
4. Incremental Operating            0.00            0.00         0.70         0.00          0.70
    Cost
UGP                                (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.50)         (0.00)       (0.50)
5. Refinancing of PPF               0.00            0.00         1.00         0.00          1.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.00)         (0.00)       (1.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.00            0.20        10.70         0.00         10.90
                                   (0.00)          (0.20)      (9.70)         (0.00)       (9.90)




                                                - 26 -

    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    2. Goods                                0.00               0.91              0.39             0.00              1.30
                                           (0.00)             (0.91)            (0.39)            (0.00)           (1.30)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              7.17             0.00              7.17
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.17)            (0.00)           (7.17)
    4. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00              1.82             0.00              1.82
         Cost
    UGP                                    (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.30)            (0.00)           (1.30)
    5. Refinancing of PPF                   0.00               0.00              1.00             0.00              1.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.13)            (0.00)           (0.13)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               0.00               0.91             10.38             0.00             11.29
                                           (0.00)             (0.91)            (8.99)            (0.00)           (9.90)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Institutional Reform         2.70         0.50                     2.60                               96.3      0.0
2. Consultative studies
(a) UGP training and            0.50         0.20                     1.30         0.52                  260.0    260.0
operating cost
(b) Water studies               2.00                                  2.00                               100.0
(c) Hydrocarbons studies        0.50                                  0.50                               100.0
(d) Nouadhibou wind farm        0.50                                  0.50                               100.0
study
(e) Development of RE and       1.40                                  1.40                               100.0
TWS delivery systems
(f) Development of energy       1.30                                  1.47                               113.1
savings plan
3. PPF                          1.00                                  0.13         0.87                  13.0




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


As stated in the Project Appraisal Document:

"The benefits of this project, though large, cannot be quantified. The main benefit of this project
is to create the basis for a sustainable development of the electricity and water sectors, which will
lead to better sector performance, and increased access to services. In the petroleum sector the
higher level of competition and increased levels of service would benefit the economy at large.
The de-monopolization and the placing under private administration of the water supply activities
of SONELEC would permit a faster increase of coverage for semi-urban and rural populations
which would result in better improving living conditions and health of the targeted population.
The target population includes (i) all categories of consumers, in particular those not yet having
access to modern energy services, and (ii) both local and foreign private sector entrepreneurs.




                                                - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 1999              2    Task team leader/Sr. Energy
                                             Planner
                                             Pr. Power Engineer

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 2000                8    Task team leader/Sr. Energy
                                             Planner
                                             Pr. Power Engineer
                                             Pr. Energy Economist
                                             Pr. Water/Sanitation Spec.
                                             Economist, Resident mission
                                             Procurement Officer
                                             Water/Sanitation
                                             Spec./Consultant
                                             Financial Management Spec.
              April 2000                3    Task team leader/Sr. Energy
                                             Planner
                                             Lawyer
                                             Disbursement Officer

 Supervision
              March 2002                4    Task team leader (1); Sr.             S               S
                                             Financial Analyst/PRG Spec.
                                             (1); Rural Water Specialist
                                             (1); Procurement Specialist
                                             (1)
              November 2002             6    Sector Director (1); Rural Water      S               S
                                             Spec. (1); Task team leader (1);
                                             Procurement Spec. (1),
                                             Disbursement Analyst (1); Fin.
                                             Man. Spec. (1)
              September 2003            4    Team Leader (1); PRG Specialist       S               S
                                             (1); Regulation Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              February 2004             4    Task team leader (1); Sr.             S               S
                                             Infrastructure Spec. (1);
                                             Regulation Spec. (1);
                                             Procurement Spec. (1)
              November 2004             3    Task team leader (1); Sr. Water       U               S
                                             Spec. (1); Financial Analyst (1);
              March 2005                5    Task team leader (1); Pr.             U               U
                                             Infrastructure Spec. (1);
                                             Municipal Devt. Spec. (1);
                                             Procurement Spec. (1); Financial
                                             Analyst (1)




                                              - 29 -

               November 2005           4   Procurement Spec. (1); Task           U    U
                                           team leader (1); Pr. Infrastructure
                                           Spec. (1); Procurement Spec. (1);
                                           Financial Analyst (1)


 ICR
                                      5     Task team leader (1); Sr.            U    U
                                            Water/Sanit. Spec. (1);
                                            Municipal Devt. Spec. (1);
                                            Procurement Spec. (1);
                                            project Assistant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                27.82                       118,877.12
  Supervision
  ICR                                131.02                        485,950.52
  Total                              158.84                        604,827.64




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Mauritania

1.    Rapport d'Avancement, December 2001.
2.    Mauritania--Letter of Intent, addressed to the IMF with attached Memorandum of
      Economic and Financial Policies, and Technical Memorandum of Understanding,
      May 2, 2002.
3.    Revue de la Situation du Projet, September 30, 2002.
4.    Letter from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development requesting extension
      of the Closing Date, November 20, 2003.
5.    Consultant report on the SOMELEC's financial viability and private sector participation,
      November 18, 2004.
6.    Revue à mi-parcours, November 2002.
7.    Rapport Bilan du PARSEAE, prepared by the Project Implementation Unit with
      consultant assistant, December 2005.
8.    Contribution au Rapport de fin d'Exécution du PARSEAE,
      prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development, December 2005.

World Bank

1.    Project Appraisal Document, May 23, 2000.
2.    Development Credit Agreement, June 22, 2000.
3.    Letter to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development, Reallocation of Proceeds,
      August 29, 2001.
4.    Aide-Mémoire, Mid-Term Review, November 19-27, 2002.
5.    Aide-Mémoire, Rural and Semi-Urban Water Sector Review, September 19-22, 2003.
6.    Memorandum, Recommendation for Extension of Closing Date and Amendment of
      Development Credit Agreement, December 8, 2003.
7.    Letter to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development, Amendment to the
      Development Credit Agreement, December 8, 2003.
8.    Aide-Mémoire, SOMELEC Privatization Process Re-Launch Mission,
      February 21-28, 2004.
9.    Letter to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development, March 23, 2004.
10.   Aide-Mémoire, Mission de Supervision, November 14-18, 2004.
11.   Letter to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development, November 24, 2004.
12.   Memorandum, Recommendation for Extension of Closing Date and Reallocation of
      Credit Proceeds, December 20, 2004.
13.   Letter to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development, Extension of Closing Date,
      Reallocation of Proceeds, December 20, 2004.
14.   Aide-Mémoire, Supervision Mission, March 5-12, 2005.
15.   Letter to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development, April 1, 2005.
16.   Letter to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development, November 2005.
17.   Aide-Mémoire, Supervision and Completion Mission, December 8-17, 2005.
18.   Letters (2) to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development, December 20, 2005.
19.   Complete set of internal Implementation Supervision Reviews (ISRs).




                                                 - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. New Legislation, Institutional Reorganization, and Studies



A. New Legislation

1.    Law providing for multisectoral regulation;
2.    Law authorizing the breakup of SONELEC into SOMELEC and SNDE;
3.    Law authorizing the transfer of electricity assets to SOMELEC;
4.    Ordinance providing for universal access to basic services;
5.    Decree providing for the creation of SNDE;
6.    Decree providing for the creation and organization of APAUS;
7.    Decree creating and organizing the National Water Resources Center
      (CNRE ­ Centre National des Ressources en Eau);
8.    Agreement between the Government and ANEPA;
9.    Agreement between the Government and ADER; and
10.   Laws and ordinances providing for the creation, mission, and functional
      organization of new agencies in the energy and water/sanitation sectors.

B. Institutional Reorganization

1.    Restructuring of technical ministries: Energy and Petroleum, Environment, and Hydraulic;
2.    Creation of autonomous structures: ADER and ANEPA, under signed contract with the
      Government;
3.    Separation of water/sanitation and electricity through the divestiture of SONELEC and
      the creation of separate enterprises (respectively SNDE, SOMELEC);
4.    Creation of CNRE; and
5.    Creation of new institutions with special functions: ARM and APAUS.

C. Studies

1.    Rural Electrification Investment Plan, which elaborated a program of rural infrastructure
      and an implementation scheme;
2.    Action Plan aimed to encourage energy efficiency in the public sector and provide
3.    CNRE with an important forecasting and planning tool;
4.    Feasibility study and preparation of bidding documents for the wind energy park at
      Nouadhidou, where the installation of windmills is pending;
5.    Study in support of setting up ARM. Both ARM and APAUS are now operational;
6.    Study on prices, standards, and security of hydrocarbons;
7.    Study of the rehabilitation of the Nouakchott water distribution network;
8.    Study of water investments needs in secondary centers.
9.    Study on the formulation of the strategy for universal access to basic services, which
      notably led to the setting up and training of regulatory bodies;
10.   Formulation of a National Strategy for Universal Access;
11.   Functional organization of APAUS;



                                              - 34 -

12. Physical inventory of SONELEC's electricity assets;
13. Financial audit of SOMELEC, which revealed insufficient profit and internal cash
    generation to cover the enterprise's capital investment and relatively meager debt service;
14. Urban electrification investment plan;
15. Upgrading of the energy and water medium-term financing plan (CDMT) for 2005-2007,
    which built planning around realistic bases in terms of implementation capacity
    and conformity with the macroeconomic framework, thereby showing considerable
    improvement over previous years;
16. "Energy and Poverty" and "Water and Poverty" studies for Water/Sanitation Sector
    Reform Steering Committee (CPRSE - Cellule de Pilotage de Réforme de Secteur
    Eau/Energie).




                                           - 35 -

Additional Annex 9. Map 33445



                              Map IBRD 33445




                                    - 36 -

                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33445

                                                                     MAURITANIA

                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                  MAIN ROADS

                                               REGION CAPITALS                                                            RAILROADS

                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                           REGION BOUNDARIES

                                               RIVERS                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                       15°W                                                           10°W                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                      shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                         MOROCCO

                                                                                                                                           0      50     100     150    200 Kilometers

                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                              Tindout
                                                                                                                               indout
                                                                                                                                           0          50          100          150 Miles
                         MAURITANIA


                                                                                                                                                                A L G E R I A
                                                                                                              Aïn
                                                                                                              Aïn
                                                                                                              Ben Tili        t t i
                                                                                                                            e
                                                                      To
                                                                      To                                                   Y
                                                                   Bu Craa
                                                                                      Bir Moghreïn
                                                                                          Moghreïn
25°N                                                                                                                                                                                                 25°N
                                               Former
                                               Spanish                                                     T I R I S
   ATLANTIC                                    Sahara                                                Z E M M O U R
    OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                          a  m  i
                                                                                                                                                               Taoudenni
                                                                                       m
                                                                               a  m            S a h a r a
                                                                          H

                                                          Fderik       Zouérat
                                                                       Zouérat

                                                                   Kediet Ijill                 D e s e r t
                                                                    (915 m)


            To
            To                                                                                                                         o   u f

        Bir Gandús
            Gandús                                                                                El Moueïla
                                                                                                     Moueïla                         j
                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                               l                                              M A L I

          Nouadhibou
          DAKHLET               Khatt Atoui                 Choum                                                            E
                                                                                                     e
                                                                                      Oudâne
                                                                                      Oudâne    a n
                                                        Atar                           O   u r   A D R A R
    NOUADHIBOU                                                          Chinguetti

20°N                    Châmi
                        Châmi                                                                                                    E  l                                                                20°N
                       I N C H I R I                                                                                                     M
                                               Akjoujt                                                                                       r  e   y  y  é
                       Bôu Rjeïmât
                       Bôu Rjeïmât

                                                                                              T A G A N T                          H O D H E C H

                                         z a                                           Tidjikdja                Tichit

    NOUAKCHOTT                        r                                                                                             C H A R G U I
                                         T R A R Z A
                         T r a
                                                         Moudjéria
                                                         Moudjéria
                             Boutilimit
              Tiguent                             B R A K N A
                                                                                                 Tamchaket                                       Qualâta
                                                                                                                                                 Qualâta

                                                    Aleg
                                                                     A S S A B A                              Ayoûn
                                                                                                                yoûn                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                 Rosso                                                                                        el ''Atroûss
                                                                                                                  Atroû                                                  Tombouctou
                                                Boguéé
                                                Bogu                           Kiffa            H O D H E L                                   Nema

                   To
                   To
                  Dakar                                 Kaedi      Mbout                         G H A R B I           Timbédra
                                                                                                                        imbédra

                                                                                      Kankossa                                                    Bassikounou
                                             GORGOL              Maghama                           Ouadou
                                                                                    ar To
                                                                                       To                                                 To
                                                                                                                                          To                              To
                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                      Kayes                      To
                                                                                                                 To                     Nara
15°N          S E N E G A L                                SénégalSélibaby
                                                                  Sélibaby

                                                                                                            Nioro du Sahel                                            Nampala                        15°N
                                                GUIDIMAKA          To
                                                                   To          K arako
                                                                  Nayé
                                                                  Nayé                                                      M A L I

                                       15°W                                                           10°W                                                                      5°W

                                                                                                                                                                                       NOVEMBER 2004

