FILE COPY
Report No. 1668-CM
Appraisal of a Feeder Roads Project
United Republic of Cameroon
November 15, 1977
Regional Mission in Western Africa
Feeder Road Section
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  CFA Francs (CFAF)
US$1.00          =  CFAF 245
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                              US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                             3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                        0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km)                 0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 hectare (ha)                          2.47 acres
I metric ton (t)                        2,204 pounds (lbs)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BAC               Bamenda Association of Cooperatives
DCD               Department of Community Development
DR                Department of Roads
FAC               Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED               Fonds Europeen de Developpement
FONADER           Fonds National de Developpement Rural
MINEH             Ministry of Equipment and Housing
MINEP             Ministry of Economy and Planning
MINIAGRI          Ministry of Agriculture
MOT               Ministry of Transport
REGIFERCAM        Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun
SATA              Swiss Agency for Technical Assistance
SODEPA            Societe de Developpement et d' Exploitation
des Productions Animales
UCCAO             Union des Cooperatives de Cafe Arabica de l'Quest
vpd               Vehicles per day
ZAPI              Zones d'Actions Prforitaires Integrees



FOR OFFICAL Us ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUbMUARY ...................................................    ....... soii
Is  INTRODUCTION  .........................................................                l
2.  BACKGROUND  ...**.. ...   .......................... ............. ...                 2
A.   Geographic and Economic Setting  ....................                         2
B.  The Transport System .............                ..................           4
C.   Transport Sector Management, Goals and Investments..                          5
3.  THE HIGHWAY SECTOR  .....             ..........                                       6
A. The Road Network .................                                              6
B.   Traffic on the Feeder Road Network                                            6
C.   The Road Transport Industry  ...                                              7
D.   Highway Administration  ....................             ....                 8
E.  Road Maintenance   ... . .........                                             9
F.   Road Engineering and Construction  ..................                         9
G.   Road Financing  ..1..$0...........                                           lO
4.   THE PROJECT  ...................................... ....                             12
A.  General Description  ..............                .......... . . ...         12
B.  Feeder Road Program  ..............o                                          12
C.   Improvement of Project Regional Roads  ....                 ..........       13
D.   Equipment  and Material Purchases   ........ . ...........                   13
E.   Technical Assistance and Studies  ...................                        14
F.   Training  ................       .                                           15
G.  Provision of Workshops and Office Space .............                         15
H.   Project Monitoring  ... ... ......................                           15
Is  Cost Estimates  ....*...O.....  O.......* .............................       16
J.  Execution  ................          ......... ..........................     18
K.   Procurement                                             ............         19
L.   Financing and Disbursements   ........................                       19
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ...... ..............                ..................         20
A.  General  ............................................                         20
B.   Economic Justification  .............................                        21
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...................                          25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise " disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
1.     Agricultural Production
2.     Development of Highway Network
3.     Motor Vehicle Registration
4.     Consumption of Motor Vehicle Fuels
5.     Maintenance Allocation for Different Road Types
6.     Road Expenditures During the Third Plan
7.     Road User Revenues
8.     Road Design Standards
9.     First Year Feeder Roads Improvement Program
10.     Tentative Second Year's Feeder Road Improvement Program
11.     Tentative Third and Fourth Years' Program
12.     Maintenance Standards for Roads
13.     Roads to be Included Under Proposed Third Highway Project
14.     Equipment to be Purchased for Improvement and Maintenance of Roads
15.     Project Costs
16.     Implementation Schedule
17.     Financing of Project Costs
18.     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
19.     Transport Cost Savings to Non-Agricultural Traffic
20.     Results of Sensitivity Analysis for Agricultural Projects
ANNEXES
1.      The Project Areas
2.      Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
3.      Project Monitoring
4.      Summary of Illustrative Economic Analysis
5.      Guidelines for Selection of Feeder Roads for the Second, Third
and Fourth Years of the Project
MAP



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        Cameroon's broad range of ecoclimatic zones provides excellent
diversification and potential for agriculture, the predominant sector in
the economy. It accounts for about 40% of gross domestic product (GDP) and
over 70% of the country's export earnings, and provides the livelihood for
over 80% of the population. The Government's investments in the sector, about
16% of total investments in the Fourth Plan (1976/77-1980/81), emphasize (a)
raising farmers' incomes and reducing regional disparities, (b) increasing
exports and (c) alleviating the domestic food shortage. To achieve these
objectives, Government's strategy consists of (a) implementing projects and
schemes aimed at increasing the production of cash crops, food crops and
livestock, and (b) continuing support of institutions such as FONADER (Fonds
National de Developpement Rural) for financing agricultural credit and the
ZAPI (Zones d'Actions Prioritaires Integrees) for implementing integrated
rural development projects. Efficient and reliable rural transport is a
prerequisite to the success of these programs.
ii.       Cameroon's road network of about 58,000 km is reasonably adequate
in extent and distribution. However the feeder road network, about 46,000 km
of mostly dry-weather roads and tracks, is in very poor condition due to low
construction standards and/or neglect of maintenance. The country needs a
program to rehabilitate, improve and maintain feeder roads. Such a program
will have to be long-range, partly because of the large amount of funds and
work involved and partly because a parallel effort will be required on the
national and provincial network. The proposed project is the start of this
program.
iii.      The proposed project is designed to (a) improve and maintain the
feeder roads in the proposed Bank Group-financed ZAPI East Rural Development
Project, the proposed Bank-Group, FED and German Government-financed Western
Highlands Agricultural Development Program and the ongoing Bank Group-financed
Livestock I Project in the Adamaoua area, and (b) establish the institutional
framework for the development and adequate maintenance of the feeder roads
network. It consists of (a) a four-year program for the force-account con-
struction, improvement,rehabilitation and maintenance of about 2,200 km of
feeder roads in the above-mentioned areas, (b) construction of, and provision
of equipment and tools for, a DR workshop including office facilities at
Nguelemenduka, (c) technical assistance to establish and strengthen a Feeder
Roads Unit to implement the program and to train local staff, and (d) consul-
tant services for studying resources for feeder road maintenance and preparing
a follow-up feeder road program.
iv.       The total project cost is estimated at US$21.1 million includ-
ing US$4.0 million equivalent in taxes and duties. Project costs, net
of taxes and duties, are estimated at US$17.1 million equivalent, with for-
eign costs of US$11.1 million (65%). The proposed Loan of US$4.6 million



and Credit of US$6.5 million will finance 100% of foreign costs. The Govern-
ment's contribution would be US$6.0 million of the net-of-tax project cost.
v.        The Ministry of Economy and Planning will have overall responsibility
for project execution. However, it will appoint as executing agencies for
the construction/improvement and subsequent maintenance the Ministry of
Equipment and Housing (in particular its Roads Department) for about 1,600 km
of feeder roads; the Ministry of Agriculture (in particular its Department of
Community Development) for 300 km of feeder roads; the ZAPI East Organization
for about 150 km of farm access roads; and the SODEPA for 150 km of access
roads. Physical execution is expected to start in September 1978 and be
completed by September 1982. Road construction, improvement and maintenance
will be carried out by force account; local contractors will be used for
constructing drainage structures and for supplying road-building materials.
vi.       In order to provide the necessary flexibility in planning and
executing the feeder roads program, only the first year's program (1978/79)
has been defined. The tentative programs for the remaining three years
will be revised annually by provincial interministerial committees to be
convened annually in the three provinces directly affected by the project.
These revisions will be approved by the Bank Group.
vii.      Equipment, materials, spare parts and supplies amounting to about
US$8 million, net of taxes, will be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A local pref-
erence will be allowed for goods manufactured in Cameroon. Contracts for
these items costing under US$50,000 may be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding following local procedures acceptable to the Bank; the aggregate
amount will not exceed US$600,000.
viii.     The proposed project is indispensable to the success of the agri-
cultural and rural development projects in the ZAPI East, the Western High-
lands and the Adamaoua Livestock area. Specifically, the feeder road works
will (a) provide the cheap, reliable and efficient transport needed to gen-
erate and market the increased agricultural and livestock production aimed at
in those projects, (b) reduce produce spoilage, (c) provide improved access
to health and social amenities, and (d) reduce transport costs to passengers
and other non-agricultural traffic. Evaluated as an integral part of the
above rural agricultural development projects, the proposed feeder road
project is economically justifiable. The ZAPI East project is expected to
yield an economic return of about 27%, the Western Highlands programs about
20% and the Livestock project about 18%. 1/
ix.       The institution-building component of the project represents a
major project benefit. It will (a) establish an efficient institutional
1/   These are preliminary figures subject to revision.



- iii -
framework for planning, developing and maintaining feeder roads, (b) train
local staff in performing the above functions, and (c) initiate a concerted,
interministerial and interagency approach to planning feeder roads.
x.        Project risks include (a) possibility of diversion of project
equipment and goods to non-project work, (b) interference with the selection
of roads for the annual programs and (c) significant modifications in the
associated agricultural projects. These risks should be reduced by the ex-
pected alleviation of the Department of Roads' equipment problems, the control
to be exercised by the various executing agencies of the agricultural programs
and by the agreement between the Government and the Bank on guidelines for
selecting roads for the annual programs.
xi.       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Group Loan of US$4.6
million and a Credit of US$6.5 million. An appropriate Loan term would be 20
years with a 5-year period of grace. The Credit would be made on standard IDA
terms.






CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
101      Cameroon's road network totals about 58,000 km of which about
12,000 km are paved and laterite-surfaced roads classified as national and
provincial roads. The remaining 46,000 kms are mostly dry-weather roads
and tracks classified as feeder roads. Road investments in the past have
concentrated on the national and provincial network notably the road links
on the Transcameroon rail/road route and the Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis.
Even though about 66% of total road investments under the Fourth Plan (1976/77-
1980/81) will continue to be devoted to these roads, the Government is begin-
ning to focus more attention on feeder roads which are in very poor condition.
The outlays for construction and improvement of these roads have increased
from CFAF 3.9 billion or 9% of total road investments in the Third Plan to
CFAF 24.6 billion or 31% in the Fourth Plan. The proposed project supports
Government's goals of improving its feeder road network.
1.02      A study of feeder roads was included under the Second Highway
Project (Loan 935/Credit 429-CM, US$ 48 million, 1973; Supplementary Credit,
US$15 million, 1976) as part of a general road maintenance study. The Bank
agreed in 1976 to study feeder roads separately due to delays in starting the
maintenance study and the need to focus on the network's special requirements,
establish close links with agriculture and rural development, and permit more
involvement of local staff and representatives in project design and prepara-
tion. It was also agreed to start with a project concentrating on a few
well-defined areas, since this was the Bank Group's first operation in the
feeder road subsector in Cameroon and since the country lacked the absorptive
capacity for a nation-wide project. This study, carried out predominantly by
Government with the assistance of only a total of 5 man-months of short-term
consultant assignments but with considerable input from the Bank's Regional
Mission in Western Africa, constitutes the basis for the present project.
1.03      The project would be the Bank Group's third lending operation
for road development in Cameroon and the first involvement in feeder roads
apart from some 900 km integrated with the Bank-financed Cocoa Project (Loan
1039-CM, US$6.5 million, 1974). The First Highway Project (Loan 663/Credit
180-CM, US$19 million, 1970)) financed the study and construction of the
Ngaoundere-Garoua (285 km) and the Tiko-Victoria (24 km) roads.  The project
was successfully completed in 1975 but with one and one-half years' delay,
largely due to pavement failures that occurred soon after construction, and a
cost overrun of US$4 million, US$2 million of which was financed by Bank Group
supplementary financing in 1975.
1.04      The ongoing Second Highway Project is assisting the Government to
continue improving the Trans-cameroon rail/road route and the Douala-Badoussam-
Foumban axis. The project consists of the improvement of about 485 km of main



-2-
roads and consultant services for technical assistance in transport planning
and coordination, for studies of forestry policy and forestry roads, and for
a study of road maintenance and secondary and feeder roads betterment. Road
construction is proceeding satisfactorily after a year's initial delay in
contract awards due to an estimated US$72 million cost overrun resulting from
underestimation of base costs during appraisal and inflation. The Association
made a supplementary credit of US$15 million in tIarch 1976 to cover part of
the cost overrun and agreed with the Government to reduce the project scope
by postponing the Garoua-Figuil section (98 km) of the Garoua-Mora road for
inclusion in the proposed Third Highway Project. The road maintenance study
started about a year late because of delays in recruiting consultants. The
consultants report on Phase I has been found unsatisfactory and they have been
requested to improve their analysis and review their recommendations according-
ly. After about three years and under constant Bank insistance, Government
has only recently recruited the other consultants for the ministries responsi-
ble for planning, equipment and transport to assist in transport planning and
coordination. For the proposed project, the Government and the Bank have
already agreed on consultants' Terms of Reference, and the Government has
taken steps to recruit the experts.
1.05      The proposed feeder roads project is designed to (a) improve and
maintain the feeder road networks to support the proposed Bank Group-financed
ZAPI (Zones d'Action Propriataires Integrees) East Rural Development Project,
appraised in March 1977; the proposed Bank Group and FED/German Government-
financed Western Highlands Agricultural Development Projects, the Bank portion
appraised in May 1977, and the ongoing Bank Group-financed Livestock I Project
in the Adamaoua area, and (b) to build the institutional framework for the
development and adequate maintenance of the feeder road network. It includes
a 4-year program for the improvement and subsequent maintenance of about 2,200
km of feeder roads in the above-mentioned areas. The project would complement
the proposed Third Highway Project which is expected to focus on maintenance
and rehabilitation of the national and provincial network.
1.06      This report is based on data collected and analyzed by Cameroon
Government staff, with the assistance of consultants, and the findings of an
appraisal mission, consisting of Messrs. Gyamfi and Tessier-Viennois, which
visited Cameroon in January and February 1977.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   G3graphic and Economic Setting
2.01      The Republic of Cameroon, situated at the junction of West and
Equatorial2Africa and extending from the Gulf of Guinea to Lake Chad, covers
475,000 km and has a population in 1976 of about 7.6 million growing about
2.3% p.a. Wide variations in the country's terrain, climate and vegetation
lead to varying transport problems: in the south, dense forest and heavy



rainfall make road construction and maintenance expensive; in the southwest, a
mountain range hampers transport development; in the Western Highlands, steep
slopes, clayey soils and a prolonged rainy season make road construction and
maintenance costly; and in the far north, poor subgrade and shortage of good
roadmaking materials make road construction and upkeep difficult and expensive.
The north-central part of the country is the only area where topography
vegetation and soils present no major problems.
2.02      The economy is predominantly rural with about 80% of the adult
population engaged in agriculture for which the broad range of the country's
ecoclimatic zones provides excellent diversification. The agricultural
sector accounts for about 40% of GDP and over 70% of the country's export
earnings. The secondary sectors contribute about 30% and transport about
5%, services about 3%, and commerce about 22% of GDP. GDP was about US$1.94
billion in 1975 with a per capita income of about US$270. Rural incomes
ranged from US$80-140 in the forest and savannah areas to some US$70-80
in the northern plains. During the 1960's real income grew at an average
of some 6% p.a., but slowed to about 3% p.a. between 1971 and 1975 due mainly
to declining demand and the fall in world prices for cocoa and coffee, deter-
iorating terms of trade, and a lower level of private investments. The
current Fourth Plan (1976/77-1980/81) aims at a 7% p.a. growth with emphasis
on rural and agricultural development (paragraph 2.05).
2.03      About 85% of agricultural production is contributed by the tradi-
tional sector--about 1 million smallholders with an average of 2 ha using
family labor and producing a large variety of crops. Plantations, mostly
state-owned, are limited to palm oil and rubber. The main foodcrops are
maize, cocoyams, beans, plantain, sorghum and groundnuts (Table 1). Food
production has grown at about 3-1/2% p.a. over the past five years, just ahead
of population. Except for wheat and rice, Cameroon could be self-sufficient
in foodcrops; however, urban centers have been experiencing increasing supply
problems due to lack of efficient, reliable and cheap transport and effective
agricultural support services and partly due to significant exports to neigh-
boring Gabon.
2.04      The principal cash crops and export commodities are cocoa, coffee
and cotton and, to a lesser extent, palm oil and rubber. Since the beginning
of the Third Plan, Government has emphasized smallholder cash-crop develop-
ment but progress has been slow. This is because of problems such as lack of
adequate physical infrastructure and agricultural support services and
because producer prices for the main cash crops, generally about a third of
world market prices, are low compared with the soaring prices of food crops.
Government recently increased the producer price for coffee to about CFAF
330,000 per ton which makes its cultivation competitive with foodcrop pro-
duction.
2.05      The Government allocated 16% of total investments to speed up rural
development under the Fourth Plan. The Plan's objectives in agriculture are
directed towards (i) raising farmers' incomes and reducing regional dispari-
ties, (ii) increasing exports and import substitution, and (iii) alleviating
domestic food shortages. To achieve these objectives, Government's strategy



-4 -
is (i) implementing projects and schemes aimed at increasing the production
of cash crops, foodcrops and livestock, and (ii) continuing support of institu-
tions such as the Fonds National de Developpement Rural (FONADER) for financing
rural development projects and providing agriculture credit, and the ZAPI's 1/
for implementing integrated rural development programs with emphasis on in-
creasing farmers' participation in development. The Bank has assisted
Government's efforts in agriculture by financing eight projects; one CAMDEV
plantation projects, two SOCAPALM oil plantation projects; a SEMRY rice
project, a livestock project, a cocoa project, a rural development project in
the Plaine de M'bo and a FONADER project.  In addition, a rural development
project in the ZAPI East and a Western Highlands Agricultural Development
project and a second CAMDEV Plantation project have recently been appraised.
B.   The Transport System
2.06      Cameroon's transport system consists of about 58,000 km of roads,
1,170 km of railway, three seaports, a navigable waterway with a river port
at Garoua, and five airports. The main transport system, which is export/
import oriented, is focused on Douala the commercial center, where there
are a deep-water port and an international airport. Links to the rest of the
country are provided along two principal corridors--the Trans-Cameroon rail/
road route (1,170 km) and the north-south Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis.
Emphasis on transport development to date has focused on modernizing the
main system, an objective which will be practically achieved with the comple-
tion of the Second Highway Project and improvement to the line characteristics
of the railroad between Douala and Yaounde.
Railways
2.07      The railway network, operated by Regie Nationale des Chemins de Fer
du Cameroun (REGIFERCAMV), comprises two main lines originating at Douala:
(i) the central line to N'Gaoundere (930 km), with a branch from Otele to
Mbalmayo (37 km), and (ii) the northern line to N'kongsamba (172 km) with
a branch from Mbanga to Kumba (28 km). From 1968/69 to 1975/76 freight
traffic and ton-km increased by 4% and 11.5% p.a., respectively, reaching
1.3 million tons and 437 million tons-km in 1975/6. The corresponding in-
creases for passenger transport were 3% and 7.5% p.a., respectively, to
1.86 million passengers and 260 million passengers-km. The northern line
which accounted for only about 10% of the traffic has received no major
investments for some time. Investment on the central line continues. The
construction of the Yaounde-Ngaoundere line was completed in 1974. The Bank's
Second Railway Project (Loan 1038-CM) provided equipment, mostly rolling stock
for timber and general cargo. Further line improvement, including realignment
of the Douala-Edea section, is expected to be undertaken with financing primarily
from various European aid agencies. The above development has not, however,
been matched by improvement of REGIFERGAM's managerial and operational capabi-
lity. The Government and the Bank are discussing means to solve this problem.
1/   This is a semi-autonomous rural development agency operating in selected
high-priority areas. The ZAPI's perform marketing, agricultural extension,
training and social services.



-5-
Ports
2.08      The Douala port, by far the most important of Cameroon's three
ports, handled over 2 million tons including about 400,000 tons of timber in
1975. Under the Bank's First and Second Port Projects, the capacity and
productivity of the port are being improved. The secondary ports of Tiko-
Victoria and Kribi serve limited hinterlands. The Port of Tiko-Victoria has
declined in importance due to inadequate facilities and the diversion of its
traffic to Douala. The lighterage port of Kribi has much better prospects,
especially for timber of which it handled over 200,000 tons in 1975. The port
is undergoing expansion to handle increasing exports of logs and is expected
to reach 400,000 tons per year within a few years.
Air Transport
2.09      Owing to the size and elongated shape of Cameroon, air transport
is important. There are five airports with paved runways, including that of
Douala which provides international services; the others and nine unpaved
airstrips are served by regularly scheduled internal flights. The Douala
airport is being improved under a three-phase plan financed in part by the
African Development Bank. Studies have just been completed for the improve-
ment of the Garoua Airport so that it can receive international flights and
for finding a new site for the Yaounde airport.
C.  Transport Sector Management, Goals and Investments
2.10      The Ministry of Transport (MOT) is officially responsible for
overall transport sector management including reviewing, coordinating and
screening transport investment proposals prepared by other ministries and
public agencies, formulating transport policy and approving the tariffs of
REGIFERCAM, the National Port Authority and Cameroon Airlines. However, MOT's
accomplishments have been mostly limited to collecting statistical data on
transport. The Ministry has neither the qualified staff nor adequate auth-
ority to perform its functions adequately. The Ministry of Planning and
Economy has undertaken some transport planning, but its limited resources,
sufficient when investment decisions consisted mainly of ranking high priority
projects on the principal transport axes, are proving inadequate for the more
difficult investment choices between competing corridors and between major
arteries in the same corridor. The Ministry of Equipment and Housing (MINEH)
is responsible for preparing and executing road projects but so far lacks
the qualified Cameroonian staff to perform the task adequately.
2.11      Attempts to reinforce the organization and machinery for transport
planning and policy-making and for project preparation and execution have
in the past met with limited success. Recent developments imply changes in
Government's attitude: (i) the Minister of Transport has prepared a decree
for Presidential approval which would create a Planning Unit within MOT, (ii)
the government is in the process of recruiting an expatriate transport specia-
list, financed under the Technical Assistant Project, to assist in planning,
policy formulation and coordination, and the UNDP transport technical assis-
tant's contract is being extended and (iii) the three road experts provided
under the Second Highway Project to assist MINEH have been recruited.



- 6 -
2.12      During the Third Plan (1971/72-1975/76), investments in the trans-
port sector totalled CFAF 80 billion out of total public sector expenditures
of CFAF 200 billion. The primary objective was to improve the trunk system,
particularly the Trans-Cameroon rail/road route with a planned investment of
CFAF 136 billion in the Fourth Plan (1976/77-1980/81) Government's goals are
to (i) complete the works carried over from the Third Plan, (ii) expand
capacity of the Douala port and realign sections of the Douala-Yaounde railway
line, (iii) improve road maintenance and (iv) shift emphasis from trunk roads
to the development of the rural network. These objectives largely reflect the
sector's physical needs.
2.13      The Bank is assisting Government to achieve the above objectives
in the sector through its ongoing projects as well as future projects in
an advanced stage of preparation. The proposed Third Highway Project will
concentrate on road maintenance and rehabilitation; the proposed feeder
roads project will establish institutions for feeder roads administration and
maintenance in addition to providing the necessary resources to construct,
improve and subsequently maintain selected high priority feeder roads (para-
graph 1.05).
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Road Network
3.01      The road network in Cameroon totals about 58,000 km of which about
2,000 km 1/ are paved and 10,000 km are all-weather gravel or laterite roads;
the remainder are dry-weather roads and tracks (Table 2). About 28,000 km are
classified for maintenance budgeting purposes; 12,000 km of these form the
national and provincial network. The most important roads, which are part of
the Trans-Cameroon route and the Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis have recently
been or are being constructed to paved standards. The rest of the classified
roads, though generally adequate in extent and distribution for the country's
economic needs, are mostly in poor condition due to inadequate maintenance.
The problem is even more acute for the unclassified roads, most of which are
in an advanced state of deterioration due to the compound effect of low
construction standards, particularly of drainage, poor construction quality
and practically non-existent maintenance.
B.   Traffic on the Feeder Roads Network
3.02      Traffic on the feeder roads network consists of (i) agricultural
produce destined for local markets, district centers as well as cooperative
collecting centers, (ii) small volumes of consumer goods and agricultural
1/   Another 265 km, the Garoua-Mora road, is being paved under the Second
Highway Project.



-7 -
inputs, and (iii) passengers. There is a large variation in the traffic
volumes of individual feeder roads depending on population density and level
of economic activity. In general, however, traffic increases from an average
of about 5 vpd on farm-to-market roads to about 30 and in some rare cases 50
vpd on roads leading to the main collecting centers or district capitals. The
typical vehicles used for freight transport on these roads are 3-5 ton
pay-load light trucks; 7 ton pay-load trucks are more common on the roads
leading to collecting centers or district capitals. The selection of truck
size appears to be influenced as much by road condition as by transport
demand. Traffic is highly seasonal, being over twice as much during the
harvest period as during the off-season. Passenger transport is mostly by
small buses and nine-passenger cars.
C.   The Road Transport Industry
3.03      The motor vehicle fleet has grown at an average of about 6% p.a.
over the past five years to about 63,500 vehicles; about 54% are cars, 35%
trucks and vans, 7% motorcycles and 4% specialized vehicles (Table 3). Motor
fuel consumption increased at about 8% p.a. during the same period (Table 4).
There is a Motor Vehicle Code which regulates, inter alia, vehicle weights and
dimensions, but these regulations are not generally enforced. The proposed
Third Highway Project is expected to include specific action to solve this
problem. On the feeder road network rain barriers are erected to prevent
passage of heavy vehicles after rains. Road transport generated by commerce
and industry, including agricultural exports, is dominated by the "Syndicat
des Transporteurs," a union of two large foreign firms and several Cameroonian
truckers. The Syndicat handles about 80% of the long-haul trucking business,
mostly interregional, and all of Chad's transit traffic; the balance is
handled by small owner-operators. There are no restrictions on vehicle impor-
tation or entry into the trucking business, but this has not resulted in
overcapacity; competition is keen. Inter-city road passenger transport is
mostly by taxi and bus, often owner-operated.
3.04      Transport on the feeder roads network is either by small private
truckers or, in the case of some cash crops, by cooperatives which often
supplement their capacity with private carriers on contract. Supply is
usually adequate; the few instances of undersupply are due mostly to the poor
state of roads. For the transport of passengers, consumer goods and food-
crops, competition among truckers is sufficiently strong to ensure that most
of the savings in vehicle operating costs associated with road improvements
will in general be passed on to the rural population. For the transport of
cash crops, the bulk of the savings goes to the cooperatives which purchase
directly from the producers at prices fixed independently of transport costs.
These savings will either be used by the cooperatives to expand and improve
their services or will be passed on the Government's Price Stabilization Fund
which usually protects the rural farmers during the period of adverse world
market prices for their cash crops and which sometimes participates in
financing feeder road improvements (para. 3.14).



-8-
D.   Highway Administration
3.05      The Department of Roads (DR) within MINEH has legal responsibility
for planning, developing and maintaining the road network. In practice,
however, DR has so far restricted its activities to the national and pro-
vincial network; the remaining roads have been developed by local authorities,
various Government agencies, autonomous cooperatives and private companies.
The DR has two central sub-departments, one for road engineering and con-
struction and the other for road maintenance; it has nine regional divisions
divided into forty subdivisions. Each regional division is headed by a Pro-
vincial Delegate of Equipment who also acts as the technical advisor to the
regional governor on roads and other civil works.
3.06      Responsibility for the administration of the feeder roads network
is ill-defined, as local authorities and several Government agencies, the
Department of Roads, the Genie Rural and the Department of Community Develop-
ment (DCD), all have statutory responsibility. The proliferation is not
necessarily a handicap since the wide variations in standards, functions
and methods of construction and financing of these roads necessitate diverse
strategies not efficiently provided by a single organization. The DR is more
suitable for administering the construction and maintenance of the "higher
trafficked" feeder roads using mostly mechanized methods. DCD is most
suitable for construction or maintenance with intermediate or labour-intensive
methods and for cases where community participation is feasible. The Genie
Rural could be used for modest-standard feeder roads with or without community
participation. The missing element is the coordination of the activities of
the different groups to ensure (i) consistency with overall road development
strategy, (ii) economically and technically reasonable design standards and
(iii) adequacy of construction and design quality. The DR is best suited to
perform this task. Therefore, under the proposed project, a Feeder Roads Unit
(FRU) will be set up within the DR to coordinate and administer the planning
and development of feeder roads throughout the country; and more specifically
to execute the proposed project, carry out procurement of equipment and some
materials, advise on and control the technical standards of works, assist in
the preparation of detailed annual feeder road programs, and to execute
studies for a follow-up feeder roads project and for organizing resources for
feeder roads maintenance. The Government has given assurances that it will
set up the Unit by March 31, 1978.
3.07      FRU's key staff will consist initially of a Cameroonian engineer
and a technical assistance expert (road engineer) to be financed under the
project. Initially the economic input for the FRU will be provided by a
short-term consultant (transport economist) provided under the project.
In time, another local road engineer and transport economist should be added
if and when warranted by the unit's workload. FRU's local staff should be



- 9 -
assigned full time on feeder road matters; the alternative arrangement of
having existing DR staff working part-time on feeder roads was tried durirg
project preparation and judged unworkable. The Government has agreed to the
above arrangements and is taking steps to designate a full-time, Cameroonian
engineer as head of the unit.
E.   Road Maintenance
3.08      The DR is responsible for maintenance of the national and provincial
roads classified into paved roads and laterite-road categories A, B, C, and D;
local authorities are responsible for the rest. Even though sufficient
budgetary allocations are provided for paved roads and those in categories A
and B, maintenance on these roads is still poor due to inefficient use of
funds and the inability of MINEH's central Equipment Pool, the only source of
DR's maintenance equipment, to fill the Department's needs. The situation is
even worse for categories C and D where allocations are insufficient (Table
5). Consultants are studying DR's maintenance organization and operations.
The proposed Third Highway Project is aimed at assisting Government to improve
road maintenance.
3.09      Feeder road maintenance, the responsibility of the local authorities,
is practically non-existent. Most of the effort made has come from the local
population using their own labour and resources. This is especially true in
West (anglophone) Cameroon where the Department of Community Development (DCD),
with technical assistance from SATA (Swiss Agency for Technical Assistance),
has had a successful record of organizing and motivating local communities for
feeder road improvement and maintenance. Even there, the frequency of main-
tenance has been limited. The results of neglected maintenance are evident
everywhere; roadways and structures have deteriorated to a point where most
are no longer at an adequate level of servicability or in suitable condition
for normal maintenance operations. Extensive rehabilitation has become
imperative.
3.10      The country needs a program for (a) rehabilitation and improvement
of high priority feeder roads and (b) adequate maintenance of those roads and
other feeder roads recently constructed or planned for construction under
various agricultural schemes. Such a program will have to be long-range be-
cause of the relatively large amount of work and funds that would be involved
and because a parallel effort will be required on the main and secondary
networks. The proposed project is a start in this direction with emphasis on
the three selected project areas.
F.   Road Engineering and Construction
3.11      The DR is responsible for engineering and construction of roads.
In practice, only the design and supervision of small projects is carried
out directly by the Department; consultants are employed for work on most
projects financed by foreign aid agencies. The Feeder Road Unit to be



- 10 -
established under the proposed project will form the nucleus for developing
DR's engineering capacity for the feeder roads network. In the absence of
local contractors of adequate capability and capacity, practically all major
works are carried out by foreign firms on the basis of competitive bidding.
Force account is used only for minor works and for improvement of feeder
roads. DR's only significant undertaking with force account, the Kumba-
Manfe road, with equipment financed by USAID, proved reasonably successful
and served to train a number of local engineers. Force account road construc-
tion under the Bank's Cocoa Project using a local civil engineer, a Genie
Rural road technician and a technical assistance road expert has so far
yielded very encouraging results. Under the proposed project, DR will be
equipped to construct higher standard feeder roads in the West Province and
the ZAPI East area by force account. DR will be assisted by three technical
assistant experts (one road engineer and two road technicians); the experts
will also provide on-the-job training for local staff (paras. 4.07 and 4.08).
3.12      The DCD has had reasonable success with feeder road improvement
using labour-intensive methods, intermediate technology and community parti-
cipation in the Northwest Province. Under the project DCD will be equipped to
construct and subsequently maintain about 300 km of feeder roads in that
province. The DCD will continue to receive SATA's technical assistance for
preparing the annual detailed programs but will also need a qualified road
engineer. SATA has just trained a Cameroonian engineer in their local
training school and during appraisal, the Director of DCD agreed to use him
full-time for the project.
3.13      There are a few local contractors, who undertake mostly building
construction. The few who have ventured into roadworks have so far performed
poorly and consequently have discouraged local authorities from using them.
The reasons for their poor performance are insufficient capital, lack of ade-
quate managerial ability, and a shortage of technical staff. An attempt to
develop the capacity of the local road construction industry will involve
considerable funds and, most importantly, the Government's commitment which
does not appear to be strong. The problem will be examined in the context of
the proposed Third Highway Project. Therefore, under the proposed project,
local contractors will be used for the construction of drainage structures
and workshops and for the supply of local road-building materials. Contracts
to be awarded to them are estimated at US$1.8 million.
G.   Road Financing
3.14      Road expenditures are financed from general revenues and from
foreign loans and grants. Under the Third Plan, about CFAF 42.3 billion (at
1974 prices) was spent on roads, of which CFAF 34.6 billion was for con-
struction and improvement and CFAF 7.74 billion for maintenance of the
classified network (Table 6). Under the Fourth Plan, proposed road spending
totals CFAF 78.2 billion at 1974 prices, of which CFAF 68.5 billion is for
construction and CFAF 9.8 billion for maintenance. The amount for construc-
tion and improvement of feeder roads have increased from CFAF 3.9 billion or



- 11 -
9% of road expenditures in the Third Plan to CFAF 24.6 billion 1/ or 31% in
the Fourth Plan. Local communities have contributed unknown but significant
financial resources towards feeder road development. More recently, about
CFAF 300 million from the Price Stabilization Fund has been spent on improve-
ment of some cocoa roads. Revenue from road users derive from import duties
on vehicles, fuel taxes and licensing fees. Over the period 1971/72-1975/76,
these revenues amounted to about CFAF 53.8 billion (Table 7), far more than
the amounts budgeted for road maintenance.
3.15      No central budgetary funds are allocated for feeder road mainte-
nance; although local authorities and communities have contributed some
funds and, in some cases, labor and materials, these have often sufficed
only for routine maintenance. Unless adequate funds are made available on
a timely basis, the feeder roads being built or proposed, including those
under the project, will rapidly deteriorate. A general strategy needs to be
adopted to ensure adequate maintenance of the other parts of the feeder road
network as they are rehabilitated to a maintainable state. Given the Govern-
ment s increased emphasis on maintaining the classified road network, it is
highly unlikely that sufficient funds will be provided; therefore, additional
sources should be found.
3.16      During appraisal, discussions were held with the Government on
the feasibility of collecting contributions in cash or in kind from the
following direct and indirect beneficiaries of feeder roads: (a) the Govern-
ment, (b) local population, (c) cooperatives, (d) transporters, and (e) Price
Stabilization Fund (PSF). Although Government has agreed in principle to use
some of these sources in some selected cases under the project, it wants to
study the question in more detail before it adopts a general policy on it.
The following approach has therefore been agreed with the Government: First
the necessary resources are being mobilized under the project to maintain the
project roads during the four-year project period after their construction and
improvement. This initial maintenance includes minor betterment required by
the low level of improvements inherent in this type of project. It would help
set up the institutional and technical arrangements and training of staff
required for carrying out adequate maintenance. The DCD, the ZAPI East
Organization and the SODEPA 2/ will assist in maintaining the roads they
improve using a maximum of community participation with labor, local mate-
rials and cash. Secondly, the Government will provide DR the resources to
maintain a significant and annually increasing number of specific feeder
roads recently built or programmed for improvement during the next four
years. These feeder roads will be maintained at a long-term, estimated
cost of about US$400,000 per year, including periodic maintenance. The
maintenance standards which have been agreed upon with the Government are
described in Table 12. The remaining feeder roads are not in a suitable
condition for normal maintenance operations. Thirdly, consultant services
are provided under the project for the study of resources for feeder road
1/   This figure does not include some feeder road investments budgeted as
part of agricultural projects such as those in the proposed project.
2/   SODEPA:  Societe de Developpement et d'Exploitation des Productions
Animales.



- 12 -
maintenance. The Government has agreed to maintain the project roads and
the additional specific feeder roads by the end of the project period. The
Government also agreed to undertake the feeder road maintenance study for
completion by December 31, 1978, and to discuss with the Bank promptly
thereafter the funding of feeder road maintenance in light of the study's
findings.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a) a four-year program of construction, improvement, rehabili-
tation, and maintenance, mainly by force account, of about
2,200 km of feeder roads including
(i) purchase and rental of equipment;
(ii) purchase of spare parts, fuel, lubricants,
and materials; and
(iii) minor civil works by local contractors;
(b) construction of, and provision of equipment and tools for,
a DR workshop including office facilities at Nguelemenduka;
(c) technical assistance to establish and strengthen the Feeder
Road Unit to be set up within DR, to implement the program,
and to train local staff of the Unit in planning, imple-
menting and monitoring feeder road improvement and mainten-
ance, and in maintaining and repairing road equipment; and
(d) consultant services for
(i) studying the resources for feeder road maintenance; and
(ii) preparing a follow-up feeder road program.
B.   Feeder Road Program
4.02      The proposed project provides for the construction, improvement and
rehabilitation of about 2,200 km of feeder roads.  Of these 850 km are to be
expected within the proposed ZAPI East Rural Development Project, 1,200 km in
the Western Highlands (about 900 km within the proposed Western lHighlands
Agricultural Development Project in the West Province and 300 km in the
proposed FED/German agricultural project in the Northwest Province) and 150 km
in the Adamaoua area of the ongoing Livestock I Project. Annex I describes in
more detail the objectives and scope of the above projects. About 320 km of
new feeder roads will be constructed and the rest improved or rehabilitated.
The proposed improvement, rehabilitation consists of (a) reshaping with or



- 13 -
without widening of roadway, (b) regravelling selected sections, and (c)
building, repairing and reinforcing drainage and drainage structures. The
design standards for them (Table 8) have been chosen as a function of expected
traffic level over a ten-year period. Where existing standards are higher
than those proposed, they will be retained. During negotiations, Government
agreed to use these standards for the project roads, except where otherwise
agreed by the Bank Group.
4.03      A firm work program for the first year (Table 9) and a tentative
second-year program (Table 10) have been established and agreed in principle
with Government; a tentative list of roads to be included in the third and
fourth year programs are shown in Table 11. The criteria for the selection
of roads to be included in the first year's program were (a) economic rate
of return (ERR), (detailed in Annex 5); a minimum 10% ERR requirement was
applied to each road; the ERR was based on road-user savings for those feeder
roads with substantial existing traffic and on road-user savings, net incre-
mental agricultural production and reduced produce spoilage for feeder roads
with little or no existing traffic but in areas expected to have significant
future agricultural activity; (b) the needs of the agricultural_projects
supported by the roads, and (c) the necessity for geographical coordination to
prevent long travel distances by road brigades. For the second, third and
fourth year programs, the ZAPI East Organization, UCCAO 1/ and BAG 2/ will
select, using the same criteria as above, the roads to be included under the
annual programs for the ZAPI East and Western Highlands respectively for
review and approval by their respective provincial interministerial committees
and the Bank (paragraphs 4.22 and 4.23). The firm first year program and the
above arrangements for establishing the subsequent annual programs were
agreed with the Government during negotiations.
C.   Improvement of Project Regional Roads
4.04      In order to achieve the objectives of the project roads, the road
network linking them to the ultimate export outlet or regional market centers
should also be in reasonable condition. Therefore, some national and provin-
cial roads in the project areas requiring minor but essential works have been
included under the project. These include improvements of roadside and
offshoot drains, repair of culverts and bridges, improvement of embankments on
crossing of marshy areas and regravelling, as necessary. Additionally, about
540 km of main roads needing extensive rehabilitation and some reconstruction
will be provided for under the proposed Third Highway Project. A list of
these roads is presented in Table 13. The total costs for these works are
tentatively estimated at about US$3 million. During negotiations Government
confirmed its intentions to include these works under the proposed Third
Highway Project.
D.   Equipment and Material Purchases
4.05      The Central Equipment Pool does not have sufficient equipment to
fill DR's existing needs and cannot be counted on to supply equipment re-
quirements of the force account brigades under the project. Therefore, the
1/   UCCAO:  Union des Cooperatives de Cafe Arabica de l0Ouest will be the
executing agency for the Bank-financed Western Highlands Agricultural
Project.
2/   BAC:  Bamenda Association of Cooperatives will execute the FED/German
project.



- 14 -
proposed project provides for all the equipment and spare parts needed to
operate the different brigades as listed in Table 14. However, equipment to
be used for improving the feeder roads in the areas of the proposed Zapi East
and Western Highlands projects may be subject to modification if the scope of
these projects is modified or reduced. The bidding documents and schedule
for delivery of the equipment would reflect this. The Government has agreed
to these arrangements. Bidding documents for all equipment under the project
will be prepared by DR's FRU with the assistance of the technical assistance
consultants (engineer and mechanic) provided under the project. Preparation
of these documents should be finished by December 31, 1977 to permit equipment
delivery by the beginning of the construction period in September 1978. The
project also provides for purchasing materials such as cement, steel, lumber
and for supplies such as fuel, lubricants and tires.
E.   Technical Assistance and Studies
4.06      Technical assistance (seven experts for about 133 man-months) will
be provided under the project to assist the Government to:
(a) establish the FRU and train Cameroonian staff;
(b) prepare the bidding documents and procure equipment, spare
parts, some materials and supplies;
(c) define the annual programs and prepare detailed plans for
their execution;
(d) implement the feeder road program;
(e) design and implement a program for the training of DR staff
including, but not limited to, engineers, road technicians,
mechanics, equipment operators, brigade chiefs and foremen; and
(f) prepare a second-phase program for feeder road improvement and
maintenance.
4.07      The experts' draft Terms of Reference, required qualifications
and duration of assignments, are outlined in Annex 2. These arrangements
were confirmed at negotiations.
4.08      The proposed project provides funds for short-term consultants (20
man-months total) to assist the Government in preparing (a) by December 31,
1978 a study of the resources for feeder road maintenance which will be dis-
cussed with the Bank, and (b) by September 30, 1980 a study of a follow-up
feeder roads project. Government has agreed to attach qualified local staff
to the FRU on a full-time basis to be trained by the experts, both those for
technical assistance and studies (Annex 2).



- 15 -
F.   Training
4.09      The project will provide on-the-job training, through the tech-
nical assistance experts and the short-term consultants for the Cameroonian
engineers and transport economists at MINEH's headquarters in Yaounde. In the
field, the project will require 4 road engineers and technicians, 20 foremen,
110 equipment operators and drivers and 33 mechanics. Even though sufficient
staff is available for these positions most of them will require different
degrees of training which is therefore an important element of the project.
The training specialist in the team will propose an outline training program
for each counterpart assigned to the team and for the mechanics, foremen and
equipment operators for review by the Government and the Bank by the end of
February 1978. He will also train a Cameroonian training counterpart. Sup-
plementary training for the road engineers, technicians and the mechanics
will mainly be on-the-job by the technical assistance experts. Training of
operators will be carried out at MINEH's training center at Douala. Equipment
operators who have already received training will receive supplementary train-
ing from the suppliers of the equipment to be purchased under the project.
The bidding documents will specifically include this provision. Training of
personnel for the DCD brigade will be carried out by SATA which is already
providing technical assistance to DCD and has a training center in West
Cameroon. The technical assistance will be phased out gradually and in the
last year the program will be managed entirely by Cameroonians. The Govern-
ment has agreed to these training arrangements, to the local staffing and to
take appropriate budget measures to allow recruitment and training of these
personnel.
G.   Provision of Workshops and Office Space
4.10      DR has workshops both at Bertoua in the ZAPI East and at Bafoussam
in the Western Province. The Bafoussam workshop is reasonably well equipped
with both facilities and staff to maintain the equipment of the DR brigades.
A new but modest workshop including office facilities will be built at Nguele-
menduka, which is more central for the ZAPI area, to take care of the DR and
ZAPI brigades. It will also be supplied with the necessary tools and equip-
ment. DCD already has a good workshop at Bamenda. The Government will
provide office space at Bafoussam, Yaounde and Bamenda. The Government has
agreed to construct and have the workshop and office in operation at Nguele-
menduka by December 31, 1978.
H.   Project Monitoring
4.11      The economic, social and engineering aspects need to be monitored
closely to determine both the extent to which they should be modified for
preparation of the follow-up project and the long-term impact of the project
roads. Since the bulk of the socio-economic aspects concern the results
of the ZAPI East and Western Highlands Rural/Agricultural Development Projects,
monitoring of these elements will be integrated with the monitoring systems
of those projects. Monitoring under the project will, therefore, be reduced
to (a) the engineering parameters, which will be done routinely with project
execution (see list in Annex 3), and (b) evaluation of traffic forecast and



- 16 -
evolution of transport costs which can be done periodically by the provincial
feeder road engineers to be appointed under the project. At negotiations,
Government agreed to these arrangements as well as the list of items to be
monitored.
I.   Cost Estimates
4.12       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$21.1 million,
including US$4.0 million equivalent in taxes and duties (Table 15). Project
costs, net of taxes and duties, are estimated at US$17.1 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange cost of US$11.1 million (65%). The following is a
summary of project costs:
Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Component
-----CFAF Million----    -----US$ thousand----           %
I.     Equipment
Purchase               81       722      803    330    2,947   3,277          90
Rental                  1         3        4       4        12       16       75
II.    Spare parts             113       283      396    461    1,155   1,616          71
III.   Fuel and
lubricants            100       266      366    408    1,086   1,494          72
IV.    Local staff             386         -      386  1,576         -    1,576         0
V.     Materials                96       320      416    392    1,306   1,698          77
VI.    Civil works             171       187      358    698        763   1,461        52
VII.   Technical Assistance  62          160      222    253        653      906       72
VIII.  Provision of Office
space and equipment  35          35       70    143        143      286       50
IX.    Workshop equipment
and tools               8        31       39      32       126      158       80
X.     Studies                   6        34       40      24       139      163       85
Total I-X 1/              1,059    2,041   3,100  4,321    8,330  12,651            67
XI.    Contingencies
Quantity             106       204      310    432        833   1,265        66
Price                307       468      775  1,254    1,910   3,164          60
Grand Total               1,472    2,713   4,185  6,007   11,073  17,080            65
Rounded                                            (6,000) (11,100) 17,100)        (65)
Source: Mission estimate
1/   Base costs refer to February 1977.



- 17 -
4.13      Cost estimates for equipment and tools (Table 14) are based on the
findings of consultants and bids received in 1976 for similar equipment.
Operating costs of equipment, assuming 180 working days per year, are based on
cost figures observed under the feeder road improvement program in the Cocoa
Project. The average cost including equipment depreciation but excluding
contingencies, net of tax, for road construction and improvement are as
follows:
Western Highlands            ZAPI East         Adamaoua
(US$)                   (US$)               (US$)
pr. Km
6 m roads                    8,000                  4,800
4.5 m roads                  6,000                  2,400
Access Tracks                5,000                  2,000               2,000
The higher cost for the roads in the Western Highlands is mostly due to
the mountainous terrain, the need for more gravelling and the large number of
drainage structures to be reconstructed or improved. The costs in the ZAPI
East are average. The lower cost in the Adamaoua zone is due to the rela-
tively flat terrain, the availability of good road-making soils, the limited
number of drainage structure and the rather low design standards acceptable
for the expected low traffic on those roads.
4.14      Technical assistance is assumed to be provided by consultants.
The average man-month cost is estimated at about US$7,000 which corresponds
to rates of the firms working in the region. The billing rate for these ser-
vices is estimated at US$4,000 to US$6,500 per field man-month, according to
the experts' qualifications, and comprises salaries and overhead (home office
expenses, expatriate allowance, social security, etc.). Reimbursable expenses
payable to consultants, i.e., housing, travel, etc. is estimated at US$1,500-
2,000. These costs will be significantly reduced if the Government elects to
use SATA experts for the services (para. 4.10). The cost of short-term
consultants is estimated at about US$8,000 per man-month based on the Bank's
experience with their use during project preparation and assuming that experts
would be provided by a consulting firm.
4.15      Cost estimates for workshop buildings are based on bids received
from local contractors in 1976 for similar works.
4.16      A quantity contingency allowance of about 10% has been included in
the cost estimates to allow for increases in quantities. Even though this is
a program-type operation and would normally not require physical contingen-
cies, they have been included since the program target has been set to fit
definite agricultural programs. Provision for future price increases has been
calculated separately for the various items in the country in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines as follows: for equipment and spare parts, 7.5% p.a.
from 1977-79 and 7% thereafter; for other items, 9% p.a.from 1977-79 and 8%
thereafter. These amount to about 27% of the total base cost for February
1977 prices.



- 18 -
J.   Execution
4.17      The Ministry of Economy and Plan (MINEP) will have overall re-
sponsibility for execution of the project. However, it will appoint other
ministries to be executing agencies for separate components of the project as
follows: (a) MINEH (in particular the Department of Roads) for the construc-
tion, improvement and subsequent maintenance of the feeder roads (other than
access roads in the ZAPI East and the West Province), the study of the follow-
up project and the sources of funds for feeder roads; (b) the Ministry of
Agriculture (in particular the Department of Community Development) for the
construction and subsequent maintenance of about 300 km of feeder roads in the
Northwest Province; (c) the ZAPI East Organization for the construction and
subsequent maintenance of about 150 km of farm access roads and (d) the SODEPA
for the construction and subsequent maintenance of 150 km of access roads in
the Adamaoua zone.
4.18       Physical execution of the project is scheduled to start in September
1978 and be completed in four years in accordance with the implementation
schedule shown in Table 16. The Government has agreed to this schedule.
Road construction, improvement and maintenance will be carried out by force
account; local contractors and 'petty contractors" 1/ will be used to construct
workshops and drainage structures and to supply road-building materials.
4.19      The roadworks under the project will be executed as follows:
Type I and II Feeder Roads in ZAPI East and West Province: two special feeder
road construction units will be formed by the Department of Roads, one in the
ZAPI East and the other in West Province. Each unit will be headed by a
provincial feeder roads engineer who will depend, for technical matters, on
the provincial delegate of equipment.
Feeder Roads in the Northwest Province: these roads (about 300 km) will be
built by a brigade from the Department of Community Development equipped
relatively lightly (see Table 14). SATA will provide technical assistance
(a road technician and mechanic) to the brigade.
Farm Access Roads in the ZAPI East: the ZAPI East Organization will create
a light brigade to build the roads with technical assistance provided under
the project.
Access Roads in the Adamaoua Zone: these roads will be built by SODEPA's
own forces with their existing equipment to be supplemented by some rented
equipment. Construction is expected to be over one construction season.
4.20      The roads to be constructed during the first year were agreed
during negotiations. Roads for subsequent years will be proposed annually by
1/   These are individuals who take on small contracts and assemble the
skilled and unskilled labor to execute the works. They usually have to
be supplied with materials and supplies.



- 19 -
the ZAPI East Organizations for the East Province and UCCAO for the West
Province and BAC for the Northwest Province according to the guidelines in-
cluded in Annex 5. These lists would be reviewed and approved by provincial
interministerial committees (PIC) to be organized within the three provinces
withi provincial representatives from, inter alia, the Ministries of Planning,
Finance, Equipment and Housing, Agriculture, Transport as well as important
cooperatives and agencies with direct interest in agricultural feeder roads.
During negotiations, the Government undertook to ensure the meeting of the
PICs not later than May 31 each year during the period of project execution.
The approved programs would be submitted to the Bank for approval three months
before the scheduled start of works to be undertaken in that year's program.
FRU will be responsible for preparing the detailed annual programs for the DR
roads as well as provide technical guidance on the programs of the other
agencies. These arrangements have been agreed upon by Government.
4.21      Detailed plans for the Nguelemenduka workshop and office buildings
under the project will be developed by the Feeder Roads Unit.
K.   Procurement
4.22      Equipment, materials, spare parts and supplies amounting to about
US$8.0 million (net of taxes) will be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. These items
will be bulked to the extent possible to m-ake them suitable for international
competitive bidding. Goods manufactured in Cameroon would be allowed a pref-
erence equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price on imported goods or the prevailing
duties generally applied to non-exempt imports, which is lower. Contracts
for equipment, materials and supplies costing under US$50,000 may be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding following local procedures acceptable to
the Bank. The aggregate amount for such purchases would not exceed US$600,000.
Contracts for the construction of workshops and drainage structures totalling
about US$1.8 million will follow local competitive bidding procedures accept-
able to the Bank. Consultants for technical assistance and for the feeder
roads studies will be employed in agreement with, and under Terms of Reference
and conditions satisfactory to, the Association. All the above arrangements
were discussed and have been agreed to by the Government.
L.   Financing and Disbursements
4.23      The proposed Loan of US$4.6 million and Credit of US$6.5 million
will finance about 65% of total project costs net of taxes; i.e., all foreign
costs. Government will finance local costs of US$6.0 million of net-of-tax
project costs. Taxes and duties are estimated at US$4.0 million. Table 17
gives details of project financing. Loan/credit funds will be disbursed as
follows:
(a) 100% of the foreign costs of imported highway equipment,
vehicles, spare parts, workshop equipment and tools, office
equipment aLnd wiaterials or 55% of the local costs of these
items if purchased locally;



- 20 -
(b) 55% of the total expenditures for fuel, lubricants, and rented
equipment;
(c) 55% of total expenditures for civil works done by contractors;
and
(d) 70% of total expenditures for technical assistance experts and
consultants.
Requests for disbursements will be fully documented. Based on the foregoing
and the project implementation schedule shown in Table 16, the estimated
schedule of disbursements from the loan/credit account is shown in Table 18.
4.24      Early engagement of the team leader (highway engineer) for the
technical assistance team (paragraph 4.09) and other project starting costs
will necessitate use of the Project Preparation facility for financing of
about US$100,000.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The Government is emphasizing (a) increased agricultural production
for both domestic consumption and export and (b) raising the income and the
general well-being of the rural population which has an average per capita in-
come of only about US$85 p.a., compared to a national average of US$270. To
achieve these objectives, various integrated projects are being implemented or
planned. These provide credit, farm inputs, extension services and improved
marketing to increase holdings and improve yields. Efficient, reliable
transport of agricultural inputs and produce is vital to their success.
Moreover, in existing productive farm areas outside the integrated schemes,
poor roads and the consequent high transport costs and unreliability result in
excessive produce spoilage and low farm-gate prices for food crops. Poor roads
also discourage the use of fertilizers and insecticides and constitutes an
important hindrance and disincentive for increasing production. The planning,
development and maintenance of these feeder roads, on the other hand, demands
an efficient well-staffed organization at both the national and local levels
to avoid misinvestments and to ensure proper upkeep of the investments made.
The objectives of the proposed project are (a) to establish an efficient in-
stitutional framework for planning, developing and maintaining feeder roads,
(b) to train local staff in performing the above functions and (c) to pro-
vide adequate resources for the construction and subsequent maintenance of
some 2,200 km of feeder roads to support agricultural/rural development
projects in the ZAPI East, the Western Highlands and the Adamaoua Livestock
area.



- 21 -
B.   Economic Justification
5.02      The justification of the proposed project derives from its indis-
pensable role in four agricultural and livestock development projects and its
important institution-building objective.
Institution Building
5.03      The institution-building component of the project represents a
major benefit, albeit unquantifiable. It will improve DR's capability and
thereby reduce the waste of resources concomitant to poor planning, inadequate
construction quality and insufficient or, in most cases, complete neglect of
maintenance. The training component will result in increased capacity of
local staff, at all levels, to handle the development and maintenance of the
feeder road network and decrease the need for technical assistance in follow-
up projects. The project will also initiate a concerted interministerial/
interagency approach to planning feeder roads as well as to encourage more
intensive local participation in both the decision-making process and in
financing and executing the works.
Feeder Road Programs
5.04      The economic justification of the feeder roads in the proposed
project addresses four issues, namely:
(a) the justification of the roads as an integral part
of the agricultural projects they serve (paras. 5.05-
5.12);
(b) the justification of the feeder road project without
the associated agricultural projects;
(c) the justification of the specific roads included in
the first-year program (para 5); and
(d) criteria for selecting roads for the subsequent annual
programs.
Justification within context of agricultural programs
5.05      The feeder roads in the proposed project are integrated with the
ZAPI East Rural Development Project, the Western Highlands Agricultural
Development Program (both the Bank and FED/West German-financed parts) and the
Adamaoua Livestock Development Project. The justification of the roads
has, therefore, been evaluated as an integral part of those projects in the
same manner as the other components; namely, credit, extension services,
health facilities and agricultural inputs.



- 22 -
The ZAPI East Road Program
5.06      The 850 km in the ZAPI East area will serve the proposed ZAPI East
Rural Development Project.l/ Total investments for that project would amount
to US$10.6 million,2/ net of taxes, of which US$9.0 million for agriculture
and other direct production and US$1.6 million for health, water supply and
marketing. An additional US$4.0 million is being provided for feeder roads
under the proposed feeder roads project. Benefits from the ZAPI East project
include (a) incremental annual production of crops (food and non-food) esti-
mated at about US$2.5 million at full development after 10 years and (b)
unquantifiable but significant benefits from improved health and water supply
facilities. About 16,500 farm families, all below the poverty level of US$80
p.a., are expected to benefit from the project.  The feeder road component
will (a) provide the cheap, reliable and efficient transport indispensable
for generating and marketing the increased production, (b) provide improved
access to health and social amenities, (c) increase communication between
communities and thus enhance the cooperative spirit vital to ZAPI's success
and (d) reduce transport costs to existing and future non-agricultural traffic,
about US$254,000 per year by 1983, the year after completion of the road proj-
ect (Table 19).
5.07      On the basis of the above costs and quantifiable benefits, the
integrated rural development project including the road component is ex-
pected to yield an economic return of about 27% over the 20-year life of the
rural development project. In the calculation of the economic return, further
investments for minor rehabilitation, periodic and routine maintenance on the
project roads to carry them beyond their 10-year normal life have been assumed.
The Western Highlands Road Program
5.08      About 1,230 km of the project roads support two agricultural devel-
opment projects in Cameroon's Western Highlands--the proposed Bank-financed
project in West Province 3/ (930 km) and a similar FED/German project
(300 km) in the Northwest Province. Investments under the Bank agricultural
project, about US$30 million, will finance (a) agricultural extension and
research services, (b) credit to farmers for farm inputs including fertilizers,
(c) improved and high-yield seed farms, (d) soil conservation and reforesta-
tion, (e) small animal husbandry and (f) marketing assistance (Annex 1);
the US$6.4 million for road construction and improvement and annual recurrent
costs for road maintenance are additional.
5.09      Benefits from the Bank-financed agricultural development project
will include (a) maintenance of production and improved quality of arabica
coffee, and increased production of foodcrops, vegetables, poultry, pigs and
1/   These are the current estimates being used in the ZAPI Appraisal Report
(draft yellow cover).
2/   Scheduled for Board Presentation February 21, 1978.
3/   Scheduled for Board Presentation March 7, 1978.



- 23 -
eggs, expected to reach about US$7 million on the fifth year of the project,
(b) introduction of appropriate land use patterns and of soil cultivation
and (c) introduction of new cultivation systems and techniques. The road
component, will, as in the ZAPI case, provide the cheap, reliable and effi-
cient transport necessary for (a) generating and marketing the additional
agricultural population, (b) reducing spoilage of foodcrops and vegetables
which are transported mainly during the rainy season when the existing feeder
roads are practically impassable and (c) reducing transport costs to non-
agricultural traffic, about US$507,000 p.a., by year 1983 (Table 19). On
the basis of the above benefits and costs, the agricultural project, includ-
ing the road component, is expected to yield an economic rate of return of
about 20% over its 20-year life time. The project is expected to increase
the family income of about 80,000 farm families by 30-40X.
5.10      The composition and level of investments in the FED/German agricul-
tural project is not yet known. The project is, however, expected to be
similar in composition and benefits to the Bank-financed project and, there-
fore, expected to yield a comparable economic return.
The Adamaoua Road Program
5.11      The 150 km of low standard roads provided in the livestock area
is a component of an ongoing livestock development package including credit,
extension services, veterinary services and ranch inputs and aimed at pro-
ducing about 1,000 head of cattle in a 3-year period. Additional project
benefits will include increased agricultural production and other economic
activity as the area is introduced into the market economy and reliable
transport provided among the area's communities hitherto only connected by
footpaths and cattle tracks. Benefits from the roads would consist mostly of
the provision of low cost and reliable transport of ranch inputs and better
access for extension officers as well as transport of agricultural produce.
Even though cattle transport will be mostly "on-the-hoof" it is expected that
a significant number of ranchers will profit from road transport to reach the
various markets scattered in the area.
5.12      In the justification of the project, the cost of the roads and other
diverse inputs required to produce the target heads of cattle have been com-
pared to the incremental gains from increased cattle and agricultural produc-
tion. The costs and benefits are based on actual figures experienced by the
SODEPA in the Bank-financed First Livestock Project; agricultural cost esti-
mates were obtained from the provincial staff of the Ministry of Agriculture.
On the basis of these costs and benefits, the livestock development package
including the roadworks is expected to yield an economic rate of return
of about 18% over the 10-year life of the roads.
Justification of the feeder roads without the agricultural projects
5.13      To verify that the feeder roads component within the agricultural
projects is viable without the agricultural projects, a separate analysis of
the feeder roads, without the agricultural projects, was performed using as



- 24 -
benefits, road-user savings, reduced spoilage and modest induced increases in
agricultural production. The proposed feeder roads project was shown to yield
a minimum economic rate of return of 14%. As an illustration of the justifi-
cation of a Category II road, the analysis for one first-year road is provided
in Annex 4; a safeguard that the individual roads are justifiable is provided
by the selection criteria outlined in Annex 5.
Justification of roads in the first-year program
5.14      Roads selected for the first-year program fall into two categories:
Category I roads (about 70% of total) which serve areas of consi-
derable existing economic activity, and Category II roads which serve areas
with little existing economic activity, but where considerable potential
exists for increased agricultural production. Category I roads have been
justified on benefits from: (a) road-user savings to non-agricultural
traffic; (b) induced increases in agricultural production; and (c) reduced
produce spoilage. All roads included in the first year have an economic
return exceeding 10%.
Criteria for selection of roads after first-year of project
5.15      The criteria for selecting roads to be included in the second, third
and fourth annual programs (detailed in Annex 5) will be: (a) economic rate
of return; (b) the needs of the agricultural projects served by the roads; and
(c) geographical coordination of brigades. In all cases, road selected for
inclusion in the annual programs will have to yield a minimum ERR of 10%.
Distribution of the Project's Benefits
5.16      The distribution of the feeder road project's benefits will be
influenced greatly by (a) Government's policy on producer prices and (b) the
extent of competition in the transport industry. Under prevailing conditions
(paragraph 3.04), approximately a third of the benefits from increased cash
crop production, mostly cocoa and coffee, will accrue to farmers, about a
third to the Price Stabilization Funds, about a sixth to Government as export
tax and the remaining sixth to various cooperatives. The farmers will even-
tually recuperate some of the benefits to the latter beneficiaries through
price subsidies and improved agricultural services. With regard to foodcrops,
farmers will capture most of the benefits through both selling more and
enjoying a higher producer price, given the competitiveness of the trucking
industry; transporters and exporters will share the rest. Benefits from
reduced transport costs to passengers and non-agricultural traffic will be
shared by the communities in the project area, the transporters and the
traders.
Project Risks
5.17      The risks associated with the proposed project include (a) pos-
sibility of diversion of project equipment and goods to non-project work,
(b) interference with selection of roads for annual programs and (c) sig-
nificant modifications in or partial failure of the associated agricultural



- 25 -
projects in reaching their targets; minor modifications can be easily accommo-
dated within the annual program revisions. Diversion to non-project work may
be a serious risk since MINEH, the expected recipient of the bulk of the
project's equipment and supplies, has to date experienced difficulty in
satisfying its needs from the Central Equipment Pool (para. 3.08). The risk
is reduced by the expected alleviation of MINEH's equipment problem under the
proposed Third Highway Project (para. 1.05) and the vigilance of the Provin-
cial Interministerial Committees and the various executing agencies of the
agricultural programs. The risk of potential interference is alleviated by
the guidelines agreed with Government for justifying roads selected in the
annual programs (Para. 5.14 and Annex 5).
5.18      The risk of drastic modifications in the agricultural or rural
development projects is rather low, but even in the unlikely event of this
occurring, the proposed feeder roads project, without the agricultural
projects, would yield a minimum economic return of 14% (para. 5.04). A
sensitivity test of the economic returns of the agricultural projects (Table
20) to possible variations in the degree of the projects' success and costs
of inputs indicate acceptable returns for those projects.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      Agreement has been reached with the Government on the following:
(a) that it will set up a Feeder Road Unit by March 31,
1978 (para. 3.06);
(b) that Government will take all administrative, technical and
financial steps necessary to maintain (i) the project roads
to adequate standards after project completion and (ii) a
significant and annually increasing number of specific
feeder roads, not included under the proposed project (para.
3.10 and 3.16);
(c) that Government will undertake a feeder road maintenance
study to be completed by December 31, 1978 and discuss the
funding of feeder road maintenance with the Bank promptly
thereafter in light of the study's findings (para. 3.16);
(d) that it will agree to adopt the design standards outlined
in Table 8 except where otherwise agreed by
the Bank Group (para. 4.02);
(e) the first year's road program and the arrangements for
establishing the subsequent annual programs including the
guidelines for selecting individual roads (paras. 4.03 and
4.20 and Annex 5);



- 26 -
(f) Terms of Reference for consultants and a list of local per-
sonnel to be attached to them as counterparts (paras. 4.07
and 4.08);
(g) that Government will attach qualified local staff to FRU to
be trained by the experts and make all necessary budgetary
arrangements to ensure that the required local staff is
recruited on time and that all costs, to be met by Government
are paid on time (paras. 4.08 and 4.09);
(h) that it will furnish to the Bank prior to February 28, 1978,
a training program for local personnel assigned to the
project, review its contents with the Bank and agree on a
schedule for implementing recommendations made concerning
the program (para. 4.09).
(i) the project procurement and implementation schedule, and the
arrangements for monitoring the project (paras. 4.05, 4.10,
4.11 and 4.18).
(j) that the Government will organize provincial interministerial
committees to meet not later than May 31 each year during the
period of project execution to review and approve the annual
road programs (para. 4.20);
(k) that arrangements for procurement will be on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines (para. 4.22); and
(1) that the Government will employ consultants for technical
assistance and studies under terms of reference and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.22).
6.02      Since agreement has been reached with Government on the items
mentioned in paragraph 6.01, the proposed project is suitable for a Loan of
US$4.6 million for a term of 20 years including a 5 year grace period and
a Credit of US$6.5 million on standard IDA terms to the United Republic of
Cameroon including a Project Preparation Facility Advance of US$100,000.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Agricultural Production
('000 tons)
1969/70      1971/72       1972/73       1973/74       1974/75
A.   Cash Crops
Cotton                              91           43            45            28             40
Cocoa                              108          122           107           110            118
Robusta Coffee                      58           64            63            60             67
Arabica Coffee                      24           30            32             25            32
Bananas (Export)                    49           58            63            67             75
B.   Food Crops
Millet/Sorghum                     376          340           321
Maize                              254          283           300
Rice (paddy)                        12           14             8
Sugar Cane                         185          179           185
Groundnuts                         141          153           166
Doliques-Beans                      39           53            53
Macabo-Toro                        613          603           635
Manioc                             595          662           719
Sweet Potatoes                     125          128           149
Yams                               161          268           380
Plantains                         623           763           840
Potatoes                            26           31            38
Si
Source: Annexe de Statistique: Ministry of Economy and Plan, 1974/75                                                (



Table 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Development of Highway Network
(km)
1972      1974       1976      1977
A -  Classified Network
Paved Roads                          1,417      1,610      1,977    1,997
Laterite Roads
A                                 996      1,195     1,021    1,902
B                               2,339     2,468      2,822    2,817
C                               2,152     3,064      5,716    7,493
D                               6,084      6,196     5,526    3,790
E                               7,959     9,315      9,240   10,801
Total                            20,947    23,848    26,302   28,800
B - Unclassified Network
Earth                               22,000    25,000    28,000   30,000
Grand Total                      42,947    48,848    54,302   58,800
Sources: Ministry of Equipment and Housing, February, 1977
Frederic R. Harris Highway Maintenance Study, January 1977
Mission, February 1977



Table 3
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registration
Year     Passenger      Delivery      Buses      Trucks    Special Purposc   Total
Cars          Vans                                 yehicles        F]eeL
1971      3,697          1,352        406        1,021          250            46,800
1972      3,955          1,462         434       1,103          263            44,750
1973      4,153          1,396        469        1,202          350            52,240
1974      4,402          1,508        493        1,262          290            55,370
1975      4,622          1,659        527        1,350          313            59,250
1976       n.a.            n.a.       n.a.        n.a.          n.a.           58,690
1977       n.a.            n.a.       n.a.        n.a.          n.a.           62,500
Average annual growth (1971-77): 6%
n.a. - not available
1/   The estimated total fleet differs from the number of vehicles registered
since only imports are registered and retirement of vehicles from service
is not recorded.
Source: Ministry of Transport, Cameroon, February 1977
Mission Estimates, February 1977



Table 4
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Consumption of Motor Vehicle Fuels
Fiscal Year              Gasoline           Diesel            Total
1971-1972                124,581             118,464          243,045
1972-1973                133,111             136,945          270,056
1973-1974                140,839             156,175          297,014
1974-1975                139,091             156,000          295,091
1975-1976                145,351             167,780          313,131
1976-1977                146,000             168,000          314,000
Source: Ministry of Transport, Cameroon, February, 1977
Frederic R. Harris Highway Maintenance Study, January, 1977
Mission, February 1977



Table 5
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAIIEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Maintenance Allocations for Different Road Types
(Fiscal Year 1976/77)
Amount
Road Category                           (CFAF/kmYear)
Paved Roads                                296,000
Laterite Roads
A                                    164,000
B                                    132,000
C                                    108,800
D                                     55,250
Source: Ministry of Equipment and Housing, Cameroon, February, 1977
Frederick R. Harris Highway Maintenance Study - January, 1977
Mission, February 1977



Table 6
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Road Expenditures during the Third Plan
(CFAF Million)
Fiscal Year        1971/1972    1972/1973    1973-1974    1974/1975    1975/1976
Studies                350           400          800           300           380
Construction         3,603         4,943        4,591        10,503        12,940
Maintenance          1,455         1,483        1,790         1,797         2,356
TOTAL           5,408        6,826         7,181        12,600        15,676
Source: Frederic R. Harris Highway Maintenance Study, January, 1977
Mission's Estimates, February 1977



Table 7
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CANEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Roader User Revenues
(CFAF Million)
Custom duties      Fuel     Vehicle        Transport
Fiscal Year     on vehicles       Tax      Registration      Taxes       Total
1971/1972          4,167         3,443         320            110        8,040
1972/1973          4,626         4,000         375            146        9,147
1973/1974          5,135         4,892         375            161       10,563
1974/1975          6,810         5,095         400            170       12,475
1975/1976          7,560         5,393         450            180       13,583
1976/1977          8,400         5,483         465            100       14,448
Source: Ministry of Transport, Cameroon, February, 1977
Frederic R. Harris Highway Maintenance Study, January, 1977
Mission Estimates, February 1977



Table 8
UNITED RE?MJLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Feeder Road Design Standard
Type I           Type II         Access Tracks
Clearirn                         10-12 m          7 - 8 m            8 m
Road Formetion M-'dth              6 m              5 m              5 m
Gravelled Width                    5 m              4m               3m
Thickness of,Gravel              15-20 cm        10-15 cm          10-15 cm
Drainage                         Lateral ditches, fords and culverts
(bridges only where the size of river
or the volume of traffic warrants this)
Traffic v0oc                     Over 15           5-15            Under 5
Source: 3K."ission estimate February 1977
..;ne 1977



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
First Year's Feeder Road Improvement Program
Province and District        Road Name                Road    Road         Road Lenath    Remarks
no     Standard         km
North-West                                                                              To be improved
- Bamenda (Mezam)            pinyin-Bali               1      Class II         10.4        by C.D.D.
Pinyin-Kontoko           2          "             6.3
Pinyin-Santa Mbu         3          "            15.2
Santa-Estate Awing       4          "             8.6
Sub-Total Bamenda                                                        40.5
- Nji-ikom (Metchum)        Njinikom-Anyajua           5         "             10.3
Anyajua-Mbezenaku        6          "            29.7
Sub-Total Ninikom                                                        40.0
Grand Total North-West                                                    80.5
West                                                                                    To be improved
- Mifi                       Bandjoun-Bansoa          51       Class I         15          by MINEH
Bamendjou-Langou        49          "            10              "
Kena-Bankadjou          31          "            20
Bankadjou-Baju          32                       10
Tyo-Bamafo               15         "            15
Sub-Total Mifi                                                            70
- Bamoun                     Koutaba-Kouden            -                       28
Sub-Total Bamoun                                                          28
- Menoua                     Balele-Toufem            62                       15
Fombap-Foutsa-Toula     65          "             8
Fomopea-Fokwe           63          "            15
Dschang-Foutsa-Toula    73          "            20
Bafou-Bangang (via      78          "            12
Balenying)
Sub-Total Menoua                                                          70
- Bamboutos                  Bamendjina-Galim          7          "            58
Estate Roads
a'
(Dl-'



province and District         Road Name                  Road    Road          Road Lencrth   Remarks
no     Standard         km
To be improved
- Bamboutos (cont'd)          Ngossong-Bougeka-Bati       24      Class I           4            by MINEH
Nkieneghang-Bati            18'                      4
Bakalou-Bati Road           19                       2
Bamendjing-Mt Fouoya        11                        9
Sub-Total Bamboutos                                                           77
Grand Total West                                                             245
East
Angossas-Zuine-Mboma        08     Class I          20
Ngoap-Nguelemendouka-Mbet 09                        70
Djende-Bika               113                       33
Doumaintang-Oubliam-Baditoum 116                         29
Sub-Total Class I                                                            152
To be improved
Ndjimbou-Bengoua           121     Class II           6           by the ZAPI
Ngoumou-Old Village        122                        2
Badouma-Djelzok            123                        2
Aminemenkoud-Zilly         124                       4
Ambaka-Metsoumb            221                        7
Bagoloul-Djankel           222                        5
Djokoundi-Djow            223                         9
Ankom-Agoamba              224                        4
Kek-Mpalamedja             225                        7
Npoundou-Mbakou            226                        9
Sub-Total Class II                                                            55
Grand Total East                                                             207
t-  -



Province and District         Road Name                   Road   Road        Road Length       Remarks
n    Standard        km
Adamaoua
Dibi Tournigal                Access tracks                       Access          150      To be improved
tracks                    by SODEPA
Grand Total
North West                                                                      80.5
West                                                                           245.0
East                                                                           207.0
Adamaoua                                                                       150.0
TOTAL          682.5
Source: Mission estimate February 1977
June 1977
XD
IJ.a



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Tentative Second Year's Feeder Road Improvement Program
Province and District        Road Name                Road     Road         Road Length    Remarks
no      Standard           km
North-West                                                                                   To be improved
Njinkoum                     Kikfuni-Mbwene            7        Class II         11.9           by C.D.D.
Sub-Total Niinkoum                                                          11.9
- Kumbo (Bui)                Mbiami-Mbo Nso            8           "             33.9
Mbo Nso-Ntaba             9                         14.4
Jikijem-Ibal             10                         12.9
Sub-Total Kumbo                                                             61.2
Grand Total North-West                                                      73.1
West                                                                                         To be improved
- Bambouto                    Babadjou-Mt Bambouto    9         Class I          15             by MINEH
Mendosa-Bawo             17          "              5                 "
Balatchai-Bamaka-Nzindeng   20                          18                 "
Old Babadjou Mt Bamclo 23            "              8
Sub-Total Bambouto                                                          46
- Menoua                      Bamendou II-Beleving   72            "             15
Bafou-Fozimbong (Eossimoudi)66            "             25
Bafou-Eossimoudi (Ntruetetse)76                         20
Dschang-Baloum (Bamenda II) 71            "             40
Sub-Total Menoua                                                           100
- Mifi                        Bangon-Kamna             44                         7                 3'
Baju-Tomdjo              33                        20
Tamdjo-Djoue             34          "             30
Bandjoun-Bamessing       36                        10
Bamessing-Kena           37          "             16
Sub-Total Mifi                                                              83
0



Province and District       Road Name                  Road       Road       Road Length    Remarks
n      Standard         km
To be improved
- Haut Nkam                Banka-Bana (Bafeko)          105      Class I          15          by MINEH
Banfeko-Bokassa-Bana        110         II            15              "
Bafang-Babwanko (Banka)    115          "             20              as
Sub-Total Haut Nkam                                                         50
Grand Total West                                                           279
East
Abong-Mbang-Bagbetout        07          "            48                la
Nguelemendouka-Doume        010         "             76
N'Ka-Azomekut-Esseng        111         "             48
Sub-Total Class I                                                           172
non identified               -       Access tracks   59         To be improved
by ZAPI
Sub-Total East                                                             231
Grand Total                                                                 583.1
Source: Mission estimate February 1977
June 1977
(D
o



Table 11
Page 1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Tentative Third and Fourth Years' Program
Province and District       Road Name                      Road     Road       Road
No     Length   Standard
North West
non identified                -        147     Class II
West
- Mifi               Bafoussam-Menzi II                      39        10     Class I
Baham-Bangou                            52        20        "
Baham-Wambo-Bangou road                 53        15        i
Nijinga-Ndenda-Tesse-Bandjoun          40-41      15        "
Bangou-Bandenkof-Famgoun II             45       20
Batie-Bamendjou-Baham-Bawan-Noun       46-48     50
Bangam-Road 49                          50        10
Sub total Mifi                                                      140
- Bambouto           Bamendjing Mkt.-Fouoya-
Ngoyo-Prov. Border (Ndop)               16        12
Mifi Junction-Prov. Border (Ndop)        3        30
Bangang Mkt.-Nzin                        8       20
Mbefou-Bati                             13        10
Bamesso-Bagam                           10        8
Bangang-Balena-Balessing                14        4
Maila-Bawa                              21        10
Balekang-Bamendjou Mkt.                  4        8
Galim-Tampanam-Fouoya                   12       20
Bamelo-Toumaka                          22        3
Bamendjinda-Bagam                       15       10
Balaloum-Mifi Nord                       2        8
Bamendou-Balegmo                         5        3
Bafangmo-Blamessingue-Mbouda             6       10         "
Mendossa-Bawo                           17        5
Sub total Bambouto                                                 161
- Menoua             Bansoa-Baloum                           75       10
Fomopea-Ndoumburo                       79       10
Fokoue-Bamendou                         80       20
Bafou-Banggang (West Route)             77       10
Bafou-Road 80                           81       10
Fongo-Ndeng-Fondonnera                  67       15
Sub total Menoua                                                    75
Grand Total West                                                   376



Table 11
Page 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Tentative Third and Fourth Year Program
Province and District       Road Name                      Road      Road      Road
No     Length   Standard
East
Kak I-Zoume-Ngoap                      112        12    Class II
Makok-Ezambe-Ngouong-Azomekout         114        17       "
Lamba-Baditoum-Kouambang               115        19       "
Samba-Kak                              117         6       "
Messague-Zembe II-Mparagnang           118        15       "
Akilbenza-Koumbou                      119        13       "
Nguelemendouka-Ebah-Kak III           1110        20       "
Lamba-Miambo                          1111         6
non identified                                  205
Sub-Total Class II                                                313
non identified                                   99    Access
tracks
Grand Total                                                        412
Source:  Mission estimate February 1977
June 1977



TABLE 12
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Maintenance Standards for Roads
I.        The minimum acceptable maintenance standards for feeder roads.
(a) roadway will be kept over width to which it was constructed,
with adequate camber to ensure drainage, and with sufficient
bearing capacity to ensure that the road is basically all-
weather (only to be closed for short periods after heavy rain),
and potholes and larger corrugations will be eliminated;
(b) drainage will be kept without obstructions to original standard
or improved to ensure that: lateral ditches and cross-
drainage structures are able to carry water to outlets or
recipients without causing erosion; and
(c) drainage structures (culverts and bridges), retaining walls
and slope protection, will be maintained or improved to
ensure structural soundness and adequate protection against
erosion and scour.
II.       To attain the above standards, at least, the following works will
be carried out:
(a) one light grading annually for farm access roads and two for
Class I and Class II feeder roads;
(b) elimination of corrugation by a drag at intervals depending on
soil conditions and traffic;
(c) repair of potholes with good materials; and
(d) routine culvert and drainage repairs and clearing.



Table 13
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Roads to be Included under the Proposed Third Highway Project
Road Name                      Road        Length      Type of Work
No           km
1.   West Province
Balaloum-Mifi Sud-Nkajou              1            18       construction (4 km)
improvement (14 km)
new bridge
Djone-Bandjoun                       35            30       improvement
Bandjoun-Bangou-Bajou                43            25       improvement
Fongo-Ndeng-Dschang                  70            15       improvement
Dschang-Fondonnera-Bamengui        61-63          120       construction (72 km)
improvement (48 km)
Sub-total                                    228
2.   ZAPI East Area
Bonis-Doume-Abong-Mbang                           109       improvement
3.   North-West Province
Ring Road                                         200       improvement
Grand Total (1, 2, 3)                        537
Source: Consultant O'Sullivan and Partners, November 1976
Mission, February 1977



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                                Table 14
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Eouipmoent to be Porchas..d for Improvetont and Maintenance of Feeder Road
(CCFA Million) 1/
Nomber of Unit                                            Unit Coats                    Total Costa
Item              Equipoent              Public Works Brigade    Comaunity Dev. Brigade   ZAPI East
Brigade    To-  Lo-    Tax   Foreign  Total Local Tax    Foreign   Total
Improvement Maint.    Improveoent Maint.         Improv.   tal   cal
I    BuIldoner 140 HP W/Ripper             4                        1                                5    1.2    5.6      21.9    28.7   6.0   28.0   109.5      143.5
2    Grader 120 NP                         8         3              1          1           1        14    0.8    3.7      16.3    20.8  11.2   51.8   228.2       291.2
3   Wheel Loader 1.2 m3 100 HP             4                                                         4    0.6    3.2      11.0    14.8   2.4   12.8    44.0        59.2
4    Self-prop. rubber tired roller 22T   4                                                          4    0.6    3.9      12.0    16.5   2.4   15.6    48.0        66.0
5   Agricultural tractor 65 HP                                      4                      4         8    0.2    1.5       3.0      4.7   1.6   12.0    24.0       37.6
6    Pneumatic tired tracted roller                                  1                     1         2    0.2    1.5       3.0      4.7   0.4    3.0     6.0        9.4
10/12/T
7    Bottom dump trailer                                            8                      4        12    0.1    0.1       0.7     0.9   1.2    1.2      8.4       10.8
8    Loading ohovels                                                 2                     2          4    0.1    0.1      0.4      0.6   0.4    0.4      1.6       2.4
9    Grader attochoent                                               1                     1          2    0.2    1.0      2.2      3.4   0.4    2.0     4.4        6.8
10    Tipper truck S m3                    20                         1                              21    0.2    2.2       4.4      6.8   4.2   46.2    92.4      142.8
11    Water truck 5 m 3 W/Pwp               8                                                         8    0.2    2.5       4.5      7.2   1.6   20.0    36.0       57.6
12    Water Bowoer 3m3                                                1                     1         2    0.2    0.2       1.3      1.7   0.4    0.4     2.6        3.4
13    Fuel tanker                           4                                                         4    0.3    1.8       5.6      7.7   1.2    7.2    22.4       30.8
14    Service truck                         4         3                         1                     8    0.2    1.1       3.5      4.8   1.6    8.8    28.0       38.4
15    Light truck 1.5 T.                                              2                     1          3    0.1    0.4      1.7      2.2   0.3    1.2     5.1        6.6
16    Mobile Workshop                       4                                                         4    0.5    3.3      10.2    14.0   2.0   13.2    40.8        56.0
17    Water Pump 50  3/h                    4                        4                      1         9            0.1      0.2      0.3          0.9     1.8        2.7
18    Portable concrete mimer               4                         5                     1         10    0.2    0.1      1.1      1.4   2.0    1.0    11.0       14.0
19    Generator 6 KVA                       4                                                         4    0.1    0.2       0.8      1.1   0.4    0.8      3.2       4.4
20    Chain Say                                                       2                     5          7   0.01   0.04      1.15    0.2   0.07   0.28    1.05        1.4
21    4 Wheel drive vehicle                 8                         1                     1         10    0.1    1.4      1.6      3.1   1.0   14.0-e 16.0        31.0
22    Compresoor with toola                 1                         1                                2    0.2    1.0      2.8      4.0   0.4    2.0      5.6       8.0
23    Pick-up                               4                                                          4    0.1    0.9      1.3      2.3   0.4    3.6' r  5.2        9.2
24    Light vehicle                         8                         2                     2         12    0.1    0.9      1.3      2.3   1.2   10.8    15.6       27.6
Total                                                                                                            42.77 257.18  760.85   1060.8
1/ An of February, 1977
Source Miniotry of Equipnent and Houting, February 1977 nisnion
June 1977



CAMEAtaJN
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT                                                                   Table 19
Proje.t Copst 21/
(CFAF Mill-So)
1977                   1978                   1979                   1980                1981                   198                                
L   T      F ToetaL    T          F Totel L    T    F   ratiL7T                  F      L     7     F     otal.            F    Ttl              T     F    Total
Equipeent                                       Si- -    8257722 1060-                                           --                                              51 257   722        1900
Purch.s.
Eq.c9p-t Him                   I                                          1    3      8                                           -     -    -      -                          
Spare parts.                                     7   11   19    37   30   44   74   148    28  42   7014 2               2 2 14a          20 30 so    100   113   109   293             5c"
F.el & Lubri-ets a                               4    9   15    28   23   34   59   116   21  35   62 11  37    36   69   142   15   27   61    103    84   141   266                   491
Local Staff             2     -     -     2    15  -       -     21   57    -   -        87   94-    -   9                _    _   86   95          -       95  402    -        -       402
Materials .                   -           -      8    920        31   24  21   80  125    2421    8012524    21   8 So 125   18   15860                     84    98    84   320        500
ciil Works                    -           -    10    4   11    25   44   18   S0   110    5    8 9   1  ~j              1      8 10 3           0 3          8 11         8     8        2
contracted                                                                                     4    6 5   1   0         1      5 10 3           D 3          5 11         6     8        2
Techni.lceAssist.      5      1   18    22    14    I 34    49   25    3   70    88    14   1   34  49  3    -                 7    10       -       -     -       82      9   180      228
Office Hi-  &reEquip.  -      -    -      -    10    4   11    P9       9    2    9    20       9 2    9  20   8          1    4    10    2    1    2        s    35    10    35          80
Warkshop Eq.cpeest    -       -    -       -     I    3    5       7    2    2  36    39    -        -             -    --                                          8      3    31        44
and TooLs
St.dues                 -     -    -      -      3  -      17    20    3    -   17    20       --                                    -3                                                  4
Sub-total            8      1   115    24   517  '92 4   3031  25  123   88  1764  1234  117 708 656 223  1115  27    83                 8         205   4?   11059 73 2041  3833
Contingencies
- Physi.allO               1    -     1     2    18 29885   130 28            12  39706    23   12 31166   22    119                 81 188           21    47    106            204     380
- costs.
l978 Equip.0 &                     -      -     8   27   74   110--              -    --                --        -    - --                                -     9      27   74       110
Spare parts 105
Other Shoes.
1977(.819%                - 
19% (1.09.1,045-1)        -          -      -     9    4   14    27-K.9                                                                                                  40   14         27
is %
1979 (1.0&1,045-1)83    28   87   168893                                                                                                                                 28   87        188
24 %
1980j (1,0031,04-1)-                                                         -                 70 38   920470                                                            38   96        204
35 
1981 (1.09Pc1.089                                                                                                          81221           -     -    -      -     9        0 1           S
1l.04-1)    45%9                                                                                                             ,2219                                        8 1            5
1992 (1.09 c1. 08273                                                                                                                                    4    15 7            8 8           1
51,04-1)    45                                                                                                                              536 8           9      5       6 8           5
Sub Total                          2     3    34   80   73    98    8 40   128  244    93   80 12  '7  '?T    W  14(  312    93  d4   09  1242   413  1251   72                       1336
Creed Tatsl   10    1   17  ~28  1191   3211027[1570 331  18    514  1098 1327  187?   2 1926  33    744492                     781831           1    1472 1984 12713   5169
F .Foreign
1/  As of F.bruary, 1977



Table 16
Page 1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
A C T I V I T Y                 1977    1978    1979    1980    1981        1982
Institution Building
- Establishing Feeder Road
Unit (3/30/78)              x
MINEH EAST
Unit (6/30/78)                  x
MINEH WEST
Unit (6/31/78)                  x
ZAPI East Unit
(6/30/78)                       x
North West Develop.
Unit (6/30/78)
Interministerial
Committees (5/30)             x         x       x
- Budget Allocations: General         x        x        x       x         x        x
Technical Assistance and Studies
- Recruitment of Team Leader and
Training Specialist (10/30/77)       x
- Start Maintenance funds study
6/1/78                          x
- Completion  "           it
12/31/78                         x
- Discussion  "     "    "
1/31/79                                x
Procurement of Equipment
- Prepare bidding documents 12/31/77    x
- Call for bids            1/31/78         x
- Evaluate bids            3/31/78          x
- Select suppliers         4/15/78          x
- Approve contracts        4/30/78          x
- Deliver Equipment       11/30/78
Program Preparation
- Preparation of Yearly program         -
- Present program to interminis.
committee (5/30)                                x    x        x         x
Program Execution
-   EAST   MINEH   Unit                            -----------------------------------
- WEST MINEH Unit                                  -----------------------------------
-   ZAPI   EAST   Unit                             ----------------------------
- NORTI WEST Development Unit                      -----------------------------------
- DIBI-TOURNIGAL Works                             ---------
- Routine maintenance                                      __           r-------- r ----
Source: Mission, August 1977



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAM~EROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Works' Schedule of Implementation
Provinces                         1978           1979          1980          1981           1982         Ta al    Remarks
North-West                                   '              73             |                             300       1 C.D.D. Brigade
West                                         ,245        279    '-      200           zc 2c   f          930       3 MINEH Brigades
East Main Feeder Roads                       : 152  tH   172    :       163    w       160               647       1 MINEH Brigade
Access track                   rv |    ' 55  }so    59   03        59    o        3'S   o          150        1 ZAPI Brigade
0   I     ~~~~~~~I c
I       I             I rs   l   D   l    .rs           '_ 
X:amaoua                                      1                                         *                150       1 SODEPA Brigade
Total (km)                            '682         583           497           468              2,230
Source: Mission
June 1977
OQ u3
r'3
D    i-
a,D



UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Financing of Project Costs
(000,000' CFAF)
Government Financing             Bank Financing
Grand Total          Bank
Local    Tax   Total               Foreign           Including Tax      Financing
Equipment
Purchase                      81      257    338                  722                1060              68
Hire                           1        1       2                   3                   5              60
Spare parts                    113      169    282                  283                 565              50
Fuel and Lubricants             84      132    216                  215                 431               50
Local Staff                    350       -      350                  -                  350                0
Materials                        96      84    180                  320                 500               64
Civil Works contracted         171       62    233                  187                 420               46
Operating costs for
maintenance                   52        9      61                  51                 112              46
Technical assistance            62        6      68                 160                 228               70
Office hire and Equipment        35      10      45                  35                  80               44
Workshop Equipment and
Tools                          8        3      11                  31                  42              74
Studies                          6        -       6                  34                  40               85
Sub Total                   1059      733   1792                2041                3833               53
Contingencies
Physical                     106       73    179                  204                 383              53
Price variations             307      178    485                  468                 853              43
Sub total                    413      251    664                  672               1336               46
Grand total                 1472      984   2456                 2713                5169               52                 a
(US$ million)                (6,007)  (4.016) (1002)             (11073)            (2L075)
(Rounded)                    (6,00)  (4,000)(10X000)            (11100)             (2L100)
Source: Mission estimate
August, 1977



Table 18
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disburserments
US$ Thousand
Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year    Quarter    During Quarter    Cumulative          Undisbt_rsed Amount
1978              1
2
3             200              200              10,900
4             400              600              10,500
1979              1             400            1,000              10,100
2           1,000            2,000               9,100
3           1,900            3,900               7,200
4             400            4,300               6,800
1980              1             200            4,500               6,600
2             400            4,900              6,200
3             400            5,300              5,800
4             600            5,900              5,200
1981              1             200            6,100               5,000
2             700            6,800              4,300
3             700            7,500              3,600
4             700            8,200              2,900
1982              1             200            8,400               2,700
2             600            9,000              2,100
3             600            9,600              1,500
4             500           10,100              1,000
1983              1             200           10,300                 800
2             500           10,800                300
3             300           11,100                  0
Sourcce: Mission estimate
Jure, 1977



Table 19
Page 1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Transport Cost Savings to Non-Agricultural Traffic
1.   WESTERN PROVINCE
A.   Network Characteristics
Average Daily Traffic                         5            15           25
Length of Roads with Indicated              200          380            350
traffic (km)
Average Weighted Vehicle                     30.0          19.5          16.5
operating cost savings/km
(CFAF net of taxes)
Annual Savings                          54,700          106,763      150,563
(CFAF/km)
B.   Total Annual Savings
Year                           1979     1980      1981      1982     1983
Composition of Network
Completed (im)
ADT  5                    35        70        155      200       200
ADT 15                     50      100        200      380       380
ADT 25                    150      300        350      350       350
Total Annual Savings
(CFAF million)            14.8      46.7       77.9    107.9    126.8
(US$ Thousands)           59.5    186.6      311.7    431.7    507.1
II.  ZAPI EAST AREA
A.   Network Characteristics
Average Daily Traffic                   5         10       15       20
Length of Roads with Indicated        280        180      120       60
traffic (km)
Average Weighted Vehicle               28.6       25.3    20.2      17.5
operating cost savings/km
(CFAF net of taxes)
Annual Savings                       52,195    92,345  110,595   127,75()
(CFAF/km)



Table 19
Page 2
B.   Total Annual Savings
Year                           1979     1980      1981      1982      1983
Composition of Network
Completed (im)
ADT  5                     -        60        140       280      280
ADT 10                     -        80        160       180      180
ADT 15                    100      120        120       120      120
ADT 20                     60       60         60        60       60
Total Annual Savings
(CFAF million)             9.4      26.3       41.0     55.1      63.4
(US$ Thousands)           37.4    105.4       164.1    220.4    253.6
Source: Consultants and Mission's Estimates, February, 1977



Table 20
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Results of Sensitivity Analysis for Agricultural Projects
(Economic Returns %)
Project    Project
Basic     Cost      Benefits
Inputs    20%       - 20%
ZAPI East Project               27       22         21
Western Highlands Project       20       16         13



ANNEX 1
UNITED REFJBLIC OF CAMEROON                                                                              Page 1
FEEDER ROADS PFOJECT
The Project Area
C H A R A C T E R I S T I C S           ZAPI  EAST  AREA                     W E S T E R N    H I G H L A N D S                                  ADAMAOJA
West Province                  North-West Province
1. Geographical
Location                        East Province around Nguelemen-   Around Bafoussam.                  Around Bamenda.                   Dibi-Tournigal area,near
douka.                                                                                                 Ngaoundere.
Physical  Features             Generallyrolling terrain but         High altitudes,between 1000-  High altitudes,over 1500 m           Flat terrain on north-central
marshy.                              1800 m.                                                           Plateau.
Vegetation                      Forest zone.                        Forest,but completely cultiv  Furest,but extensively cul-    Savannah.
Size                                 13,500 km2                     ted        3000 km2              tivated       n.e.                              600 km2
2. Population
Total and Density                    75,000 , about 30/kM2          660,000 , average density        350,000 , average density          6,100   average  10/km2
200/km2.                         50/km2
No. of farm families                     16,500                      40,000                           20,000                              n.a.
Characteristics                Small scale subsistence              Bamileke group,    one of th  Bamileke                              Hausas, excellent herdsman
farmers                             most industrious in Cameroon
3. Agriculture
National Importance            Potentially good cocoa and           Produces over two-thirds         Produces arabica and robus-        High potential livestock
coffee area - Supplies Yaounde    country's arabica coffee           ta coffee, but less impor-         area and focus of SODEPA
areaplantain                                                         tant than West Province
Main cash crops                 Coooa and coffee                    Coffee, both arabica G           Arabica and robusta coffee         Livestock
robusta
Main Foodcrops                  Plantain, cassava, maize            Maize, groundnuts, manioc        Maize, potatoes                    Millet and sorghum
Macabo                              potatoes
Problems                        Primitive farning methods and       Excessive pressure on land,   Rather primitive cultivation    Scarce population, poor
General poverty                     rather primitive cultiva-        methods                            access.
tion methods
4. Road Network
Extent                         Adequate in extent except farm    Adequate in extent except                                              Adequate access into the area
access                              access to new agricultural    Same as for the West Province   but intra-zone practically
estates                                                            non-existant. Tracks often too
narrow to permit four-wheel
drive vehicles



ANNEX 1
Page 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROA]S PROJECT
The Project Area
C H A R A C T E R I S T I C S         ZAPI  EAST  AREA                              W E S T E R N       H I G H L A N D S                             ADAMAOJA
West Province                  North-West Province
Condition                     Poor condition of drainage str-  Major problem is in$ufficient         Same as for the West                           n.applicable
uctures, off-shoot drains, sur-  drainage structures and slippe-   Province
face condition of steep grades   ry steep slopes.  Mtst roads
G inadequate marshland cros-       impassable during rainy seasons
sings
Road Improvements            Clearing, regravelling, repair   Repair & reconstruction of             As for West Province             Track widening, regravelling
Proposed                     or reconstruction of drainage    drainage structures, provision                                          as necessary and provision of
structures                         offshoot drains and extensive                                        adequate drainage structures
regravelling
5. Transport & Marketing
Marketing of cash crops by         Marketing of cash crops by          Marketing by Bamenda Coope-    Livestock marketing by indivi-
ZAPI, foodcrops by private         UCCAO & foodcrops by private        ratives Association               dualranchers, foodcrops by
traders                            traders                                                               individual farmers,
Poor feeder roads resulting in   Poor roads and ther*fore access   Poor roads and poor access           Transporting cattle on the
high transport costs and infre-  preventing farmers from incree-   lead to high transport costs   hoof limits number of markets
quent supply of agric.inputs       sed production                      produce spoilage S cons-          accessible to ranchers andthere ore
and extension services & produ-                                        traints on increased produo-   limits possible expansion
ce spoilage                                                            tion
6. Elements of Agricul-
tural Projects
Objectives                   Increase disposable income of    Increasing producti~n of food
some 12,000 fare families in       crops, coffee, riae G small
the ZAPI East Area by increa-    animals through the!introduc-
sing labor 6 land productivity   tion of modern agri(ultural
& decreasing marketing costs       methods, credit & efficient
US 5 million   marketing
Composition & Costs           Credit                   2.0       Credit                6.0
Extension Services &    1.0        Extension services   1.5
training                          & research                           Details not available            Details not available
Processing, storage &   2.8        Bottom lands develoF.O.S
markets                           Small livestock        2.0
Fisheries                0.5       Water supply           0.9
Technical assistance    0.5        Seed production        5.2
Adaptive research        0.7       Training               2.4
Health, water supply    0.8        Erosion prevention   0.5
Retail marketing         0.9       Service centres        3.2
Institutional support   0.5        Follow-up              0.8
Contingencies            3.0       Contingencies          7.3
12.7                            30.3
Economic return              Estimated   27%                     Estimated  20%                       Not available                     About  18 %
Sensitivity                        Not available                      Not available                   Not available                          Not available



ANNEX 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAIIEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Cameroon, with the assistance of the World Bank
Group, is carrying out a four-year feeder roads improvement and maintenance
project.  The consulting services required to assist the Government in
executing the project are outlined below.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The purpose of the services are generally to assist the Ministry of
Equipment and Housing (MINEH), the Department of Community Development (DCD)
and the ZAPI East Organization, hereinafter referred to as the executing
agencies, to:
(i) establish a Feeder Roads Unit within the Roads Department (DR) of
MINEH;
(ii) purchase highway equipment, tools and spare parts and supplies
for operations included under the project;
(iii) prepare bidding documents for work to be done by contractors;
(iv) implement a four-year program for improvement, rehabilitation
and maintenance of about 2,100 km of feeder roads in the
Western Highlands and in the ZAPI East area;
(v) design and implement a program for the training of DR and DCD
staff, including but not limited to engineers, road technicians,
mechanics, equipment operators, chiefs of brigades and road
foremen; and
(vi) prepare a second-phase program for feeder roads improvement,
rehabilitation and maintenance.
III. SCOPE OF SERVICES
A.   General
3.        The consultants shall advises and assist the executing agencies in
the performance of all engineering and administrative work, organization and



ANNEX 2
Page 2
financial analyses, personnel and all related work herein described as
required to attain the objectives in Section II above. In the conduct of
this work, the consultants shall cooperate fully with the executing agencies.
B.   Establishment of the Feeder Roads Unit
4.        The consultants shall assist the DR to establish a Feeder Roads Unit
at its headquartes in Yaounde and provide operational support for the Unit
during the duration of consultants services. They shall advise on the staff-
ing of the Unit and the organization of its functions and provide on-the-job
training for the Unit's key staff.
C.   Procurement of Equipment and Supplies and Award of Tender to Domestic
Contractors
5.        The consultants shall assist the DR with the procurement of equip-
ment, spare parts and workshop tools under the project including those destined
for the DCD and the ZAPI East Organization and with the award of bids for works
to be done by domestic contractors. Specifically, they shall assist in (i)
preparation of bidding documents, (ii) call for bids, (iii) bid analysis and
the selection of suppliers and contractors, and (iv) reception of equipment,
spare parts and tools and supervision of works by contractors.
6.        The consultants shall assist the executing agencies in the purchase
of materials and supplies, including cement, reinforcement steel, culverts,
and fuel.
D.   Implementation of the Feeder Roads Program
7.        The consultants shall advise and assist the executing agencies in
the implementation of the four-year feeder roads program. They shall, inter
alia, assist in:
Preparation of Detailed Annual Programs: DR will receive
annually a list of feeder roads from the Provincial Inter-
ministerial Committee of the West Province, North-West
Province and East Province. The consultants shall assist
the DR in preparing detailed physical and financial plans
for the works to be done.
Construction of Workshop at Nguelemendouka: Consultants
shall assist the DR with the preparation of plans for the
workshop, tendering to local contractors and supervision
of construction. Consultant shall also assist the DR
with preparation of a list of necessary workshop equip-
ment and tools and their purchase.
Execution of Roadworks: The consultants shall assist
the executing agencies in executing the annual work
programs ensuring (i) adequate efficiency and quality



ANNEX 2
Page 3
of works, (ii) adequate analytical acconting and
reporting procedures and (iii) well-directed on-the-
job training for local staff including counterpart
engineers and technicians.
Engineering Evaluation: The consultants shall assist
the DR in establishing and implementing a system for
monitoring the execution of the feeder roads program.
Activities will include (i) evaluating the productivity
and costs of the force account brigades and of local
contractors mainly engaged in drainage structures,
(ii) monitoring the quality of operations and the
rate of deterioration of project roads in relation to
construction materials used, rainfall and traffic,
(iii) identification and analysis of operational
difficulties, (iv) estimating traffic on the project
roads both before and after the improvements, and
(v) depending upon information derived from (i) through
(iv), modifying methods of operation, equipment use,
road standards for feed-back into the programs for
the subsequent years and as a guideline for the follow-
up feeder roads program.
E.   Training of Local Personnel
8.        The consultant shall assist the executing agencies in designing and
implementing a training program for local personnel including engineers, road
technicians, training specialists, mechanics, equipment operators, chiefs
of brigades and road foremen. This training should be additional to and
coordinated with any provided by local representatives of equipment suppliers
or the Ministry of Equipment's training school at Douala, Yaounde and Buea
and should cover more than the personnel needed to implement the feeder road
program. Consultants shall propose definite training targets to be met with
a clear indication of schedules. On-the-job training will be emphasised.
F.   Preparation of Second Phase Feeder Roads Program
9.        The consultants shall assist the Feeder Roads Unit to prepare
a follow-up feeder roads development and maintenance program including a
working program for 1982/83 and an outline program for the following two
years. It is expected that short-term consulting services, separate from
those contained herein, will assist DR in providing some inputs including (i)
a condition inventory of selected high priority feeder roads, (ii) evaluation
of the works to be performed on the roads, (iii) an evaluation of the required
resources to accomplish the works, (iv) the estimated cost of these resources
and (v) soci-economic evaluation of the program. The consultants shall on
the basis of these elements and any necessary modifications thereof assist
the DR in defining the strategy for the follow-up program.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
IV. STAFFING
A.   Personnel, Qualifications and Outline Duties
10.       The consultants' team shall be composed of:
I   Highway Engineer (Chief of Team)
1    Highway Engineer
2    Road Technicians
I   Mechanical Inspector
1   Mechanic
I    Training Specialist
11.       The minimum qualifications and outline duties of the individual
staff are set forth below.
(1)  Highway Engineer, Chief of Technical Assistance Team (36 months)
(a) Qualifications: Civil Engineer with minimum 10 years
professional experience in (i) planning, construction
and supervision of roadworks, including low standard
roads; (ii) public works administration and (iii) per-
sonnel management and training.
(b) Duties: (i) overall responsibility for work of the
technical assistance team; (ii) assist in planning,
directing, supervising and monitoring implementation
of the feeder road program in close cooperation with
his counterparts; (iii) assist in preparation and
analysis of bids for equipment, spare parts and
workshop tools, and supplies to be purchased under
the project; (iv) assist in developing detailed annual
physical and financial plans for feeder roads construc-
tion; (v) assist in the recruitment and training of
personnel for the road programs and in particular
provide on-the-job training for his counterpart and
other professional personnel; (vi) implement adequate
accounting and reporting procedures, and (vii) provide
engineering support for the ZAPI East Brigade.
(2) Highway Engineer/Technicians (58 man-months total)
(a) Qualification: Civil Engineers or Road Technicians
with minimum 8 years experience in (i) construction
and maintenance of roads including low-cost roads;
(ii) road surveying, and (iii) operation of
mechanived road brigades.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(b) Duties: (i) assist the Chief of Team in developing
the detailed annual road programs (ii) plan and direct
the work of road improvement brigades ensuring adequate
efficiency and quality and (iii) conduct on-the-job
training for local staff to ensure that daily operations
can be competently handled by Cameroonians after consul-
tants' departure.
(3) Mechanical Inspector (Total 12 man-months)
(a) Qualification: (minimum 10 years experience) should be
experienced in the inspection, repair and operation of
highway and workshop equipment and should be capable
of training equipment operators and mechanics.
(b) Duties: (i) assist the Chief of Team in equipment
procurement, (ii) provide overall responsibility for
equipment maintenance and repair and (iii) provide
on-the-job training for local mechanics.
(4) Mechanic (Total 18 man-months)
(a) Qualification: (i) mechanic with minimum 8 years of
professional experience at least 4 years in maintenance
and repair of road construction equipment in a develop-
ing country.
(b) Duties: (i) plan and direct equipment maintenance
for two road construction brigades, and (ii) provide
on-the-job training for local mechanics.
(5) Training Specialist (Total 9 man-months)
(a) Qualification: 8 years professional experience as
training specialist. Should have experience in design-
ing and supervising training programs for mechanics and
equipment operators, chiefs of brigades, foremen, etc.
(b) Duties: (i) design comprehensive training programs for
road construction and equipment maintenance personnel,
(ii) supervise implementation of above training programs,
(iii) train counterpart Cameroonian training specialist.



ANNEX 3
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Project Monitoring
A.   Objectives and Responsibility
1.        The objectives of the monitoring system are:
(a) to evolve on a continuous basis the economic, social and
engineering aspects of the project to permit, if necessary,
modification of the project during implementation and
during the preparation of the follow-up feeder roads
project to maximise the output of the project;
(b) to permit the assessment of the long-term impact of the
feeder roads, as part of the integrated rural/agricultural
development projects and on the socio-economic development
of the project areas; and
(c) to test some of the assumption underlying the engineering
design of the project, including the productivity of
different operations and the appropriateness of the design
standards recommended.
2.        Since the bulk of the socio-economic aspects concern the ZAPI East
Rural Development Project and the Western Highlands Agricultural Development
Project, monitoring of these elements will be integrated with the monitoring
systems of those projects. Monitoring under the feeder roads project will
focus on (i) the engineering concepts and parameters and (ii) the evaluation
of traffic forecasts and evolution of transport costs. Both (i) and (ii)
will be the responsibility of the Feeder Roads Unit assisted by the technical
assistance staff.
B.   Methodology
3.        Economic Aspects:  Activities will include collecting data periodi-
cally on the items below to permit analysis of the economic evolution in the
project area:
(a) measuring traffic flow on statistically selected roads to
establish growth and evolution in traffic composition;
(b) for the project roads, collecting data periodically on (i)
the size of population in the influence areas, (ii) agri-
cultural crop production and the proportion marketed,
(iii) investment in economic and social fields, and (iv)
evolution of farm-gate prices for different commodities; and



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(c) collecting and updating information on vehicle operating
costs and transport charges on project roads.
4.        Engineering Aspects:  Activities will include:
(a) evaluating the productivity and costs of force account
brigades and local contractors mainly engaged in drainage
works; and
(b) evaluating the quality of works and the rate of deterio-
ration of project roads in relation to materials used,
rainfall, traffic and maintenance effort and techniques.
5.        Reporting
The Feeder Roads Unit will assemble the results of the monitoring
operations and submit the consequent modifications recommended for review by
the Bank at the same time as the Bank reviews the annual work programs.
Within six months after project completion, the Unit will submit a report
summarizing the results and recommendations of its monitoring effort for Bank
review. The results will be updated and submitted to the Bank for review two
years after project completion.



ANNEX 4
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Summary of Illustrative Economic Analysis
Road Name:  Fombap-Fontsa Toula (15 km)
Economic Data
Estimated Road Improvement Costs:                  US$250,000
Average Savings in Annual Road Maintenance:        US$    900
Traffic Volume (non-Agricultural):                 25 vpd
Weighted Average Vehicle Operating Cost Saving: US184/km/veh
net of taxes
Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC) Savings:
Year       1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Savings
(US$)    24,600  25,600  27,000  28,300  30,000  31,500  33,100  35,100  36,900  38,700
Total VOC and Road Maintenance Savings
Year       1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Savings
(US$000)  25.4    26.5    27.9    29.2    30.9    32.4    34.0    36.0    37.8          39.6
First Year Returns (FYR) based on voc + maintenance savings 10.2%
Agricultural Production Data
2
Influence Area of Road = 70 km
Base Year Aggregate Marketable Production: 2500 tons mixed (coffee, maize,
groundnuts, manioc)
US$112,000
Incremental Production attributable to Road Investments:
Year      1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Savings
(US$)     8,500  10,900  14,300  15,800  15,800  15,800  15,800  15,800  15,800  15,800
Reduced Spoilage attributable to Road Investments: $4500/year



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Total BenefiLs (voc & maintenance & increased production & reduced spoilage)
Year       1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Savings
(US$000)  38.4    41.9    45.9    49.5    51.2    52.7    54.3    56.3    58.1           59.0
FYR (including agricultural benefits) = 15.4%
Economic Return over 10-year period = 16%



ANNEX 5
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Guidelines for Selection of Feeder Roads for the
Second, Third and Fourth Years of the Project
Institutions
1.        The lists of feeder roads to be included in the second, third and
fourth years of the project will be selected in the year preceding the road
works by the ZAPI East Organization for roads in the East Province, by UCCAO
for the West Province and by BAC for the Northwest Province. Provincial
Interministerial Committees (PIC) to be established within the three provinces
will be responsible for approving these lists.
Procedures
2.        The lists of roads included in the tentative second, third and
fourth year programs (Tables 9 thru 11) will be used as a basis for selecting
roads for the annual programs but will also consider roads not included in
these lists if warranted by changes in the agricultural projects. The annual
programs will be presented to the PIC's for review and approval. The approved
proposals will then be submitted to the Bank (RMWA) for its approval not less
than three months before the scheduled start of work to be implemented under
the year's program. The first of these programs for the 1979/80 construction
season will be submitted to the Bank by May 30, 1979.
Criteria for Road Selection
3,        Roads to be included in any given annual program will be selected
according to the criteria described below:
Az   Economic Rate of Return (ERR):  roads will be ranked according to their
ERR. An economic rate of return of at least 10% is required for a road
section to be included under the program. The ERR will be based on the
following quantifiable benefits depending upon the road type as follows:
Category I: This includes roads in areas of existing sub-
stantial economic activity.  The ERR will be based on road-
user savings;
Category II:  This includes roads other than those in Category                    4
I. The ERR will be based on the sum of (i) road-user savings
to non-agricultural traffic, (ii) net value added to incremen-
tal agricultural production and (iii) benefits from reduced
produce spoilage.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
B.   Needs of Agricultural Programs:  subject to the 10% ERR cut-off rate
above, inclusion of roads in the annual program will specifically consider
the needs of the agricultural programs they serve. Thus, for example, a
road providing access to a central seed multiplication facility may be in-
cluded in the program in preference to one with a higher ERR calculated by
the methods prescribed under A above.
C.   Geographical Coordination of Brigades:  subject to the criteria under A
and B above, the inclusion of roads in the annual programs will take into
consideration the geographical coordination of the road brigades to prevent
long non-work travel distances.
Information Requirements
4.        The Feeder Roads Unit (FRU) within the Ministry of Equipment will be
responsible for assembling the necessary data to justify the annual programs.
The following checklist is illustrative of the input requirements:
Engineering Input: condition inventory; roadworks required;
methods of execution and costs;
Transportation Economic Input: Traffic (volume, type, com-
position load factor and seasonal distribution) and vehicle
operating costs (of existing and proposed road conditions);
Agricultural Input: existing and future land utilization;
existing and future production patterns; without and with
project agricultural production (composition, volume and
gross value); without and with project costs of production;
farm budget with and without project; farm income with and
without project.
Sociological Input: population (volume and characteristics)
in road's influence area; social ammenities served by road.






CAMEROON
FEEDER ROAD PROJECT
FjS >    Ch ,ef  Town   of  ProDMece
\< ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C   .                               href Town of SObdois,orr
Che.f T-o of S.bd-,o,so
o    Chef Toon of D.,tr,t
)   A |  \  GAUM                                       M-re Roods
Feeder Rood,
-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'- -  )                                                c-Rern
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~   ~       ~~~                                                        ~    ~~~~~~~~~ NzMe  15  1    / 051
BATCHAM L           tk    t8                                     \       > 0                          MILES
)}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ope 0 \rO rr.r- --rj
PENKA                      BAFOUSSAM,                            T F n,bor
C   g   .                    S-            '$BAM~~~~~~~~ENDJ6U 9,               W                                               5>
kFotLwe             )             g      \   A       BANDJOUN      \                             f
NIGERfA            ,
PANY~~~~~AGOJr
Bondenkop                                                     r                                  Ro9nee o n    m2ELOLBAL
F  OI AN
( ~~~~~/                                                                n              *L LEBo  OR
.2t  9   <   gtch,,, u   >       47           t ,,>   YOOILL, 
I                                                                                                                _____________M60I  m.6-
Mb           n            g Mrnbon
Ref                                                                                                                                                     bok S Mb BERTOULA}B
MINTA                           boko                             Diong                                                        gatoLkM
K Kok 
/Bgodoounell 
'\   Mesoge ,-         '--)
Seobo           Kgk
;~   ,AZN UELEMEN DOIJIA                                                                                                       m
Makokz  g                  z           ' L~~~~~~~~Doonrentong                                                      f                          o;
Mokoknbo                    ' 
. t .             * lb  B.dito- e
.  , Koorboes.< 
Myonbo     ,                     .DolebiomnrM
Ekposong.              f          ,-
Up.-
Mgoep                                                                         f
Eseog|                      ;                 ,      '                 MRofchebooum   '
*Moy44   t  Bogbe:en,  . .  m g q     M     b
= 5 Zrndc t;' ekZende
A/5        @_7Mboobg         p                               Booloof S
/   Beef  *        'JBorgoboon                   ;
/  ~~~~~~~~~~~AONGD                                                                                          
Z-d. ~ ~ ~ ~ MAN                                                                                                        e



