Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2132-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
UNrTED REPUBLIC OF CAKEROON
FOR A
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
Novemher 29 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT               =         CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                        =         CFAF 245 1/
CFAF 19000                  =         US$40082
CFAF 1,000,000                        US$49082
1/ Floating exchange rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
SATA                        -         Swiss Aid for Technical
Assistance
SODEPA                      -         Societe de Developpement et
d'Exploitation des
Productions Animales
ZAPI                         -        Zones d'Actions Prioritaires
Integrees
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   United Republic of Cameroon
Amount:                     US$6.5 million IDA Credit
US$4.6 million IBRD Loan
Terms:                      Credit:   Standard
Loan:    20 years including 5 years of grace
at annual interest rate of 7.9 percent.
Project Description:        The proposed project is designed to help esta-
blish an efficient institutional framework for
planning, developing, and maintaining feeder
roads to support high priority agricultural/
rural development projects. It consists of
(a) a four-year program for the construction,
and improvement of about 2,200 km of feeder
roads; (b) technical assistance to establish
a Feeder Roads Unit within the Department of
Roads, to implement the above program and train
local staff; and (c) a study of a follow-up
feeder road program and resources for feeder
road maintenance.
The proposed project would have an important
institution-building effect. The feeder roads
to be included are indispensable for rural
development in the project areas; four high
priority rural development projects to be
served by the roads are expected to improve
the condition of some 100,000 low-income farm
families. The risk that some of these projects
should not materialize as and when expected is
small, since they are already at an advanced
state of processing and, in fact, even in their
absence the economic benefits of the proposed
project would remain high.
Estimated Cost:             The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$21.1 million including US$4.0 million equiv-
alent of taxes and duties. Project costs, net
of taxes aind duties, are estimated at US$17.1
million, of which about US$11.1 million is for-
eign exchange. Contingencies total US$4.4 mil-
lion, with price contingencies 25 percent and
physical contingencies 10 percent of base cost:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I



% of
Local      Foreign        Total     Project
------- (US$ thousand)       --      Costs
Construction and
Maintenance                    3,800       7,395        11,195       65
Institution Building              497         796         1,293        8
Studies                            24         139           163        1
Contingencies                   1,686       2.743         4.429       26
Total Project Cost              6,007      11.073        17,080      100
Rounded                         6,000      11,100        17,100
Financing Plan                  Local      Foreign        Total        Z
(US$ million) 
IBRD/IDA                          -          11.1          11.1       65
Government                        6.0          -            6.0       35
Total                             6.0        11.1          17.1
Estimated Disbursement
of IDA Credit and Bank Loan:
(Amounts in US$ thousand)
Bank/IDA Fiscal Year         1978     1979      1980     1981     1982     1983
Annual                        600    3,700     1,600    2,300    1,900    1,000
Cumulative                    600    4,300    5,900     8,200   10,100   11,100
Rate of Return:              The feeder roads would have an estimated economic
return of 14 percent with benefits based on road
user savings, reduced spoilage and modest induced
increases in agricultural production.
Appraisal Report:            Report No. 1668-CM dated November 15, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR A
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposEd
loan for the equivalent of US$4.6 million and a development credit for the
equivalent of US$6.5 million to the United Republic of Cameroon to help
finance a feeder road construction and improvement project. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9
percent per annum; the development credit would be on standard IDA terms.
The grant element in the proposed Bank/IDA financing is 53 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, "Proposals for a Medium-Term Public Development Program,
A Special Study, Cameroon" (No. 1097a-CM), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 11, 1976. In October and November 1976, an economic mission
visited Cameroon and its findings are incorporated below; a report is in
preparation.
Economic Potential
3.        Cameroon hal a population of about 7.6 million (1976) and covers
an area of 475,000 km . The country's natural resources are varied, but
not always easily accessible. Soils and climatic conditions permit culti-
vation of a wider range of crops thar, is commonly found in West Africa, and
the forest areas of the southeast contain large untapped timber resources.
The north holds promising potential for livestock development.
4.        The main opportunities for development in Cameroon lie in the
expansion of agricultural production, including forestry, and the processing
of agricultural and forestry products for export. A bauxite project is in the
early stages of preparation, and offshore oil and gas exploration is also
being carried out and has yielded some promising results.
5.        Commerce, transportation and transit services are other important
economic activities. Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by
vast underpopulated areas. The country moreover serves as a main export route
for landlocked Chad. As a result, large investments in port and inland
transport infrastructure are essential to promoting agriculture, forestry and
industry, and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
1/   Parts I and II are substantially unchanged from the corresponding Parts
of the President's Report for the Rural Development Fund Project, dated
June 20, 1977 (R77 - P-2052-CM).



-2-
Past Performance
6.        During the first decade of independence (1960-1970), the Govern-
ment's primary objective was to unify the nation and to ease serious internal
political and social tensions. Output of agriculture and industry grew
rapidly and, along with high world prices for cocoa and coffee, resulted in
a 7 percent per annum real growth rate. Gross investment averaged about 14
percent of GDP, slightly over half in the public sector with the largest part
devoted to the transportation network, the most immediate development con-
straint. A major effort was also directed at expanding education and diver-
sifying agriculture. Significant increases in fiscal revenues combined with
stringent expenditure controls produced sizeable budget surpluses that made it
possible to accumulate reserves and to finance a large part (up to 40 percent)
of public investment out of local revenues. However, this policy also imposed
excessive restraint on much needed current expenditure in such areas as road
maintenance, public health, and education.
7.        During the period 1971-1976, growth of real GDP slowed to about
3 percent per annum. This was caused by factors largely outside Cameroon's
control such as: (i) low export prices for cocoa and coffee during 1971 and
1972; (ii) several years of drought in the north; (iii) a decline in domestic
and foreign private investment, triggered primarily by the relative stagnation
of the agricultural sector and by the completion of the first wave of import
substitution projects during the preceding decade; (iv) a drop in 1975 in
world demand for both cocoa and timber; and finally (v) rapidly rising import
prices.
8.        The Government reacted to these developments by stepping up public
investment, which increased by 50 percent to reach annual averages of about
US$190 million in constant 1974 dollars during the Third Development Plan
(1972-1976). At the same time, greater emphasis has been placed on agri-
cultural output. Within a public investment program averaging 9 percent of
GDP, rural development has comprised about 18 percent, transport and communi-
cations 42 percent, energy 6 percent, and education 9 percent. Since nearly
75 percent of public investment has been in sectors where its contribution to
domestic output is both indirect and delayed, the impact of this substantial
investment effort on economic growth was limited during the Third Plan period.
In addition, physical realizations have been in many cases less than projected
due largely to substantial cost increases and the subsequent need to either
reduce the scope of projects or defer them.
9.        The balance of payments has not been a major constraint until re-
cent years. However, imports increased rapidly in 1974 and 1975 as a result
of worldwide inflation and heavy public development expenditure, especially
in capital goods. At the same time agricultural exports declined, particu-
larly exports of timber, causing a sizeable current account deficit in 1975.
Together with a decline in private capital inflows this resulted in a fall
in reserves from a level equal to nearly three months of import requirerments
in 1970 to one-half month at the end of 1975. Thanks mainly to considerably
improved export demand and higher prices, especially for coffee and timber, by



- 3 -
May 1976 gross reserves had recovered to the level of 1972 and 1973. How-
ever, because of continuing international inflation, Cameroon's official
gross international reserves, in mid-1977, still covered less than one month
of import requirements, a low level by usual international standards but still
acceptable considering Cameroon's membership in the Central African monetary
union.
Prospects and Development Strategy
10.       Cameroon's development effort over the next five years will be
carried out under the Fourth Plan (1977-1981). A Bank economic mission
discussed its recommendations on the level and composition of public invest-
ment with the Government in November 1975 and agreed on overall priorities.
It is anticipated that short- and medium-term growth of GDP will be 5 to 6
percent per annum in real terms, slightly lower than achieved during the
1960s. However, if the Government can maintain a high volume of public
investment and further expand and diversify the country's production base,
higher rates.of growth can be attained in the early 1980s. With this goal
in mind, the new Five-Year Plan has set a very ambitious public investment
target of over US$2.0 billion in constant 1974 dollars or more than two
times that achieved during the preceding plan period. The Plan gives in-
creasing emphasis to the development of directly productive sectors, par-
ticularly agriculture. The share of transport infrastructure investments
will decline somewhat but remains high in absolute figures, while invest-
ments in electric energy will increase. These changes in sectoral priorities
are very much in line with the recommendations of the 1975 economic mission.
11.       To ensure that appropriate priorities will in fact be achieved,
the Government will need to strengthen its ability to choose, prepare, and
implement projects, particularly in the rural and transport sectors. Progress
is being made in this direction. Special planning units are gradually being
established within the technical ministries. A Government-owned consulting
firm, the "Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique", has been
created under the Ministry of Economy and Planning to accelerate project
preparation. Commercially-oriented public corporations are also serving to
strengthen the project implementation capacity of the public sector. Never-
theless, further improvemients are needed, particularly in the management of
public corporations and in strengthening and coordinating rural development
institutions. A recently approved Technical Assistance Credit will assist
efforts undertaken by the Government in these fields by providing technical
assistance experts, training local staff, and financing high priority studies
and project preparation in key economic sectors.
12.       Even assuming these improvements continue, absorptive capacity
is likely to limit the rate of investment in the high priority sectors.
With respect to the overall investment level, financial considerations also
suggest that public investment during the Fourth Plan is unlikely to exceed
US$1.3 billion in constant 1974 dollars, or some US$400 million per year



in current dollars. Budgetary revenues have reached about 17 percent of GDP
and cannot be expected to increase much faster than the economy as a whole.
Current expenditures, on the contrary, will expand more rapidly as a result
of recent increases in public investment in transport, education, and health.
Furthermore, public debt charges will grow rapidly, particularly those of
public enterprises, and will absorb an increasing share of public savings.
Consequently, in the next five years, public savings after debt service
will probably not exceed US$100 million per year, or some 25 percent of
total public investment, as compared with about 40 percent over the past few
years. Cameroon will thus have to rely on external financing for the bulk of
its public investment.
13.       An increasing reliance on foreign borrowing during a period of
relatively slow economic growth, will require careful foreign debt manage-
ment. However, on the reasonable assumption that at least 50 percent of
foreign public capital inflow will be on concessionary terms, the foreign
debt service ratio could be maintained below 10 percent by 1980.     Cameroon's
proven ability to make effective use of external resources, and the Govern-
ment's dedication to development are reasons for added external support.
To avoid further rapid buildup of debt service, lenders, including the Bank
Group, should provide a large part of their assistance on concessionary
terms. Furthermore, local resources including local borrowing are only
expected to cover 30 percent of all Plan outlays after debt service and
many projects will not attract any foreign funds. Under these circum-
stances, foreign lenders should be prepared to finance a high proportion
of total project costs, including local costs, in appropriate cases.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
14.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$283.5
million and cover twenty-two projects: nine in agriculture, seven in trans-
portation, three in education, one in public utilities, one small- and medium-
scale enterprise project, and one technical assistance project. Transporta-
tion represents the largest share (48 percent) of our past commitments fol-
lowed by agriculture (35 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1977 and
includes notes on ongoing projects. Although delays and setbacks have been
occasionally encountered in the execution of projects, the Government has
consistently shown willingness to collaborate with the Bank in finding solu-
tions to such problems.
15.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; to upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; to stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and to increase the efficiency of Cameroon's in-
stitutions.



-5 -
16.       Bank Group assistance to Cameroon supports the priority the Gov-
errment rightly attaches to the regional distribution of agricultural devel-
opment and to a sound balance between improving conditions in the traditional
sector and promoting plantation agriculture, including smallholder schemes.
Thus we have helped the Government create an effective and well-managed
plantation sector by financing oil palm and rubber plantations in the east
and west. At the same time, we have helped promote smallholder rice irriga-
tion and livestock in the north. The ongoing cocoa project is helping to
modernize cocoa growing by smallholders and to raise rural productivity in
areas south and west of the capital. The rubber project approved in June
1975 is helping develop the southwest coastal region. Rural development
projects in populated but poor regions are being established with the assis-
tance of the Bank. The Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project, which was
approved by the Board in February 1977, will help finance studies and three-
year trial activities required before a full-scale rural development program
can be launched. The recently approved Rural Development Fund Project is
designed to help the Government establish the machinery for processing and
implementing small-scale rural development schemes. The Second SOCAPALM
Project approved in March 1977 is a follow-up to a successful oil palm
project (SOCAPALM I), which has been completed, and is a first step in
promoting smallholder oil palm plantations in Cameroon. Field appraisals
for the ZAPI-East Rural Development Project and for the Western Highlands
Rural Development Project have recently been completed and the projects are
scheduled to be presented to the Board during FY78. Also scheduled for pre-
sentation to the Board in FY78 is a tree crop estate and smallholder devel-
opment project in the west, a follow-up of the Bank Group financed CAMDEV
project, and a rice production project as a follow-up to the highly success-
ful SEMRY I project. Besides promoting much needed foodstuffs production,
increased Bank Group lending for agriculture will support the Government's
effort to focus on rural development in order to improve income distribution
and to achieve a better balance in regional development.
17.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with bilateral institutions, has substantially aided development
of adequate transport facilities. The Second Highway Project of 1973 was
designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. The proj-
ect has encountered severe cost overruns partly alleviated by a Supplemen-
tary Credit approved in March 1976. The Second Railway Project of 1974
has focused on track improvement and expansion of the equipment needed to
maintain and augment the railway's overall carrying capacity. Given pro-
jected sharp traffic increases, and the backlog of required investments,
substantial capital outlays are still necessary, particularly for the expan-
sion of the port of Douala, which is being assisted by a Bank loan and IDA
credit, and for some related facilities such as a railway station and mar-
shalling yard to be built outside the port area. An engineering loan,
approved in May 1976, will help complete the engineering of this station
and marshalling yard. A study of the improvements required in the Douala-
Yaounde transport corridor which was financed under a Bank project and



-6-
designed to help determine an economically optimal investment strategy for
this corridor, is in the process of completion. Future road investments
should mainly be for road maintenance and for developing the network of
feeder and farm access roads. Our future operations in the road sector have
been planned accordingly. The proposed Third Highway Project, expected to
be presented to the Board during FY78, will concentrate on road maintenance
and rehabilitation. The feeder roads project proposed in this report would
establish institutions for feeder roads administration and maintenance in
addition to providing the necessary resources for a feeder road program to
support high priority agricultural/ rural development projects. In other
sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project, approved in 1975,
focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship. A Third Education
Project, approved in April 1976, places special emphasis on rural education
and training.
18.       In all our projects, we include, as needed, training, technical
assistance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions
and improving sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project approved in
June 1977, will help strengthen Government services in several key ministries
involved in investment planning, policy analysis and project processing. In
addition, through our economic work we will continue to advise the authori-
ties, at their request, on development questions in general, and on particular
matters such as economic management, problems of urban migration, and manpower
development. To help achieve the Government's priorities and to support our
future lending strategy will require continuing emphasis on strengthening the
institutional framework, particularly concerning project planning preparation
and implementation in transportation and rural and urban development.
19.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements to
Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year. While at the beginning
of this period 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the proportion of loans
slowly increased. A major part of external assistance was provided by France
and was concentrated in infrastructure and productive sectors. The European
Development Fund and European Investment Bank directed their lending mainly to
agriculture, with infrastructure in second place. Bank and IDA disbursements
were small during this period. From 1972 to 1974 overall disbursements of
foreign aid increased to about US$60 million with one-third as grants. The
Bank and IDA share of these inflows amounted to about 25 percent. Our lend-
ing to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with other donors; in eleven of
our twenty-two projects, joint or parallel co-financing arrangements have
been made.
20.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1975
amounted to US$362 million and is projected to reach US$1.5 billion in 1981.
Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to 5.4 per-
cent in 1975 and is projected to reach 9.5 percent in 1981. At that time
annual foreign aid disbursements may be over US$400 million with only 9
percent consisting of grants. At end-1975 IBRD debt accounted for 13.7 per-
cent of Cameroon's public debt outstanding and disbursed, and 10.6 percent



of its public debt service. IDA credits accounted for 25 percent of public
debt outstanding and 0.1 percent of public debt service. The Bank and IDA
are expected to account for about 25 percent of total public debt and 14 per-
cent of public debt service in 1980.
21.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.    IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975. In September 1976, the IFC Board approved an
equity investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate
(SAFACAM). The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversi-
fication of an existing estate, producing rubber for export and palm oil
for the domestic market. The operation will also facilitate participation
by domestic shareholders.
PART III - THE SECTOR
General
22.       Cameroon's transport system consists of about 58,000 km of roads,
about 1,170 km of railway, three seaports, a navigable waterway with a river
port at Garoua, and five airports. The main transport system which is export-
import oriented is focused on Douala, the commercial center, which has both
a deep-water port and an international airport. Links to the rest of the
country are provided along two principal corridors -- the Trans-Cameroon
rail/road route and the north-south Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis. Emphasis
on transport development to date has been on modernizing the main system, an
objective which will be substantially achieved for the road elements with the
completion of the Second Highway Project and for the railways after the
ongoing realignment of sections between Douala and Yaounde. The rest of
the transport system, especially feeder roads, have so far received little
attention.
23.       Transport Sector Management.   The Ministry of Economy and Plan-
ning, the Ministry of Equipment and Housing, and the Ministry of Transport,
which are all concerned in varying degrees with planning and processing of
transport projects, lack adequate staff to deal with Cameroon's pressing
transport needs. Attempts to reinforce the organization and machinery for
transport planning and policy-making and for project preparation and execu-
tion had only limited success in the past. The Bank has had a continuing
dialogue with the Government on the need for strengthening transport sector
management. Partly as a result of this a Planning Unit is expected to be
created within the Ministry of Transport and technical assistance experts
have been recruited to strengthen the capabilities of the Ministries of
Transport and Equipment and Housing and to provide on-the-job training for
local staff. Further measures required for reinforcing transport planning
and coordination and ensuring the integration of transport and other sec-
toral planning are being discussed between the Government and the Bank.



-8-
The Road Network
24.       The road network in Cameroon totals about 58,000 km of which about
12,000 km are paved and laterite-surfaced roads, classified as national and
provincial roads. The remaining 46,000 km are mostly dry-weather roads and
tracks classified as feeder roads. Of the total, 28,000 km are classified for
maintenance budgeting purposes. The most important roads, which are part of
the Trans-Cameroon route and the Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis, have recently
been or are being constructed to paved standards. The rest of the classified
roads, although generally adequate in extent and distribution for the country's
economic needs, are mostly in poor condition due to inadequate maintenance.
The problem is even more acute for the unclassified roads, most of which are
in an advanced state of deterioration due to the compound effect of low ini-
tial construction standards, particularly of the drainage system, poor con-
struction quality and practically non-existent maintenance.
Traffic on the Feeder Roads Network
25.       Traffic on the feeder roads network consists of (i) agricultural
produce destined for local markets, villages, towns, district centers as well
as cooperative collecting centers, (ii) small volumes of consumer goods and
agricultural inputs, and (iii) passengers. There is a large variation in the
traffic volumes of individual feeder roads, from about 5 to 50 vehicles per
day depending on population density and level of economic activity. Traffic
is highly seasonal, being over twice as much during the harvest period as
during the off-season.
26.       Transport on the feeder roads network is either by small private
trucks or, in the case of some cash crops, by trucks of cooperatives, which
often supplement their capacity with private carriers on contract. Supply
is usually adequate for demand, the few instances of undersupply being due
mostly to the poor state of roads. For the transport of passengers, con-
sumer goods and foodcrops, competition among truckers is sufficiently strong
to ensure that most of the savings in vehicle operating costs associated with
road improvements will in general be passed on to the rural population.
Feeder Roads Administration
27.       Responsibility for the administration of the feeder roads network
is, in practice, ill-defined as local authorities and several Government
agencies, the Department of Roads, the Rural Engineering Service and the
Department of Community Development, all have statutory responsibility.
This proliferation is not necessarily a handicap since the wide variations,
in terms of standards, functions and methods of construction and financing
of these roads, necessitate diverse strategies not easily provided by any
single organization. The missing element is the coordination of the activ-
ities of the different groups to ensure (i) consistency with overall road
development strategy, (ii) economically and technically reasonable design



-9 -
standards and (iii) adequacy of construction and design quality. The Depart-
ment of Roads, within the Ministry of Equipment and Housing, is best suited
to perform this task. For this purpose and to assist in the execution of
the proposed project activities, a Feeder Roads Unit (FRU) will be set up
within the Department of Roads not later than March 31, 1978 (Section 3.06
(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Feeder Roads Maintenance
28.       Feeder road maintenance is the responsibility of the local
authorities, and no central budgetary funds are allocated for feeder road
maintenance. Although local authorities and communities have contributed
some funds and, in some cases, labor and materials, these have only sufficed
for routine maintenance. The best efforts have been made in western Cameroon
where the Department of Community Development, with technical assistance from
the Swiss Agency for Technical Assistance (SATA), has had a successful record
of organizing and motivating local communities for feeder road improvement and
maintenance. But the results of neglected maintenance are evident everywhere,
roads and structures have deteriorated to a point where extensive rehabilita-
tion has become imperative.
29.       The country needs a program for (a) rehabilitation and improvement
of high priority feeder roads, and (b) adequ-te maintenance of improved
feeder roads including those recently coustructed or planned for construc-
tion under various agricultural schemes. Such a program will have to be
long-range partly because of the relatively large amount of work and funds
that would be involved and partly because a parallel effort will also be
required on the main and secondary networks. The proposed project is a
start in this direction with emphasis on the selected rural areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
30.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Feeder Roads Project, United
Republic of Cameroon" (No. 1668-CM of November 15, 1977) is being circulated
separately. The project is based on data-collected and analyzed by Cameroon
Government staff with the assistance of consultants, and substantial inputs
from the Bank Regional Mission in Western Africa (RMWA). The feeder roads
in the northwestern portion of the Western Highlands were studied separately
by a German Government-financed consultant. A Bank mission I/ appraised the
project in January/February 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
from September 19 to September 26, 1977 with a Cameroonian delegation which
was led by Mr. Benoit Bindzi, Ambassador of the United Republic of Cameroon
in Wv-;hington.
1/   In this report the term "Bank" generally also refers to IDA.



- 10 -
Background
31.       A study of feeder road needs was included under the Second Highway
Project (Loan 935/Credit 429-CM) as part of a general road maintenance study.
The Bank subsequently agreed with the Government in 1976 to study the feeder
roads separately, due partly to delays in starting the maintenance study but
mostly to the need to focus properly on the network's special requirements,
establish close links with agriculture and rural development and permit more
involvement of local staff and representatives in project design and prepa-
ration. It was also agreed to start with a project concentrating on a few
well-defined areas, since this was the Bank Group's first operation in the
feeder road sub-sector in Cameroon and since the country lacked the absorp-
tive capacity for a nationwide project.
Purpose
32.       The proposed feeder roads project is designed (a) to improve and
maintain the feeder road networks to support the proposed Bank Group-
financed ZAPI East Rural Development Project; the proposed Bank Group and
FED/German Government-financed Western Highlands Agricultural Development
projects; and the ongoing Bank Group-financed Livestock project (Loan 983-CM)
in the Adamaoua area; and (b) to build the institutional framework for the
development and adequate maintenance of the feeder road network. The
project would be complementary to the proposed Third Highway Project which
is expected to focus on maintenance and rehabilitation of the national
and provincial road network.
Project Description
33.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) a four-year program of construction, improvement,
rehabilitation, and maintenance, mainly by force
account, of about 2,200 km of feeder roads including:
(i) purchase and rental of equipment;
(ii) purchase of spare parts, fuel, lubricants,
and materials; and
(iii) minor civil works by local contractors;
(b)  construction of, and provision of equipment and
tools for a workshop, including office facilities,
for the Department of Roads at Nguelemenduka;
(c) technical assistance to establish and strengthen
the Feeder Road Unit to be set up within the
Department of Roads, to implement the program,
and to train local staff of the Unit in planning,



- 11 -
implementing and monitoring feeder road improvement
and maintenance, and in maintaining and repairing
road equipment; and
(d) consultant services for:
(i) studying the resources for feeder road main-
tenance; and
(ii) preparing a follow-up feeder road program.
Project Implementation
34.       The Ministry of Economy and Planning will have overall responsibil-
ity for project execution. However, it would appoint as executing agencies
for the construction/improvement and subsequent maintenance, the Ministry of
Equipment and Housing (in particular its Department of Roads); the Ministry of
Agriculture (in particular its Department of Community Development); the ZAPI
East Organization; and the "Societe pour le Developpement et l'Exploitation
des Productions Animales" (SODEPA).
35.       The Department of Roads acting through the Feeder Roads Unit (FRU),
will play an important role in the implementation of the proposed project.
The Unit would coordinate and administer the planning and development of
feeder roads throughout the country and, specifically for the execution of the
proposed project, carry out procurement of equipment and some materials,
advise on and control the technical standards of works, assist in the pre-
paration of detailed annual feeder road programs, execute studies for a
follow-up feeder roads project and for organizing resources (financial and in
kind) for feeder road maintenance. The Government has agreed to set up the
Feeder Roads Unit not later than March 31, 1978 (Section 3.06 (a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
36.       The key staff would consist initially of a Cameroonian engineer
who would head the Unit and a technical assistance expert (road engineer).
The Government is taking steps to select the technical assistance expert and
designate the Cameroonian engineer.
37.       Physical execution is expected to start in September 1978 and
be completed by September 1982. Road construction, improvement and mainten-
ance would be carried out by force account. Force account road construction
under the Bank-financed cocoa project and the USAID-financed Kumba-Manfe road
has so far yielded very encouraging results. Local contractors lack the
capability for carrying out major roadworks but they would be used for con-
structing drainage structures and workshops and for supplying road-building
materials. The roadworks under the project would be executed as follows: two
special feeder road construction units would be formed by the Department of
Roads, one in ZAPI East and the other in the Western Province to construct
feeder roads with higher traffic. Each unit would be headed by a provincial



- 12 -
feeder roads engineer who would depend, for technical matters, on the provin-
cial delegate of the Ministry of Equipment and Housing. Feeder roads in the
Northwest Province (about 300 km) would be built by a brigade from the Depart-
ment of Community Development and the Swiss Agency for Technical Assistance
(SATA) would provide technical assistance (a road technician and mechanic) to
the brigade. The ZAPI East Organization would create a light brigade to build
its farm access roads with technical assistance provided under the project.
Access roads in the Adamaoua Zone would be built by SODEPA's own forces
in one construction season.
38.       In order to provide the necessary flexibility in planning and
executing the feeder roads program, only the first year's program (1978/79)
has been defined. Roads included in the tentative programs for the subse-
quent years would be selected annually, by the ZAPI East Organization for
the East Province and the "Union des Cooperatives de Cafe Arabica de l'Ouest"
(a union of farmers' cooperatives) for the West Province and the Bamenda
Association of Cooperatives for the Northwest Province. These feeder road
programs would be reviewed and approved by provincial interministerial
committees to be established within the three provinces with provincial
representatives from the Ministries of Economy and Planning, Finance, Equip-
ment and Housing, Agriculture, Livestock, Transport as well as important
cooperatives and agencies with direct interest in agricultural feeder roads;
SODEPA will program its own feeder roads. The programs would be submitted
to the Bank for approval three months before the works are scheduled to start
in that year's program. Assurances to this effect have been obtained (Sec-
tion 3.07 (b) and (d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Monitoring
39.       The economic, social and engineering aspects would need to be
monitored closely to determine both the extent to which they should be modi-
fied for preparation of the follow-up project and the long-term impact of the
project roads. Since the bulk of the socio-economic aspects concern the ZAPI
East and Western Highlands rural development projects, monitoring of these
elements would be integrated with the monitoring systems of these projects.
Monitoring under the project would, therefore, be reduced to (a) the engineer-
ing parameters, which would be done routinely with project execution; and (b)
evaluation of traffic forecasts and of transport costs which can be done
periodically by the provincial feeder road engineers to be appointed under
the project. The Government has agreed to these arrangements (Section 4.04
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Training
40.       Seven experts, for about 133 man-months, would be financed under
the project at an average cost of US$7,000 per man-month. Their primary
functions would be to assist the Government to establish the Feeder Roads Unit
and train Cameroonian staff; define the annual programs and prepare detailed
plans for their execution; implement the feeder road program; and design and
implement a program for the training of Department of Roads' staff.



- 13 -
41.       The project provides for short-term consultants (a total of 20
man-months at an average cost of about US$8,000 per man-month) to assist the
Government to prepare: i) by December 31, 1978, a study of the resources for
feeder road maintenance which will be discussed with the Bank; and ii) by
September 30, 1980, a study of a follow-up feeder roads project. The Govern-
ment has initiated steps to recruit these technical assistance experts and has
agreed to attach qualified local staff members on a full-time basis to these
experts (Sections 3.11 and 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.       The seven experts and the short-term consultants would provide
training to the Cameroonian technicians and transport economists associated
with the project. The training specialist on the technical assistance team
would propose an outline training program for each staff member assigned to
the team and for the mechanics, foremen and equipment operators for review
by the Government and the Bank by end February 1978. He would also train a
Cameroonian to train others. The technical assistance would be phased out
gradually and in the last year the program would be managed entirely by
Cameroonians. The Government has agreed to these training arrangements
and to take appropriate budgetary measures therefor (Section 3.10 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Projects Costs and Financing
43.       The total cost of the project, is estimated at US$21.1 million, in-
cluding US$4.0 million equivalent in taxes and duties. Project costs net of
taxes and duties, are estimated at US$17.1 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange cost of US$11.1 million (65 percent). A contingency allowance of
about 10 percent on equipment and other items has been included in the cost
estimates to allow for increases in quantities. Provision for future price
increases has been calculated separately for the various items and amounts to
about 25 percent of the total base cost which is in February 1977 prices. The
proposed loan and credit of US$11.1 million would finance about 65 percent of
total project costs net of taxes, i.e. all foreign costs. Government would
provide the remaining local costs of US$6.0 million equivalent. Early engage-
ment of the team leader (a highway engineer) for the technical assistance team
and other project starting costs will necessitate use of the Project Prepara-
tion Facility in the amount of US$100,000.
Funding of Feeder Road Maintenance
44.       Unless adequate funds are made available on a timely basis, the
feeder roads recently being built or proposed to be built, including those
under the project, would rapidly attain the poor state of the existing net-
work. A general strategy needs to be adopted to ensure adequate maintenance
of the other parts of the feeder road network as they are gradually rehabili-
tated to a maintainable state.
45.       During appraisal, discussions were held with Government on the
establishment of a more systematic mechanism for funding of feeder road
maintenance. The following approach has been adopted: First, the necessary
resources would be mobilized under the project to maintain the project



- 14 -
roads, after their construction and improvement, during the four-year project
period. Second, the Government would additionally provide the Department of
Roads the resources to maintain a significant and annually increasing number
of specific feeder roads, which have been built recently or which have been
programmed for improvement during the next four years. The long-term cost
for this would be about US$400,000 per year. The initial maintenance of
project roads during the 4 year project period would include minor betterment
required by the low level of improvements inherent in this type of project.
The proposed project would help set up the institutional and technical ar-
rangements and training of staff required for carrying out adequate mainte-
nance. Moreover, consultant services would be provided under the project for
the study of resources for feeder road maintenance. Assurances to this effect
have been given by the Government (Sections 4.03 and 3.11 (a) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Procurement
46.       Equipment, materials, spare parts and supplies amounting to about
US$8.0 million would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. These items would be bulked
to the extent possible to make them suitable for international competitive
bidding. Goods manufactured in Cameroon would be allowed a preference equal
to the lower of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price on imported goods, or the
prevailing duties generally applied to non-exempt imports. Contracts for
equipment, materials, and supplies costing under US$50,000 may be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding following local procedures acceptable to the
Bank. The aggregate amount for such purchases would not exceed US$600,000.
Contracts for the construction of workshops and drainage structures totalling
about US$1.8 million would also follow local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Road construction, improvement and maintenance will
be carried out by force account, which has yielded very satisfactory results
in other projects. Consultants for technical assistance and for the feeder
roads studies would be employed in agreement with, and under terms of
reference and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
47.       The proceeds of the proposed loan and credit of US$11.1 million
would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign costs of highway equipment,
construction materials, vehicles, spare parts, workshop
tools, or 55 percent of the total costs of these items
if purchased locally;
(b) 55 percent of the total expenditures for fuel, lubricants
and rented equipment;
(c) 55 percent of total expenditures for civil works done by
contractors; and



- 15 -
(d) 70 percent of total expenditures for technical assistance
experts and consultants.
Benefits and Justification
48.       The project would provide feeder roads for four high priority rural
development and livestock projects: the ZAPI East and the Western Highlands
rural development projects and the livestock project in the Adamaoua area.
Specifically, the feeder road works would (a) provide the cheap, reliable
and efficient transport indispensable for generating and marketing the in-
creased agricultural and livestock production, (b) reduce produce spoilage,
(c) provide improved access to health and other social services, and (d)
reduce transport costs to passengers and other non-agricultural traffic.
Evaluated as an integral part of these rural development projects, the pro-
posed feeder road project yields significant economic benefits. The ZAPI
East project is expected to yield an economic return of about 27 percent,
the Western Highlands project about 20 percent and the livestock project
about 18 percent. If the above-mentioned rural development projects were
not to materialize, the proposed feeder roads project would have an esti-
mated economic return of about 14 percent, based on road user savings
and modest increases in agricultural production.
49.       As a result of the proposed agricultural projects, and under pre-
vailing conditions, approximately a third of the benefits from increased cash
crop production, mostly cocoa and coffee, would accrue to farmers, about a
third to the Price Stabilization Funds, about a sixth to Government as export
tax and the remaining sixth to various cooperatives. However, the farmers
would eventually recuperate some of the benefits to the latter beneficiaries
through price subsidies and improved agricultural services. Farmers would
capture most of the benefits from foodcrops by selling more and by enjoying
a higher producer price; given the competitiveness of the trucking industry,
transporters and exporters would share the rest. Benefits from reduced
transport costs to passengers and non-agricultural traffic would be shared
by the communities in the project area, the transporters and the traders.
The project would also have an important institution building effect.
Project Risks
50.       The risk that some of the rural development projects to be served
by the feeder roads would not materialize as and when expected is small,
since they are already at an advanced stage of processing and, in fact, even
in their absence the economic benefits of the proposed project would remain
high. The risks associated with the proposed project include (a) possibility
of diversion of project equipment and goods to non-project work, (b) selection
of low priority roads for inclusion in the annual programs, and (c) significant
modifications in or partial failure of the associated agricultural projects
in reaching their targets; minor modifications can be easily accommodated
within the annual program revisions. Diversion to non-project work may be a
serious risk since the Ministry of Equipment, the expected recipient of the
bulk of the project's equipment and supplies, has to date experienced dif-
ficulty in satisfying its needs from the central equipment pool. The risk
is reduced by the expected alleviation of the Ministry's equipment problem
under the proposed Third liighway Project and the vigilance of the provincial



- 16 -
interministerial committees and the various executing agencies of the agri-
cultural programs. The risk of inappropriate selection of roads is alleviated
by the guidelines agreed with Government for justifying roads included in the
annual programs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements between the United
Republic of Cameroon and'the Bank and the Association, the Report of the
Committee provided in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agree-
ment of the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and
the texts of draft resolutions approving the proposed Loan and Development
Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
52.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 2, 1977



- 17 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                 Page 1 of 4 pages
CAMEROON            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ------------------------------------           ------
---------------                                  CAMEROON **                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       47 54                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     156.4                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          GHANA          IVORY COAST    MAI' YSIA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    lO0.0*    210.0*     300.0*             430.0*      350,0*      440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            5.7        6.8       7.6                8.6         5.4        10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       12.0       14.0      16.0               36.0        16.0        33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        36.o      44.0       49.0               64.0        32.0       185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         43.5       42.1      40.4               49.8        48.1        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          28.0       23.9      22 0               24.4        23.3        12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..         ..     142.0/             156.0          ..        40.8 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.9      41.0       41.0               41.5        41.0        56,7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.3/j      2.7       2.7                3.2         3.1         2.6 /a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                                 1.8       1,8        l,9/b              2.6         3.4a        2.6
URBAN                                  *         6.1       7.6                4.5         8:7Z       26.9
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          14.9 /b   20.5       28.5               28.4        28.0        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       40.0      43.0       42,7               46.9        42.5        44,7 /a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       56.0      54.0       5358               49.5        54.8       S2.i 7T
65 YEARS AND OVER                     4.0        3.0       3.5                3.6         2.7         3.2 7a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8        0.9       0.9                 1.0        0.8         0.9 /a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0        1.2        ..                 1.4        0.9/4 A.6 a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..        1. 10.9                        ..       222.2 /a
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..        ..                2.0                     a.
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         2800.0    3300.0         ..             3300.0      2600.0      2900.0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         88.0       82.0        ..               54.0/A      82.0        43.o7T
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..        .. -                        6.2           *     -   6.0 7,b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST   S% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..        28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..        56.0
LOWEST  2eX OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                 ..          ..         3.5
LOWEST  40% Of HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                 ..          ..        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..        ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..        ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER iHYSICIAN             40./6    60.0     26220.0   K         12950.0 L   15320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       089.07 2L70.0         2270.0 ii7O707Z                2830.0/d
POPULAION PER HOSPITAL BED           5           i48(0                                          d *  760.0  1150.0  270.0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0       96.0     104.0               96.0       108.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              59.0      59.0       64.0               48.0        60.0       49.0/C
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..      23.0 i       ..                0.9 A      18.0/      20.0Iz
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..        ..                 ..          ..         5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       74.0     100.0      108.0               61.0        76.0      a8.o/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      3.0        9.0      11.0               11.0        11.0       34.0 7
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             14.0   j 14.0IL     14.0ji             15.0        13.0       13.0/a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     23.0      23.0       23.0               23.0        7.0         3.0/a
ArDULT LITERACY RATE (X)                 ..       12.0        ..               25.0        20.0       55.0-
HOUSi *.,
Pk,i )NS PER ROOM (URBAN)                ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..        2.3/a
OCC.?IED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                        ..        ..         ..                 ..         ..        6.0/ad
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..        ..         ..                 ..         ..        43.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..       30.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THou POP)          3.0      36.0       36.0               78.0          ..       41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       6.0        6.0/A              5.0        10.0       27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          190.0     201.0          .              338.0        95.0      382.o
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                ..         ..        .                 0.4         0.2        4_n



- 18-
ARNNE( I
Page 2 of 4s pages
NOTES
Unless otueruloc noted, sl-at for 1960 refer to Any yea:r between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for 14ost Ileont Estimate bet-een
19v3 and 1-975
0Gf per capita data are based on World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
Casneroon GNP data arc for July/June fiscal years nmd population data are those at corresponding fiscal maid-yeaar.
Malsysc,a has been selected as the only non-0PEC of a nice similar to Camieroon, which endowed with a diversified tropical productioos, reaches
the LDP per ce.pta target (u30$ 4o0,-6OO).
CAJAEPIOCN       !1g60       Went Caner.on only     ~   h  1962,, incleding ex-iSoth C-eroessa under British adilniatrtiian;          fl   Governmet haspit.ea
innlsdlssg rural hespita'fs and medical centers;       Id  13 years fer East Cesserean.
1970     /    1964-66:    /b   13 years for East Cwreon.
MDIT RECENT ESTIMATEI       j  1972;     lb  1970-75;     In   1971;     /d  1969-71 average;      La   13 years far East Ce..ercen.
1555A            91970   ja  E1cIud:og coserployed;     Ab   Registered-, sot all practicing in the counitry:       ft   1066-68.
follY COAST     1970    /a   Don to -megrat,on Popuslatoo gin si     ra.te ha higher than the eate of natural- increase;        /b   1965-70;     A   Ratio of
populatlon ander 15 and 65 and ove      to total. labor force,     /d  f,-eerment only, including nadwiven;         7 1964-66
tlA7AYii         La A    ft   West M.laysia;     fb   Registered applicants for work,        Ic   1964-b66     Id  Piped water inside    mnly.
R4, Asgast 29, 1977
DEFINITIOINS OP SOCIAL. INDICATORS
Laad Ares (thoc ho2)                                                                       P.palstiac Pee norsiag perason - Popolatics  dicided by a-ehe  of pr-ntiniag,
Total  T-1tta  sufa    e  sn-pria ing 1sed sees and taSewatrs                                ..I. sad fsase gr-doseorc,         tste"or "-ertifled" nurs, an..d
eAri..  M- ot rocee   estimate of agoicoitral ares used tenppornrily or seems-              esmiliary per    -1na  with training or e-p-erne..
neatly foe nrnpo, pocre,     kseet 6 bitches gardeas or L. lie failmo.                   Populatioa per hospital bed - Pepolatisa dvitded by ntmber of baspital beds
available Ia poblic and private ganera1 and specislited baspita1 and
GNP are -pnits (05) - tSP Per cap-Itaetimates at -crc-t asnltt prict.,                       rehahilitaciass canteen, ,e-cled. curing har-s, and efalilsnt         o
calcula.ted by sam  cov-rioc arhed as Wocld Dank silas (1973-75 basis);                   coarotdia1 snd preventive care.
1960. 1970 sad 1975 dais.                                                               Poe tapitit a-pply of -alories 17, at nen,5ir-.te ) - Caspoted ter- enegy
eqofoaIcc of net food sopplies avilable in ceunte      par capita pee day,
Poenlaties and vital statistic,                                                              -.aiisbie aupplee o-prie d-metic peaductien, inpere        lass -rparts. and
PoeuOa-ios (aid-eej   nillisal    0of Jsly Pines.    if coo avial,aerage                     oboagas In uconk, ant -applie-   -1node sahoel Pasd, seede, qouatitiie   teed
of two ecd-yea   nati- tat, 1 160, 1970 and 1975 data.                                     io food peace... ing end larsen Is disreibotisa, reqairnets war     estimated
by FAO based em physiolegic-1 needs fan . osnI a-tieie and beslcb cenaid-
PoPulation deasity'   per isanet ho - Mid-year popolstioo, per eqoa..e hilmetoc              e-ing enviresceta1 temperature, bady weights, age ens sea dlsteibucionsa    of
(100 hantarco) of ctosi sees.                                                              papulatios, sad allowaing 107, inr waste at househeld level.
Popel.isr- danaity -ps ner       ho o pf Asrin  land - fCupoted as shon  foe               P-en pata ..pply at preeei, lenses pee day) - Protein eseesan of per capita
agiclurl  ad only.                                                                 anet sapply of food per day; net supply of fend Is defined as shov; require-
scota inn all -oatriea established by USDA REanain Researcrh Services
itta1 scanla tics                                                                            provide toe a miniana  allowance at 60 geese ef total Protein pen day, and
Ceode birth rate Pee thousad, av-rg. - Annul live births pen iboonand of                     20 genoa of an-Ima  end pales protein, at which 10 grams aheod be a.nialI
eld-yeae pop-sloclon, ten-year orltF-tir a-eesgee ending in 1960 sad 1970,                 protein, these standards see lowr then chose of 75 gramso at otal peetein
and five-vs    scecogo en _dIng o- 1S15 Poe aunt narrate .tiaate.                          and 23 gears of aninal protein soanavrage fen the world, prepesed by FAO
trade death rate percthousand. aesnge - ananl deaths pee ihoussed or aid-year                In the Tibid World Food Sorney
ippoplatie, tee-year-It trcheic aveags    ending in 1960 sad 1970 sand fin-             Pee espies protein sapely fees enimI and poise - Proctoi supply of food
year average ending In 195) foe onto rec.en e-riarei.                                      derived teem snpineis and poSses isn gram  per day
Infant asetality nter (1 thou)  A-1aa     deaths of intasta under one year of age          Death rate f/thou) ages, 1-4 - A-euI dastha per thoo..and ie age gr-sp 1-4
pen thosoond lIve. births.                                                                 years, to obildess is this age greap, suggested as on indiosner of
Life apeantoacv at birth (yr.)   A-gAese a,barb at years of life emesteing ar                s,a-toritioo.
birth, usually fi-e-ye-eavsrages e,adi,sg is 1960, 1970 sod 1975 for develop-
Ing coutries                                                                             IsLocorsemi
Gcen   -epodorctias rar t-average erashe   of live daughter   aussa   will bear            Add (nted enrol-aeo  ratis - primary school - Enralimat of all ages As per-
in bee   -1ca  -eprod-te period it she enperiencen present age,-seific                     -eneage of priosey a-hu-1-ge poppulacin. inclodes children aged b-lI years
fertility raten; usualy five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 19CS                   but adjusted Poe different lengths of pri-ary edoceses; tee cemntrine witb
foe developing -ooci-tovra                                                                           edo-oitn, enolleect nay s..teed 100%. nines e-      puptIs are below
Population gersth race (7) - total - Cnmpotad anua      growth rate  of aid-yase             or   uc   the ufficle1 -nhoo  age
popolatios for 1950-60   1940-70 and 1970-75.                                            kdi,.ied enrol   -n ratio -secndary school - Campoted an above., necday
PopuILaion growth rtae (i) - orben - Cespoted like growth rare of total                      adoration neqoi1-   at ISeet Loon yearn of approved primary ineeruntle..
popoistion, difiersat definitions of urban    eeaa .tay affe-c nsparability of             pr.,iden geoeea1, vocli tonal or ta-hsr tr-i-ong inst-ctione far pupils
data among oosatriea.of1tohvesofa; nonrespoedenne courses are generally seclded.
Urhas peeslstiem (7 of total) - latie of orbam to total popolaliem ; dilffrent             Years of nhclio orrvidd      (frssand ascend Ieveis) - Total yeses of
definitiems of onhn areas may affect remparsbility of date saong countries.                enhtoling; At .en..adary level, v..actineI inat-astiem may be partially or
cespletely eacluded.
AR. iootore- (pe-yestl   - Children (0-14 ys-). .-neise-ogo (15-64 yearn),                 Voostiassol esrolbee-i (5. of  -onedaryj - Voratiema1 i-ntit.tois    inciode
aod retired (A5 ....ts.and ever) as percentogen vi -d-year popo,larian                      te-bsiral, Indo-tris1 or other progress abiob epsrse indapeadnatly or as
Ago dependenny -a in - Rntic at pop,.tieto   ondr- 15 and 45 and over to these               departments of senoda-yinectra
of ages 1) ebr-ih 64                                                                     Adalt literary rat   If7   -   .trate adits (able to read and writs) so pe--
inosaro denedenon  alss. -bas  of po-nl- sosand-e IS and hi and over to              -soeai    of tesal aduilt pop,Is ion aged 15 ye.sea and over.
she labor force so age yorop of 15-64 ye-co.
Partly oianeioc -soncotn.rs   iso o         h~la-)  Caoft sc.se          at -rprer          4nn,s-
of birib-cotr-l devin-    csdoe ---nm     of -tsasa    Pan.-,  pi ... ansg progree       Potn      e  oa   uh     ,  -Avrage   ember of pesems pan re-    in em.opied
fanli  pl-nniog-."sara (/. ci mrr-d auo         .  eny ae      f -arried wane oP              Stetutree sad onon-p-s ports.
rhild-hear.iog age (15-44 years) ubo our st-h-ro-t-I d-ev-a, to all earne                froed     d -duElLniatt'-t pined aster (7) - O-nopied teoventieme1 dwelligs
.cone  i, sar  age grasp.                                                                   In -h-, sad r-1s areas     ithosst inside or eatalde Piped water facilitien
as oen  frg       as al  onn-psed dela
ftrletn-t                                                                                   Actass. to clenirllicy (4/ af all dwellings) - Ceoenlotia. dwelligs -sth
Total labor Porte (thoo-sd) - Etooo,micoIly actice persona. i-nlodiag unnd                    ilstrct        toliviog q-urter  a, pern   flcldnlooI              es    a
forces sand a-ployed b.t ...o1odi,g he.-eivee, otod-co rs    . t-   1.17dftosiem- c             ra area
in nanlosi  nos'ct"s are no    sapsbcoRalI duel ings neCce                                                           oaenene          )   -fspoted as abov    P..ot mal
Labor force is ogei-oiane ;')t - 7y.io1c.t.--      labor o-t  (lit farming, Forestry,         dwellings only.
hooting sad fiohtag) as peeeeotagn of total labor farce.
U.ese1ayed (7. of Ieber forces   U-lnepleysd ore   -11aly defined as person who             Cesnee
are able and will Ing te take a 1bh   ot of a Jab em a given day. reained not            Radio reneoers (pan thee pep) - All types of fee      oea     re -ad-sSedee
of a Jab,..ad seehing woek fc a ap-ified atines- period set.. esnediag one                  tv gae-ro1 poblir per theusand of yapulatiar , ealdes unIesd           eInelern
weme, msy not be   _rp_bsIr ebetween -oseties das te differeist dafOiciem-,                 in cemetries sod ie years when registraniem, of radie sets ass ho effect;
of onampleyed and senec    of dtat, e.g. . espleymet effi-e statistics, sample              data far treent yeses nay oat he compara.ble sioe meet ecetnies abolished
Paso ossr       (earthu     p)    Pa..senger tars  - pri-r mat. an ta e aring
ILcco dietribsciaeo-     Pearcecage of pelevsn  in-em   (both in -oah and Kind)               lestha    aigi' pr--mo, et1,,d-nabian           hearses and military
r-ene-d hu richest 5%, ri,bast 201~, pene.ti 2114, sad y.occeeht      of% howee-            vehicles.
,public aid  cvs     lentri.lty to kilowatt hours Pee nepi1is. genera 'In
flnr>r.sv     00  onrn,ssn,'          v    .'_0u1 -  ad   nuo    'ua     1'l7             hn-I -t pco-0.ato    lab-, w(thboo slioon-    Per losses Is. grids  us allo--
vs.d po---    (  ,10   Io')  ayn-I.,, f-r Loper' a'd -ap-t                                                               of eleteicity-
Niepetor hg/s- Pei L")_ - fere.nplta -a-i1 coosemptie n lkiblegnams
ucef ,r .1 Ntr.rltten                                                 ca~~~~~~~~etlasiod fear d-,ucir pnd'-ti- pla  -tl imports of neswspriot
pe  'it     qaslatln'd  et..da)            1,r.'ur'clevel



-   19   -                                                                 ANNJEX I
MONOMIC 0EID1MEJT fTA                                                      page 3 of 4 pages
(Amounts i. mIllosofUS           ollara)
Actual                         Projected              1967.    1972 -1974      -   1976 -    1967     1974     1981
16        iO2-TT7              7PY     f73 8   --r1l-        1972     1974    1976        1981                       _____-
RATIONAL ACCOUiTS
>-Year Average at 1967- 1969 Prices & Exchange Rates            Average Annual Growth Rates           As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product              799.4   1109.9     1195.5      1266.1     1363.8    1798.8        6.8     3.8    6.8     5.7       101.2    104.0     103.6
Gains from Terms of Trade (-)      -95-21.4           -46.        -  38.2    -41.2     -  62.9.                .       .       .      -   1.2  -  4.0    -  3.6
Gross Domestic Income               789.9   1088.5     1149.5      12'37.9    132-2.6   13.           6.6     2.8     7.3    5.6       10.      100       100
Import (incl. BFS)                  234.0    325.0      344.5       364.3      387.4     516.6        6.8     3.0    6.0     5.9        29.6     30.0      29.8
Exports       (import capacIty)     213.2    290.6      328.4       325.0      336.1     469.0        6.4     6.3     1.2    6.9        27.0     28.6      27.0
Resource Gap                        -2        Tq.,     -ThE        -IT"        -5r! --77             10.6   :46.2    78.5   -1.5       -T.       -T.          .
Consumption Expenditures            682.1    951.2     1013.7      1084.0     1145.2    1445.6        6.9     3. 2    6.3     4.8        66.4    88.2       83.3
Investment    "   (incl. stocks)    1 28. 7  171.7     169.2       183.2      220.1     33 7. 7       5.9   -  .1    14.0     8.9        16.3     14.7      19.4
Domestic Savings                    107.8    137.4      153.0   '143.9         170.7     290.2        5.0     5.5     5.6    11.2        13.6     13.3      16.7
National Savings                     87.9    114.0      102.7       110.0      151.2     249.8         5.   -5.4     21.3    10.6        11.1      8.9      14.4
MERCHA.NDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                             As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                      40.8     89.1      104.3       143.2      1 77. 5  444.4        16.9     8.2    30.4   20.2         21.7     23 9      35.4
Intermediate goods    w.Lf~uels)   87.3   133.6      198.3       25.4.3     2 97. 6   533.7         8.9    21.8    22.5   12.4        46.4     45.5      42.5
Fuels and related materials         8.3     15.2       38.3        52.3       61.8     109.8       12.9    58.7    27 . 0 12.2          4.4      8.8       8.7
of which:   Petroleum             8.3     15.2      38.3         52.3      61.8     109.8        12.9    58.7   27.0    12.2          4.4     8.8       8.7
Consumption goods                  51.6     64.9       95.0       112.7      128.9     169.3       12.2    21.0    16.5     5.6        27.4     21.8      13.5
Total Merch. Imports (eif)        T  -9    3U7-9     z3-9       3S7T         665.7  -T275T         10.0    20.0    23.6   13.6       1Z"      1-7-      TU
Exports
Primary products ~.cmc. fuels)    143.7    199.9      446.7       398.1      461.0     885.8        6.8    50.0     1.6   14.0         90.8    93.5       86.8
Fuels and related m9terials         -        -          -           -          -         -.                  .       .
of which:   Petroleum             -        -          -           -          -                     . 
Manufactured goods                 14.6     20.9       314-        53.9       68.3     134.5        7.4    22.0    48.2   14.5          9.2      6.5      13.2
Total Nerch. Exports (fob)       '13"7     320.8     '7T =7                  5197T   T00            6.9    47.1     5.2   14.0       tmUD     f0O D     -T1Ju-"
Tourism and Border. Traae                     .          ...                              ..                 .      .
Merchandise Trade indices                       Average 1967..69 *100
Export Price Index                 94.0   114.1      172.1       189.2      212.6     303.0         4.0    22.8   11.1     7.3
Import Price Index                 94.8   127.6      186.0       218.0      239.3     343.7         6.1   20.7    13.4     7.5
Terms of Trade index               99.1    89.4       92.5        86.8       88.9      88.2        -2.1     1.7  - 2.0    - .2'
Exports Volume Index               94.0   1 23. 8    163.9       147.0      164.0     229.0         5.7    15.1     -      6.9
VALUJE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchanige Rates               Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       2 72. 2  3 52. 1   380.1       4 17. 5    432.8     540.7         5.3     2. 9   6 .7    4.6        38.5     37.4      34.4
Industry and Mining              170.9    2 33. 2    230.8       258.8      271.8     371.2        6.4    -.1      8.5     6.4        24.2     22,7      23.6
Service                          264.3    401QL.6    4Q.         46-        488.1     658.3        8.        .1    97      62         34       3.9        19
Total                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~707.4  986.9  1016.3  1136.8  1192.7    1570.,2       6.9     1.5    8.3     5.6       100 .0   1-00-.0  1i 00.0o
PJ6LIC FINANJCE                                                                                                                           As Percent of GDP
(C-entral1 Government) (in CFAF billion)
C-urrer,t Receipts                 31.9     56.6      68.4        79.6      103.8     201.1       12.2     9.9    2 3. 2  14.1        16.4     16.4      17.0
Cu-rrent Expenditures             32.1      46.6      60.9        71.6       93.9     165.9         7. 7  14.3    24.2    12.1        16.5     14.6      14.0
Budgetary Savings       - ~~~     ~~~~.2  1T0.0  7.5      8.0        9.9      35.2      1 52. 7  -15.5   14.9   28.9       -.          .         .
Other Public Seetorsavfngs  4.6  1.0  13.4     10.9      ~~~~~     ~~~~~     ~~12.5  19.8  35.7  266.1  - 3.5  9.6  2.4     3.2        1.7
Public Sector Investment          13.5      27.5      43.4        44.2       49.9     124.7       15.3    25.6     7.2   20.1          6.9     10.4      10.6
US $ mil-lion
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                     Actual-       Prelim.    Est.     Proj.        DETAIL ONl                               At 1974-1975 P and EN
As I Total CurreZnt Expend.)             1967     1972       19 74     1975     1976         PUBLIC SECTOR           I            Tbird Plan     % of Total
Edu.cation0                              14.4    177.1      176. 9    1 7.1    51.4          INVESTMENT PRO,RA4                    (19 71 / 72 - 39 75 / 76)
Other- Social Services                     .7    10.7        9.7      10.0     10.3          Social Sectors                          24 7. 6              26.6
Agriculture                               5.0     5.6         5.9      6.1      6.6          Agriculture                              167.5               18.0
Other Economic Services                  11.6     8.7       11.2      12.3     13.5          Industry and Mining                       14.0                1.5
Ad.-dinistration and Defense             59.5    45.3       42.6      41.8     40.3          Power                                     56.8                6.1
O)ther                                    8.8    12.6       13.7      12.7     12.1          Transport and commsuxiications           38 7. 2             41.6
TotalI Current Fy-periditures (in                                                            Other                                     5 7 7               6.?
CFAF blhion)                          32.1    46.6       60.9      71.6     939Total Expenditures                                  930.8              100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1960-     1967-      1972-    1977-        FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)              1965      1971       1976     1981PulcScoSaig                           2/
Average ICOR                                          ..        .2.     -4.0       -3.1PulcS-oravns31878
Import Elasticity                                    ..         .968       .789    1.010          Local Bo'rrowing                      55.8                6.0
M*irgiTnn  Do)mestic Savings Rate                    ..         .023       .239     .289          Foreign Financing                    5 23. 2             56.2
Marginal National Savinigs Rate                      .          .137       .151     .239          Total Financing                      9*3 0-             100.0
1.L.IQRP FOCirE AI.D                             Total Labor Force                                   Value Added Per Worker (19 67- 69     Prices&    Exc. Rates)
OUTi7'C PER WORYER                         ____        % of Total           1967 -71           In U.S.Dollar        Pecnt        Average        19 61- 71
19=67   -    9 7 1   19_67      19 71     Growth Rate          1967       1971        19 67      19 71      Growth Nate
3/                                                                                           __
Arulr-                  2 2,200     31,7001     18.5       19.7          9.3          4,585.6     4,186.1       118.9      107.7          - 2.6
i            ~~29,210     41,360      24.3       25.7           9.1          1,064.7    1,090.4         27.6       28 1             .6
3rr1c   -.                2 7 ,328    3-.7        22.7       21.4          6.0          5,027.8    5,4720. 4      130.3      129.5            1.9
________      OliS!.     ~~~~   ~~~53.z; 34..7   33.2          6.5          4,752.5    4,648.0        123 2      1,7.4             .
170232 1-o,92     T 100.0    10.07.6                    -3,1b5-76    STSII.6 2     6 00. 0   -1,--              .2
:.c,t ap~~~ica)l~~  - .:~ or ~~.~ .:r.ioi~~~  1/ Istlo-ated actual dlsbo,rse.;eets        4J~,1ongt.rr 
otavsllatle         -  leEs thao. !%lf ',e              2/ Net of deht scr; ice
sn',Ilest V!,t !'.t,,J           3/ modern see tor 0517



An"a  I
-  20   -                              Page 4 of 4 Pages
CAMEROON
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS * EXTERRAL A8S8STANCE AND DEBT PROJECTIONB
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Average Annual
Actual       Estimated                ProJected                   Growth Rate
1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976    1977   1978   1979   198     1975 - 1980
SUXAARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                309    340    533    693    648    766    937   1095    1228   1358       16.0
Imports (incl. NFS                 357    42     520    657    791     s    1071   1217   1382    1566       14.6
Resource Balance  X-M)             -48    -85     13    93    -143   -177   -133   -122    -155   -207        7.7
Interest (net)                     - 5.5  - 6    -11    -16   - 17   - 21   - 34   - 42   - 49    - 59       28.3
Direct Investment Income           - 1.7  - 2    - 4.5  - 7.7-   8   -  8   - 11   - 15   - 23    - 28       28.5
Workers'Remittance                 -17.0  -21    -24    -33   - 34   - 39   - 45   - 52    - 59   - 68       14.9
Current Transfers (net)             15.5   15     11     20     24     30     _5      38     41     44       12.9
Balance on Current Accounts        -     L        I       0   -v17   -2     -18    -19     - E    -Zi        12.4
Private Direct Investment           12    -25.6    4.6  -13.3 -  4     18     22     27      31     36      109.1
Official Capital Grants              7      6.8    7.2   13     24     26     28      31     34     37        9.0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                     28     72.4   51.5   60     78    118    150    191     253    317       32.4
-Repayments                      -8     - 8.8  -12.4  -16   - 18   -18    -24    -32     -40    -60        27.2
Net Disbursements                   20    W-Z.6   39.1 1C     -60    101   T1      159    213     257       33.8
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements                      .      .      .      .      .      .       .      .
-Repayments
Net Disbursements                    .      .      .      .      .      .       .      .
Capital Transactions n.e.i.          2     11.8  -18.7  -44     32
Change in Net Reserves              11     42.6  -15.9    0     52
GRANT AND LOAN COMIT14ENTS
Actual
Official Grants  Grant-like         33.6   25.0   41.9   47.8   77.0                                 1971  1972  1973  1974     1975
Public MKLT Loans                                                      DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
IBRD                               -      -     25.7   34.1    1.0   Public Debt Outs.&Disbursed   161.9 194.3 235.9 271.7   361.7
IDA                                1.5   12.7   24.0    -     20.2
Other Multilateral                 3.6     .7   16.3    -      7.6     Interest on Public Debt       5.4   6.2   9.6  11.0     14.9
Repayments on Public Debt    7.4    9.1  14.9  13.5    20.1
Governsents                        8.2   24.6   81.1   67.8   99.4     Total Public Debt Service    12.8  15.3  24.6  24.5     35.0
Suppliers                          3.0    4.8      8    -      6.5     Other Debt Service (net)      ..    ..
Financial Institutions                   15.6    -     41.5   20.6     Total Debt Service (net)      ..    ..
Bonds                              -             - -
Public Loans n.e.i.                -      -            -       1.5   Burden on Export Earnings (5)
Total Public M&J.T loans            16.T 5X.4 1147.9    143.4  156.
Public Debt Service          4.1   4.5   4.6    3.5     5.4
Total Debt Service           ..     ..
Actual Debt Outstarnding on             TDS + Direct Invest.Inc.
December 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT           Disbursed only      Percent  TotaT      Percent  Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                 49.7            13.7     96.9       14.1      Int. as % Prior Year DO&D    4.1     3.8  4.9   4.7     5.5
IDA                        48.9           13.5      90.2       13.1      Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D 5.6     5.6   7.7   5.7     7.4
Other Multilateral          39.9           11.0     52.0        7.6
Governments               171.0           47.3     364.3       52.9    IBRD Debt Out.   Disbursed     7.7   13.8 23.1   28.7    49.7
Suppliers                   7.0            2.0     10.1         1.5         as% Public Debt O&D       4.8     7.1  9.8  10.6    13.7
Financial Institutions     43.7           12.0      73.1       10.6         as 5 Public Debt Service 3.9     6.5  5.7    8.6    10.6
Bonds                       -               -         -        -
Public Debts n.e.i.         1.4              .4     1.4          .2    IDA  Debt Out.  Disbursed     11.0   18.4 30.1  34.1     48.9
Total Public M&LT Debt    361.7          100.0  8O.1          100.0         as % Public Debt O&D      6.8    9.5 12.8  12.6     13.5
as 5 Public Debt Service   -     0.1  0.1   0.1      0.1
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                          e  staff estimates
not available                           -  nil or negligible
...  not available separately               --  less than half the
but incladed in total                      smallest unit shown



21 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1977)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                           Amount
Credit                                                     (less cancellations)
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose             Bank         IDA /1  Undisbursed
Five Credits and Seven Loans have been fully      55.7         63.2       -
disbursed
161-CM   1969   Cameroon   Education                         11.7 /2    0.1
320-CM   1972   Cameroon    Education II                      9.0       5.3
935-CM   1973   Cameroon   Roads II              24.0                  20.2
983-CM   1974   Cameroon   Livestock             11.6                   6.8
1039-CM   1974   Cameroon    Cocoa                 6.5                   3.7
574-CM   1975   HEVECAM     Niete Rubber Project              16.0     12.2
575-CM   1975   Cameroon   DFC - Small-Scale
Enterprises                      3.0      3.0
S4-CM   1976   REGIFERCAM Railways               2.3                   1.6
1245T-CM  1976   Cameroon   Education III         17.0                 17.0
657-CM   1976   Cameroon    Second Douala Port               10.0       7.2
1321-CM   1976   Cameroon    Second Douala Port   15.0                 15.0
672-CM   1977   Cameroon    Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Devt.                        2.0      2.0
673-CM   1977   Cameroon   Technical Assistance               4.5 /3   4.5
723-CM   1977   Cameroon   Rural Devt. Fund                   7.0 /3   7.0
*1391-CM  1977   Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM
Project              7.0 /3               7.0
1392-CM   1977   Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM
Project            18.0 /3               18.0
TOTAL                           157.1       126.4    130.6
of which has been repaid        1.7         0.1
TOTAL now outstanding           155.4       126.3
Amount sold                 0.2
of which has been repaid   -    0.2
TOTAL now held by Bank
and IDA /1                    155.2       126.3
TOTAL undisbursed                89.3        41.3    130.6
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million made in 1975.
/3   Not yet effective.



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1977)
Equity
311-CM   1975   BATA        Shoe Factory         0.38
355-CM   1977   SAFACAM     Rubber Plantation    0.80
1.18
Less Sold       0.25
Held by IFC     0.93
Undisbursed     0.41
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 161, 161-1           First Education Project:   US$10.5 million Credit
of September 23, 1969; Effectiveness Date:
April 29, 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
(Original Closing Date: June 30, 1974); and US$1.2
million Supplementary Credit of July 30, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: October 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977.
Implementation of this project was slow, especially in the initial
years, due to delays in both the construction and technical assistance pro-
grams. In 1975, a Supplementary Credit of US$1.2 million was approved to
cover cost increases due to currency realignments. Construction of all
buildings and delivery of virtually all furniture and equipment have been
completed, and project accounts are now being finalized. The project was
well-managed, particularly as project unit staff gained experience. A com-
pletion mission which visited Cameroon in February 1977 found that project
facilities are generally well adapted to local requirements. However, because
enrollments greatly exceed capacity at some project secondary schools, spe-
cialized classrooms and laboratories are not always used as such, thereby
reducing the impact of the project on diversifying secondary education.
Cr. No. 320                  Second Education Project:   US$9.0 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to difficulties in selecting architects and agreeing on the
designs, project implementation is delayed by twenty-four months, but no
extension of the closing date of June 30, 1979, is expected. The project
is generally well managed. Following cost overruns due to currency realign-
ments and the accelerated price increases which have occurred since 1973, the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
Government decided to finance the construction of one project school with
its own funds and another project school was transferred to the Third Educa-
tion Project (Loan 1245-T).
Cr. No. 429, Ln. No. 935     Second Highway Project:   US$24.0 million Credit
of September 26, 1973: Effectiveness Date:
December 20, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978; and US$24.0 million Loan of same date;
Effectiveness Date: December 20. 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was completed
satisfactorily in December 1976. Construction of the Douala-Pont du NKam road
(161 km) is slow and its completion is delayed by at least one year. Con-
struction of the Figuil-Mora road (163 km) is progressing well. The first
phase of the maintenance study is practically completed and the Government has
hired technical assistance for the Ministries of Equipment and Agriculture.
The project has considerably suffered from the 1973-1974 worldwide inflation,
which nearly doubled its total cost. Consequently, the Government agreed to
postpone construction of the Garoua-Figuil road (98 km). A Supplementary
Credit of US$15.0 million was approved in March 1976 to help alleviate the
burden imposed on the Government by the project's cost overruns.
Ln. No. 983                  Livestock Project:   US$11.6 million Loan of
May 14, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation has progressed satisfactorily, although some
project components are behind schedule. The situation at two project ranches
continues to be very good and activities in the third, which started in
December 1976, are progressing well. Due to the bankruptcy of the first
contractor, a new contract has been negotiated with the second lowest evalu-
ated bidder for the construction of two slaughterhouses (in Yaounde and
Douala). Construction work is expected to start by end-August 1977. Fifty-
five credits have been disbursed out of a total of 75 expected to be
paid out during 1977. The first tsetse-fly eradication campaign, which
started in November 1976, is now completed having2freed about 1,000 km of
pastureland. The construction of the first 20 km anti-tsetse barrier is
scheduled to start by end-1977.
Ln. No. 1038                 Second Railway Project:   US$16.0 million Loan
to REGIFERCAM of September 18, 1974; Effective-
ness Date: December 18, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978.
Procurement of main project items has been satisfactory. The track
material was delivered and laid by December 1975, and delivery of rolling



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
stock was completed in 1976. Technical problems have been encountered with
the foundations of one of the piers for the Japoma bridge. Additional support-
ing measures as well as proposals for permanently monitoring the behavior of
the bridge and its piers are being prepared. The works are expected to be
completed by September 1977. Due to the fluctuation in exchange rates during
project implementation, additional financing was required to cover the cost
of the equipment already ordered and of the reconstruction of the Japoma
bridge. Consequently, the railway has obtained a supplier's credit of
US$820,000 to supplement Bank financing for the rolling stock, and the for-
eign exchange cost of the consulting services (US$925,000) originally in-
cluded in this Second Railway Project has been transferred to the Third
Railway Project financed under Loan No. S-4. Due to the world slump in the
timber market and substantial increases in staff costs in 1974/75, REGIFERCAM
experienced difficulty in attaining the financial covenants included in the
Loan Agreement. The Second Railway Project financial targets were retained
for the Third Railway Project and the Government and REGIFERCAM have under-
taken to carry out the necessary measures, including tariff increases, to
achieve the target set for 1978/79. A first tariff increase averaging 12.4
percent has been implemented, effective June 1, 1976, and proposed tariff
increases as of July 1977, averaging 15 percent for passengers and 20 percent
for freight, have been recently submitted for approval to the Government.
Measures to increase productivity and control operating costs have also been
initiated. REGIFERCAM is thus expected to achieve the agreed financial
targets.
Ln. No. 1039                 Cocoa Project:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date: February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Government, in recognition of the declining trend in cocoa
production, has instituted measures designed to improve incentives to cocoa
farmers. The most important of these are the provision of free fungicide for
black pod control, the consolidation of all farmers' groups in the department
comprising the project area, and the proposal to increase the producer price
for export quality cocoa from CFAF 150/kg to CFAF 180/kg for the 1977/78
season. The project itself shows a marked improvement from the last super-
vision. Project management has taken steps to strengthen the extension
service and to better focus its action. A manager to coordinate and control
the activities of all sectors will need to be appointed soon to oversee this
re-orientation of project work. The major problem remaining is that relating
to the maintenance of rehabilitated rural roads and a Government decision is
expected to be taken shortly.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Cr. No. 574                  Niete Rubber Estate Project:   US$16.0 million
Credit of June 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
December 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress in establishing Niete Rubber estate has been steady; plant-
ing is in fact slightly behind schedule; some 790 ha should be planted by end
1977 compared with 1,050 assessed at appraisal, and construction work is ahead
of schedule. More labor has been available and hired locally than anticipated
and is sufficient up to now; recruitment from other areas may become necessary
soon. Collection of rubber seed is being improved, as unusually heavy rains
have hampered seed production. The terms of reference for the regional master
plan studies have been drawn up.
Cr. No. 575                  Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project;
US$3.0 million Credit of July 1, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: December 1, 1976; First
Postponement: February 2, 1976; Second Post-
ponement: June 2, 1976); Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The Credit was declared effective on July 30, 1976. After consider-
able delay, two expatriate advisors for the Banque Camerounaise de Developpe-
ment (BCD) have assumed positions in BCD and commitment of the first sub-
projects has begun. The delivery of technical assistance to entrepreneurs by
the three agencies financed by UNDP under the Project is progressing and
interagency coordination has improved. The Government has requested that the
Bank Group and CCCE (the other co-financier) continue financing technical
assistance once UNDP financing terminates.
Ln. No. 1245-T               Third Education Project:   US$17.0 million
Third Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effective-
ness Date: December 31, 1976 (Original
Effectiveness Date: October 4, 1976); Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The effective date of the Credit was extended from October 4 to
December 31, 1976, to allow for the signing of (a) the decree expanding
the responsibilities of the Project Unit, and (b) the contract between the
Government and the consulting architects. Satisfactory progress is being
made on the architectural design work, and agreement has been reached on
the preliminary drawings for the project schools. Following the Government's
decision subsequent to project appraisal to change the location of the two
upper secondary agricultural schools, a new site in Dschang has been se-
lec ed. Construction is expected to proceed on schedule.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. S-4                  Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard
Engineering Project: US$2.3 million Loan of
June 25, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 5,
1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
Selection of consultants for the first phase study (feasibility
study) has been completed.   The final engineering study is expected to
start in end-1977.
Ln. No. 1321                 Second Douala Port Project:   US$15.0 million
Cr. No. 657                  Loan of September 24, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; (Original Effectiveness Date:
January 24, 1977); Closing Date: June 30, 1981
and US$10.0 million Credit of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: June 15, 1977 (Original Effec-
tiveness Date: January 24, 1977); Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Construction works started in December 1976. Some changes in proj-
ect design will be considered by the co-donors at a meeting to be held in
December 1977.   Such changes are not currently envisioned to result in project
cost increases beyond the finances available.
Cr. 672                      Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:
US$2.0 million Credit of February 28, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 29, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The 1977 season confirms the seriousness of the technical difficul-
ties that must be solved before full-scale development of the plain can take
place. While progress is being made in testing acceptable levels of mechani-
zation, the resolution of agronomic problems, recently compounded by climatic
fluctuations, has lagged. The agronomic program has been redesigned for 1978.
Ln. No. 1392                 Second Socapalm Project:   US$18.0 million Loan and
Ln. No. 1391-T               Third Window Loan:   US$7.0 million of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The remaining condition for loan effectiveness is the appointment
of suitable personnel to three management positions. Suitable candidates
have been proposed to, and accepted by, the Bank and their appointment is
expected shortly.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Cr. 673                      Technical Assistance Project:   US$4.5 million
Credit of June 15, 1977; Projected Effective-
ness Date: November 14, 1977 (Original Effec-
tiveness Date: September 13, 1977); Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
The effective date of the Credit was extended from September 13 to
November 14, 1977 to allow for the recruitment of a senior economist by the
Ministry of Agriculture. Arrangements for this are being made. Progress
in project coordination and in recruiting long-term advisory consultants is
coming about slowly but is now expected to take place more rapidly in parallel
with the forthcoming presentation of a comprehensive action program by govern-
ment. Several project-related studies are under active consideration for
financing under the Project.
Cr. No. 723                  Rural Development Fund Project: US$7.0 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Projected Effectiveness
Date: December 2, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Measures required for Credit effectiveness and for project imple-
mentation are being taken.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
CAMEROON
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project identified by a RMWA mission in November 1975. Government
and Bank agreed jointly to prepare the project in January 1976.
First preparation mission in April 1976. Final preparatory work
in November 1976 and final report sent to Bank in mid-December 1976.
Time taken to prepare project: 8 months.
(b) Departure appraisal mission: January 25, 1977.
(c) Negotiations completed: September 26, 1977.
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: End February 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
1.        The Bank is assisting the Government in the procedures for consul-
tant recruitment.
2.        The Government has requested an advance of US$100,000 from the
Bank's Project Preparation Facility to help finance starting-up costs.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The Feeder Roads Unit (FRU) will be set up within the Department of
Roads not later than March 31, 1978 (paras. 27 and 35).
2.        The first year's road program (1978/79) and the arrangements for
establishing the subsequent annual programs (para. 38).
3.        Arrangements for monitoring project impact (para. 39).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
4.        The training specialist to be provided under the project should
prepare and submit to the Bank's review an outline training program by end
February 1978. Specific arrangements for ensuring training of local project
staff (paras. 41 and 42).
5.        In addition to its contribution towards the feeder roads program
retained under the project, the Government would undertake to provide the
Department of Roads the resources to maintain another 2,000 km of feeder
roads during the next four years. Also a study of resources for feeder road
maintenance would be carried out by December 31, 1978 (paras. 41 and 45).






A                                                          CAMEROON
FEEDER ROAD PROJECT
)  Ch,ef Town of Pro--ece
E2D Che T.rs of D,,,son
(d  Ch:ef Town of Sobdr-son
o  Ch ef To., of Ds-r,c
V ro.ger
____Mo- Roods
Feede  R.oods
0         1  2
V   \   N-md-og  0^  J  2   /   *\   /   C   5    10
~~~~~~~~E~     f    FOUSSA                serrorro rrrsr OrOro* *
BACH )  > C   A  (      \    $ /        n    ILtwdgd;ES f 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ot                       N >/
MICHEL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ \ CA
DJO N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
NIG RI
Boedekop  B  GOU   oA             09--  ' C H AS 
MINT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A F RI ~ANio--BR>
B     Mbet 1   M..bo.g~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~          B~    MPR
5 7/ B2fC''
N"g  ,bk                                        Mb-            BER 
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-/ /Bcdoume INS  s 
\ -  S  Kok 
b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GINAAOR COTdGO"~ 
E-g                           M.tch.           Mbworrr
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oe
\<-f-  |Kouhodlt Ko kmI         _ G,(
Bel    BMyrgbo/ uleco 
S   t f   f ~~MyerS Orf
Esen  X   \  B  p o n p X  \   S~~~~~~~Mrroon
vb ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~ S
ABONG i/  ZfAngosso Vuv)I  $
//Aboubg  t  /  \   t   ,goloul  /..p-



