Document of            FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. ?P-2399-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILPPINES
FOR A
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
October 25, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Peso (P)
P 1.00        =    US$0.135
US$1.00       =    P 7.40
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES = METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)               =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km              =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =   0.3881 square miles
1 meter (m)                  =   39.37 inches
1 cubic meter (cu m)         =   35.31 cubic feet
1 millimeter (mm)            =   0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)              =   2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BAECON    -      Bureau of Agricultural Economics
BAI       -      Bureau of Animal Industry
BAEx      -      Bureau of Agricultural Extension
BPI       -      Bureau of Plant Industry
BS        -      Bureau of Soils
FMT       -      Farm Management Technician
HMT       -      Home Management Technician
MOA       -      Ministry of Agriculture
NFAC      -      National Food and Agriculture Council
NNC       -      National Nutrition Council
PTC-RD    -      Philippine Training Centers for Rural
Development
NTC-RD    -      National Training Centers for Rural
Development
RYDO      -      Rural Youth Development Officer
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower      -  Republic of the Philippines
Amount        -  $35 million equivalent
Terms         -  The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at an interest rate of 7.35% per annum.
Project
description -       The proposed project aims to increase agricultural pro-
duction, improve the quality of rural life through better
nutrition and home management, and reduce rural unemployment
among out-of-school youth by strengthening the National
Extension Service of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
Under the project the extension service would be strengthened
through provision of buildings and equipment, introduction of
sound extension methodology, changes in organization, and
implementation of a staffing and training program. Also, the
project would provide for studies to develop effective
monitoring and evaluation procedures and an equitable compen-
sation system.
Five million rural families would be reached by the
project at a total project cost of $10 per family and an
annual incremental operating cost at full development of
$2.20 per family. The project would make an important con-
tribution to the benefits expected from many of the ongoing
agricultural projects supported by the Bank, particularly
the irrigation projects. These rely heavily on the existence
of an effective extension service. The project will expand
the coverage of the extension service and the smaller, lower-
income farmers and their families who receive relatively
little assistance at present are expected to benefit the most.
Lack of acceptance by farm family clientele of extension
recommendations is a risk of the project. However, Filipino
farmers have, in the past, been responsive to extension
advice. This risk would be further reduced as the effectiveness
of extension workers improves because of the training and
equipment provided under the project. Risks associated with
the organizational aspects of the project have been minimized
by the provision of consultants for the development of
effective monitoring and evaluation procedures and an equitable
compensation system.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated cost: /*                             Local       Foreign      Total
------  ($ million) --------
Vehicles                           7.3          7.3          14.5
Equipment                          3.5          4.2           7.7
Civil works                        2.7          1.5           4.2
Training and consultants           1.1          2.1           3.2
Incremental operating cost        20.4          5.9          26.3
Total base cost                 35.0         21.0          56.0
Physical contingencies              1.9         2.1           4.0
Expected price increases           7.2          3.0          10.2
Total project cost              44.1         26.0          70.1
Financing plan: /*                           Government       IBRD      Total
--------    ($  million)   -- …------
Vehicles                             1.4         13.1        14.5
Equipment                           0.8           7.0         7.7
Civil works                         0.8           3.3         4.2
Training and consultants            0.8           2.4         3.2
Incremental operating cost         26.3           0.0        26.3
Contingencies                       4.9           9.2        14.2
Total                            35.1          35.0        70.1
Estimated disbursements:
Bank fiscal year         80         81           82           83
------------ ($ million) ------------
Annual                   6.5       10.5         10.0          8.0
Cumulative               6.5       17.0         27.0         35.0
Rate of return:   An increase in average yields of rice and corn of 34 kg/ha
and 10 kg/ha respectively by full development would give a
15% economic rate of return for the project. These yield
increases would be readily obtainable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2049-PH dated September 21, 1978.
/* Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES FOR A
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $26 million to help
finance a project which will strengthen national extension services. The
loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 7.35% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
1.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under Secretary's
Memorandum PHL77-2 on October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled The
Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development (SecM-76/366), was
previously distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
2.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less than
what might have been achieved if the country's considerable natural and human
resources had been utilized more effectively. The benefits of growth were
also distributed relatively unevenly, both with respect to regions and income
classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated food deficits were experienced. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the population
and labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Poor export
performance combined with the heavy import dependence of domestic industry
led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
3.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% in the 1970s. Fluctuations, however, have been significant.
In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly.
Economic growth was unusually good in 1973 as sharply higher prices for
traditional export commodities stimulated demand. The export-led income boom
of 1973 was followed by an investment boom. The resulting high investment
rate, together with favorable sugar prices, temporarily sheltered the economy
from the world recession, and real GNP growth was maintained at 6% in 1974-75.



-2-
The first half of the 1970s also saw significant structural changes in the
economy, the most important of which were an increase in the level of public
investment, financed in large part by a greater tax effort, a recovery in
export growth, the achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains, a shift of
the domestic terms of trade in favor of agriculture, and the slowing of the
population growth rate.
4.        The collapse of sugar prices in late 1975, following earlier declines
in the prices of other major export commodities, altered the external situation
dramatically. The terms of trade dropped by 23% in 1975, and as a result,
the current account deficit rose to 6% of GNP. To maintain the momentum of
growth and investment, the Government adopted a policy of increasing capital
inflows in the near term to finance the resulting expanded current account
deficits while accelerating export growth in the longer term. In 1976-78,
the economy - led by non-traditional exports, agriculture and construction -
has continued to grow at 6% per year. Unfortunately, much of the stimulus
from an expansion in export volume was offset by further deterioration in the
terms of trade. Total fixed capital formation increased only marginally due
to sluggish private investment activity and the conservative monetary-fiscal
policy adopted by the government.
Development Strategy
5.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
recently set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call
for further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of more productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance of
payments, and increased development in rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes strategies for development in each of the country's thirteen regions.
In general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
basic economic report, although investment, manufacturing output, and exports
are projected to grow more rapidly than visualized therein. It should be
feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade
stabilize, but more rapid expansion of manufacturing is necessary to do so,
and efforts need to focus on improving the efficiency of investment.
Agriculture
6.        During the early 1970s agricultural production grew at an average
rate of 4-1/2% per year. In the grains subsector, the government's policy
has been to end rice imports through irrigation development and the improvement
of supporting services. During the past three years, the Philippines has been
self-sufficient in foodgrains and actually has exported over 100,000 tons of
rice. The overall performance of the agricultural sector was exceptionally
strong in 1976 as production increased by 8%. In 1977 and 1978, rice and
corn production continued to grow at a satisfactory rate; however, the major
traditional export crops, particularly sugar, experienced a slowing down of
production because of low world prices. Overall, the output of the sector
increased at a rate of 5% in 1977-78.



- 3 -
7.        Despite the recent successes in food grain production, which are
partly attributable to good weather, rice and corn yields remain well below
the potentials of modern farming technologies. This is largely due to land
tenure patterns, weak extension services and insufficient production credit.
The Government, however, gives high priority to agriculture and rural develop-
ment. It has undertaken a number of steps to increase the availability of
irrigation and supporting services, and has also expanded programs to improve
living conditions in rural areas, including rural electrification, health and
family planning, and rural roads.
8.         For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed. The land transfer program, which has been in
operation for five years and covers rice and corn growing areas, proceeded
quite rapidly when larger landholdings were the focus of concentration, but
progress has been slower recently as the focus has been on a larger number
of medium-sized holdings, which often belong to middle-class landowners.
Industry
9.        During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by high
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment, exports, and the
overall rate of growth of output. In the early 1970s the Government floated
the exchange rate, which then depreciated significantly, and started correcting
tariff distortions by simultaneously reducing the number of items subject to
the highest protective rates and also limiting the granting of tariff exemptions.
Further efforts to reduce remaining biases in favor of import-substitution
and capital intensity will still be needed, however, to accelerate the rate
of industrial growth as projected in the Five-Year Development Plan.
10.       Manufacturing industry has grown at a relatively slow average rate
of about 6% in the 1970s. Moreover, due to the slow increase in national
income and demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last
three years, manufacturing growth has also slowed, and investment has stagnated.
On the other hand, industries producing nontraditional exports have expanded
rapidly from a very low base, as their exports increased more than fivefold
in the five-year period 1973-77, in response to exchange rate adjustment and
special measures designed to alleviate existing restrictions on imports and
thus reduce the bias towards production for the domestic market. As noted
above, further efforts in this direction will be needed if industrial exports
are to continue to grow at a rapid rate. The construction industry which
expanded rapidly between 1972-1976 as a result of relatively construction-
intensive public investment and large tourism investments in the Manila area,
grew at a rate of only 6% during 1977-78 due to the slower pace of private
and public investment activity.
Employment, Incomes and Population
11.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-77, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly



noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975/77, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and account
for most of the growth in total employment.
12.       Recent trends in income distribution are mixed but, on balance,
positive. Due to the improvement in agriculture's terms of trade, the growth
of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages following the
devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975,
the ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from
0.48 in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption increased by about
2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, after allowance for price increases, real
incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor live, have probably increased
somewhat, while real urban incomes have remained about the same. Household
budget data, which are probably not entirely accurate, indicate that the
share of family incomes received by the poorest 40% of families, who are
primarily rural, increased from 12% in 1971 to 15% in 1975. The income share
of the top 20% have remained about the same, while that of the middle income
families declined correspondingly. Although the magnitude of these trends
may be overstated by these data, the general direction of the trends is
consistent with other information.
13.       The population is estimated at 45.5 million in 1978.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning
program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program faces the
increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated propor-
tion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning increased
from 20% in 1974 to 27% in 1977.    However, by East Asian standards, this
index should still be considered as relatively low.
Investment and Savings
14.       Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6.3% of GNP in 1978. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP and its revival is an important short-term problem. Furthermore, the
high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively modest growth of
manufacturing output and employment, and the structural underutilization of
capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency of investment also
needs to be improved.



15.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1977-78, gross domestic savings reached a level of 26%
of GNP and financed about 85% of total investment, with the balance coming
from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of financial
markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Government has
made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized banking institu-
tions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned in 1976 and,
again in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into time and
savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes, and to reduce
the spread between borrowing and lending rates. However, further reforms
are required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources and to alleviate the bias of the present interest rate structure
towards investments with a relatively high capital intensity and a low capital
efficiency. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to
the credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs
of medium- and small-scale industries. However, a deterioration of loan
recovery rates has been experienced by all government financial institutions
and credit programs. The Government has already taken a number of steps
to improve collections; however, further efforts in this direction are
necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an adequate flow of
credit to the productive sectors without burdening the public finances.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
16.       Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures
and the share going to economic services and public investment. By 1978
government expenditures had reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public
investment, which has risen rapidly in the last three years, equaled about
6.3% of GNP.
17.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues have been raised
through revisions in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to
improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance, but much of the
success in mobilizing revenue from domestic sources has been offset by a
sharp decline in the yield of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical



- 6 -
fluctuations. Total tax revenues, which had been raised to 13.6% by 1975, fell
to 12.8% in 1977 and increased only slightly, to an estimated 13%, in 1978.
Greater resource mobilization by government financial institutions and govern-
ment corporations, whose investment programs have grown rapidly, is also needed.
External Trade and Capital Flows
18.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade in 1975,
the current account recorded a deficit of 6% of GNP. To meet the immediate
payments problem, the Government drew down its international reserves,
obtained loans under various IME facilities, and expanded its borrowing
program to finance necessary imports. For the longer term, the Government
adopted a strategy of accelerating export growth both to hold the current
account deficit about constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and to
meet the debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
19.       Some progress in these directions was made in the last three years.
Both in 1976 and 1977, in spite of a further deterioration in the terms of
trade, a substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import
payments narrowed the trade deficit and partly offset the higher net interest
payments. The current account deficit which reached 6% of GNP in 1976 fell
to only 4% in 1977. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to $1.1-1.2 bil-
lion per year. Most of the inflow was from medium- and long-term loans, about
two-thirds of which were public loans reflecting in part increased disbursements
from official sources. In addition, the Government took advantage of the
liquid conditions in the international capital markets by prepaying existing
commercial debts with the proceeds of new loans with longer maturities and lower
interest rates. Estimates for 1978 show a widening of the trade deficit due
to increased capital goods importation as a result of the recovery of private
investment, and the continued decline in the price of major traditional exports.
The current account deficit is estimated at $1.0 billion or 4.3% of GNP.
20.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the Plan
period, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and
a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required. Assum-
ing continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced maturity
structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt of the
Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt
service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average around
20%, of which half would be public debt service, during the Plan period
(1978-82), and decline thereafter. Also, the effective restructuring of some
of the commercial debt could easily reduce the ratio during the Plan
period.
21.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures which will be required during
1978-82 and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits,
the Government sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million
in 1978 at the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in
Tokyo, on December 1 and 2, 1977. This amount is likely to be available.
However, since many of the planned projects which are to be financed from
external sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost finan-
cing is necessary, in appropriate cases, to meet the Philippines' external
financing requirements.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
22.       As of September 30, 1978, the Philippines had received 56 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,725.4 million and
four IDA credits amounting to $60.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $88.4 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 11% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to increase to about 12% and 5%, respectively by
the end of the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits,
Bank loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1978, as well as notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure
which have each accounted for about one-third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support food grain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future growth
of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure
has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect due to low
levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's main
thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private development
finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of
small and medium industries. In the social sectors, the Bank Group has
provided support for education programs designed to improve the quality of
primary and secondary education and to meet trained manpower requirements in
agriculture and industry. In urban areas, assistance has been provided for
water supply projects and for programs to upgrade slum living conditions and
to develop low-cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to
the Philippines population program through assistance for the construction of
multipurpose rural health units and for training of family planning staff.
24.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, the overall rate of disburse-
ment is marginally below what would be expected given the generally good
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the President's
Report (No. P-2365-PH) for the Second Manila Water Supply Project distri-
buted under cover of SecM, R78-172, which was approved by the Executive
Directors on July 25, 1978.



project implementation, and the Government is currently reviewing disbursement
performance on An agency-by-agency basis to identify possible reasons for
disbursement lags and to find appropriate solutions.
25.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the future program
also provides for several needed new initiatives, including the proposed loan
which would support the strengthening of the national agricultural extension
service and a first loan for developing multiple cropping systems in rainfed
areas, where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased support will also
be provided for integrated rural development projects which will support the
Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in income. Substan-
tial assistance will also continue to be given to industry with considerable
attention given to expanding the development of labor-intensive, small and
medium industries outside of the Metropolitan Manila area. The share of
lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to increase
primarily as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban water
supply and sewerage systems and further assistance for slum upgrading and
low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will continue to
provide support for improving the quality of education and for expanding the
Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank Group will
continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastructure
needed to support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank
lending for this will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily because
alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part of the
power generation program.
26.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to obtain some
foreign assistance on concessional terms in the near term to support its
expanding development program. In view of this consideration, the per
capita income of the country and the generally good management of the economy,
a limited amount of IDA financing has been included in the Bank Group's
overall lending to the Philippines.
27.       This is the second loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. Loans for urban development, smallholder credit and
irrigation projects are expected to be ready for presentation in the next
several months.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
28.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about one third of net domestic product, over one half of
total employment, and nearly three quarters of export earnings. Small farms
provide the main income for 65% of the rural population. Over 70% of the
9 million ha of land under cultivation is used for the production of cereals,
of which rice and corn are the most important. Most of the remaining land is
used for cultivation of the major export crops: sugar, coconuts, abaca,
pineapples and tobacco. Livestock production, 60% of which is backyard
production, currently centers on pigs and poultry, but dairy and beef cattle
production is receiving increased government attention and support.
29.       As indicated in Part I, agricultural production has grown at an
average rate of 4-1/2% per year so far in the 1970s, despite yields which
remain relatively low among Asian countries. The performance of the sector
was especially strong in 1976 and 1977 when production increased by 7% and
the Philippines reached self-sufficiency in rice, its main staple. This
achievement was due to increased use of high yielding varieties, expanded
availability of credit, and increased irrigation area. Favorable weather in
the last three years was also a significant factor. Production of corn, the
second main staple and an important feed ingredient, still falls short of
demand, however. In the last five years, production increases have been
mainly due to increases in cropped area. As land suitable for corn produc-
tion becomes scarce, future increases in production will have to come from
improved yields. This outcome depends on the development of disease-resistant
varieties and adoption of improved cultural techniques by farmers.
30.       Although the overall performance of agricultural exports has been
satisfactory over the last three years, the main export crop industries face
serious longer-term problems. The sugar industry is currently depressed
because of low world prices. The industry also faces an adjustment problem
as a consequence of the Government's adherence to the International Sugar
Agreement which provides for an export quota. Some sugar land has been
diverted to other crops and more will have to be diverted in the next few
years. The coconut industry faces the problem of low yields as a consequence
of overaged trees. The Government plans to launch a large-scale replanting
program in 1980 when seedlings of a high yielding variety first become available.
The wood industry faces the increasingly severe problem of deforestation
resulting from slash-and-burn cultivation and inadequate government control
of commercial logging. The Government's plans for a major reforestation
effort depend on needed institution-building and better regulation of extrac-
tion activities.
Government Objectives and Strategy
31.       The Government has recently set out its development strategy in
the Five-Year Philippine Development Plan for the period 1978-82. The
agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, agricultural diversifica-
tion, reforestation and stronger linkages between agriculture and industry.
Key components of the development strategy are: agrarian reform and rural



- 10 -
infrastructure development (described in Part I); supervised credit programs
aimed at food and feedgrain self-sufficiency; and malnutrition prevention
programs. The Government has also recently launched a Beef Cattle Program, a
National Dairy Program, and a "Blue Revolution" fisheries support program.
However, the National Extension Service of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
has so far concentrated its efforts on contributing to food and feedgrain
self-sufficiency and improved nutrition.
32.       Food and Feedgrain Self-Sufficiency.  The major Government objec-
tive in the agricultural sector is to increase rice and corn production
as a means of raising the incomes of small farmers and attaining national
self-sufficiency in food and feedgrains. The National Food and Agriculture
Council (NFAC) is responsible for formulating food production policies and
has directed most of its efforts through supervised production credit pro-
grams which rely heavily on participation of agricultural extension workers.
The programs have had a significant impact on farmer adoption of improved
rice varieties and have contributed to recent increases in production of rice.
However, their impact on production of yellow corn and other feedgrains has
been less satisfactory. Also, the level of arrears under the programs has
been high in the last several years and, as a result, the coverage of the
programs has declined sharply. The Government is aware of this problem and
the Technical Board for Agricultural Credit is undertaking a study of the
causes of the high arrears under Loan 1399-PH (Fourth Rural Credit Project).
A Bank mission recently visited the Philippines to examine the effect of
these programs on food and feedgrain self-sufficiency and to review the
Government's policy options.
33.       Nutrition Programs.  Since the establishment of the National Nutrition
Council (NNC) in 1974, together with its secretariat, the Nutrition Council
of the Philippines (NCP), well formulated programs of nutrition monitoring
and remedial activities have been devised. The Ministry of Agriculture is the
main agency responsible for promoting the preventive and technical aspects of
the NCP program, while the Ministries of Health and Social Services are
primarily concerned with monitoring and remedial activities. The programs
of the NCP have drawn widespread attention to the nutritional problems existing
in the Philippines as a result of a nationwide, multiagency effort wherein
every school child is regularly examined to measure the effectiveness of
nutrition programs and identify localities with below-average levels of
nutrution. The NCP has also initiated a remedial program which relies
heavily on promotion by extension workers and involves the sale, at very low
cost, of nutritious, locally prepared weaning foods popularized under the name
of Nutripak. While this program is not meant to provide a solution to the
nutrition problem on a widescale basis, it does focus attention of parents on
the need for nutrition rehabilitation of children in their own homes. Another
important program has been the organization of interdisciplinary nutrition
committees at the regional, provincial, municipal and village levels, to
stimulate local interest and to enable the national programs to be tailored to
local needs. The network of nutrition committees forms the focal point for
the dissemination of information and back-up support by the Ministry of
Agriculture's nutrition extension force.



- 11 -
The Present Extension System
34.       At present, about fifteen government ministries and agencies
provide varying forms of rural extension. The Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), however, is primarily responsible for the dissemination of technical
information in the fields of crop and livestock production, home management,
nutrition, and rural youth development. Where staff of other agencies are
involved in similar activities, some overlap does occur. In most cases,
however, informal agreements exist at the field level between staff of the
different agencies concerning their respective roles.
35.       Agricultural extension has developed quite strongly along commodity
lines. Coconuts are handled by the Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA), sugar
by the Philippine Sugar Commission, cotton by the Philippine Cotton Administra-
tion and tobacco by the Philippine Tobacco (and Virginia Tobacco) Administra-
tions. All except PCA are either attached agencies of MOA or are under the
administrative supervision of MOA. Extension services for other agricultural
activities are handled by line bureaus of the Ministry of Agriculture. At
present there are five bureaus under MOA: the Bureau of Soils (BS), the
Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI), the Bureau of Agricultural Economics (BAEcon),
the Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI), and the Bureau of Agricultural Extension
(BAEx). Each bureau is directed by a national director and 12 regional
directors. BAEx handles extension services for cereals, fruits and vegetables,
and BAI provides limited extension services for livestock. The remaining
bureaus are involved mainly in research and regulatory functions. The National
Food and Agriculture Council (NFAC) has also become increasingly involved with
extension efforts in recent years as a consequence of its role in food and
feedgrain self-sufficiency programs.
36.       Within the Ministry of Agriculture, there are about 8,600 technical
staff, 90% of whom have tertiary level degrees. BAEx extension staff are
divided into three main groups, each of which participates in different types
of activities. The majority of the workers (3,500) are Farm Management
Technicians who are responsible for promoting food crop production. Home
Management Technicians, who number about 1,200, participate in malnutrition
prevention programs and teach food preparation and home management. Rural
Youth Development Officers number about 500 and have as their primary job the
organization of children into youth clubs for training in food production and
nutrition. Livestock officers of BAI perform mainly regulatory functions,
but are also involved to a limited extent in extension.
37.       Both the ratio of extension workers to farm families and the level
of training of extension workers in the Philippines are favorable relative to
other countries in Asia; however, the effectiveness of the extension service
has been held back by: (a) workers' lack of training in extension methodology;
(b) a shortage of equipment and facilities for field-level training and
demonstration; (c) reliance of workers on public transport for mobility;
(d) inadequate links between research and extension, which are handled by
separate MOA bureaus; and (e) unclear lines of command between the national
and regional levels and the field level. The proposed project would seek
to alleviate these constraints and make better use of the well-staffed and
educated extension force in the Philippines.



- 12 -
Experience With Past Lending
38.       This would be the first Bank-financed project directly assisting
the Ministry of Agriculture. However, the Ministry's nutritional and agri-
cultural extension activities have been indirectly assisted by several past
projects: (a) the first and second education projects (Loan 393-PH and
Credit 394-PH) which supported the University of the Philippines College of
Agriculture, two regional agricultural colleges, and thirteen agricultural
high schools; (b) the first Bank-assisted population project (Loan 1035-PH)
under which 200 rural health units were constructed and a large number of
mid-wives trained in nutrition; and (c) the fourth education project
(Loan 1374-PH) which funded mobile audio-visual equipment and rural training
centers for the use of government agencies involved in rural extension. The
first education project is fully disbursed and progress under the other
projects is generally satisfactory. However, the two regional agricultural
colleges supported under Credit 394-PH have suffered from over-enrollment of
students; this matter is currently being reviewed with the Government.
39.       A number of previous Bank loans for agriculture and rural develop-
ment in the Philippines have relied on support from the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, particularly the Ministry's extension services. To the extent that
staff, facilities and equipment were available, the support from the Ministry
has been satisfactory. However, during implementation of the past several
irrigation projects, it has become evident that improvements in agricultural
extension services would further enhance the benefits expected from these
projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The Government of the Philipines has requested Bank assistance in
its renewed efforts: (a) to promote further production increases in food and
livestock; (b) to improve the quality of rural life through higher incomes,
better nutrition and improved home management; and (c) to reduce unemployment
among out-of-school youth through training in nutrition and food production.
This project, to be implemented over four years by the Ministry of Agriculture,
is designed to assist in those government aims. It would largely involve the
strengthening of the extension service through the provision of facilities,
equipment, technical staff increases and training, but would also involve
changes in the organization of the Ministry of Agriculture and in the levels
of compensation paid to field staff.
41.       The project has been under discussion with the Government for several
years. At the request of the Government, a Bank mission reviewed the extension
services in the Philippines in February/March 1977, immediately following a
Bank-organized, international workshop on agricultural extension. After subse-
quent discussions between the Government and the Bank, the Ministry of Agricul-
ture prepared the project with the help of consultants from the University of
the Philippines and the Philippine Training Center for Rural Development
(PTC-RD), which was established and funded under the Bank's Fourth Education
Loan (1374-PH). The project was appraised in February/March 1978, and negotia-
tions were held in Washington in September 1978. The Philippine delegation



- 13 -
was led by the Honorable Arturo A. Tanco, Jr., Minister of Agriculture.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Philippines - National Extension Project"
(No. 2049-PH dated September 21, 1978) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III of this report.
Description of the Project
42.       Components of the proposed project are as follows:
(a) Organizational Program. Implementation of an improved organiz-
ational structure for the Ministry of Agriculture which includes
the establishment of a more unified extension service and closer
coordination between research and extension.
(b) Buildings, Vehicles and Equipment.
(i) Construction of about 500 rural extension centers and
renovation of existing facilities for extension services;
(ii) Provision of communications equipment, vehicles for transport-
ing staff and materials, office, printing and photographic
equipment and supplies, and audio-visual aids and other
demonstration and training equipment and materials.
(c) Extension Methodology. Introduction and implementation of sound
extension methodology, with particular emphasis on close supervision,
regular training of extension workers and regular visits.
(d) Staffing Program and Training. Implementation of a staffing and
training program to increase the number of trained extension staff,
including the provision for additional subject matter specialist
positions and for a staff of livestock extension technicians.
(e) Studies/Consultant Services. A total of 66 man-months of consultant
services for the purposes of:
(i) assisting the Budget Commission in a review of rural technicians'
and extension workers' job functions and compensation, with
a view to identifying overlapping extension services provided
by different agencies and more equitably compensating field
staff (36 man-months).
(ii) assisting NFAC to develop more effective monitoring and
evaluation procedures to determine (a) individual performance
of extension workers and (b) effectiveness of extension
services (24 man-months); and
(iii) assisting the Ministry of Agriculture to upgrade the capabili-
ties of its procurement division and to select various types
of equipment to be procured under the project (6 man-months).



- 14 -
Project Detail
43.       Organizational Program.  Of foremost importance in achieving
efficient implementation of the project would be the streamlining of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Under the planned reorganization, control over
field level staff would shift from the national level to the regional level.
The five existing national bureaus would assume staff functions in the
office of the Minister, and regional directors to be appointed would assume
full responsibility for MOA staff and their activities in their respective
regions. The new responsibilities of the national bureau staff would be to
service the regional staff by preparing guidelines for national programs and
assisting in such activities as formulation of technology packages and pro-
curement of equipment and materials. The national bureaus would also be
responsible for coordinating MOA's activities with those of other related
development agencies such as the National Nutrition Council and the Philippine
Council for Agricultural Resources Research. These organizational changes are
expected to: (a) overcome present coordination problems and overlapping roles
between bureaus; (b) strengthen links between research and extension; (c) estab-
lish a unified crop and livestock extension service; (d) develop a single
line of command in each region; (e) pool resources of manpower, facilities and
equipment and (f) result in more equitable working conditions for all Ministry
staff. Presidential Decree No. 1579 authorizing the reorganization has been
signed. Because of the importance of the reorganization to the success of the
project, it has been agreed that the Government would implement the reorgani-
zation of the MOA, including the appointment of the twelve Regional Directors
and at least two Assistant Regional Directors for each of the Regional Directors,
in accordance with the Presidential Decree, by January 31, 1980 (Section 3.06
of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       Buildings, Vehicles and Equipment.  Provision of vehicles and com-
munication equipment under the project is expected to enhance the mobility
of extension staff and allow more frequent contact and communication with
supervisors and subject matter specialists as well as farmers. Vehicles
provided include cars, jeeps, pickups and vans for Regional offices, and
motorcycles and sidecars for field level staff. The motorcycles would be
purchased directly by extension staff through salary deductions. Assurances
have been obtained that the Government would make arrangements by July 31,
1979 for motorcycles of suitable engine capacity and design to be made avail-
able to extension workers under terms and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). Provision of rural extension
centers, audio-visual aids, printing and photographic equipment, and technicians'
equipment will better equip the extension staff for training and demonstration
of new technology and improved nutrition to farm families. Since this would
be the first Bank loan to be administered by the Ministry of Agriculture, six
man-months ($25,000) of consultant services would be provided to assist in
the selection and procurement of equipment and materials.
45.       Extension Methodology.  Concurrent with the organizational changes,
revised operational procedures and extension methodology would be introduced.
Such procedures are designed to increase the time spent by extension workers
in contact with clientele and improve the effectiveness of extension workers.
While present guidelines provide specific activity targets for extension



- 15 -
technicians in terms of meetings, training sessions, etc., the targets are not
realistic given the large demands for travel time (20-30%), data collection
and reporting (20-25%), and organizational operations (10-15%). Less than
half the total time is presently available for field action, farm visits,
nutrition classes, and other important extension activities. The methodology
to be adopted would be based on the training and visit system (T&V) adopted
in other Bank-assisted projects, which is fully described in a Bank publica-
tion on this subject published in May 1977./i
46.       Staffing and Training.  The Ministry of Agriculture already has a
large force of extension technicians, most of whom are tertiary level agricul-
tural graduates. But despite the relatively high level of formal education
of the technicians, they have very little training in extension methodology.
Furthermore, since the numbers of extension staff have approximately doubled
over the past four years, the general level of experience among staff is very
low. Under the project, training would range from on-the-job, practical
training, to short duration courses on extension methodology and on specific
topics. For the subject matter specialists and other supervisory staff, more
advanced training would be provided, including a limited number of master
degree courses and short-duration study tours to developing countries
with ongoing extension programs. To further contribute to increased extension
coverage and effectiveness, the Government has agreed to increase its technical
staff under the project by about one third in accordance with a timetable
agreed by the Bank. The largest proportions of the increase would be in the
number of Subject Matter Specialists and Livestock, Rural Youth and Home
Management technicians (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  An important aspect of the project
would be the development of an effective monitoring and evaluation system
with the following features: (a) minimum report writing by field level
technicians; (b) greater use of all data collected; (c) more objective assess-
ment of the effectiveness of extension; and (d) more objective evaluation of
the performance of individual extension workers. As an interim measure under
the project, the Government would eliminate as many forms as possible which
are required to be completed by technicians. As a longer-term measure, two
man-years ($100,000) of consultant services have been provided under the
project for a study to assist in developing a more effective monitoring and
evaluation system. The Government has agreed that terms of reference for
the study would be drawn up by NFAC by July 31, 1979 and consultants appointed
by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.09 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Government has also agreed that the Ministry of Agriculture would prepare
annually a report reviewing the activities and achievements of its extension
service over the preceding year. This report would be submitted to the Bank
not later than July 31 of each year, commencing in 1980 (Section 3.09 (b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Salaries and Allowances.  At present the salaries of extension
technicians are out of line with salaries paid by other Government agencies
and are inadequate to retain competent staff. In addition, travel allowances
/1 Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System, by David Benor and
James Q. Harrison, May 1977, World Bank.



- 16 -
are insufficient to cover costs and may discourage regular visitation of farm
families. The project therefore provides three man-years of consultants'
services ($210,000) to help the Ministry of the Budget undertake a study of
job functions and compensation of rural technicians employed by government
agencies. The objectives of the study would be to determine competitive
salary levels for extension staff after considering comparability of salaries
between agencies and other aspects of the Government's overall incomes policy.
The study would also establish standard job descriptions for extension techni-
cians and examine the need for location allowances to induce competent techni-
cians to work in remote areas. The study would further help the Government
focus on the number of agencies providing extension and aid in identifying
overlapping extension responsibilities. The Government has agreed that
the Ministry of the Budget would: (a) draw up terms of reference for the
study in consultation with the Bank, by July 31, 1979; (b) evaluate in consul-
tation with the Bank the findings of the study by March 31, 1981; and (c) imple-
ment a plan of action based on the findings of the study, as agreed with the
Bank, by January 31, 1982. (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Ministry of Agriculture has also agreed to conduct a study of transportation
costs involved in achieving effective extension coverage in order to establish
adequate transportation allowances for extension staff by January 31, 1980
(Section 3.11 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
51.       The project would be national in scope and would cover all of the
country's 13 regions, 73 provinces and roughly 35,000 municipalities. Overall
project coordination would be the responsibility of the National Director of
the Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAEx). Implementation in each of the
regions would come under the supervision of the new Regional Directors to be
appointed under the organizational program. At the national level, staff would
continue to function much the same as before. However, with the field super-
visory function formally transferred to the Regional Directors, national
bureau staff would concentrate on formulation and evaluation of major programs
and coordination with research agencies. At the regional level, some relocation
of staff would occur and there would be strong enforcement of an existing
ministerial order that extension staff should live in a village near their
work assignment. The existing division of responsibilities between different
categories of extension workers would be continued under the project. However,
two important changes in the scope of the extension services would occur:
first, extension services would be initiated which would extensively cover
backyard livestock production as well as provide more regular extension
services to commercial livestock producers; and second, the deployment of Farm
Management Technicians (FMTS) would be altered so as to cover all farming areas
where food crops are grown. This latter change would be made possible through
use of contact farmers and audio visual materials. A large part of the exten-
sion effort, however, would still be concentrated on rice farmers, since rice
is a major staple and the technology package for rice is well-developed.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total project cost is estimated at about $70 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $26 million or 37% of total project cost.
The total figure includes taxes and duties of about $10 million, or 15%.



- 17 -
Physical contingencies of 15% of base cost for vehicles, equipment and civil
works have been included and amount to 6% of total project cost. Price
contingencies amounting to 15% of total project costs have been provided on
the assumption of annual price inflation for civil works of 7.5% in 1979 and
7% in 1980-82, and for equipment and services of 6.5% in 1979 and 6% in
1980-82. The proposed Bank loan of $35 million would finance the full foreign
exchange cost of the project and $9 million equivalent of local costs. (See
Part I for justification of local cost financing in the Philippines.) The
balance of the project cost would be met from annual government budgetary
resources and would increase the Government's budget appropriations for
extension by about 70%.
Procurement
51.       Except as noted below, vehicles and equipment would be tendered on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preference margin of 15% of the
c.i.f. price of imported goods or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is
lower. Some items purchased in small quantities with costs not exceeding
$50,000 each and $2.0 million in aggregate, would be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. In addition, off-the-shelf items costing less than
$10,000 each but not exceeding $500,000 in total would be purchased on the
basis of prudent shopping, involving at least three quotations. The Government
has agreed to employ consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The costs of the consul-
tants would be $6,000 per man-month for foreign consultants and $3,000 per
man-month for local consultants. These costs are all-inclusive.
52.       Contracts for civil works, amounting to $4.2 million, would be
either done by force account or awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally. Such contracts would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding because of the small size of each rural extension unit
($8,000), the countrywide distribution of units and the fact that construction
would be phased over four years. For the motorcycles which are to be purchased
by individual technicians under loans secured by the Government, purchases would
be limited to motorcycles of suitable engine capacity and design but would
include all brands for which dealers with reputable service and maintenance
facilities exist in the Philippines. Purchase of the motorcycles through
international competitive bidding would not be appropriate because of the
need to take into account the preferences of the individual extension worker.
Rather, the Government would use a procurement procedure acceptable to the
Bank which combines local competitive bidding procedures with consumer prefer-
ence. Such procedures would involve obtaining quotations from all qualified
dealers and making lists of such discount prices available to technicians.
There is a well-developed network of both foreign and local dealerships in
the Philippines which would ensure adequate competition.
Disbursements
53.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory price of



- 18 -
locally manufactured equipment and 65% of expenditure for equipment procured
locally. For ccnsulting services and for overseas training and fellowships,
disbursements would be 100% of total cost. Disbursements for civil works
would be 50% of expenditures. It is expected that disbursements would be
completed by June 30, 1983.
Environmental Effects
54.       To the extent that improved farming practices require soil conserva-
tion, fertility level maintenance and rat control and proper chemical pest
control, it is expected that the project would promote considerable and
lasting improvements on the environment.
Role of Women
55.       The project would have a large impact on women in the rural communi-
ties served by the extension service. Women in the Philippines are actively
involved in farming; they form the greater proportion of the labor force
during transplanting and harvesting. They also play a large part in the
management of home finances and in decisions on marketing and purchase of
equipment and inputs, and are therefore a major target group of the agricul-
tural extension support provided by the proposed project. Women in the rural
community would also benefit from home management and nutritional extension
support provided under the project. The Malnutrition Prevention Program
supported under the project is geared particularly for women in its promotion
of prevention of child malnutrition through breast-feeding and home preparation
of nutritious, locally available foods.
Project Benefits and Justification
56.       The proposed project would reach nearly 5 million rural families,
among them farmers cultivating 3.6 million ha of rice and 3.4 million ha of
corn, together with secondary crops and livestock. The project cost would be
about $10 per family, while the incremental annual operating cost at full
development would be about $2.20 per rural family. The main benefits of the
proposed project would result from improved crop and livestock farming practices,
better infant nutrition, stimulation of employment opportunities for rural
youth, and the spread of home management and cottage industry skills through
the training of farmers and their families. In addition, the project would
make an important contribution to the benefits expected from many of the
ongoing agricultural projects supported by the Bank, particularly the irrigation
projects which rely heavily on the existence of an effective extension service.
Because the project will expand the coverage of the extension service, the
smaller, lower-income farmers and their families who receive relatively little
assistance at present are expected to benefit the most from the project.
57.       Many of the benefits expected to result from the project are unquan-
tifiable. Furthermore, the quantifiable benefits which arise in the form of
increased agricultural production are difficult to partition and attribute to
such factors as improved extension, additional inputs, and expansion of credit.
In justifying the project in economic terms, therefore, it was necessary to
estimate the increase in production needed to generate a satisfactory



- 19 -
economic rate of return of 15%, which is above the current estimated opportunity
cost of capital for the Philippines of about 10%. A judgment as to whether or
not such production increase could reasonably be expected from the project was
then made. Using this approach, it was found that the annual incremental net
value of production would have to reach about US$21 million by full development
in year eight of the project, an increase in net production value of about 2%
over what could be expected without the project. In terms of physical produc-
tion, the increases in average yields of rice and corn necessary to achieve
the US$21 million incremental value would be 34 kg/ha and 10 kg/ha respectively.
Given that present average rice and corn yields in the Philippines are low
(1.9 and 0.8 tons/ha respectively), and that for rice in particular the
technology is well developed, the incremental yields needed to justify the
project would be readily attainable.
Risks
58.       The main risks of this project are associated with the organiza-
tional aspects. While the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture
would certainly enable a better extension service to be provided to rural
families, there may be some disruption during the transition period. Another
important element determining the effectiveness of the extension effort would
be the competitiveness and adequacy of Ministry of Agriculture salaries and
allowances. The project provides funds for studies of salaries and allowances
of rural extension workers. Progress of these studies would be given
close attention during project supervision.
59.       There would also be some risk concerning the acceptance by farm
families of recommendations of extension workers, but this risk is not expected
to present major problems since Filipino farmers have in the past demonstrated
a willingness to try new crop varieties and techniques. Also, the effective-
ness of the extension technicians can be expected to improve once the tech-
nicians are better informed and equipped as a result of the project. By
providing for subject matter specialist staff increases and development of
improved monitoring and evaluation procedures under the project, other
bottlenecks affecting acceptance of recommendations should be quickly identi-
fied and resolved.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOM9WNDATIONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 25, 1978
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                    PHILIPPINES                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             300.0                                                       SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       85.6                                   MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP Jd    GROUP le
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    140.0       230.0      450.0             616.0       432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(EILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       147.0        301.0      326.0            522.0        251.7        578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          27.4         36.9       44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.3            27.6      29.8              30.1        24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 104.                        91.0        123.0      148.0             156.8        42.7         50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0          472.0      520.0             794.8        95.0         93.3
POPULATION AUE STERUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           45.7         45.6       42.9              40.8        44.9         42.9
15-64 YRS.                           51.6         51.6       54.2              55.4        52.8         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7          2.8         2.9              3.2         3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 3.0         3.0         2.8              2.3         2.7          2.5
URBAN                                4.0           4.0       3.9               5.1         8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        45.1         44.2      43.8              34.6        42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        17.9         13.2       10.5              8.7        12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5 /f       3.3        3.1              2.6         3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..       191.7      750.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             2.0      25.0              22.1        14.2         20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FDOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               99.1        100.0      110.8             106.8       104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     83.0         86.0       87.0             108.7        99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            44.0         45.0       50.0              57.7        56.8         63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0 La      22.0       19.2              17.0        17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         9.0          6.6        7.5              4.0         7.5           8.0
IIEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.4            55.6       58.5             59.0        53.3          57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              84.6         81.0       72.0             44.0        82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         36.0       50.0              21.9        31.1         56.8
URBAN                                  ..         67.0      82.0              58.3        68.5         79.0
RURAL                                  *-         20.0       31.0              9.8        18.2          31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPCSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-         57.0      56.0              28.6        37.5         30.9
URBAN                                  ..         90.0       76.0             66.6        69.5         45.4
RURAL                                 ..         40.0        44.0             14.8        25.4          16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..           ..    3130.0            4103.1      9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..       3840.0    2180.0            1520.2      2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1180.0        850.0     640.0             657.1       786.5        493.9
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..            145.5       278.4        229.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..           1011.8      1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         ..             19.0         19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.8          5.9         ..              5.2          ..           5.2
URBAN                                  ..          6.2         ..              5.2                       5.0
RURAL                                  *-          5.8         ..              5.4                       5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          2.3         ..                ..         ..           2.0
URBAN                                  *-          2.1         ..               ..         2.3           1.5
RURAL                                  *-          2.4         ..               ..          ..           2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                17.0         23.0       31.0             39.1        28.3          64.1
URBAN                                             60.4         . 10 0                                   67.8
RURAL                                  ..          7.0       10.0                ..        10.3         34.1



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PHILIPPINES                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /a
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 tb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        114.0     105.0             95.6        75.8        99.8
FEMALE               93.0        113.0      103.0            93.7        67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 26.0         50.0      56.0             43.3        17.7        33.8
FEMALE                25.0        50.0       57.0            38.6        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 14.0            ..        ..             11.3         7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         29.0      29.0             30.0        34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                          27.0         33.0      31.0             25.4        23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9         82.6      87.0             84.0        63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          8.0       8.0              9.3         7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         22.0         72.0        ..             97.6        71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         10.0      17.0             21.8        14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.0         14.0      18.0             25.9        16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6            ..        7.6             4.6         1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10100.0       12400.0   15400.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.4         33.1      32.7             33.2        28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0         55.0      52.6             48.4        54.1        46.2
INDUTSTRY (PERCENT)                15.2         15.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8         36.6      35.3             38.9        37.8         33.8
MALE                                 52.1         48.6      47.1             48.6        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                               27.4         24.4      23.3             28.4        20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3         1.5        1.3              1.2        1.3          1.4
IN1COME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8             -          '            17.3        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2          54.0      53.3             45.6        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2           3.6       5.5              6.5         5.9         4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9          11.7      14.7             17.3        15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     180.0            140.8       155.9       191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     155.0            112.8        97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..       143.7       319.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..      87.0             76.8        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      26.0             27.7        22.9         19.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      40.0             40.4        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages far each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia 6 Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Income
(5551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;   /g  Av. 1960-62.
September 1978



ANNEX I
REY TO COUNTRIES BY REGION AND 1INCOME CROUP/a                                                                         Of   6
Region/Ilncome Croop                L-o  oc-eL                         LowerI Middle                Inoet  dite middle                     Uppe  Kiddie             High 11Ca-oc/ftal nurlu
BonGo                    M:iwni             nogolo                    CN,ens                                   Djihnooi                   g.abonl
iurondi      anFp        isimiqu           Boerslos                   IvoritCoase                              Reunion
imorOs            Pw NondL          Congo, PiP.                Seycheies
ScEhiopis                 SiLrrs Ieone      Oqooterist Coione
'U RIC 0 SOCl1!        antismba  The           Sr .tta            LikeoBO
'5I  \'i ''O'eR      ( ine0a0                  000 ,00 t         eaoritania
n vinra-ttnuao         lCogo               Nigeria
B-dn.l                   IRon/a Iihode iB
's/dages,"                o .ire           .isesos
Condosn
IA                       Ni cs.   'i.                                 SyriLLn ANE.                             Iraq.Ino 
ighociutan dMold iv                        __
* 4 0I / ACi        mniseuh                 Ncnai
. R   Illtatan                PakSbtan          "ll"
l'Im.                   Sri L.anka 
_In/ic   .... _ .._
Combo/ia                                   Newn llshideo              China. Rep. cfi                          Fiji                        inrert ose Sacon
I    OhiO             Iodceoi aVPDR.Ppus NLo G.uinea                                         gibC     Island Be oong Cong                                         RounohPivei
hotuniur lulao/s                           Thoitond                   Macacl                                                               ur
COtNsm hoeonga                                                        Rolansia                                                            Newv Caledonia
Wastern tames             Troor Territory nof she Osnifte                                      CingaVore
laict                                       Rolinia                   4ntLgur           r.uFcemaia             ArgsreLna 'dRhah.-.
El Salevadcr              Beilee             Jaeaic a              Rerhados                   Bermuda
t.X1'IN \M7RTc'4                                  C~~~~~~~Roses/s           Chlet              EeLcRc                Braeii                      Canai Once
'.NUl  ONFOIi.A                                                   Cuyana                     Colsh ica          Nicraguav             erench C-ties              ro eFtetiur
iNN TROKC/li                               codoras                   Coco RicaTaurgaa                         CYpuodcp                    'henenelIsand
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.i TRecc                                                   tnintos            Pews         F        iFe rhloed  iriie            iri   Itirrds (_._.
.\ustralia ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ iimnla  OrnlE.   it.l RobyUitisedl                 Paeans
INDlIS'rR14T*IZFD ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ cudo                        he.ri  Lorise          Punrec RiceAfi
DeLnark ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Ii Irean                                    Man anrc rIsoFrdF
Albania ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~esi                                                           ReeeoIDe.sRp.nd
FCONOI'IES ~     io trotiaa         ionoian/                        ai                     s                     nrdBsn
IRUiliChi ill/RB  iacrihalvka       CrolnesdpnSu hAr
/a   sasd o  176  N?  erCons/a   in    enn 1eis76nd SIIiinorisn
,'d  S551-1135 per raDLta ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       A-
/e  5136-200 pr    Ruigrus          cogs
1f   ASIe hoki- Poland
it  I/Ri-ryE per topita, ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      C" '   P.jiA-i-E.
to  BiiOh-/0RR     d- per7 tapirs..1-d
ASIAr35R  e   apt 



ANNEX I
DEFINTTIONS OF tOCItL INDICAMObRS iP5  4Of  6
NOtus   Altlogl> the dauP-rt drawn froA  -ourcee goneeslly judged the most  ubohritatclve and reliable  it should also be tored chat the.  tn,  not ba  icier-
nslonallo crenpatahi  beca-se of tIe lack of t-and-rdioed definitions and contepts''uted by different countries On ociolcirtg the dts.  The dais ore  nonetheles.
useflI to Ooecnhennrders o-   -roittede.  ndicate trends, sd ohsrctetriee.,crtslc major differettes between countries
The ad loated Xroup 1er ges for each indic-tor are populatier-sibht  gePeoric  -aane  occluding tin extremeo notuna of the indicator and the nest
polpulated E,o,ntrv in each cuup. Innerace uf countries seinog the iedAdsnep4rmpsede or onstia:blifty of dora aol is not unifornt Toe to lath of decoa
oruop average; fur Capital Soernis '1 Pop criers end indicmtoca of ace:s ro wacrm and sxcrot: dicpoaal, housiof. incone distnihuolon and poverty ate
sinlpit popniotiatln-aoioved geooeai,  teota vlcho tcthe etc lesion of secret e values.
LAND AREA (thouaaad sq. k)                                                              Population pee hospital bed - toal, urban. ed nasal - Pepalatlon (total,
Total -Toe1 su-rf-a a-re  t=priting land coae  end island caters,                        urban, and ccI) divided by thei  respecnine cachet of hospital beds
Agric-ltural - Most rocent estImate of agricultural area ased temporerily                av-ilabl-  in public and pIinato general sod specialised hospital aud ro-
pr Poomasastly fr coops, pastures, n,arket and kitches gardsss or to                   hsbilitatin cntoers.  Hgopitala are e-stblhshmennt porocoently staffed by
tie faliew.                                                                            cI  least en  physician.  EaehbiShl ents p-oviding principslly custodial
-  crs ane not i-nlded.  Rural hospitas  h.wons'   inld-elhadndi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US)) - GNP per capita estira tea anearrst market pIiosrl enters ot p-en                                    uatffed by a physician (hut by a nedtcai ta
calculated by tame  -unnrsi-n method a. World Bask Atlas (197S-77 basis);              siscant, coos, nidwifa, nit.) which affer in-patient a -oonmodetion and
1960, 1970, and 1977 dots.                                                             p-oide a limited rest If ,edical facilIties.
Admissions ac  hospital hd-Total nu,bsc of adnissons to  -c discharges
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Ansuel coss-ptile  of conc-rcial energy                   foo  hospitals dividad by the auber If beds.
(coal sod lignite  petroleum  natural gas sd hydIc-  nuclear and gSo-
thermal electriciny) in kllogresa at usal simidslent per napita.                  io9dgPal
Aver-a- sine of houseehld (eeoce per hounehold) - total  urban-  and rural-
POPULATION Ab'D VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A household consinia of a group of individuals who there lining qoartera
Torai population, mid-tear (millinon) - hA of July 1: if not avoiloble,                  and theIr main meals.  A hoarder or lodgor nay o  ny not be included in
navrage of To end-your eseisaton   1960  197,  sod 1977 data                           the ho.s.hold for  atitictoal p-ru a.   Statistical defioitiot. of hbnse-
Imebas population (percet oa  toual) - Raio of urbanto toral pcpsls-                    hbld  ary.
tion; dlfferant dsfnitions of urban ara.s net affect comparsbility                  Akerage number of persona pot rooc - total  urban, and  -urae    - Ak-rage nun-
of dato stung nountrion                                                                ber if peraont per room in all  urban, und  Arl ocapiad enhe-ttionsl
Paopulatto  densitn                                                                      dwellings, rerpectlely    Dvellinga exclude nan-peraSnent atrucuares and
ren  anq km. - Ofid-yoar papuisnian per square kiloe ter (100 heotores)                 unoccupied pat.s
of  "totl area.                                                                      Accessto eleotritity (percent of dwelelngs) - total, orht, and cura  -
Per oq  km. earkeltare land - Canpyted as abuts for agrizult.rol land                  Conventional dwellings with electriotty in lining q.asaRrs as perctage
only.                                                                                  of total, urban, and tura  dwollings mypectinely.
Ppopsltion ac strooture  .perc-.t) - Children (0-1  y..sc, ao. king-sge
(15-64 yearn), and rsticed (65 pears end over) as perce-tages of mid-             EDUCATTON
your populatio.n                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratins
Populatiop growth rate (percent) - total, and nrban - Conpound annual                  Primary school - total, and female - Tota  and fe=sei  -n-ollment of all ages
growth  rates If total and urban mid-yeso populations fto  1950-60,                    at the primary level as pernenrofes nf respectively prinaryachccl-age
1960-70, nd 1970-75.                                                                   popalatias,; normally includes children agod 6-1l yearn but adjusted for
Crude birth  rate (pee thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                    different lengths of prinary educnticn; fir countrios with universal edu-
mid-year papulation; ten-yeer srithtic -varagee  ending in 1960 end                    ostion esrnllment nay esceed 100 petcent  aince sane pupils are below or
1970 and fis-ypeer annerge ending in 1975 for m I.. recent estimate,                   sboe the official ahool age.
Crtds death rats (per thousand) - Annual deathb  per thousend of nid-                  Seo=ndary school - tta,  and fenalo - Co=poted as  habve; aecondary edica-
year population; ten-year anit.oetto aI soags-   en-ding in 1960 and 1970              tion reqiroa at lenas  four yearn of approved primary inatruction; pro-
and fine-yeat average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate                          widen general vccatlonal,  or teacher moltng inatr_cti.a. fur pupiia
Grdse reproduction rate - Average somber of dagitersa   w omen will bear                 ueually uf 12 ti  17 yenrs of ige; -orreepond-na c.onr:e  a00  generally
in her normsl ospraduntite period if she experiences prosess age-                      .exluded
speoific fertility rates; usu. lly fits-year aneragee ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of aecondary) - Vocational ineti1tti.on   in-
1970ad  95.                                                                            clods technical, industrial, at other pragnans which operate independently
Family Planning - acueisoc. asnnal (thiosasid) - Annual somber at                        or me deperineote of senondery institution.
acoeptoos of birth-csntrol deviiea under auspices of national fanily                PupCl-teether ratio - pri=arn. and secondary - Total students scrolld in
planaing program                                                                       prirary end aocondary levels divided by nu=bera of teohnere in tho  -erre-
Family planniog - users (percent of manried wanes) - Peruestoge of                       sponding levels.
married women of ohild-bo.risg age (li-i4 years) who ase birth-ontrol               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Lt ..tc adulit  (chbI  to coad atd cIrte) as
devlceu eoial  tarcied women in  ame age gruup,                                        a perennage uP totrs  adult populunion aged 15 yours and coot
POOD _AND NiJTRlTION                                                                  CONgRli'TdON
tidem of fod produian per cpita (197-liP) -ITdeo sucke  of pen          Ps.ssneen 0mm. (per th2sadpcuoinn      oesne  cc   aprinn mason uaon
cIata anl prIoUduuniun of oll fond cuor editIes.                                     sateing leea then eight  srasns;  x                                   dludoa aances 'r n cod military
Per capita supplv of calorie   (Ipeocent of o.Quirenenst) - Computed fron              vehicles.
energy equivalent of not food supplieas avileble in country per capits              Eadi' reoeivera (peI   thousand populatlon) - All types of receivers fan redio
per day.  Available supplies comprise do=eotic prodution, imparts less               breadnaste tI general pnblic per  Ihounand of population; exclakes unlicensed
e-porta, end changes in  tock.  Net supplies  occlude animal feed, needs,            reopivers in countries and in yearn  when registration of nadio ntet. wa  in
quantitiea ..ed in food prones-ing, and losses in distribotion.   E-                 effect; data far recent years may non ho comparable since mast countriea
quirementa were enti-eted by FAO based on phystological needs for nor-               abolished licenaing.
ml activity and health considering envirtomental nempersture, body                  TV reninern (per th.ousad popalatton) - T r-ceivers fin  bra.duat to gener&
.eights, age and aeo ddntriht tions of yapalation, and allowing 10 per-                public per thot.snd populftion; eocludea unlitessed TV receivers in noun-
cent for waste at household lovel                                                      tries and in yearn when registration uf TV -eta wan in effect.
Per capita ueply of Protein (grams per day) - Protein -ontent of per                  Newspaper ciralNation (per thisasnd population) - Shows the average ciroula-
capita net supply ad food per day.  Net apply of food is defined as                    ti-n of "daily general interout newspaper', defined as a           periodical yabli-
above.  Requlrenenic for sOl coun_ries esteblip ed by f     iDA  provide gon           nation devoted prissoily  to recording general news.  It is nonidered to
o minimum ailonanoe of 60 grace of total  protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daoly" if it appears at least four tines a week.
If enimal and pulse protein, of which iS grams should be esimal protein.            Cinema msssal attendance per capit. per year - I..ed cn the cacbet of tickets
These atondards are lower than those ad 7h grams of total protein and                  sold during the yea-, including admisa tn   drioc-in cine.a.   and mobile
23 grassado animal protein as an average fur the world, proposed by                    units.
FAT in the Third World Food Survey.
Pot canine protein aupely from m=inial and Palse - Protein supply of find            2ILOYIENT
devived  ross animals and pulses in gr-.s per day.                                  Teta labor foote (thousands) - Etono=ically active persons,  including armed
thild (ages 1-4) cortality rate (per thousand) - Anoual deaths per thous-                farces and unemployed but excluding housewives, atudotna, etc   Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tios in various countries are not conprable.
pemale (percent) - Female labor forco an percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor forte in forming, foreotry, hunting and fiahing
Lift expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of yearn  of life                      ma per-eetage af total labor force.
remaining at  birth; usually floe-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               'ndustrv (percent) - Labor for-e in  iting, conntruction, canuifnturing end
and 1i7.                                                                               electricity, eater and gas en percontags of total labr force.
Infant -ontulity rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Perticipaetin rate (percent) - total, male, and femele - Total, male, and
one year of ago per thousand live birht.                                               female labor force as percentages of their rcspenti-e populations.
Accesa cc aafe water (percent of ppoplatio=) - total, urban, end rural -                 These are ILO's adjusted porticip.tico rates reflecting ag0-t50
Number of people (total, uoban, a-d rural) with reasonable acces to                    str-turo af the population. end ionR tie trend.
tafe -ator supply (includes treated sarfac.ewaters or untreated bht                 Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population unden 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water ouch as that fran protected boreholee, springs,                   the Ishbr fare in age group of 15-64 y-.s
and cooitary velia) as pettertogeo of their respective populationa.
In an urban are: a public fountain an sICndEost loaterd oot moos                    IOHE DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters fran a h-o.. coy 'o nosaiderId as being within rea-                 Percentage of private incone (both in oath and kind) received by richest S
nonabla  -"ccNo of that hoo.s  In rural areas reseonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 pecent
imply that thi  housewife or cembers of the household do set have to                   If households.
sp-nd g dispruport nIu_n yart of the day in fetohin.sthe family's
cater  eeds.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta dluposal (percent of Population) - total urban  and                 Estinated absolute po-entv income level (10$ per  ap.it.) - urban end rural -
eural - Sachet of pnople (total. urban, and nural) served by e-creta                      Absolute poverty i--one level is that income level below which a minimal
dinp..al as perconsages  of their respective pIpuationse  El,rets                       outritiIoally adeqoate diet plus  -e-ntial noc-f-od requiresents in not
dispo:al nay include the collection and disposal, with or without                       affordable
treatment, of hI nan e. creta and wasto-water by water-borne systems                tstinated reletine povorty income lnvel (05$ per capita) - urban and rura1 -
or the use of pit priovie  and similar installations.                                   Relative poverty intoe level is that income level less than cne-third
foeslanion vet phynician -  uPpclsnio. dinaded by oumbec of practicing                    per capita personal income af the    notry.
phyoi,laou    noalified from a nedical school at umiveraity level                   Estimated population below povertv income level (perceot) - urban and ru-al -
apuiution ccc oursing po...n - Population dinided by number If                           Peroant of populatian (urban and rrotl) who are either "absolute poor" or
practiclng cal and f-nale graduatn nuae, practical curses, end                          "relativ  poor" whichever is greaor_
assistant nuraes.
tconomic sod Social DOto Division
Ec_oonic Analysis and ProJections Department



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODIJCT IN 1977                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
US$ million       %           1966-71            1971-76               1977
GNP at Market Prices             20,596        100.0            5.1                6.6                  6.3
Gross Domestic Investment          6,220        30.2            5.9               12.5                  1.4
Gross National Saving              5,393        26.2            2.4               10.8                 12.4
Current Account Balance             -827        -4.0
Exports of Goods, NFS              4,021        19.5           -0.5                5.6                 25.4
Imports of Goods, NFS             4,788         23.3            4.1                6.5                  5.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                   Labor Force                    V. A. per worker
US$ million            %        Million          X               US$_ %
Agriculture           5,826              28.1          7.7         48.1                757           58.4
Industry              7,195              34.7          2.2          13.8            3,270           252.2
Services              7,724              37.2          5.4         33.7             1,430           110.3
Unemployed               .                 .           0.7           4.4
Total/Average      20,745             100.0         16.0        100.0             1,297           100.U
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                         Central Government
(P billion)           % of GDP              (P billion)            2 of GDP
1977          1977           1971           1977          1977           1971
Current Receipts           22.7          14.8           11.3           20.0           13.1           9.2
Current Expenditure        19.3          12.6           10.1           16.9           11.0           7.6
Current Surplus             3.4           2.2            1.2            3.1            2.0           1.6
Capital Expenditures        5.4            3.5           1.6            5.1            3.3            1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972       1973       1974       1975        1976        1977
(P billion outstanding end period)
Money Supply                            6.5         7.3        9.0       10.3        12.1        14.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector            3.9         2.4        2.0        5.8         8.9        11.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector          12.6        16.2       24.2       28.5       33.6         38.0
(Percentage or Inldex Nulmbers)
Money as X of GDP                      11.5        10.1        9.0        8.9         9.2         9.7
General Price Index (1972 = 100)  100.0           112.2      156.9      168.5      177.7        195.3
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                     6.7        17.6       31.3        8.0         8.0         9.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector           -2.1      -38.5       -16.7      190.0       53.4        123.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector          21.7       28.6        49.4       17.8        17.9       161.0
/a  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailtixg
during the period covered.
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-76)
1975    1976    1977                                      US$ million    %
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                     591       24.7
Exports of Goods, NFS           3,076   3,330   4,021   Sugar Products                          536       22.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          4,116   4,383   4,788   Forest Products                         288        12.1
Resource Gap (deficit = -)  -1,040  -1,053    -767   Copper & Products                          438       18.2
Nontraditional Manufactures          141        5.9
Interest Payments (net)           -53    -185    -320   Other Goods                            402        16.8
Other Factor Payments (net)   -149    -138                  Total                            2,395       100.0
Net Transfers                     318      269      260
Balance on Current Account    -924  -1,107    -827   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977 /c
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment         125      144      216
Net MLT Borrowing                                         Public Debt, including Guaranteed          3,656
Disbursements                   677   1,407   1,229   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   2,907
Amortization                    318      368     544   Total Outstanding and Disbursed             6,563
Subtotal                     359   1,039       685
Other Capital (net) /a            -80    -236      +90   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)         -521    -160       164
Public Debt, including Guaranteed            7.8
Gross Reserves                                            Nonguaranteed Private Debt                   9.8
(end year) /b                1,361   1,642   1,525   Total Outstanding and Disbursed                17.6
Petroleum Imports                 710      801      859
IBRD/IDA LENDING, September 30, 1978 (US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                   IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages         End Period   Outstanding and Disbursed               499.3   29.4
1975     1976      1977   Dec. 1977    Undisbursed                            1,105.0   30.8
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed   1,604.3   60.2
US$1.00 =  P   7.275    7.447    7.407    7.388
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.138    0.134    0.135    0.135
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IMF credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b  Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/c  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
/d  Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANIC GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
An of September 30, 1978
Loan or
Credit                                                           Amounts ($ million)
Number      Year       Borrower          Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and two credito fully disbursed               252.4    19.5
720-PH    1971                          Rice Processing
and Storage       14.3                2.3
809-PH    1972    National Power
Corporation      Power               22.0                 4.0
349-PH    1973    Repu-lic of the
Philippines      Education II                  12.7       2.7
891-PH     1973           '             Fisheries           11.6                0.7
939-PH     1973                         Ports                6.1                1.4
950-PH     1973                         Second Highways   68.0                  7.4
984-PH     1974                         Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5                4.8
998-PH     1974           "             DFC-DBP I           50.0                4.6
1034-PH     1974    National Power
Corporation      Power                61.0                8.4
1035-PH     1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population          25.0                16.4
1048-PH     1974                         Shipping            20.0               13.9
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                  30.0                15.2
1080-PH     1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines         Irrigation        17.0                9.3
1102-PH     1975                         Rural
Develop-ent      25.0                19.7
1120-PH     1975                         Snall and Medium
ITdustries       30.0                 8.0
1154-PH     1976                         Magat
Irrigation       42.0                27.9
1190-PH     1976           "             DFC-DBP 71I         75.0               44.9
1224-T-PH  1976                          Edocation III       25.0               19.5
1225-PH     1976                         Li-ent-ck It        20.5               10.6
1227-PH     1976                         Chico Irrigation  50.0                 47.0
1272-T-PH  1976            "             Manila Urban        10.0                8.0
1282-PH    1976            "             Manila Urban        22.0               17.6
1269-PH    1976                          Second Grail
Processing        11.5               11.5
1270-PH     1976           "             Second Pisheries  12.0                  9.0
1353-PH     1977                         Third Highways    95.0                 89.2
1367-PH    1977             "            Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                 14.4
1374-PH     1977           "             Fourth Education  25.0                 22.7
1399-PH     1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
tie Philippines   Credit             36.5                29.7
1414-PH    1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines         tion Systems
Improvement      50.0               44.8
1415-PH     1977                         Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0                 21.5
1421-PH     1977                         Second Rural
Developoent-
Land Settlement 15.0                 14.9
1460-PH     1977    Natiooal Power
Corpo-ation      Seventh Power        58.0               57.7
1506-PH     1978    Republic of the   Snallholder Tree
Philippines         Farming            8.0                8.0
1514-PH     1978    Phllippine
National Bank   DFC (PDCP)            30.0               30.0
1526-PH     1978    Republic of the   Second Notional
Philippises         Irrigation
Sys tens
Inprovemest      65.0               65.0
790-PH     1978    Republic of the   Rural Infra-
Philippines         structure                  28.0      28.0
0.8-PH     1978    Republic of the
Philippines      Education             2.0                2.0
1547-PH     1978    Republic of the   Rural Electri-
Philippines         fication          60.0               60.0
1555-PH     1978    Philippine
National Bank   DFC-PISO              15.0               15.0
1567-PH    1978    Republic of the
Philippines      MAGAT II            150.0              150.0
1572-PH     1978    Republic of the   Industrial
Philippines         Investment III  80.0                 80.0
1615-PH *  1979    Repoblic of the   Second Manila
Philippines         Water Supply    88.0                 88.0
Total                                            1,725.4    60.2  1,135.7
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                         121.1        -
Total now outstanding                            1,604.3    60.2
Amount sold                        22.1
of which han been repaid
(third parties)                  13.1              9.0        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adju-tme-st)                                  1,595.3    60.2
Total undisbursed                                1, 105.0    30.7  1,135.7
N Sot yet effecti-e.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1978
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0      4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0        -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.0       4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                           4.5        -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8      0.4       1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                   -      2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2      2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                15.0        -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9     0.3       2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5       -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5          0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2       -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0        -       7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2       2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2       3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.  2.1          -        2.1
Total gross commitments                      73.1    15.3       88.4
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                        27.7    12.0       39.7
Total commitments now held by IFC            45.4      3.3      48.7
Undisbursed                                   5.1        -       5.1



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is financing the diversion of water from the Aurora
basin into the Pantabangan reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for
30,000 ha of rice land in Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and
abutment area grouting on the two diversion dams was more extensive than
originally expected, progress on the transbasin diversion has been excellent.
Diversion of 75% of Aurora water, on closure of the first dam in July 1975,
was an early benefit for the Central Luzon rice growing area. The second dam
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
was closed on April 1, 1976, about one year ahead of schedule. In the service
area, lack of competition and high bids delayed awarding of contracts, but
five small local construction firms are now at work. Urgent work is being
done by government forces. Project costs have increased about 54% over
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation. Although there
are added benefits from early diversion resulting in additional water for
irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have been added to the
project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at appraisal to
around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement on the Loan
has begun. Because of delays in completion of civil works in the Penaranda
service area, full disbursement is not likely to be completed until mid-1979
and the Closing Date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit to the private sector
through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for marine and inland
fisheries development. The Loan became effective on December 5, 1973. It is
fully committed, and is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date
(June 30, 1979). DBP has had difficulty in setting up a benefit monitoring/
evaluation system on its own, but it is now seeking local consultancy assistance.
Although not entirely satisfactory, loan collections have been considerably
better than for most of DBP's agricultural operations.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and to extend irrigation
to 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Upgrading of project roads
and construction of new roads also are included. In addition, the project
provides for a groundwater irrigation pilot project, a National Irrigation
Systems Improvement Study (NISIS), and a water management training program.
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining work is
under way. General progress, although slower than originally estimated, is
improving. Progress on the groundwater, water management training and NISIS
components of the project is satisfactory. Due to the necessity of adding
drainage systems not included originally, completion of the project is now
expected to be delayed until the end of 1980.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out rural devel-
opment on the island of Mindoro. Progress in the implementation of irrigation



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
systems and on the improvement of the port of Calapan is now accelerating.
Progress has also been made on the Mangyan (Minority) Assistance Program,
reforestation of watersheds and drainage of schistosomiasis affected areas.
The construction of roads has now begun after delays caused by the unsatisfac-
tory performance of a number of contractors. Disbursements, which currently
stand at 39% of projections, are lagging behind physical accomplishment due to
difficulties encountered in prompt processing of force account work and in
coordinating disbursement requests between agencies. Steps are now being
taken to streamline disbursement procedures.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on engineering and economic evaluation studies of the
proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by local
contract and force account for rehabilitation and new construction of canals;
drains and access roads is progressing well. The water management training is
continuing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. Despite a relative slowdown in lending over the past year, the
project remains several months ahead of schedule and would be fully disbursed
well before the Closing Date of June 30, 1982. The demand for piggery and
poultry subloans has exceeded appraisal estimates, but lending for beef cattle
development lags behind due to problems of land tenure, financial incentives,
technical knowledge and pasture development. The Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), the project executing agency, has strengthened its technical
supervision of subloans, but further improvements are required in its management
information system and loan collection performance.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Erosion Control Study and input-output monitoring program
are progressing satisfactorily. Although construction is nearly a year
behind schedule, sufficient equipment has been delivered so that force
account work can now proceed rapidly. Also bids have been opened for the
first major construction contract, and this construction should soon be
started.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) to assist in increasing fish production for
domestic consumption. Fishing vessels, iceplants with cold storage, a slipway,
and new and rehabilitated milkfish ponds are being financed under the project.
The loan became effective on November 15, 1976. Subloan approvals by DBP were
ahead of schedule in the first half of 1977, but have slowed down considerably,
due to problems in procurement procedures for fishing vessels, and DBP's
increased emphasis on loan collection. The procurement issue has been resolved
and the project is expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Detailed design for a major part of the works has been completed.
Contracts have been awarded for the procurement of equipment and vehicles.
Contracts for the improvement and enlargement of existing main canals of the
four systems are being awarded and construction is commencing. The overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium- and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. With the recent increased participation of many
rural banks, commitments have recovered from an initial low rate. However, a
shortfall in commitments of as much as 20% may still be experienced because of
a decline in demand for four-wheel tractors without compensating growth in
demand in other subloan categories. In order to determine what changes in
project design or duration may be needed to ensure effective use of project
resources unlikely to be committed to this category of subloan, the Central
Bank is conducting a comprehensive reassessment of the lending program to be
reviewed with the next supervision mission.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed ahead of schedule.
Project works are slightly behind schedule; however, with strengthening of
design teams in the regional offices, a major part of the design would be
completed before the end of 1978. Construction activities during 1977/78 dry
season are limited to the improvement of secondary laterals and the construc-
tion of service roads along these laterals in the Ilocos subproject.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve its National
Resettlement Program through technical assistance, organizational changes and
pilot programs to provide infrastructure and agricultural support services in
three settlement areas. The loan became effective on October 27, 1977. Proce-
dural problems concerning budget releases and staff appointments have adversely
affected progress in project implementation and have resulted in the execution
of most scheduled events being about a year behind schedule. However, progress
in detailed planning and design is generally satisfactory and the Government
has taken steps to resolve budgetary difficulties.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is a continuation of the US$2 million Bank-financed Tree-
farming Pilot Project (Loan 998-PH), with additional project components in
large-scale plantations, forestry research and planning. Operations have begun
for most project components. Although the large-scale plantation component is
below target because of insufficient seed supply and managerial constraints,
no delaying effect on project completion is anticipated. Initial budgetary
deficiencies are expected to be overcome at the latest by the second year.
Due to the early stage of the project, disbursements have not yet begun.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 12, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government to improve and develop irri-
gation systems on 80,900 ha, control schistosomiasis and strengthen the National
Irrigation Administration regional offices. The Loan Agreement was signed on
March 15, 1978 and became effective on June 12, 1978. The project is in its
initial stages of mobilization and preconstruction activities. Topographic
surveys and mapping are ahead of schedule. Improvement of main and secondary
canals is expected to start in November 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Credit No. 790      Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The credit is financing the construction and improvement of basic
infrastructure in six provinces chosen on the basis of low level of per capita
income and inadequate infrastructure. The infrastructure funded includes
communal irrigation systems, improvement of parts, health stations, rural
water supply and village roads. The credit was signed on April 21, 1978.
The Project is in its initial stages of mobilization and preconstruction
activities. Construction work on communal irrigation systems and village
roads is expected to start in November 1978.
Loan No. 1563-PH   The Magat River Multipurpose Project-Stage II; $150 Million
Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project will assist the Government through completion of Stage II
of this project, to provide water to irrigation systems and improve systems
operation on 102,000 ha. Preconstruction works have been completed and works
on dam foundation grounding, drainage gallery tunneling and river diversion
tunnels are underway and expected to be completed by 1979. Bids for civil
works contract for the main dam were opened on April 27, 1978 and are now being
evaluated.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
Progress has improved on civil works construction for both General
Santos and Cagayan de Oro, and the delays reduced to two and five months
respectively behind schedule. Work is now 65% completed at General Santos and
40% at Cagayan de Oro. About 180 m of the new quay at General Santos and 60 m
at Cagayan de Oro, have been turned over to the Philippine Ports Authority
(PPA) and are now in use.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
While over 95% of the construction program has been successfully
completed, one of nine national roads is behind schedule due to difficulties
experienced by the contractors in prosecuting the work. For this reason,
project completion is expected to be delayed 24 months beyond the appraisal
schedule. UNDP-financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975,
detailed engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) in August
1976, and detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project in
October 1977. Weighbridges for axle load control has been procured, civil



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
works for permanent weigh stations are underway and the axle load control
program is scheduled for initial implementation by August 1978. The total
cost of the project has increased substantially (about 32% above the appraisal
estimate) due to the oil price increases in late 1973, delays in project
execution, and continuing inflation.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries for the
acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and conversions.
Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the private
sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of loans, restric-
tive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending terms offered by
DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending institutions in the
Philippines. However, these problems have now been resolved and subloan
commitments are expected to be fully made within the next six months.
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded for all national roads and contractor
mobilization is underway. Consultants for supervision of construction have
been appointed and have established themselves in the field. The technical
assistance advisors for maintenance improvement and road restoration have
been appointed and took up their duties beginning in September 1977. The
training advisors were appointed and began work in July 1977. The consul-
tants for the road and ferry feasibility studies have been appointed and
began work in November 1977. Consultants for workshop design and construc-
tion supervision have been appointed and began work in May 1977. After
a delay of about 12 months, the road maintenance and road restoration program
is now beginning to be implemented with planning of road restoration proj-
ects underway, contracts for 8 out of 28 workshops awarded, procurement conr-
tracts for maintenance equipment, spare parts, tools and machinery being
prepared and normal maintenance activities being organized. Overall, project
costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates but indications are
that project execution will be delayed by about 12 months due to late start
of some critical activities.
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All of the 32 project institutions have been
completed and three fourths of the technical assistance program has been
completed. Cost overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of
inflation and earlier lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of
equipment purchased has been reduced to compensate for cost overruns. The
fellowship program is behind schedule, and will extend two years beyond the
Closing Date. Savings in the Third Education Project will finance the balance
of the program.
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Implementation is
proceeding on schedule, and project costs are well within appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is assisting the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of the project is generally on schedule, with the exception of
civil works contract awards which have been delayed by about four months because
of delayed government clearances. Project costs are within the appraisal
estimates.
Loan No. S-8-PH  Educational Radio Technical Assistance; $2 million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The proposed project is assisting the Government to develop and evalu-
ate the cost effectiveness of educational radio in inservice teacher training
and primary classroom teaching. The loan became effective on August 22, 1978.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan is financing: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. The progress of
the project is generally satisfactory. A paper on the status of this project
was submitted to the Executive Directors in December 1977.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is financing: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
There has been a delay of about 2 months in the preparation of detailed designs
for the construction of water supplies to six cities. This loss of time is
expected to be made up in the coming months. The preparation of feasibility
studies for 10 cities is on schedule as is also the Manila Sewerage Design Study.
The Government is also taking action for the training of staff in the design of
small community water supplies.
Loan No. 1615   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of July 26,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
This loan is assisting the Government to provide safe water for an
additional four million people in Metropolitan Manila, as well as improve the
service to some 3 million who are inadequately served at present. The Loan
Agreement was signed July 26, 1978. It is not yet effective.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296 of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which
has been postponed from June 30, 1978 to December 31, 1978. A tariff
increase was approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to enable
NPC to achieve the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in
operation. Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program. For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended. Costs
have increased by 21%, largely due to inflation.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978.
Loan No. 1547   Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project will help finance the 1979/80 rural electrification
program of the National Electrification Administration. The loan became
effective on August 17, 1978. Procurement action is under way.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirable and
financially viable industrial subprojects. As of October 13, 1978, commitments



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
for subloans totaling $24.9 million had been made. While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance the foreign exchange component of medium
and relatively large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors
approved a proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and
medium industries on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement
to this effect was signed on March 16, 1977. As of October 13, 1978, the
allocation of $50 million for medium- and large-scale industry had been fully
committed. In addition, $13.9 million had been disbursed against the allocation
for small- and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines; $30 Million
Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan was signed on February 9, 1978, and became effective June 23,
1978.
Loan No. 1555   Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO); $15 Million
Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan was signed on May 8, 1978. It became effective May 12, 1978.
Loan No. 1572   Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines; $80 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This loan was signed on June 6, 1978. It became effective September 15,
1978.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: 3 months.
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Ministry of Agriculture.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: February, 1977.
First mission to consider the project:   November 1977.
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: February 20, 1978.
(e) Completion of negotiations: September 13, 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: March 1979.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A Bank mission will visit the Philippines in June 1979 to (a) review
terms of reference for the studies financed under the project; (b) establish
reporting requirements; and (c) help to identify key parameters to be used for
interim monitoring of effectiveness of extension services.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following special conditions are incorporated in the Loan
Agreement:
(a) MOA would, in accordance with Presidential Decree 1579, be reorgan-
ized, including the appointment by January 31, 1980 of twelve
Regional Directors and at least two Assistant Regional Directors for
each of the Regional Directors (para. 43).
(b) MOA would expand its technical staff by about one-third in accordance
with a timetable agreed with the Bank (para. 46).
(c) NFAC would, by July 31, 1979 complete draft terms of reference for
review by the Bank for consultant studies of ways to develop
a more effective monitoring and evaluation system. Consultants
acceptable to the Bank would be appointed by December 31, 1979
(para. 47).
(d) MOA would, by July 31 of each year, beginning in 1980, submit to the
Bank a report reviewing the activities and achievements of the
extension service over the past year (para. 47).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e) The Ministry of the Budget would:
(1) draw up in consultation with the Bank, by July 31, 1979, terms
of reference for a study of job functions and compensation of
rural technicians employed by government agencies;
(ii) evaluate the findings of the study in consultation with the
Bank by March 31, 1981; and
(iii)  implement a plan of action based on the findings of the study
and agreed with the Bank by January 31, 1982 (para. 48).
(e)  MOA would establish an adequate system of providing transportation
allowances by January 31, 1981, based on studies of the transporta-
tion costs involved in achieving effective extension (para. 48).



