Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2049-PH
S L  < w4 tZ  k,,D ,.
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
October 24, 1978
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1.00       =    Pesos (P) 7.4
P 1.00         =    US$0.135
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES = METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)               =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km              -   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)  =   0.3881 square miles
1 meter (m)                  =   39.37 inches
1 cubic meter (cu m)         =   35.31 cubic feet
1 millimeter (mm)            =   0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)              =   2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BAECON    -      Bureau of Agricultural Economics
BAI       -      Bureau of Animal Industry
BAEx      -      Bureau of Agricultural Extension
BPI       -      Bureau of Plant Industry
BS        -      Bureau of Soils
FMT       -      Farm Management Technician
HMT       -      Home Management Technician
MOA       -      Ministry of Agriculture
NFAC      -      National Food and Agriculture Council
NCP       -      Nutrition Center of the Philippines
NNC       -      National Nutrition Council
NTC-RD    -      National Training Centers for Rural
Development
PTC-RD    -      Philippine Training Centers for Rural
Development
RYDO      -      Rural Youth Development Officer
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES: NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.    BACKGROUND. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              1
The Rural and Agricultural Sector . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
Agrarian Reform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             2
Food Production Programs.                                             2
Nutrition Programs.                                                   3
Experience with Past Lending  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             4
2.    THE PRESENT EXTENSION SYSTEM  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              6
Ministries and Agencies Providing Extension . . . . . . .             6
Extension Services of the Ministry of Agriculture . . . .             8
Status  .    .  .    .  .    .    .  .  .    .    .  .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .    .    .    .  .  .  8
Problems .9
Activities.                                                         9
(a) Farm Management Technicians . . . . . . . . . . .            10
(b) Home Management Technicians . . . . . . . . . . .            10
(c) Rural Youth Development Officers  . . . . . . . .            11
(d) Livestock Officers  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            11
Coordination of Extension with Local Programs                      12
3.  THE PROJECT.12
3.   TEPOET .    .  .    .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  1
Objectives   ..12
Project Identification/Preparation  . . . .    .12
Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            13
(a) Organizational Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            13
(b) Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings . . . . . . . . .            13
(c) Extension Methodology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            13
(d) Staffing Program and Training . . . . . . . . . . .            13
(e) Studies/Consultant Services   . . . . . . . . . . .            14
Detailed Features    ..14
Vehicles and Communications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            14
Audio-Visual Training and Demonstration Aids  . . . . . .            16
Office, Printing and Reproduction Equipment . . . . . . .            17
Civil Works   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            18
Staffing and Training   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            19
4.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING  ...  .  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  21
Cost Estimate ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  21
Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            22
Procurement .23
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of Messrs. Forno
and Luhman and Ms. Sjamsu (Bank) and Messrs. Rohde and Jessup (consultants)
who visited the Philippines from February 20 to March 10, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     r
Accounts and Audit .                                                  24
Environmental Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             Wt
Role of Women .. . . ............ . .....    24
5.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             25
Ministry Reorganization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Organization of the Extension Service . . . . . . . . . .             27
Operations of the Extension Service . . . . . . . . . . .             27
Responsibilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             27
Extension Methodology   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 28
Preparation of Demonstration Materials  . . . . . . . . .             29
Links with Research   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             29
Salaries and Allowances ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  30
Vehicle Plan  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  31
Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             31
6.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS   . . . . . . . . . . . .             32
Benefits     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
Justification   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             33
Risks      .. .                                                       34
7.    AGREEM1ENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS  ..34
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table No.
2.1  Main Agencies Providing Agricultural and
Nutritional Supporting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . .              5
3.1  Vehicles and Communication Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . .             15
3.2  Audio-Visual Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             17
3.3  Office and Printing Equipment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             18
3.4  Technical Staff Build-up . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             20
3.5  Main Training Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             21
4.1  Project Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             22
4.2  Financing     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            23
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 2.1  Existing Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture               7
Figure 5.1  New Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture                   26
ANNEXES
1.  Project Cost Phasing                                                      36
2.  Training Needs and Costs                                                  39



- 3 -
Page No.
ANNEXES (continued)
3.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                                      40
4.  Economic Analysis                                                        41
5.  Documents in Project File                                                42
LIST OF M4APS
IBRD - 13155R The Philippines






PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The project is designed to accelerate and sustain technology trans-
fer (a) to promote further production increases in the main food crops and
expand livestock production; (b) to improve the quality of rural life through
higher incomes, better nutrition and improved home management; and (c) to
reduce rural unemployment by assisting out-of-school youth establish backyard
livestock enterprises. Together these activities are directed towards increasing
farm income, improving rural family life and reducing rural unemployment. The
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),I1 would be the key executing agency.
The Rural and Agricultural Sector
1.02      Some 31 million people or 70% of the Philippine population live
in rural areas where social services are poor, economic activities limited,
agricultural productivity often low and underemployment high. The rural
population is growing at 2.7% per year, reflecting a natural increase of
about 3.2% and an annual rate of migration to the cities of 0.5%. By 1985,
rural-urban migration is expected to reach 1.1% per year, placing considerable
strain on urban infrastructure and services.
1.03      Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about 30% of gross domestic product and over one-half of
total employment. Small farms provide the main income for 65% of the rural
population. Other sources of income include forestry, fishing, mining,
small-scale manufacturing and service industries. Farming is chiefly
oriented towards food grain production (60% rice and 40% corn) for domestic
consumption, while coconuts and sugar are the main export crops. Although
agriculture is still by far the largest export sector, the contribution of
agriculture (including forestry) to export earnings has fallen from more than
70% in the early 1970s to less than 60% in 1977, largely due to the rapid
growth of nontraditional manufactured exports.
1.04      Agriculture's performance was exceptionally strong in 1976, when pro-
duction increased by 7%, compared with the trend growth rate of 4.5%. Rice
and corn production were both at record levels. The agricultural terms of
trade improved by 18% during the period 1970-74, declined slightly in 1975 and
recovered to the 1974 level in 1976.  Domestic rice, corn and sugar prices
are largely administered, while coconut prices tend to fluctuate with the
world market. Government price intervention for rice was able to cushion
the impact on consumers of the 1972-73 crop damage and the peak world prices
/1 Prior to the shift in Government to a Parliamentary System in June 1978,
government agencies were organized into departments with the senior staff
position being that of Department Secretary.



- 2 -
of 1973-74, while at the same time allowing the farm-gate price for paddy to
rise with the trend in international prices. As a result of price adjustments
made in the last two years, domestic prices for major crops are in line with
world prices.
1.05      Because of these favorable developments in production and prices,
the growth of rural family incomes has exceeded that of urban incomes in the
last four years. The ratio of the average rural income to the average urban
income rose from 0.48 in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975, and the share of family incomes
received by the poorest 40% of families increased from 12% to 15% during the
same period. However, about 40% of all rural families earn incomes below the
level required to ensure adequate nutrition and provide essentials for
accepted minimum standards of living.
1.06      Government efforts to assist the rural poor have largely concen--
trated on the agricultural sector, and have been directed at achieving
Agrarian Reform and rice and corn production increases. Recently, however,
there has been strong Government support for nutrition programs, with the
realization that widespread malnutrition exists among children in the country,
despite the apparent successes in the food production programs. The achieve-
ments of the main government programs in the rural areas, together with the
outlook for the future are summarized below (paras. 1.07 to 1.11).
1.07      Agrarian Reform.  For historical reasons, land ownership in the
Philippines is inequitably distributed. The land transfer program, which has
been in operation for five years and covers rice and corn growing areas, pro-
ceeded quite rapidly when larger landholdings were the focus of concentration,
but progress has been slower recently as the focus has been on a larger number
of medium-sized holdings, which often belong to middle-class landowners. As
of June 1977, an estimated 120,000 tenants, or 30% of the total tenants under
the program, had recived Certificates of Land Transfer which established their
claim to the land. Despite the difficulties in the process of implementation,
the transfer program remains an important part of the Government's rural
development strategy, and is the responsibility of a separate ministry, the
Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR).
1.08      Food Production Programs.  Shortly after the declaration of Martial
Law in October 1972, three intensive food production programs were launched
by the then Department of Agriculture. These were (a) the Masagana 99
Program (signifying a target rice yield of 99 cavans  or 4.4 ton/ha), (b) the
Masagana Maisan Program, (or "bountiful harvest" corn production program) and
(c) the Gulayan Sa Kalusugan Program (vegetables for better health). The
effectiveness of the Masagana programs has recently been reviewed by the
Bank (Report Nos. 2177-PH and 2192-PH). For rice there have been signifi-
cant production improvements. Since 1973, when the Philippines had a net rice
deficit of around 600,000 tons, production has increased to a point where the
country was approximately self-sufficient in the crop year 1976/77, and had
a marketable surplus in excess of 100,000 tons in 1977/78. Although much of



the production increase in the past four years has resulted from favorable
weather, the Masagana 99 Program has certainly had a significant impact on
farmer adoption of improved rice varieties and cropping practices. It is
likely that for the next four to five years the country will be marginally
self-sufficient (with perhaps small surpluses for export) in good crop years,
and will be in a deficit position following years of bad weather. However,
beginning in the mid-1980s, the Philippines appears likely to move to a
persistent surplus position in rice. This will largely result from the
substantial increases in irrigated area which are now under development, and
from Government efforts to improve the quality and coverage of its extension
service and other supporting services to farmers.
1.09      Production of corn in the Philippines still falls far short of demand.
Although the country is self sufficient in white corn for human consumption,
its imports of yellow corn are usually around 160,000 tons annually. These
imports represent about 80% of the corn used by commercial feed millers.
Between 1961-77, corn production grew at an average annual rate of 5.7% of
which 3.3% was due to an area increase and 2.4% due to yield increases.
In the last five years, however, production increases have been due mainly to
increases in cropped area. This contrasts with the recent production increases
for rice which have resulted largely from higher yields. Despite government
efforts to promote feed grain production through its Masagana Maisan programs,
yields of yellow corn, which account for 8-9% of total production, have
declined on average by 6.5% per year. Much of the decline has been due to a
downy mildew disease which is now being intensively studied by plant breeders
and other researchers in the country. However, even with the existing corn
varieties in the Philippines, much could be done to boost yields through
better farming practices. Traditionally corn is grown by poorer farmers
with less arable farms. A well oriented extension force could have a
significant impact on corn yields through imparting improved, but simple
cultivation practices.
1.10      Nutrition Programs.  Since the establishment of the National
Nutrition Council (NNC) in 1974, together with its secretariat, the Nutrition
Center of the Philippines (NCP), well formulated programs of nutrition
monitoring, preventive and remedial activities have been devised. The
involvement of several government agencies and various private concerns
in the implementation of NCP programs, however, makes coordination difficult.
The Ministry of Agriculture is the main agency responsible for promoting
the preventive and technical aspects of the NCP program, while the Ministries
of Health (DOH) and Social Services (DSSD) are primarily concerned with
monitoring and remedial activities. The programs of the NCP have drawn
widespread attention to the nutritional problems existing in the Philippines,
particularly in infants among the poor and in the rural areas. This has
become very evident as a result of a nationwide, multiagency effort coordina-
ted by the NCP, wherein every preschool child is regularly weighed as a
measure of the overall effectiveness of nutrition programs, and as a means
of identifying localities with below average levels of nutrition. Initial
data collected on about a third of the country's pre-school children suggest
60% suffer from varying levels of protein-calorie malnutrition.



- 4 -
1.11      The nutrition programs make extensive use of public media, ranging
from radio and television to sophisticated advertising techniques, comic books
and simple posters. A remedial program of the NCP, which relies heavily on
promotion by extension workers, involves the sale at very low cost (P 0.5
each) of nutritious, locally prepared weaning foods, popularized under the
name of Nutripak. Some 90 packaging plants now operate and sell more than
14,000 Nutripaks a week. While this is not meant to be a solution to
the problem on a widescale basis, it does focus attention of parents on the
need for nutrition rehabilitation of children in their own homes. Another
important program has been the organization of interdisciplinary nutrition
committees at the regional, provincial, municipal and village (barangay)
levels, to stimulate local interest and to enable the national programs to be
tailored to local needs. In conjunction with these committees, a Barangay
(village) Nutrition Scholar's program is in effect to train volunteers to
carry out simple, nutritional surveillance of children. The network of
nutrition committees form the focal point for the dissemination of informa-
tion and back-up support by the Ministry of Agriculture's nutrition extension
force.
Experience with Past Lending
1.12      The proposed project would be the first Bank project directly
assisting the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), apart from US$0.8 million pro-
vided under the Fourth Education Loan (1374-PH) for mobile audio-visual
equipment. A number of previous Bank loans for agriculture and rural
development in the Philippines have relied on support from the Ministry of
Agriculture, particularly the extension services. To the extent that
staff, facilities and equipment were available, the support from the MOA has
been satisfactory. However, during implementation of the past several
irrigation loans, it has become evident that improvements in agricultural
extension services would further enchance the benefits expected from these
projects.
1.13      The proposed project would rely heavily on the National and Rural
Training centers (NTC-RD and PTC-RD) provided under the Fourth Education
Project (1374-PH). Much of the in-service and pre-service training of
extension staff would be done there since progress in establishing the
training centers and in drawing up curricula has been satisfactory. An
important contributing factor to the generally high level of agricultural
expertise in the Philippines has been the first and second education projects
(Loan 393-PH and Credit 349-PH), which financed training and development at
the University of Los Banos (UPLB) Agricultural College, and two regional
agricultural colleges, as well as equipment for 13 agricultural high schools.
1.14      The nutrition aspect of the proposed project also ties in with
the first Bank-assisted population project (Loan 1035-PH) under which some
200 rural health units have been constructed and a large number of midwives
trained for rural areas. There are now some 1,500 rural health units in the
country as well as a growing number of locally operated nutrition centers.
The extension service to be supported under the proposed project would
provide the technical back-up support for those rural centers and provide
the link between day-to-day operations and the programs and technology
developed by the Nutrition Council of the Philippines (NCP).



Table 2.1: MAIN AGENCIES PROVIDING AGRICULTURAL AND NUTRITIONAL SUPPORTING SERVICES
Approx. no.
Department/                         of field
agency                              staff /a                  Main function of field staff
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Bureau of Agricultural                                           Extension for farm improvement,
Extension (BAE)                             8,600                home management and youth development.
Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI)                2,700              Research and regulatory work on pests
and diseases.
Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI)               1,700              Extension on animal health and
husbandry to commercial scale livestock
enterprises.
Bureau of Soils (BS)                            550              Research on soil and fertilizer require-
ments.
Ministry of Agriculture: Attached
Agencies
Philippines Coconut Authority (PCA)             220              Extension on coconut  and intercrops.
Philippines Tobacco Authority (PTA & PVTA)   200                 Extension on tobacco production.
Philippines Cotton Growers Assn.
(Philcotton)                                  170              Extension on cotton production.
Philippines Sugar Ind. Authority
(Philsucom)                                    15              Extension on sugar cane production.
National Grains Authority                       460              Assist in marketing of food and feedgrains.
Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR)               3,140               Assist land reform beneficiaries
(withdrawing from agricultural exten-
sion work under PD 980.)
Ministry of Local Government and
Community Development (MLGCD)                 2,670               Provide a very limited amount of agricultural
and nutrition services. Also locally coordinate
services of other agencies.
Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR)
Bureau of Forest Development (BFD)            1,780               Forest regulatory, research and extension
work.
Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources (BFAR)                              560              Extension on fish production and handling.
Ministry of Education and Culture
(MEC)                                         6,520              Mainly school and community education.
Ministry of Health (MH)                        13,300               Rural health, medical, dental,
and nutrition services.
Ministry of Social Services (MSSD)              2,100               Social welfare including nutrition services.
National Irrigation Authority (NIA)             5,740               Regulate and maintain irrigation water supply and
provide a water advisory service in irrigated areas.
Farm Systems Dev. Corp. (FSDC)                    460               Provide agricultural extension as part of
cooperative development.
National Banking Agencies and Rural               830+              Provide agricultural extension as part of
Banks                                                               credit services.
/a Includes field supervisory staff.



2. THE PRESENT EXTENSION SYSTEM
Ministries and Agencies Providing Extension
2.01-     At present, about 15 government ministries and agencies and some
50,000 government staff provide varying forms of rural extension (see Table
2.1), although the borderline between truly agricultural extension and more
general rural community development and service is difficult to define.  In
practice, however, the Ministry of Agriculture with a field staff of about
10,000 is responsible for the dissemination of technical information in the
fields of crop and livestock production, home management, nutrition and
rural youth development. Where staff of other agencies are involved in
similar activities, a certain amount of overlap does occur. In most cases,
however, informal agreements exist between staff of the different agencies
as to their respective roles, although such roles may vary between agencies
from region to region. With regard to nutrition, however, where the largest
number of agencies are involved, the Ministry of Agriculture staff generally
provide more of a technical support and education role. The actual implemen-
tation of programs, such as the weighing and feeding of children is conducted
by rural health workers from other government agencies or from the municipali-
ties/ villages. Similarly, the distinction between the roles of field staff
of the Ministry of Agriculture (MIOA) and of the National Irrigation Authority
(NIA) is that the latter advise mainly on the efficient use of irrigation
water and are responsible for ensuring the timely delivery of water. The
fact that more efficient use is made of manpower and resources than the
large number of involved agencies tends to suggest, is due to the relatively
close coordination between staff at the field level on the various local
Action Committees (see para. 2.09).
2.02      Agricultural extension per se has developed quite strongly along
commodity lines. Coconuts are handled by the Philippine Coconut Authority
(PCA), sugar by the Philippine Sugar Commission (Philsucom), cotton by
Philcotton, and tobacco by the Philippine Tobacco (and Virginia Tobacco)
Administration (PTA and PTVA). All are either attached agencies or under
the administrative supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture (see Figure 2.1).
Extension services for other crops, mainly cereals (rice and corn), fruit and
vegetables are handled by the Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAEx).
Animal production is serviced by the Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI). Both
BAEx and BAI are line agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture (see
Figure 2.1).
2.03      With so many agencies presently involved in extension and such a
wide range of functions (see Table 2.1), it is inevitable that some rivalries
and confusion do exist among staff of various agencies, as to where their
responsibilities end and those of others begin. Discrepancies between
salaries and/or allowances paid to staff of different agencies, and even
within the same agency, for doing essentially the same job add to the
problem. In part this situation has inadvertently arisen as a side effect
of the quite successful intensive food production programs of Government,
which have been coordinated by NFAC - the National Food and Agricultural
Council. Although essentially a policy-making body comprised of representa-
tives from all ministries and agencies dealing with the rural sector, NFAC



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Figure 2.1 Existing Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture
Office of the
Minister
MAIN ATTACHED AGENCIES  & AGENCIES UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE SUPERVISION                          .
National Grain'              Philippine*                 Cocount|                                            Phil/Virginia'               Philippine*             PalaYan NG
Authority                  Coconut                   Investment                                         Tobacco Admin.                   Cotton                Bayan Nati.
(NGA)                 Authority (PCA)               Company                                            (PTA) & (PVTA)                CorprOTiON)          Advisory Committee
(PH ILCOTTON)
Philippi ne-              Philippine'.                National-                 Presidential*
National Food-                  Sugar                  Agricultural                   M eat                 Committee on
and Agricultural            Commission                   Training                   Inspection               Agricultural
Counc'i                (PHILSUCOM)                   Council                  Commission                    Credit
STAFF UNITS
Computer                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Financial
Agrarian Reform              Compuier                 Administrative                                           Planning                      and
U nit                    CetrService                                                                      Service                   Management
Servi ce
LINE BUREAUS
Bureau of                  Bureau of                 Bureau of                   Bureau of                   Bureau
Agricultural               Agricultural                 Animal                      Plant                       of
Economics                  Extension                  Industry                    Industry                    Seeds
(BAECON)                     (BAE)                      (BAI)                      (BPI)                       (BS)
Field Staff               Field Offices              Field Offices              Field offices              Field Offices
World Bank -19233



- 8 -
has become increasingly involved in implementation of the food programs,
largely because the extension agencies had insufficient resources to implement
the programs themselves. Consequently NFAC has (i) borrowed staff, mainly
from BAEx and BPI (i.e. Bureaus of Extension and Plant Industry); (ii) given
them more liberal living and travel allowances; (iii) provided them with
extension guidelines and technological back-up support and (iv) concentrated
them on the priority food production program areas. While undoubtedly this
has contributed, in the short run, to above average production increases in
parts of the country, it has tended to erode the responsibilities and capa-
bilities of BAEx.
2.04      Mindful of the proliferation of extension services and the discrep-
ancies in compensation, Government has recently initiated a number of actions
to help remedy the situation. For example, agricultural extension services
provided by the Ministry of Agrarian Reform (DAR) are being phased out under
Presidential Decree 980. Likewise, the Presidential Letter of Instruction
(LOI) No. 599 recognizes the importance of the extension worker in assisting
the rural population, and calls for a revision of salary scales. Also under
LOI 599 a Steering Committee has been formed to draw up plans on how Govern-
ment might achieve its long-term objective of having at least one extension
worker in every barangay (village). Government's request for Bank assistance
in strengthening the extension services of the Ministry of Agriculture, the
lead agency responsible for extension, forms a major part of Government's
strategy to streamline its extension services in rural areas.
Extension Services of the Ministry of Agriculture
2.05      Status.  The status of the extension service in the Philipines is
quite unlike that of other countries where the Bank has assisted extension.
The most notable features are the size of the extension force and the
academic qualifications of personnel. Within the Ministry of Agriculture
there are about 8,600 extension staff, of whom more than 90% have tertiary
level degrees, mainly Bachelor of Science in Agriculture. If those performing
agriculture extension are related to the number of rice and corn farmers in
the Philippines, there is a ratio of one extension worker to 270 farmers.
This should be a near optimum ratio and certainly is far superior to that in
countries such as Indonesia, Thailand and India where ratios are of the order
of 1:1,000 to 1:6,000.
2.06      Another notable feature is the relatively high standard of agri-
cultural research in the Philippines, and the availability of generally well
formulated packages of technology, particularly for rice, and to a lesser
extent for corn. For the past 40 years, the University in Los Banos (UPLB)
has been internationally recognized as a center for tropical agriculture
training and research. It has been strengthened through three Bank education
loans (see para. 1.13) as well as various other sources of aid. Its capacity
has been further strengthened by the establishment of the International Rice
Research Institute (IRRI), adjacent to the university complex. Furthermore,
the agricultural research done at UPLB, IRRI and the various Ministry of
Agriculture and private research stations are coordinated and evaluated by
the Philippine Council for Agricultural Resources and Research (PCARR).
Major functions of PCARR are the formulation of research programs and the
packaging of technology for promotion by the extension service. Likewise as



- 9 -
discussed in para.  .010, the Nutrition Council of the Philippines, together
with such groups as the Food and Nutrition Research Institute (FNRI) are
particularly competent in drawing up programs and technology packages
suitable for National programs.
2.07      Problems.  Despite the apparently favorable number of extension
staff and the level and type of technology available, average rice and corn
yields in the Philippines are low and serious nutritional problems exist.
A number of institutional problems are recognized by Government as affecting
their extension effort; viz:
(a) field staff lack practical training and knowledge of extension
methodology;
(b) there is a serious shortage of equipment and facilities for field
level training of staff and for demonstrating improved technology
practices. This is compounded by very inadequate budgetary allowances
for the printing or reproduction of leaflets, demonstration slides,
cassettes, etc. which are generally of high quality and available
from various sources;
(c) the majority of extension workers have to rely on public transport
for mobility, which together with the unnecessarily large amount of
report writing requirements, results in technicians spending only
30 to 50% of their time with clientele;
(d) the links between research and extension are poorly developed due
largely to the absence of sufficient subject matter specialist
(SMS) positions in the extension service;
(e) the emphasis of extension workers on those farmers participating in
the Masagana, rice and corn production programs has concentrated
the service on a very small proportion of farmers. As the number
of farmers participating in the Masagana programs has declined
over the past 4 years, the coverage of the agricultural extension
service has also decreased; and
(f) the present organization of the Ministry of Agriculture does not
permit clear lines of command from the National level down to the
field. While the Bureaus of Agricultural Extension (BAEx)
and Animal Industry (BAI) are mainly responsible for extension, the
more research and regulatory oriented Bureaus of Plant Industry
(BPI) and Soils (BS) also do some extension work. Coordination
between Bureaus is poor since even in the country's 12 regions and
73 provinces, the staff of each Bureau report to different Directors/
supervisors. Consequently under the present organization, the
extension force of the Ministry of Agriculture is fragmented and
its limited resources inefficiently used.
2.08      Activities.  The extension staff of the Ministry of Agriculture are
divided into four main groups, each with quite separate activities, i.e.
(a) farm management; (b) home management; (c) rural youth development; and (d)
livestock development. The main activities of technicians in each of these
groups are discussed below.



- 10 -
(a) Farm Management Technicians (FMTs). These comprise the majority of
the extension force and number about 5,300. While primarily they
are responsible for promoting food crop production throughout the
country, their activities in recent years have been focused largely
on the governments main food production programs, i.e. Masagana 99
for rice, and Masaganang Maisan for corn. To a large extent
therefore, the activities of a great number of the FMT's have been
under the direction of the National Food and Agriculture Council
(NFAC), rather than under the Bureau of Agriculture Extension
(BAEx) (see para. 2.03). Under the program of NFAC, FMT's are
responsible for assisting farmers to (i) prepare farm budgets and
loan applications; (ii) ensure the timely availability of input
supplies; and (iii) provide suitable technology packages and
supervise their adoption. The FMT is also responsible for
informing the bank concerned of the time and estimated amount of
grain harvested, and for periodically reminding the farmer of his
repayment obligations. The latter function is encouraged by the
rural banks who are authorized by NFAC to pay extension workers a
small amount for every production loan taken out. Also, the
financing institution has the authority to use extension workers
in the collection of loans from farmers. This activity would be
phased out under the project since the emphasis on debt collection
conflicts with the role of the extension worker as a "friend" of
the farmer who is able to advise him on how to improve his production.
As the number of farmers in arrears has grown under the Masagana
program, the coverage of the FMT's has shrunk. Once in arrears,
a farmer cannot obtain another bank loan. Concomitantly, he
usually no longer is visited by the extension worker. The problem
of poor mobility is particularly accute among the FMTs.  Also
there is a need for a major revision in the mode of operation of
FM4Ts. Apart from a need for greater supervision and more regular
and practically oriented training, greater use needs to be made of
contact farmers, rather than the present system of individual
contact with those farmers still actively participating in the
Masagana programs. There have, however, been pilot schemes to try
out the more regular training and visit (T&V) system which uses
contact farmers and which has been used quite successfully in
other Bank projects (see Bank Publication on the T&V system of May
1977). A slight modification of this sytem would be adopted under
the proposed project.
(b)  Home Management Technicians (HMTs).  The majority of these are
women, and number about 1,200 in total.  Whereas the role of the
HMTs was previously oriented around teaching food preparation,
sewing and home budgeting, their activities are becoming more
directed to the implementation of nutrition programs. With the
inception of the Malnutrition Prevention Project (MPP) in 1976,
jointly developed by the extension service (BAEx) and the Nutrition
Center of the Philippines, increasing numbers of HMTs are being
given well-defined work programs and highly specific objectives in



- 11 -
the field of nutrition, home garden food production, family
planning and child development. The main objective of these HMTs
involved in the nutrition program is the early prevention of mal-
nutrition through close interaction with mothers during pregnancy
and in the first year of child life. The early results of the
program are already very good (see Annex 6). However, coverage is
still very limited. Each HMT serves roughly one municipality
(c. 30,000 people), which may comprise up to 30 barangays (villages).
Usually the HMTs are able to concentrate on only 3 to 5 villages
in their area due to time constraints.  Their coverage could be
greatly enhanced through better mobility, much less emphasis on
report writing and through the availability of teaching/extension
equipment and materials (leaflets, etc.). This would allow more
group contact and reduce the need for individual contact. An
increase in EMT numbers is also needed.
(c) Rural Youth Development Officers (RYDOs). These extension agents
number about 500 and have as their primary job, the organization
of youth into 4-H youth clubs. Food production and nutrition training
activities are the focal point of 4-H club activities. There are
about 5,000 4-H clubs in the Philippines with a membership of about
150,000. Recently the focus of the youth clubs has been on out of
school youth who number about 7.6 million in the 10 to 24 age group.
Of the 6 million out of school youth in rural areas, about 51% are
idle, 41% are engaged in housekeeping and about 8% are temporarily
unemployed. Plans are now underway to modify the 4-H club activities
through the formation of new groups to be called "Anak Bukid"
(young farmers), through which technical and financial assistance
will be given for individual youths to set up and operate livestock
units along sound commercial lines. A major attempt is being
planned to combat rising rural unemployment through the "Anak Bukid"
program. The general problems of the extension service also
confront the RYDOs, i.e. inadequate mobility and lack of demonstra-
tion equipment. There is also a need for the number of RYDOs to be
roughly doubled.
(d) Livestock Officers. Under the present extension system in the
Philippines, there is no formal livestock extension service. The
Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) which is responsible for the
livestock subsector, is mainly involved with research, quarantine
immunization and other regulatory type functions. In the perfor-
mance of these duties, however, BAI's field staff of about 1,700
(of which 250 are veterinarians) do perform some extension
type work. However, generally only the medium-scale livestock
producers are frequently contacted by BAI. Therefore, technicians
spend relatively little time with the small backyard producers who
have a few chickens or pigs, and who are estimated to comprise 80%
of the farmers in the country with livestock, and who supply an
estimated 60% of total consumption. Under the project, therefore,
there would be two important changes regarding livestock extension.
Firstly, FMTs would receive basic livestock training to enable them



- 12 -
to advise farmers on simple livestock husbandry and health matters.
Secondly, a livestock extension force comprising initially about
500 technicians would be established to provide a regular extension
service to the small to medium scale commercial Livestock
enterprises.
2.09      Coordination of Extension with Local Programs.  The Philippines
is divided into 73 provinces, roughly 1,500 municipalities and about
35,000 barangays (villages).  There is also a plan to divide t-he country
into 13 regional planning bodies. At each of the existing levels, there is a
well coordinated Action Committee with representatives from aill government
agencies and the private sector.  At the provincial level, the governor
chairs the committees, while at the municipal and barangay (village) level,
the committees are chaired by the mayor and barangay captain respectively.
The action committees coordinate all government and private programs in their
area, and where necessary, subcommittees are formed to specifically tailor
national programs to local needs.
2.10      With regard to both agriculture and nutrition, there is particularly
close coordination, and it is largely due to the effectiveness of these
action committees that the problems of overlapping functions  aetween govern-
ment agencies are not as great as the number of agencies involved would seem
to indicate. Clearly there are differences in the degree of coordination
between provinces, municipalities and barangays, but the system generally
works well. Some provinces, however, have recruited their o9Tnv small staff
of agriculturists to complement the nationally paid extension staff. While
generally this does not conflict with the national extension efffort, the
much higher level of salary paid to provincial agriculturalists does cause
some bad feeling. Under the project steps are taken to resolve this and
other staff compensation problems.
3. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The Government of the Philipires has requested Banl'K assistance inI
its renewed efforts:  (a) to promote further production increases in the
main food crops and expand livestock production; (b) to imp--cve the quality
of rural life through higher incomes, better nutrition and general home
management; and (c) to reduce rural unemployment by assisting out-of-school
youth establish backyard livestock enterprises. The project N;.-ould be
implemented over four years by the Ministry of Agriculture.  It would
largely involve the strengthening of the extension service -t:--ough the
provision of facilities, equipment, technical staff increases and training.
It would also involve changes in the organization of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and in the levels of compensation paid to field staff.
Project Identification/Preparation
3.02      At the request of government, a Bank mission reviewed the extension



13 -
services in the Philippines In February/March 1977, immediately following a
Bank-organized, international workshop on the training and visit system of
agricultural extension, which has proven particularly successful in India.
The workshop WaS held in the Philippines at the International Rice Research
Institute (IRRI). After subsequent discussions between government and the
Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture took over preparation of the project with
the help of consultants from the University of Los Banos (UPLB), and the
Philippine Training Center for Rural Development (PTC-RD). The latter was
established and funded under the Bank's Fourth Education Loan (1374-PH).
3.03      The project was appraised in February/March 1978.  At the same
time, Bank missions reviewed with government the overall rice and feedgrain
situation, as well as the status of agricultural supporting services. The
outcome of these studies and ongoing discussions with government should
provide a sound base on which to build an extension service geared to
assisting the rural poor and expanding food and feedgrain production.
Project Components
3.04      Components of the proposed project are as follows:
(a) Organizational Program. Implementation of an improved organiz-
ational structure for the Ministry of Agriculture which includes
the establishment of a more unified extension service and close
coordination between research and extension (see paras. 5.01 to
5.05).
(b) Vehicles, Equipment and Buildings
(i) Provision of equipment and materials for extension services
including:
(a) vehicles for transporting staff and materials
(paras. 3.05-3.08);
(b) communications equipment (para. 3.09);
(c) audio-visual aids and other demonstration and training
equipment and materials (para. 3.10 to 3.12) and
(d) office, printing and photographic equipment and supplies
(para. 3.13).
(ii) Construction of about 500 rural extension centers and renovation
of existing facilities for extension services (para. 3.14);
(c) Extension Methodology. Introduction and implementation of sound
extension methodology, with particular emphasis on close supervision,
regular training of extension workers and regular visits (see para.
5.08-5.10).
(d) Staffing Program and Training. Implementation of a staffing and
training program to increase the number of trained extension staff,



- 14 -
including the provision for additional subject matter specialist
positions and for a staff of livestock extension technicians
(para. 3.15 to 3.18).
(e) Studies/Consultant Services.
(i)  36 man-months of consultant services to conduct a review
of rural technicians and extension workers salaries and
incentives, for the Ministry of the Budget, ,wLih a view to
more equitably compensating such staff and --- identifying
overlapping extension services provided by different agencies
(para. 5.16);
(ii)  24 man-months of consultant services to deve'lo  more effec-.ive
monitoring and evaluation procedures to evaluate (a) individual
performance of extension wokers and (b) effectiveness of
extension services provided (para. 5.20); a--,
(iii)  6 man-months of consultant services to assist the Ministry
of Agriculture in upgrading the capabilities -if their Drocure-
ment division and to advise on the suitabili-- of various
types of equipment to be procured under the :--oect (para. 5.0G5
Detailed Features
3.05      Vehicles and Communications.  One of the most serious constraints
facing the Ministry of Agriculture's extension technicians. is their
lack of mobility and infrequent contact or communication wit' supervisors
and back-up support staff. Instructions or information from the National or
Regional offices frequently take a week or more to reach technicians. It
may then be a week or more before technicians can act on the advice received,
due largely to their dependence on public transport. BAEx presently has
only 52 vehicles in running condition for the entire Bureau, and there are
no vehicles less than 10 years old. Likewise only about 23000 extension
technicians have motorcycles.  Even these, however, are not fully utilized
because of inadequate travel allowances (see para. 5.14).
3.06      The project, therefore, would concentrate heavily c- improving the
mobility of staff and on improving means of communication. Items to be
provided are listed in Table 3.1 and cost estimates are gi-Ver. in Annex 1.
Regional offices in particular would be supported by the provison of jeeps
(4-wheel and 2-wheel drive) pick-ups and vans to enable subject matter
specialists to get into the field for training and supervisory purposes, and
to facilitate the supply of demonstration material (seed or fertilizer kits,
leaflets, etc.) to technicians.  Cars would be provided fc- -le Regional
Directors and their two assistants who would be required to -ravel between
the main provincial centers in their region, as well as between the various
regions or national offices.  In line with the reorganizatio- of the MOA
along Regional lines (see para. 5.01), the National offices of BAEx and BAI
would be provided with less vehicles than the Regional Offces.



- 15 -
Table 3.1: VEHICLES AND COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT
(units)
T O T A L
Item                    Year:       1        2         3         4      Total
Vehicles
Jeep (4 & 2-wheel drive)         426      342       100       100      968
Pickup                            58       55         -         -      113
Combi/van                         22        6         -        -        28
Car                               40        -         -        -        40
Motorcycles                      862      900      1650     3000      6412
Sidecars                        1000      550       275      275      2100
Boats & trailers                   9        -         -         -        9
Minibus                           50       26         -         -       76
Communications
Transmitter (SSB) & aerials       59       16        10         5       90
Transmitter (VHF) & aerials    206        166       110       105      587
3.07      For the Provincial, and Municipal/Barangay extension staff, a
total of 6,000 motorcycles and 2,000 side cars would be provided. This
would raise the number of extension technicians with motorcycles from about
20 to 80%. The motorcycles would be purchased by the technicians themselves
through salary deductions (see para. 5.18), and the MOA would give techni-
cians a mileage allowance commensurate with their job function (see para. 5.17).
Detachable side cars would be provided by the MOA to those technicians whose
particular job calls for the movement of equipment and supplies (knapsacks,
sprayers, chemicals, fertilizers, pamphlets, etc.).
3.08      Incremental operating and maintenance costs are included in the
project (see Table 4.1). Most of the vehicle maintenance work would be
contracted out to local repair shops which are abundant and widely distributed
throughout the Philippines. Spare part dealerships are also widely distri-
buted. The National and Regional offices of the Ministry of Agriculture
also have small teams of mechanics for minor repair work. Some $25,000 worth
of miscellaneous tools and equipment would be provided under the project for
140A workshops servicing project vehicles and equipment.
3.09      Communication equipment to be provided would be the high frequency
transmitter/receiver (SSB) needed for distant communications between the
national and regional offices, since the telephone network in the Philippines
is still poorly developed. Very high frequency equipment (VHF) would be
provided for the shorter distance communications between the regional,
provincial and municipal offices. The equipment would be used for all MOA
activities and would greatly expand the present radio communication network
which generally does not reach beyond the provincial level. Much of the
present equipment is very old and is frequently out of order. Generators



- 16 -
would be provided to enable communications and other equipment to continue
operation during power blackouts. The latter occur frequently during the
typhoon season - often when communication needs of the Ministry of Agriculture
are more urgent.
3.10      Audio-Visual Training and Demonstration Aides.  Apart from the
mobility and communcation constraints facing technicians, there is an almost
total lack of even simple teaching aides, either for inservice training of
technicians or for conducting field demonstrations. Compounding this problem
is the inexperience of most of the technicians with extension practices.
Although more than 90% of technicians are agricultural graduates, they lack
training in extension methodology. They also particularly lack practical
experience. Training therefore would be an important component of the
project, for which substantial amounts of audio and visual equipment and
materials would be needed (see Table 3.2).
3.11      Since much of the training would be done in the field through
regular contact with subject matter specialists and small, short-duration
gatherings of extension workers, equipment such as overhead projectors, tape
recorders and other audio and visual aid materials would be provided at
provincial and municipal centers. On average one in every third municipality
(i.e. approximately 500) would have training/meeting facilities (see
para. 3.14) and simple audio-visual training equipment. M4uch of this
equipment would also be used by technicians for demonstrations, e.g. to
farmer groups, 4-H clubs or Barangay womens groups. The project also has
been particularly designed to facilitate the production or purchase of
suitable audio visual materials, e.g. slides, cassette tape programs,
nutrition charts etc. Equally important is the provision under the project
for coordination with agencies producing audio and visual aid materials
(e.g. IRRI and NNC)I1 and for sufficient quantities of audio visual materials
to be produced and distributed (see para. 3.13).
/1 IRRI: International Rice Research Institute
NNC:  National Nutrition Council



Table 3.2: AUDIO-VISUAL EQUIPMENT
(units)
T O T A L
Item                    Year           1       2         3        4       Total
Slide projector/screen              149      20        20       10       199
Overhead and opaque projectors    177       220       120      111       628
Slide viewer                        217     200       100      100       617
Studio recorder                      20       6         1        -        27
Tape recorder (cassette)            215     179       119      114       627
Megaphone                           284     200       100       100      684
Visual maker                          2       -         -        -         2
Camera (still)                       26       -         -        -        26
Movie projector                       8       6         1        -        15
Photo lab/kits developing             1       -         -        -         1
Photo enlarger                        1       -         -        -         1
Microphone                          148      20        16        15      199
Mixer amplifier                      63      20        16        15      114
Speakers                            296      40        32       30       398
Generator                           206     166       110      105       587
Cassettes                           500    1000      1500     1000      4000
Print dryer                           1       -         -        -         1
Photo timer                           1       -         -        -         1
Tape duplicator                       1       -         -        -         1
3.12      In addition to the above, each technician would be provided with
his/her individual kit of simple extension tools and materials. Kits would
be prepared according to job function. A Farm Management Technician for
example, could be provided with a measuring tape, budding knife, syringe and
needle set and a variety of audio-visual cassettes or slides appropriate to
his clientele. Home Management Technicians on the other hand could be
provided with grinders, vegetable garden seed and fertilizer kits, etc.
Complementing the audio and visual-aid materials to be provided to technicians
would be the 42 mobile audio-visual units provided for under the Fourth
Education Project (Loan 1374-PH). Orders for these units have been placed
and delivery is due by early 1979. The project also provides for some
35,000 simple weighing scales to be distributed throughout the country to
barangays (villages), in support of the activities of those HMTs who are
focused on the education of rural women in the self-care and monitoring of
their children's early development.
3.13      Office, Printing and Reproduction Equipment.  Just as the contact
of technicians with farmers is reduced to less than 50% by lack of mobility
and equipment, a similarly low efficiency situation exists for office staff.
Few typewriters, calculators and general office equipment exist, and most
equipment is very old. Likewise printing and reproduction equipment is very
old and inadequate to meet the needs of the present day service. In view of
the importance of printed leaflets etc. to the extension service, the
project would provide for printing presses and other reproduction equipment



- 18 -
at the national office. Equipment for black and white photo processing
would also be provided. Color work would be contracted out. Mimeo machines;
electric at the national and manual at the provincial levels, would be
provided for simple reproduction purposes. Table 3.3 lists approximate
amounts of office printing and reproduction equipment to be provided.
Table 3.3: OFFICE AND PRINTING EQUIPMENT
(units)
T O T A L
Item                    Year           1       2         3         4      Total
Printing
Offset press 18" x 25-1/2"           1       -         -         -        1
Offset press 36" x 39"               1            -              -        1
Plate maker                          1       -         -         -        1
Paper cutter                         1       -         -         -        1
Stitching machine                    1       -         -         -        1
Collator                             1       -         -         -        1
Temperature control sink             1       -         -         -        1
Type setting equipment               2       -         -         -        2
Process camera (20" x 24")           1       -         -         -        1
Office Equipment
Copier                              15       -         3         -       18
Mimeographing machines:
(i) electric                      27        -         -        -        27
(ii) manual                         50      25        15       10       100
Table calculator                    92      65        52        52      261
Pocket calculator                  500     500       500      500    2,000
Electric
typewriter electric              28        3         8        1        40
Manual typewriter                  187     136       186      200       709
Filing cabinet 4 drawers           207     162       172      212       753
Safe                                63      50         -        -       113
Index card cabinet                  14       -         -        -        14
Air conditioner                     16      15        14       13        58
Refrigerator                        66      30        31        -       127
Furniture                            -       -         -        -         1
Electric fan                       247     162       180      220       809
Checkwriter                         13       -         -        -        13
Addressograph                        1       -         -        -         1
3.14      Civil Works.  The civil works provided for under the project
largely center on the construction of about 500 rural extension centers.  On
average there would be one center to every three municipalities, the cost of
each center being about US$8,000.  The land on which these centers would be
built would either be donated by the municipality as done for the few pilot
centers in operation, purchased outright, or obtained on long-term lease. An



- 19 -
assurance was obtained at negotiations that MOA would secure all land needed
for construction of the pilot centers. The centers would be constructed
either through contract work or by force account. The facilities would serve
as storage centers for equipment and materials as well as training/meeting
centers for technicians, nutrition scholars, women's groups, etc. Each
center would be equipped with a simple kitchen. Suitable designs for the
construction of these units have already been prepared but these may be modified
as the project progress. Likewise, choice of location for the extension centers
would remain flexible to enable the Ministry of Agriculture to make best use of
the facilities in accordance with changing situations which inevitably arise
during project implementation. Some US$200,000 would be provided under the
project for renovations to existing offices, many of which are in need of
repair or alterations.
Staffing and Training
3.15      Although the extension force of the Ministry of Agriculture is
numerically quite strong at present, the expanded coverage to be achieved
under the project would require moderate staff increases. In particular,
there would be a need to greatly enlarge the size of the subject matter
specialist (SMS) staff and to use such staff more effectively. Under the
project the 120 specialists now backstopping the extension service would be
increased by 280 to about 400. Most of the SMS positions would be filled from
within the existing ranks of BAEx where enough staff with the basic qualifi-
cations exist. Further training of such staff would be included under the
project.
3.16      With the establishment of about 400 SMS positions, additional
field level staff would need to be recruited to compensate for staff promo-
tions to SMS positions, and to carry out the expanded programs of the
extension service under the project. Extension staff increases of about 35%
(3,000) over the life of the project would be needed, and would include about
500 rural youth development officers (RYDOs), 500 livestock extension officers,
1,000 home management techncians (HMTs) and about 1,000 farm management
technicians (FMTs). An assurance on the incremental staffing requirements
of the project was obtained at negotiations (para. 7.01 (a)). The proposed
field staff build up is shown in Table 3.4. Almost all new extension staff
recruited would have BS degrees in Agriculture or animal science, in
accordance with civil service regulations. Each year, Philippine agricultural
colleges graduate some 3,000 students and therefore there would be no
difficulty recruiting the additional staff under the project. It is also
expected that a number of the incremental extension staff will come from
within the Ministry of Agriculture itself, particularly as the Bureau of
Plant Industry (BPI) is phased out of extension activities.



- 20 -
Table 3.4: TECHNICAL STAFF BUILD-UP
Existing /a      Yearly increment
Staff classification                  No.        1     2       3      4      Total
Subject matter specialist (SMS)        120      50     50      80    100       400
Rural youth development
officer (RYDO)                       500      50    100    150    200    1,000
Livestock extension officer (LO)          0     50    100    150    200        500
Home management technician (HMT)   1,200    100    200    300    400    2,200
Farm management technician (FMT)   5,300    100    200    300    400    6,300
Total                            7,120    350    650    980  1,300   1O,400
/a  Excludes supervisory staff and technical support staff who bring total
existing technical staff complement to 8,600.
3.17      Although more than 90% of the extension staff of BAEx are agricul-
tural graduates, they have very little training in extension methodology.
Furthermore, since the numbers of extension staff have approximately doubled
over the past 4 years, the general level of experience among staff is very
low. Under the project, therefore, training requirements range from on-the-
job, practical training, to short duration courses on extension methodology
and specific topics such as nutrition and various aspects of crop and live-
stock production and marketing. For the subject matter specialists and other
supervisory staff, more advanced training would be provided, including a
limited number of master degree courses (35) and short-duration study tours to
developing countries with ongoing extension programs (approximately 500 man-
weeks). Management training for supervisory staff would be given emphasis,
since the lack of adequate supervision of staff particularly at the field
level is a major weakness of the present service. At the regional and
national level, staff would be specifically assigned to develop the in-service
training capabilities of the extension services, as well as to determine
training needs and to resolve logistical training problems. Details of
training to be provided under the project are given in Table 3.5 (see also
Annex 2).



- 21 -
Table 3.5: MAIN TRAINING PROGRAM
Staff
Type of training                      Duration                         numbers
Fellowships for masters degree          2 years                             35
Overseas and in-country study tours 4-6 weeks                              100
pre-service orientation
Course (new staff)                      2 weeks                         3,400
In-service course for field
technicians                           2 weeks                         9,000
Bi-monthly meetings
for field technicians              1 day each                         9,000
3.18      Most of the on-the-job training would be done at the various pro-
vincial, municipal and rural extension centers, such as those described in
para. 3.13, where technicians would gather bi-weekly to meet with their
supervisors and Subject Matter Specialist. Initially this type of training
would be given the greatest emphasis, as the most cost-effective way of
rapidly raising the competance of field staff. The more in-depth training
would be conducted in 2-week courses at Provincial and Regional offices as
well as at the Philippine Training Centers for Rural Development (PTC-RD;
see Report No. 1207c-PH). Training Specialists at national, regional and
provincial offices would be responsible for determining training needs and
for coordinating with agencies arranging training, such as the PTC-RD and
the Nutrition Council of the Philippines.
4. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimate
4.01      Total project costs are estimated at US$70.1 million of which
US$26.0 million or 37% is foreign exchange. Prices and salaries are expressed
at current levels. Physical contingencies of 15% for vehicles, equipment,
and civil works are included and amount to 6% of project cost.
4.02    . The contingency due to expected price increases over the implemen-
tation pe'riod amounts to about 15% of total project cost, assuming the
following annual inflation rates:
Annual inflation rate (%)
Item                     1979      1980-82
Civil works                      7.5         7.0
Equipment & services             6.5         6.0
Salaries                        10.0        10.0



- 22 -
4.03      Project cost details are presented in Annexes 1 and 2 and are
summarized below:
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total   exchange
Component           --------  P  --------        ---- US $ million ---        (%)
Vehicles              53.8    53.8   107.6         7.27    7.27   14.54       50
Equipment             25.8    31.4    57.20        3.48    4.25    7.73       55
Civil works          20.2    10.9    31.1          2.73    1.47    4.20       35
Training and
consultants         8.0    15.5    23.5          1.08    2.09    3.17       66
Incremental
operating cost   151.0    43.8   194.8         20.41    5.91   26.32        22
Total Base
Cost           258.8   155.4   414.2        34.97   20.99   55.96       38
Contingencies
Physical           14.13   15.24   29.57         1.91    2.06    3.97       52
Price              53.5    21.83   75.33         7.23    2.95   10.18       29
Subtotal           67.63   37.07  104.7         9.14    5.01   14.15       35
Total Project
Cost            326.4   192.5   518.9        44.1    26.0    70.1        37
Financing
4.04      The proposed Bank loan of US$35 million would cover the foreign
exchange costs of US$26 million and US$9 million equivalent of local costs.
Government would finance the remaining 50% of project costs, equivalent to
US$35.1 million (P 260 million). Overall, the project would increase the
Government's budget appropriations for extension by about 70%. The proposed
Bank loan would be for 20 years including a 5-year grace period. Implementation
of the project would take place over 4 years.



- 23 -
Table 4.2: FINANCING
(amounts in US$ million)
Government          IBRD             Total
Component                     Amount       %     Amount      %
Vehicles                       1.45       10      13.09    90         14.54
Equipment                      0.77       10       6.96    90          7.73
Civil works                    0.84       20       3.36    80          4.20
Training and consultants       0.79       25       2.38    75          3.17
Incremental operating cost  26.32          -          -      -        26.32
Contingencies                  4.95       35       9.20    65         14.15
Total                      35.10       50       35.00    50        70.10
Procurement
4.05      Civil works would consist primarily of small extension centers
costing about US$8,000 each, spread over a wide geographical area and phased
over the entire implementation period of the project. They would not be
suitable for international competitive bidding procedures. Therefore civil
works contracts would either be done by force account or be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with government
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. In general, vehicles and equipment
would be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. A preference margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of
imported goods or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. However, to
permit flexibility in the procurement of specialized items and items purchased
in small quantities, such items costing not more than US$50,000 but not
exceeding US$2.0 million in total would be procured on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with government procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. In addition, with the exception of vehicles
purchased under the Vehicle Plan (para. 5.18), off-the shelf items costing
not more than US$10,000 each but not exceeding US$500,000 in total, would
be purchased on the basis of prudent shopping, involving at least three
quotations. For the approximately 6,000 motorcycles (less than 1% of total
motorcycles in the country) which are to be purchased over a four-year
period by individual technicians under loans secured by an MOA special time
deposit (para. 5.18), purchases would be limited to motorcycles of maximum
200 cc engines but would include all brands for which there are dealers in
the Philippines with reputable service and maintenance facilities. Using a
procurement procedure acceptable to the Bank which combines local competitive
bidding procedures with consumer preference, MOA would obtain quotes from
all qualified dealers and make lists of such discount prices available to
technicians. Foreign suppliers of a wide range of goods are well represented
in the Philippines. Where contracts are estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 the Bank's prior approval would be required before invitations to
bid are issued and contracts are awarded for civil works, vehicles, and
equipment.



- 24 -
Disbursements
4.06      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100%,of ,hee foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory price
of locally manufactured equipment and 65% of expenditure for imported
equipment procured locally. For consulting services, traini.g and for study
tours, disbursements would be 100% of total cost. Disbursements for civil
works would be 50% of expenditures. All disbursements would be made on the
basis of normal documentation, except for force account work for extension
centers and for motorcycles (see para. 5.18), for which disbursements would
be made against statements of expendLitures with supporting documentation
retained by the borrower and held available for inspection by the Bank during
the course of supervision missions. It is expected that disbursements would
be completed by June 30, 1983.  An estimated schedule of disbursements is
given in Annex 3.
Accounts and Audit
4.07      MOA would maintain a separate project account coveririg all project
expenditures and this account would be audited annually by the Government's
Commission on Audit (COA). An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
the audited accounts, together with COA's report, would be sent to the Bank
no later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year (Janucry 1 to
December 31).
Environmental Effects
4.08      The project would have no direct effect on the enrvronment, but to
the extent that improved farming practices require soil conservation,
fetility level maintenance, rat control and minimum chemical pest control
use, it is expected that the project would promote considerable and lasting
improvements on the environment.
Role of Women
4.09      The project would have a very large impact on women in the rural
communities served by the extension service. Out of the total field
extension staff of about 8,600 approximately 50% are women. The extension
service focuses heavily on the farmers' wives and other housewives in the
rural community, most of whom are actively involved in farmingo Women form
the greater proportion of the labor force during transplanting and harvesting.
They also play a large part in the management of home finances and in
decisions on purchases of equipment, fertilizers etc. Women also are
generally responsible for the marketing of farm produce and the actual
purchasing of farm inputs. They are therefore a major target group of the
proposed project.
4.10      In addition, the project would promote the contact of technicians
with rural women during pregnancy and in the first year of t-heir child's
life. The Malnutrution Prevention Program to be promoted under the project
aims to educate women in the prevention of manutrition of the-ir children
through breast feeding, and subsequent preparation in their owen homes of
nutritious, locally available foods.  Rural women would also be educated
to monitor the early growth of their children through regular weighing on
scales to be provided in the villages by the project.



- 25 -
5. PROJECT IM4PLEMENTATION
Ministry Reorganization
5.01      Of foremost importance in achieving efficient implementation of
the project would be the streamlining of the Ministry of Agriculture such
that a single line of command would exist from the Ministry, through the
Regional Directors, Provincial Officers and Municipal Officers, to the field
level extension worker. The organizational changes to be implemented under
the project have been authorized by Presidential Decree No. 1579,
and culminate from discussions between the Bank and Government, and
from studies within the Ministry of Agriculture itself, on ways of improving
the present organization. Support for the reorganization has been obtained
from the Government Commission on Reorganization, and from all the Bureau
Directors within the Ministry of Agriculture.
5.02      The prinicipal changes to be implemented would be the appointment
of a new Regional Director for each of the country's 12 Regions (Fig. 5.1).
Directors would have full control and responsibility for Agriculture Ministry
staff and their activities in their respective regions. Regional Directors
would report directly to the Minister of Agriculture, through his Deputy
Ministers or Assistant Secretaries./l Under the reorganization, the existing
bureaux of Plant Industry (BPI), Extension (BAEx), Animal Industry (BAI),
Soils (BS), and Agricultural Economics (BAECON), would no longer function as
line agencies with control over field level staff. They would act instead as
staff bureaux, or divisions of the Ministry at the national level. As such,
the responsibilities of national bureau staff would be to service the regional
staff by preparing guidelines for national programs and assisting in the
procurement and supply of equipment, materials, technology packages, etc. The
national bureaux would also be responsible for coordinating the Ministry of
Agriculture's activities with other government agencies, such as the National
Nutrition Council (NNC) and the Philippine Council for Agricultural Resources
Research (PCARR).
5.03      In the early stages of the Ministries' reorganization there would
not be any physical relocation of staff, and very little relocation is expected
overall. However, there would be stronger enforcement of an existing minister-
ial order that extension staff should live in the village (barangay) around
which they work. At the national level, staff would continue to function much
the same as before. However, with the field supervisory function formally
/1 The new interim Parliament is currently discussing guidelines for appoint-
ment of deputy ministers vs. the Assistant Secretary positions which
existed under the previous government departmental organization.



- 26 -
PHI LIPPINES
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Figure 5.1 Proposed Organization of Ministry of Agriculture
| Minister of
Agriculture
Deputy Ministers
Administrative                                                           Technical Staff
Service Units                                                               Bureaus
a) Agrarian Reform                                                        a) Animal Industry
b) Computer                                                               bb Extension
c) Administrative                                                         c) Agr. Economics
d) Planning                   .d) Plant IndustrY
e) Financial & Mgmt.                                                      e) Soils
Municipal Officer ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      AdinstatveStf
forV Crp
|Asst. Regional Diretor                                              Asst. Regional     l
for Crops & Extension                                            DirEctor for Animals
l   +   1                                                   |      Ani~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mal l
Techians                                                   eciasts                                   ialists
|Provincia Officer  || Provincial Officer|
for Crops                                                      for Animals      |
|Municipa Officer|
|  for Crops       l
X                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Livestock Technicians
9                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and
Extension Officers
FMT's, HMT's, R YDOO's
World Bank-19232



- 27 -
transferred to the Regional Directors, national bureau staff would have more
time to formulate and evaluate programs, coordinate with research agencies,
arrange for procurement and supply of equipment and materials, etc. At the
regional level, likewise, staff would continue to function as under the
former organization, the main change being in their lines of supervision.
The new Regional Directors would be promoted two salary grades above the
former salary levels of bureau Regional Directors. Similarly, two Assistant
Regional Directors would be appointed for each region, at one salary level
above the former Regional Director level. In most cases senior regional
staff would be appointed from among the four bureau directors in each region
under the previous organization. Three out of the four, therefore, would be
promoted, while the other would lose his title, but his salary scale would
be unaltered. At negotiations an assurance was obtained that by January 31,
1980 each of the 12 Regional Directors and at least two Assistant Regional
Directors for each region would have been appointed (see para. 7.01 (b)).
Organization of the Extension Service
5.04      With implementation of the regional reorganization, all crop exten-
sion, research, quarantine and other regulatory work would fall under the
responsibility of one Assistant Director, while the other Assistant Regional
Director would supervise similar activities with regard to livestock production.
Extension services covering small scale backyard livestock production would,
however, be the function of general extension staff who would be supervised
by the Assistant Regional Director for Crops and Extension. The Assistant
Director for Livestock would be responsible for the extension, research and
regulatory services needed for the quite sophisticated level of commercial
livestock production in the Philippines.
5.05      Below the Assistant Regional Director level, staff would be super-
vised by officers responsible for crops and extension or for livestock at
the Provincial and Municipal levels. Terms of reference for staff at all
levels have been drawn up to assist in the initial implementation of the
project (ref. Annex 5), although some modification is likely as the project
progresses. Overall responsibility for implementation of the project would
be with the National Bureau of Extension (BAEx) Director, who would report
to the Minister through his deputies on the progess of the project. In view
of the fact that this would be the first Bank project directly assisting the
Ministry of Agriculture, and since the MOA has little experience in the
procurement of large amounts of equipment, six man-months (US$4,000/man-month
inclusive of all costs) of consultant services are funded under the project to
provide assistance when needed in procurement documentation and in determining
the type of equipment best suited to the Ministry's needs.
Operations of the Extension Service
5.06      Responsibilities.  The existing division of responsibilities between
Farm Management Technicians (FMTs), Home Management Technicians (HMTs), and
Rural Youth Development Officers (RYDOs) would be continued under the project
(ref. para. 2.08). Two important changes in the scope of the extension service
would, however, be made. For the first time, extension services would be initiated
which would extensively cover backyard livestock production, as well as provide



- 28 -
more regular extension services to commercial livestock producers. For the
small scale, backyard livestock producers, the Farm Management Technician
(FMT) would, through an in-service training program, be trained to advise on
simple livestock production and health aspects.
5.07      The second change in the coverage of the extension service would be
to revise the deployment of Farm Management Technicians (FMTs) such that they
would cover all farming areas where food crops are grown. Under the Masagana
programs, FMTs were concentrated on priority production areas and in recent
times their coverage has been reduced even further in order to concentrate
on the small proportion of rice and corn farmers still actively partici-
pating in the programs. An important objective of the regular in-service
training to be conducted under the project would be to train FMTs in the
production of a number of crops, in order to develop a force of general
agricultural extension advisors. A large part of the extension effort,
however, would still be concentrated on rice production, since rice is the
major staple. The technology package for rice is also better developed than
for most other crops.
5.08      Extension Methodology.  The operational changes to be implemented
under the project would require mainly (a) closer supervision of field
staff; (b) more emphasis on the use of contact farmers, women's groups,
etc.; (c) much less report writing by technicians; and (d) greater emphasis
on simple, practical in-the-field training of technicians. The latter (d)
is accepted by the Ministry of Agriculture as the most effective way to
rapidly increase the overall capabilities of the extension force. With
regard to the use of contact farmers, the present tendency of FMTs to meet
individually with farmers participating in the Masagana programs would be
phased out. Instead FMT would work through contact farmers who would need
to be selected on the basis of their good relationship with neighboring
farmers, whether or not such contact farmers actively participate in the
special food production programs of Government. The effectiveness of group
contact under the project, and therefore wider extension coverage, would be
greatly enhanced through the project's provision for demonstration materials
and equipment, as well as adequate quantities of well prepared leaflets, etc.
5.09      In view of the wide range of activities of the extension service,
e.g. crop and livestock production, child nutrition, the extension methodology
to be used would differ for the FMT, HM4T, RYDO and commercial scale livestock
extension staff. Several important similarities would exist, however. All
extension staff would have a schedule of activities which would include
regular meetings with his/her supervisor and with subject matter specialist.
Such meetings would occur at least once each month, at which time the tech-
nician would receive simple, practical in-service training, and attend to
administrative matters with his/her supervisor. Technicians would develop
definite schedules of visits with contact farmers or other such groups
and be periodically supervised on the job by the supervisor.
5.10      The methodology described above of regular training and regularly
scheduled meetings with farmers, etc., does not differ greatly from present
operational procedures of the extension service. Supervision has, however,
been negligible in the past. There should be few difficulties involved in
implementing the proposed changes. Also, the extension methodology to be
implemented is similar to the Training and Visit System adopted in other
Bank projects. However, an important consideration in the Philippine



- 29 -
situation is the fact that more than 90% of the extension staff have college
degrees. They therefore possess a greater capacity to absorb technical
information and likewise can be given greater responsibility in organizing
their own work program- and in adapting technology packages to the particular
circumstances in their areas.
5.11      Preparation of Demonstration Materials.  Fortunately, in the
Philippines, there are a number of organizations interested in the dissemina-
tion of technology, and with trained staff capable of producing suitable
materials. High quality "demonstration aides" are available from agencies
such as the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), the Philippine
Council for Agricultural Resources and Research (PCARR), the Food and
Nutrition Research Institute (FNRI), the Nutrition Center of the Philippines
(NCP) and the National Training Center for Rural Development (NTC-RD).  The
Ministry of Agriculture itself also has trained staff capable of putting
together technology packages, demonstration kits and handouts. The problem
has always been the inability to reproduce the demonstration materials in
sufficient quantities to enable them to have a significant impact. Under
the project, equipment and materials as well as incremental operating expenses
would be provided to overcome these reproduction constraints. Field staff
would also be provided with suitable means for fully utilizing the various
forms of demonstration materials, e.g. leaflets, photos, slides, and tape
cassettes. The close coordination between the extension service and action
committees at the provincial, municipal and barangay (village) level would
be continued under the project, as a means of tailoring nationally prepared
technology packages to the needs and programs of the individual localities
(see para. 2.09).
5.12      Links with Research.  It is expected that the weak links now
existing between agricultural research and extension organizations within
the Ministry of Agriculture, would be greatly strengthened as a result of
the reorganization. Both extension and research activities and their budget
would be under the supervision of each Regional Director. Staff in the
region would no longer see themselves as belonging to separate research
(BPI) or extension (BAEx) agencies. Extension subject matter specialists
would in many instances have their offices at research stations, thereby
enabling them to maintain close contact with researchers. The 44 demonstra-
tion farms presently owned by BAEx would simply become part of each region's
total complement of stations for the production of foundation seed or for
basic and applied research.
5.13      Closer links between MOA extension staff and the Philippine
Nutrition Program would be formed by assigning a staff member of the Ministry
of Agriculture to coordinate with the National Nutrition Center (NNC) in
accordance with an existing Memorandum of Agreement (ref. Annex 5). This
would facilitate closer coordination of the NNC programs with activities of
the extension service. Ministry of Agriculture publications would provide
up-to-date information on all nutrition activities in the Philippine Nutrition
Program and clearly delineate Ministry of Agriculture field personnel
responsibilities.



- 30 -
5.14      Salaries and Allowances.  At present, BAEx salaries are inadequate
to offer sufficient career opportunities to retain better staff. They are
also out of line with salaries paid by other Government agencies. Furthermore,
the travel allowance which BAEx provides to field staff is insufficient to
cover the travel cost of technicians with average workloads. The result is
that technicians sometimes sacrifice part of their salaries to cover travel
cost and often undertake less travel than is necessary to provide effective
extension. Also, the compensation structure gives no inducement to techni-
cians to serve in isolated areas of the country where extension services are
often most needed.
5.15      The low salaries and allowances, together with the implementation of
special production programs (para. 1.08), have led to the development of a
fragmented system of payments and lines of authority to BAEx technicians. This
has greatly reduced the capability of the agency to provide technical assist-
ance to farmers. Some of the extension staff are paid by the provinces, some
receive incentive allowances from NFAC (para. 2.03), and some receive bonuses
from the rural banks for their participation in credit operations. Each
agency which provides some form of payment to technicians expects them to be
responsive to its requirements and orientation.
5.16      In accordance with a Presidential Instruction LOI 599, the Ministry
of the Budget has agreed to undertake a study of the compensation system for
extension staff in all Government agencies. Some 36 man-months (US$6,000/man-
month inclusive of all costs)-of consultants services would be required. The
study would involve a comparison of the compensation of extension staff among
the agencies, on the basis of job functions and would compare compensation of
extension staff in the public sector with that of technicians performing
similar or comparable work in the private sector. The study would aim to
determine competitive salary levels for extension staff and offer recommenda-
tions on how these levels might be reached over time. It would also establish
standard job descriptions for extension technicians and estimate the location
allowance necessary to induce competent technicians to work in remote areas.
The study would also help government focus on the number of agencies now doing
various forms of extension, with a view to rationalizing their extension
responsibilities. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that consulants
would be hired by December 31, 1979 in order for the Ministry of the Budget
to evaluate the study in consultatior with the Bank by March 31, 1981,/1 and
begin implementing a more equitable system of staff compensation by January
31, 1982. Terms of reference for the consultant study would be prepared by
July 31, 1979, in consultation with the Bank (para. 7.01 (c)).
5.17      With regard to travel allowances, the Ministry of Agriculture
would undertake a survey of the transportation cost now incurred by its
technicians, and of the cost which would be incurred to achieve full effec-
tiveness on the job. The intent would be to ensure that technicians receive
travel allowances adequate to meet their average transportation requirements
/1 Because the fiscal year in the Philippines corresponds with the calendar
year, it would not be possible to implement the February 1981 results of
the study before January 1982. Discussion between the Bank an the
Government on the results of the study would take place in early 1981.



- 31 -
for effectiveness. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that MOA
would establish adequate transportation allowances for extension staff by
January 31, 1980 (para. 7.01(d)).
5.18      Vehicle Plan.  At present, NFAC operates a scheme which enables
field technicians to purchase motorcycles with loans provided through the
Philippine National Bank (PNB), and financed from a special time deposit
made by NFAC. By providing low interest loans (6% vs 14% normal rate),
technicians are encouraged to purchase motorcycles and thereby reduce the
overheads of the extension services in maintaining a large fleet of vehicles.
Inflation rates in the Philippines have been around 8% annually over the past
3 years and are expected to remain at that level for the duration of the
project. At appraisal some 6,500 field technicians, mostly from the Ministry
of Agriculture, had obtained motorcycles through this program from accredited
dealers. To be accredited, dealers must provide a reputable service and
spare parts. They must also be able to arrange delivery and servicing in the
field. Technicians are free to choose the type of motorcycles they want, up
to a 200 cc limit, and are provided with a list of special discounts provided
by dealers accredited under the program. Loans are for P 5,000 (US$675), and
the technician is responsible for the balance, plus insurance and registration
cost, as the down payment. Since the program has worked well in the past, it
is proposed that a similar program be adopted under the project and be operated
by the Ministry of Agriculture. An assurance was otained at negotiations
that the Ministry of Agriculture would by July 31, 1979, make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for providing motorcycles to field level technicians,
field staff supervisors and subject matter specialists.
5.19      Monitoring and Evaluation.  An important aspect of the project
would be the development of an effective monitoring and evaluation system
with the following features: (a) minimum report writing by field level tech-
nicians; (b) better use of all data collected; (c) more objective assessment
of the effectiveness of extension; and (d) more objective evaluation of the
performance of individual extension workers. In the past, both BAEx and
NFAC have monitored the progress of the various food production programs.
Largely, however, their efforts were directed towards the collection of
production data which were used as a measure of the extension effort and
individual performance. Since it was the extension technician who collected
the base data, and since very subjective methods were used, considerable
discrepancies developed in the data at a very early stage in its processing.
Compounding the problem are the 15-20 different and often ambiguous forms
which technicians are required to submit biweekly, monthly or seasonally, to
either BAEx, NFAC, or some other involved agency. Apart from consuming about
20% of technicians' time, much of the data collected and submitted is not
utilized.
5.20      As an interim measure under the project, BAEx staff would eliminate
as many forms as possible which are required to be completed by technicians.
Already this is being facilitated as NFAC withdraws from field implementation
activities and works more closely through BAEx. A considerable simplification
of forms has already been achieved jointly by NFAC and BAEx, but in order to
develop a more objective and useful system, the project would provide for
some 24 man-months (US$4,000/man-month inclusive of all costs) of consultant



- 32 -
time to develop a better system. Two distinct problems need to be studied.
First, regional management staff need an objective measure of individual
performance. Second, the means need to be developed by which the MOA can be
kept appraised of the overall effectiveness of extension. This latter function
falls within one of the main functions of NFAC, and is a field in which NFAC
has developed quite a large staff, both for day to day monitoring purposes,
and for periodic overall evaluation. The main problem in the past has been
the unreliable data base, due to the subjective manner in which it is presently
collected. Rather than build a monitoring and evaluation unit in BAEx, it is
proposed under the project to further improve NFACs capabilities in this area.
NFAC monitoring and evaluation reports on the extension effort would be
submitted to the chairman of NFAC, who is also Minister of Agriculture. At
negotiations an assurance was obtained that by July 31, 1979 NFAC would
complete terms of reference for consultant studies into ways of developing a
more effective monitoring and evaluation systems. Consultants acceptable to
the Bank would be hired by NFAC by December 31, 1979 (para. 7.01 (e)). An
assurance was also obtained that by July 31 of each year, commencing in 1980,
the Ministry of Agriculture would submit to the Bank for review a report of
activities and achievements of the extension service over the past year.
6. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The main benefits from the proposed project would result from
improved crop and livestock farming practices, better infant nutrition,
stimulation of employment opportunites for rural youth and the spread of
home management and cottage industry skills through the training of farmers,
rural families, and youth. The two main crops to be affected by the project
would be rice and corn, which together cover some four million hectares of
farmland and provide the country's main staple food. The project would
reverse the trend of recent years Twhereby the extension force has been
concentrated on the very small proportion of farmers covered by Masagana
loans. Although for rice the technology available in the Philippines is
already at quite a sophisticated level, the extension service would play a
key role in identifying and overcoming those bottlenecks (e.g. untimeliness
of fertilizer availability/application) which have constrained yields. For
corn the reliance on extension to promote production would be even greater,
since much of the corn is grown by the poorer farmers who are less familiar
with improved cropping practices. Even in the absence of a good package of
technology for corn, particularly with regard to variety much could be
done to boost yields by simply improving cultivation techniques.
6.02      The project would make an important contribution to the benefits
expected from many of the ongoing agricultural projects supported by the
Bank. This particularly is the case for the irrigation projects wherein
investments of some US$800 million (US$330 million Bank) have been made in
recent years, the effectiveness of which relies heavily on the existence of
an effective extension service.  Toe absence of such a service to back up
the heavy investments in irrigation has become increasingly apparent in
recent years, as yields have falle-n behind those expected from irrigation.



33 -
6.03      Mowever, a substantial portion of the benefits expected to result
from the proposed project are unquantifiable. Even among the quantifiable
benefits (e.g. those arising in the form of increased agricultural production),
it is not possible to nartition the increased production among such factors
as improved extension, additional inputs, or expanded use of credit.
6.04      The project would reach nearly 5 million rural families, among
them farmers cultivating some 3.6 million ha of rice and 3.4 million ha of
corn, together with secondary crops and livestock. The project cost would be
about TS$10 per family, while the incremental annual operating cost at full
development would amount to about US$2.20 per rural family, or US$1.60 per
ha. The incremental annual operating cost would represent about US$850 per
extension worker.
6.05      It is difficult to define the expected differential impact of the
project on incomes. However, the larger, higher-income farmers generally are
better able to obtain assistance from the extension service at present, since
they are more informed, are easier to work with, have funds available to
finance production and investment costs, and often have personal contacts
within the service. Because the project will expand the capacity of the
extension service, the smaller, lower-income farmers who receive relatively
little assistance at present would benefit considerably more from the project
than those already receiving most of the attention.
Justification
6.06      In justifying the project in economic terms, the increase in
production necessary to generate a satisfactory economic rate of return of
15% has been determined, the opportunity cost of capital for the Philippines
being about 10%. A judgment as to whether or not such production increase
could reasonably be expected from the project was then made. Using this
approach the annual incremental net value of production would have to
reach about US$21 million by full development in year eight of the project,
in order to realize an economic rate of return of 15% (Annex 4).
6.07      The amount of US$21 million represents an increase in net produc-
tion value of about 2% over what could be expected without the project. In
terms of physical production, the increases in average yields of rice and
corn necessary to achieve the US$21 million incremental value would be
34 kg/ha and 10 kg/ha respectively. These represent average yield increases
at full development of only about 1.5% above what could be expected without
the project. The increases in average yields needed by the final year of
project implementation, year four, would be 12 kg/ha for rice and 3 kg/ha for
corn. This amounts to a yield increase of only about 0.5% above the without
project situation. Given that: (i) average rice and corn yields in the
Philippines are low, 1.9 and 0.8 tons/ha respectively; and (ii) that for
rice, particularly, the technology is well developed, the incremental yields
needed to justify the project would be readily attainable.
6.08      In addition, since this analysis does not consider the impact of
the project on other crops or livestock production, nor does it include



- 34 -
potential benefit from activities such as the nutrition programs, there can
be no doubt that the project is economically justifiable.
Risks
6.09      The risks associated with this project are mainly associated with
the organizational aspects. While the reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture would certainly enable a better extension service to be provided
to rural families, there may be some disruption during the transition
period. Another important element determining the effectiveness of the
extension effort would be the competitiveness, and adequacy, of salaries and
allowances. If compensation is not at a level which would enable the
Ministry of Agriculture to retain sufficient competent staff, the capability
of the extension service would be impaired. The project has provided for
this possibility by including funds for studies, salaries and allowances and
these aspects would be given close attention during project implementation.
6.10      A problem could also arise during early project implementation in
that the activities of the extension service may not be properly focused on
the key issues requiring immediate attention. Problems of overlapping
functions between staff of different agencies may also arise from time to
time. The monitoring and evaluation procedures provided for under the
project are designed to identify and resolve problems of this nature. The
Bank would also give particular attention to this aspect during the super-
visions of the project. From the point of view of the target population,
there would be some risk concerning the rate of adoption of recommendations,
but this risk would appear to be rather small, particularly for farmers. In
the Philippines, farmers have demonstrated a willingness to try new crop
varieties and techniques. Also, good relationships which exist between
farmers and extension technicians should provide a firm base on which to
expand the effectiveness of technology transfer, once the technicians
themselves are better informed and equipped. Thus any failure to adopt new
technology would more likely be due to a deficiency in some other support
service, such as credit. The need to improve other supporting services is a
subject of ongoing discussion between the Bank and the Philippine Government.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
7.01      Assurance were obtained at negotiations on the following principal
points:
(a) MOA would expand its extension staff by the appointment of an
additional 280 subject matter specialists, 500 livestock extension
officers, 500 RYDOs, 1000 FMTs and 1,000 HMTs (para. 3.16).



- 35 -
(b) MOA would, in accordance with PD1579, be reorganized and the 12
regional directors and at least two assitant regional directors for
each region be apponted by January 31, 1980 (para. 5.03).
(c) The Ministry of the Budget would by July 31, 1979, and in consulta-
tion with the Bank prepare terms of reference for consultant
studies of compensation levels paid to government technical field
staff. Consultants would be hired by December 31, 1979. Results
of the study would be evaluated in consultation with the Bank by
March 31, 1981 in order to implement by January 31, 1982, a
more equitable compensation scheme, taking account of both job
function and location (para. 5.16).
(d) MOA would establish adequate transportation allowances for exten-
sion staff by January 31, 1980 (para. 5.17).
(e) NFAC would by July 31, 1979 and in consultation with the Bank
complete terms of reference for review by Bank for consultant
studies into ways of developing more effective monitoring and
evaluation systems. Consultants acceptable to the Bank would be
hired by December 31, 1979 (para. 5.20).
7.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$35 million for a period of 20 years including 5 years grace. The
Borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.



- 36 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Cost Phasing /a
($'000)
Unit
cost               P R O J E C T   Y E A R
($)          1        2        3        4          Total
Incremental Capital Costs
Vehicles
Jeep                              7,592         3,234   2,596       759     759       7,349
Pickup                            5,783           335      318        -        -         653
Combi/van                        10,121           222       61        -        -         283
Car                               6,507           260        -        -        -         260
Motorcycles                          733          632      660   1,209   2,199         4,700
Sidecars                            214           214      118       59      59          449
Boats & trailers                  2,602            23        -        -        -          23
Minibus                          10,844           542      282        -        -         824
Subtotal                                   5,462   4,035              3,017      14,541
Communications
Transmitter (SSB) & aerials    4,173              246      67      42       21           376
Transmitter (VHF) & aerials    3,852              794    639      424      404        2,261
Subtotal                                   1,040    706       466      425        2,637
Audio-Visual
Slide projector/screen              374            56       7        7       4            74
Overhead projector                  241            16       5        5        3           29
Opaque projector                    779            77    154        77      77           385
Slide viewer                         27             6       5        3       3            17
Studio recorder                     268             5       2        -       -             7
Tape recorder (cassette)            107            23      19       13       12           67
Megaphone                            107           20      21       11       11           63
Visual maker                         289            1       -        -        -            1
Camera (still)                      332             9       -        -       -             9
Movie projector                      749            6       4        1        -           11
Photo lab/kits developing         1,070             1       -        -        -            1
Photo enlarger                    2,247             2       -        -        -            2
Microphone                            29            4       1        1        -            6
Mixer amplifier                      118            7       2        2        2           13
Speakers                             75            22       3        2        2           29
Generator                           729           150    121        80       77          428
Cassettes                              2            1       2        3        2            8
Print dryer                       2,140             2       -        -        -            2
Photo timer                       1,070             1       -        -        -            1
Tape duplicator                   6,109             6       -        -        -            6
Subtotal                                      415    346       205      193       1,159
/a Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
Unit
Item                                   cost            P R O J E C T   Y E A R
($)          1        2       3        4       Total
Printing
Offset press 18" x 25-1/2"          40,660        41        -        -        -          41
Offset press 36" x 39"              96,300        96        -        -        -          96
Plate maker                          3,766          4       -        -        -           4
Paper cutter                        14,000         14       -        -        -          14
Stitching machine                    2,782          3       -        -        -           3
Collator                             4,922          5       -        -        -           5
Temperature control sink             5,061          5       -        -        -           5
Type setting equipment               8,206         16       -        -        -          16
Process camera (20" x 24")           3,100          3       -        -        -           3
Subtotal                                     187        -        -        -         187
Office Equipment
Copier                               6,420        96        -       19        -         115
Mimeographing machines:
(i) electric                        2,461        66        -        -        -          66
(ii) manual                          1,605        80       40       24       16         160
Calculators (pocket/table)    20 to 268           35       27       24       24         110
Typewriter 18" electric                749         19       2        6        1          28
Typewriter 24" electric              1,012          2       -        -        -           2
Typewriter, electric 6 fonts         1,157          1       -        -        -           1
Manual typewriter                       214        40      29       40       43         152
Checkwriter                            268         3        -        -        -           3
Addressograph                        4,280          4       -        -        -           4
Filing cabinets/safes                     -        29      20       10       12          72
Furniture                                 -      347      174      104       70         695
Air conditioner                        578          9        9       8        8          34
Refrigerator                         1,070        71       32       33        -         136
Electric fan                            107       26       17       19       24          86
Subtotal                                     828      350     287      198       1,663
Extension Equipment
Display materials                        11         1        1       2        2           7
Power sprayer                          433        22       11        6        4          43
Knapsack sprayer                        116      232        -      232        -         464
Fert./seed scale                       257        44        -        -        -          44
Plastic sealer                           21         1       -        -        -           1
Steel tape                               21       44        -       42        -          86



- 38 -                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
Unit
Item                                   cost       P R O J E C T   Y E A R
$         1       2        3        4       Tota
Weighing scale (children)            13       130      130      130       65       455
Grinder                              96        96       96        -        -       192
Visual-aide materials                37       300        6        6        -       311
Soil test kit                         9         2        -        -       -           2
Moisture meter                      884        77        -        -        -         77
Play kit                             29        29       29        -        -         58
Flip chart w/stand                   70        41       18       17        -         76
Field demo kits                       7        14        -       14       -         28
Syringe & needle sets                15        15        1       15       2         33
Castration kits                      43        10        -        -        -         10
Repeater syringe (30 cc)            128        20        5        9        9         43
A.I. kits                            94        18        -        6        9         33
Semen tanks                         534        18        -       20        -        38
Miscellaneous tools & equipment    -           43        -       40        -         83
Subtotal                               1.157      297      539       91      2,084
Library                                         215      108      107        -        430
Training                                        240      480      720      960     2,400
Civil works                                       -   1,400   1,400   1,400        4,200
Consultants /b                                    -      110      110      115        335
Total Incremental Capital Cost                9,544   7,832   5,861   6,399    29,636
Incremental Operating Costs
O&M
Vehicles                                      483      821     903      985      3,192
Equipment /c                                  235      303     350      388      1,276
Civil works                                     -       15       30      45         90
Subtotal                                 718   1,139   1,283   1,418         4,558
Technical Staff
Salary                                        181   1,492   2,917   4,467        9,057
Travel and per diem allowances                102      452     882   1,437       2,873
Location allowance                             18      149      292     447        906
Subtotal                                 301   2,093   4,091   6,351    12,836
Administrative overhead                          33      268      525      804     1,630
Monitoring                                        -      135      135      130        400
Extension activities                            690   1,380   2,070   2,760        6,900
Total Incremental Operating Costs             1,742   5,015   8,104  11,463    26,324
Total Base Cost
Contingencies
Physical                                      1,374   1,064       740     795      3,973
Price                                           423   1,528   2,874   5,352    10,177
Total contingencies                            1,797   2,592   3,614   6,147    14,150
Total Proiect Cost                             13,083  15,439  17,579  24,009    70,110
/b  Includes (i) 36 man-months of foreign consultants for the Budget Commission
Study computed at US$79,000/man-year, (ii) 24 man-months of local consultants
for the NFAC monitoring and evaluation study computed at US$50,000/man-year,
and (iii) 6 man-months of local consultant services to assist the MOA in
procuremernt, computed at US$50,000/man-year. For foreign consultants the
$70,000/man-year cost would be broken down approximately as follows; salary
$35,000, company overheads $10,000, international travel $3,000, housing
allowance $12,000, associated government costs $10,000. For local onsultants
the $50,000/man-year costs would be apportioned roughly as follows: salaries
$25,000, company overheads $8,000, local travel and accommodation (due to
nature of studies) $5,000, associated government costs $10,000.
/c Includes $430 K for printing materials.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Training Needs and Costs
Unit cost
Type of training                       Duration        US$        Numbers        Cost US$
('000)
Fellowships for masters degree         2 years        3,200          35             112
Overseas study tours                 4-6 weeks        4,000         100             400
Preservice orientation
course (new staff)                   2 weeks           68       3,400             231
Inservice course for
field technicians                    2 weeks          134       9,000           1,206
Bi-monthly meetings
for field technicians             1 day each            -       9,000               -
Monthly newsletter for
field technicians                          -         0.25    396,000 copies        99
Self-training material
for field technicians                                   7       9,000              63
Regional biennial meetings
for subject matter
specialists                      2 days each           30         300/a            72
Annual national conference
of subject matter
specialists                           4 days          190         348/b           264
Other specialist meeting for
subject matter specialists            4 days          190         100/c            19
Meetings for other staff
(management, planning etc.)           4 days          150         200              30
Nutrition course (Nur. C of Phil)   4 months          2,500          24              60
Department Education Nutrition
course                                5 days           13       9,000             117
Total                                                                       2,673
/a    300 provincial agricultural SMSs at regional office each conference.
/b    Again this is only agricultural  SMSs - 300 from provincial offices and
48 from the provincial offices attending each conference.
/c    100 SMS during the 4 - year Project.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year                      Cumulative
and semester                          disbursement
(US$ '000)
FY80   1st                              3,500
2nd                              6,500
FY81   1st                             12,000
2nd                             17,000
FY82   1st                             22,000
2nd                             27,000
FY83   1st                             32,000
2nd                             35,000



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL AGRICULTURE EXTENSION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(P million)
Present value                  Present value
of incremental                 of incremental
Incremental costs          costs dis-    Incremental  benefits dis-
Year  Capital  Operating  Total  counted at 15%   benefits    counted at 15%
1    58.69      12.39    71.08       61.83             0               0
2    45.42      32.73    78.15       59.08            16.75           12.66
3    34.46      57.63    92.09       60.59            33.50           22.04
4    37.96      82.11   120.07       68.68            50.26           28.75
5    10.15      82.11    92.26       45.85            83.76           41.63
6    10.15      82.11    92.26       39.85           117.26           50.66
7    10.15      82.11    92.26       34.68           150.77           56.69
8-20   10.15      82.11    92.26       193.65          167.52          351.62
564.21                          564.05
To realize a 15% economic rate of return, annual incremental net
production value at full development by year 8, would need to reach about
e 168 million. This could be obtained with an annual increase in rice
production of about 124,000 tons and 35,000 tons of corn nationwide, equivalent
to an average yield increase of rice and corn of 34 kg/ha and 10 kg/ha,
respectively, or about 1.9% and 1.2%, respectively, over the "without project"
situation. The increase in average yields required by the final year of
project implementation, year 4, would be 12 kg/ha for rice and 3 kg/ha for
corn. These increases in yield should be relatively easy to obtain.



ANNEX 5
- 42 -
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Documents in Project File
Project File 1: Administrative
(i)  A review of Agricultural Extension in the Philippines
- IBRD/April 1977
(ii)  Existing Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture
(iii)  Draft terms of reference for field staff under the proposed
reorganization
(iv)  Presidential decrees and letters of instruction relevant to
the Project: PDs 1579, 547 and 461, LOI 598 and 599
(v)  Organization of the National Food and Agriculture Council
(NFAC) and progress reports on Government's special food
production programs (rice, corn, and vegetables)
Project File 2: Technology and Training
(i) Extension methodology (function procedures)
(ii) Training responsibilities, facilities and equipment
(iii) Recommended packages of technology for major crops in
the Philippines
Project File 3: Nutrition Programs and Extension
(i)  Nutrition Program of the Philippines - a report of
present activities and proposals
(ii) Evaluation of activities of Home Management Technicians
and Rural Youth Development Officers
Project File 4: Working Papers
(i) Salaries and allowances
(ii) Economic price calculations for rice and corn



IBRD 13155R
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                        120'                           1220                          124'                             1264                AUGUST T978
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS
i  ILOCOS                  VI WESTERN VISAYAS
1 IlocosNorte             37 Aklan                                                                                    PHILl
2 Abra                    38 Capiz
3 llocosSur               39 Antique                                               B
4 Mountain                40 Iloilo
5 La Union                41 Negros Occidental                                  ______                                               ROAD
6 Benguet             VII CENTRAL VISAYAS                                                                                            ROADS
7Pangasinan               42 Cebu                                                                                     - ------ RAILWAYS
I,  CAGAYAN VALLEY             43 NegrosOriental                                                                                          PB
8 Batanes                 44 Bohol                                                                                                   PROViNCIAL BOUNDARIS
9 Cagayan                 45 Siquijor                                                                                                RGQ
10 Kalinga-Apayao      VIII EASTERN VISAYAS                                                                                 -         REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
1  ltsabela                46 Northern Samar                                                                                          t ii', , o.,  - *-  INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES  18e
l, 12 lfu8oo                   47 Samar                                                       -
lEO    13 Nueva Vizcaya            48 Eastern Samar                               "
14 Quirino                 49   uther L
III CENTRAL LUZON              80 Southern Leyte               Looag.,              9 
15 NuevaEcija          IX WESTERN MINDANAO
16 Tarlac                   5l Zamboanga del Norte                   2
17  Pambanae               52 ZamboangadelSur                        2      10
18 Pampanga                8   aia                                        
19 Bulacan                 84 Bsila4'
20 Bataan                  55 Tavitzai                            3 1                            1                                   r.e  hoe beer  rred yton
IV SOUTHERN TAGALOG    5   aX           ta                                                  11     Wi tN oore flk0 -f -Ste w r.oar
X  NORTHERN MINDANAO                   ,oe d-;no --it,o uoe,d cd t                                                                                ,
21 Maidquezn. 60- lll Ocs~ Xnta 0   iN1
22 Rizand56 OuriLao del Norte                       Son                              LU Z/   N                                   6-d.,W oto,o th t
23 Cavite           8~~~~7 Camiguin          Fernonc                                                                      Word  &kn t tlre  o                                  4
Te  23 Cavite             58~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  Agusan del Norte  ,g  k                            one,enrotplnto
10 24 Lagutna                                                     I 
25 Batangan ~       59Mosamis Oriental                                    4nyooynoy,doorto
26 MOarinduque             60 Misamis Occidental         ',13reeptonoohutde.
27 Mindoro oriental        61 Lanaa del Norte 
28 Mindoro Occidental      82 Lanao del Sur
63 Bukidnon                                                                                  50      0     50    100    150   200
28 Romblon                 64Aua  e  u
30 Palawan                T64AgunandelSum                                                                                           KILOMElERS
V  BICOL              ~~~~~~65 Su rigao del Sur  III,,  0 -(15n                                                                  IOMTR
31 Camnarines Norte    XI SOUTHERN MINDANAO                         1
32 CamarinesSur            66 Maguindanao               A,9n~
33 Catbanduanes            67 North Cotabato    Olongrpo.0l
34 Aolbayo                 69 Danao Oriental                   I9Caanunjv6 avo                                                                                                        4
35 Sorsogon                70 Davao del Sur
l4'     6Mabt                      7 1 Sultan Kudarat                       123'- 
72 South Cotabato
IV;                                                 4     
~ s  27 ';   \  ~        | i:'<mkPz2
-12'                 SI2-
,  \oc d 7                         pA         \. -,I %d
[ D gt 10                                                                                                                                                                                     1
9F~uerto Princeso                                                                                  n I  Srgoo    3
/ 302                                                                                                                       x'{ 3> SC)Sdg<
/   .-   ,,,,.j  ,<~~~~~~~~E _ < I 01 .
jA ,                                                                                                     CagSJyrfn ff 59
A---, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ -( 
C                   ,,, I N~ A3 J'
C H  N A rS T A I  WI A N
K?  .N' (:TI,           I ,.T   t IP HLIfhS         *                                                                                       \    f \\Zomboanga
uT  NAfa  / 9                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~JolOe9'4'                                               a  \2 e   S fntos6
T NAMe          j1
MALA    A  /                                                                                  1                             1
>               <e>10                                                                 22                            124                           1260          >7



