CONFORNED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1626 PH
Loan Agreement
(National Extension Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 21, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1626 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Lopa and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) "Presidential Decree" means the Presidential Decree
No. 1579 of the Borrower; and
(c) "Letter of Instruction" means the Letter of Instruction
No. 599 of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for


﻿-2-
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. To assist the Borrower for this
purpose, the Borrower may employ such consultant services as may
be necessary.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and thirty-five hundredths per cent (7.35%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part E.1 of the
Project through its Ministry of the Budget, Part E.2 through its
National Food and Agricultural Council and the remainder of the
Project through MOA, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, nutri-
tional, financial, training and extension practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-3-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
including:
(a) consultants, to be appointed by December 31, 1979, to
assist in carrying out Part E.1 of the Project; and
(b) consultants, to be appointed by December 31, 1979, to
assist in carrying out Part E.2 of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-4-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause MOA to implement a
reorganization of the MOA including the appointment by January 31,
1980 of MOA's twelve Regional Directors and at least two Assistant
Regional Directors for each of the Regional Directors, in accor-
dance with the Presidential Decree.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that in carrying
out Part D of the Project, the required incremental extension
staff are appointed in accordance with the implementation time-
table set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, in regard to Part E.1 of
the Project, cause its Ministry of the Budget:
(a) to draw up, in consultation with the Bank, by July 31,
1979, the terms of reference of the study to be carried out;
(b) to evaluate, in consultation with the Bank, by March 31,
1981, the findings of the said study; and
(c) to implement, by January 31, 1982, the plan of action
agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause its National
Food and Agricultural Council to draw up, in consultation with
the Bank, the terms of reference for the study outlined in Part
E.2 of the Project by July 31, 1979.


﻿-5-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause MOA by July 31 of each year commencing on July 31,
1980, to furnish to the Bank for the Bank's review a report on the
activities and achievements of the extension services, during the
preceding year.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that motorcycles
which are financed under the Project are of suitable engine
capacity and design, and shall cause such motorcycles to be made
available to extension workers under terms and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank. For this purpose, the Borrower shall, by
July 31, 1979, cause arrangements to be made satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall cause Part C of the
Project to be carried out in accordance with a program and pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to enable extension staff to implement Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MOA to establish ade-
quate transportation allowances for extension staff by January 31,
1980.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assetse
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at
no cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any
such lien.


﻿- 6 -
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (1) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the pur-
chase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets
of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the
extent that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws
in force in its territories to make this undertaking effective,
the Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 4,."*  (a) The Borrower shall cause MOA to maintain
separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MOA to: (i) have such accounts
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its accounts for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts of MOA and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Presidential Decree or


﻿-7-
the Letter of Instruction shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as materially and
adversely affects the ability of the Borrower to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any events specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date March 27, 1979, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                              7550 CBP-PH
Manila                              0268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Arturo R. Tanco, Jr.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  2,000,000         50%
(2) Equipment and               25,000,000
materials:
(a) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally                                   100% of local
manufactured                             expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) goods procured                            65%
locally
(3) Credits for motor-           4,000,000         100% of amounts
cycles under Part                             disbursed
B.3 (a) of the
Project
(4) Consultants' ser-            2,000,000         100%
vices, training
and study tours
(5) Unallocated                  2,000,000
TOTAL       35,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 11 -
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to strengthen
extension services, and consists of the following Parts:
A.   Organizational Program
Implementation of an improved organizational structure
for MOA including the establishment of a unified system
of extension services and closer coordination between
extension and research.
B.   Buildings, Vehicles and Equipment
1.   Construction of at least 500 rural extension
centers and renovation of the existing facilities
for extension services.
2.   Provision of communications equipment for MOA.
3.   Provision of equipment and materials for extension
services, including:
(a) vehicles for transporting staff and materials;
(b) office, printing and photographic equipment
and supplies; and
(c) audio and visual aids and other demonstration
and training equipment and materials.
C.   Extension Methodology
Introduction and implementation of a sound extension
methodology, with particular emphasis on close super-
vision, regular training of extension workers and regu-
lar visits.
D.   Staffing and Training Program
Implementation of a staffing and training program in
accordance with the Annex to Schedule 2.


﻿- 13 -
E.   Studies
1.   Review of extension services provided by the
Borrower 's agencies including job functions and
compensation of extension staff in order to develop
a unified system of extension services and a system
of equitable compensation for extension staff.
2.   Development of more effective monitoring and
evaluation procedures to determine (i) individual
performance of extension workers and (ii) effec-
tiveness of extension services provided.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 14 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Implementation time-table for incremental extension staff and
new extension positions under Part D of the Project.
Designation           FY*1979   FY1980   FY1981   FY1982     Total
Rural Youth
Development
Officer                           150      150     200         500
Subject Matter
Specialist                -        80      100     100        280
Farm Management
Technician              100       200      300     400       1,000
Home Management
Technician                -       300      300     400      1,000
Livestock exten-
sion Officer                      150      150     200         500
*    FY means the Borrower's Fiscal Year


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1984
through   June 1, 1998                       1,165,000
On December 1, 1998                                1,215,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.10%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.20%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.05%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                              5.90%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                              6.60%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.35%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.    For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
Republic of the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 18 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of the Philippines if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
the Republic of the Philippines equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in the Republic of the Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be 3upplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i): the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 19 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Specialized items and items to be purchased in small quanti-
ties estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of $50,000
each and in the aggregate the equivalent of $2,000,000 or less,
may be procured after local advertising in accordance with the
Borrower's competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.   Motorcycles may be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of Parts A, C.1 and C.2 of
this Schedule, equipment and materials with unit prices not
exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 each may be purchased on the
basis of prudent shopping after solicitation of at least three
quotations, provided that the aggregate expenditure of items so
purchased shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
4.   Civil works shall be carried out either by contracts awarded
under the Borrower's procurement procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, or by force account under supervision of the Borrower.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison


﻿- 20 -
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to ,ny material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


