Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A'V 3 oo 7-c CHr
Report No. 7296-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
CHINA
November 16, 1988
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only In the performance of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1988)
Currency came        =   Renminbi (RMB)
Currency unit        2   Yuan (Y)
US$1.00              =   Y 3.70
US$0.27              =   Y 1.00
US$270,270           =   Y 1,000,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALE-NTS
Metric System                    British/Chinese
1 meter (m)              =      3.281 feet
1 square meter (32)      =       10.764 square feet
1 cubic meter (m )       =      35.315 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)                0.621 mile
0.5396 nautical mile
1 ton-km                 =      0.621 ton-mile
1 ton                    =      2,204 pounds
1 hectare (ha)                   2.469 acres
-      14.992 mu
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AAPRC      -  Audit Administration of the People's Republic
of China
ADT        -  Average Daily Traffic
cif        -  Cost, insurance and freight
COSCO      -  China Ocean Shipping Corporation
CNTIC      -  China National Technical Import Corporation
dwt        -  Dead weight tons
ERR        -  Economic Rate of Return
FY         -  Fiscal Year
FYP        -  Five Year Plan
GOC        -  Government of China
LRMC       -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MLW        -  Mean Low Water
MOC        -  Ministry of Communications
MOF        -  Ministry of Finance
MR         -  Ministry of Railways
NPV        -  Net Present Value
XPB        -  Xiamen Port Bureau
nrt        -  Net registered ton
PBC        -  People's Bank of China
SEZ        -  Special Economic Zone
SPC        -  State Planning Commission
Leu           rwenty 'oot equivalent unit



FOR OMFCIL USE ONLY
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT
Loan aDd Project Summary
Borrower:                  People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:             Xiamen Port Bureau (XPB)
Amount:                    $36 million equivalent
Terms:                     Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:           The proceeds of the loan ($36 million) would be
onlent by the GovernRent to XPB through Xiamen
Municipal Government (XMG) under subsidiary loan
agreements with a 20-year term, including 5 years of
grace, at an interest rate of 5X p.a. The foreign
exchange risk and commitment fees would be borne by
XPB.
Project Objectives:        The principal objective of the project is to assi3t
the Government in its efforts to improve operations,
relieve congestion and increase the handling
capacity in the ports subsector. The project would
provide for infrastructure development, technical
assistance, and training to strengthen the port's
management and improve its operating capabilities
and to address long term aspects of port
development.
Project Description:       The proposed project includes developments at Xiamen
(Xiamen Port)              port which consist of:  (a) construction of one
container berth, two multi-purpose berths capable of
being converted to container berths as and when
needed, and one coal berth, together with the
necessary infrastructure including dredging,
reclamation, pavement, roadways, railways, power,
water supply and sewerage systems; (b) provision of
the required cargo handling equipment, communi-
cations and environmental protection equipment,
navigation aids, boats and other small equipment;
and (c) provision of training and technical assist-
ance for master planning, construction supervision,
implementation of an action plan to improve port
operations, mail,.enance and environmental
conditions, and to train the staff in management,
operations and financial costing systems.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:                     The project has no significant risks since all
components involve proven technology that has been
in extended use in China or in other parts of the
world. Additional training will be provided to
XPB's petrsonnel to assure the proper operation of
the facilities. The only possible risk would be of
delay in project start-up due to the first-time use
of ICB proce9ures by XPB. To minimize this risk,
appropriate Bank assistance and supervision will be
provided in the early stages.
Estimated Project Costs:                 Local           Foreign         Total
(Xiamen Port)                            -     …-------- (USS million) ------=
Civil works                               23.9             29.6           53.5
Equipment                                  3.3             17.7           21.0
Training                                   0.4              0.2            0.6
Technical assistance                       1.2              1.5            2.7
Subtotal                              28.8             49.0           77.8
Contingencies
Physical                                 2.9              4.9            7.8
Price                                    1.6              3.1            4.7
Total P oSect Cost                     33.3             57.0           90.3
Financing Plan:
Bank loan                                -               36.0           36.0
XPB/Covernment                          33.3             21.0           54.3
Total                                 33.3             57.0           90.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                 1990   1991   1992       1993     1994
…---^----- (USS millionT -----------
Annual                       12      12      7         3         2
Cumulative                   12      24     31        34       36
Economic Rate of Return (Xiamen Port): 311
Nsp IBRD 20285



- iii -
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............................... ......         1
Be Investment. ......................................*..*.        1
C. Land Transport Systems............................ .           2
D.  Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s .........        3
II.   THE PORTS SUBSECTOR ......................................         4
A. Port Traffic.........................................          4
B.  Organization and Management..........................         4
C.  Operations and Maintenance...........................         5
D.  Investment Priorities and Technology.................         7
F.  The Role of the Bank                                          9
C.  Experience in Past Lending     n    d    i    ng..................  9
III*  XIAMEN        PORT                                                 10
A.. Hinterland of Xiamen Port                                    10
|           ~~~Be. Port Traa                  ff.....                         12
C.  Existing and Planned Port Facilities                         14
D. Port Operations o...............e.. e,,,*.**                  15
E.  Organization, Management and Staffing ...............        15
F.  Planning, Budgeting, Accounting and Auditing.........        16
This report was written by Ismail Mobarek, George Tharakan, Hank Yen and Nils
Birgander, who appraised the project in March 1988. Keith Thomas assisted
with the financial analysis.



- iv -
Page No.
IV*   THE  PROJECT   *oeoooo.....e...........e........e............e.......   17
A.  Project Objectives.................. . ................      17
B.  Description of the Main Project stems.................       17
C.  Cost Estimates .......................................       19
D. Financing Plan ........                              ...     ......................  20
E. Status of Preparation. ..........................................  20
F. Implementation ...o**4.000.0*........... .*                   20
C. Procurement ...............  21
H.  Disbursement ......... ...... .*.... *   ...................  22
I.  Ecology and Environment....... e .. .....  ... .....eo.      22
J. eorig............................... 22
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................... .. . .... .. ... ...  23
A.  Break-Bulk, Coal and Container Traffic...............        23
B.  Impact on Port Operations.............................       24
C. Costs and Benefits.................. ............ .....       24
D.  Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis..........        26
E.  Project Risks............... ;                  *     .      26
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......................................       27
A.  Past Results and Present Financial Condition.........        27
B.  Future Financial Performance.........................        28
VII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............       29
ANNEXES
1.   Related Documents and Data in the Project File
2.   Requirement for Technical Training
3.   Technical Assistance and Training:  Schedule and Estimated Costs
4.   Terms of Reference:  Updating the Master Plan of Xi.Rmen Port
5.   Action Plan to Improve Port Operations, Maintenance and Environmental
Protection
6.   Semi-Annual Progress Reports



TABLES
3.1     Port Traffic
3.2     Xiamen Port:  Inventory of Berth Facilities
4.1     Project Cost Summary
4.2     Project Cost Estimates (US$)
4.3     Project Cost Estimates (RMB)
4.4     Equipment Cost Estimates
4.5     Disbursement Schedule
5.1     Break-Bulk Container and Coal Traffic
5.2     Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
5.3     Project Economic Cost Estimates
5.4     Ship Time Analysis Without and With Proposed Berths
5.5     Loading/Unloading Cost Savings
5.6     Savings in Coal Transport Costs
5.7     Economic Benefits Summary - General Cargo and Container Berths
5.8     Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6.1     XPB:  Income Statements, 1983-94
6.2     XPB:  Funds Flow Statements, 1983-94
6.3     XPB:  Balance Sheets, 1983-94
6.4     Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
CHARTS
A.  Organization Chart:  XPB
B. Implementation Schedule
C.  Procurement Schedule
MAP
IBRD 29285



CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.1       Chinese policy statements repeatedly identify transportation and
energy shortages as the two most critical bottlenecks in the economy. The
rapid growth of China's economy in recent years has stimulated an increasing
demand for the shipment of commncdities of all sorts, and for passtnger travel
as well. Efforts to reduce waste within the transport system (for example, by
eliminating cross-hauling of the same commodity. increasing the processing of
raw materials before shipment, and increasing the intensity of rodd and
waterway utilization) are certainly desirable, and are being pursued. More
fundamentally, however, the Government's strategy for solving transportation
shortages will have to rely on an expansion of the system's capacity, by
increasing the productivity of existing facilities wherever possible and
s-condarily by building new facilities where necessary.
A. Traffic
1.2       Freight Traffic.  Domestic freight transported in 1986 by all modes
reached 1,383 billion ton-km, representing an 82 increase over 1985 and an
average annual growth rate since 1952 of almost 92, corsistently higher than
the growth of domestic product. By the year 2000, domestic freight traffic
could be in the range of 3,000 billion ton-km. The modal split has moved
toward a more balanced use of modes, with the railways' dominant share of 822
in 1952 reduced to 63Z by 1986.
1.3       Passenger traffic reached 459 billion passenge.-km (p-km) in 1986,
up 72 over 1985 and representing an average annual growth rate of 11% since
1978 and almost 92 since 1952. This illustrates the increasing demand for
travel as income grows. It is likely that this growth would have been even
more rapid if it had not been constrained by the limited capacity of the
transport sector, particularly the railways, to offer more passenger services.
Railways are the major passenger carrier, handling 562 of the traffic in
1986. Despite the rapid growth of passenger traffic in recent years, the
mobility of the Chinese people is still much lover than that of people in
countries with comparable income levels. By the turn of the century,
passenger traffic may well reach about 1,500 billion p-km per year.
B.  Investment
1.4       Over the period 1953-85, some Y 154 billion, or 142 of all new
investments under central government control, went to transport. In
comparison with other countries, annual levels of transpcrt investment appear
to have been on the low side, a factor contributing to transport now being e
bottleneck to economic development. For example, by 1983, 30 million tons of
coal had accumulated in Shanzi Province for lack of transport, and some of
this stockpiled coal was destroyed by spontaneous combustion. Despite a



recent policy of curtailing production to match available transport, the
volume of coal stockpiled in Shanxi has again begun increasing. Rural areas
are short of transport, both for agriculture and for other rural
enterprises. In the ports, lack of proper handling facilities is hampering
trade in bulk commodities such as fertilizers, cement and grain. In the
coming decades, a much larger investment effort will be needed in transport if
these bottlenecks are to be overcome.
C. Land Transport Systems
1.5       The railway system, in 1986, consisted of some 52,000 route-km, of
which about 10,600 km are double or multiple-track and 4,430 km are
electrified. The network is served by 12,270 locomotives, 314,540 freight
cars and 22,140 passenger coaches. At present, 61% of tractive power is still
steam, 33% diesel and 6% electric. Freight traffic density averages 16.7 mil-
lion net ton-km per route-km which is the second highest freight density in
the world after the Soviet Union, and nearly twice that of the United
States. Freight traffic reached 877 billion t-km in 1986. Growth averaged
5.6% p.a. since 1978, and reached 7.8% in 1986. Three-quarters of all freight
traffic involves ten commodities including coal, timber, iron and steel, grain
and construction materials. The passenger traffic density of 4.9 million pas-
senger-km per route-km is now the world's highest. In 1986 1.1 billion
passengers were carried. The average annual increase since 1978 has been
10%. Despite some possible rationalization in the transport of raw materials
and heavy industrial outputs, there is no question but that the transport
demand for the major commodities will continue to grow rapidly. Thus, although
its share of the total is expected to decrease, rail traffic will continue to
grow, requiring massive investments in line capacity, motive power and roll'ng
stock well into the future.
1.6       The highway system comprised about 962,800 km in 1986, of which
about 204,000 km were asphalt paved, about 758,800 km, gravel and sand paved.
Despite impressive expansion of the road network since 1949, when only some
80,000 km of motorable roads existed, the roads in China today are inadequate
because: (a) pavement strength and quality are poor; (b) there are many
thousand kilometL-- of extremely rough macadam-surfaced roads carrying in
excess of 300 average daily traffic (ADT); (c) congestion is severe near
cities, due to the mixing of slow and fast moving traffic; and (d) there are
gaps of about 4,000 km in major national roads linking large cities and
provincial capitals. The road network and road transport in China today can
therefore only be characterized as underdeveloped. Road maintenance, however,
is well-organized and currently absorbs much of the attention and resources of
the provincial and other local road authorities. Except in western China, the
highway network is still very much a system of feeder roads to the railways.
Nevertheless, motor traffic has reportedly grown at a very high overall annual
average of 15% on the national highways since 1978.



- 3 -
D. Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s
1.7       The transport system has been severely taxed by the pace of recent
economic development and capacity constraints are evident in all modes. Coal
transportation is a particularly serious case because of its significance for
energy supply and hence for industrial growth. At present, transpoit
represents a greater constraint on the supply of energy than does coal mine
development. China also needs to substantially expand its port and waterway
facilities to relieve the growing constraint to external trade caused by
inadequate berth capacity and container handling capability. There i4 need
for dramatically expanded road transport, to serve a multiplicity of needs,
including access to and from ports. Increasing specialization and the rapid
growth of light manufactures has created an urgent demand for better road
transport and integrated intermodal (IIM) services. Road transport also will
be called upon to meet a growing share of the demand for passenger
transportation from an increasingly mobile population.
1.8       China's Seventh Five-Year Plan (7th FYP, 1986-90) acknowledges all
these sectoral needs. By the end of the Plan period, freight traffic is
projected to be 45Z higher than in 1985, and passenger traffic 60Z higher,
with a greater share of the increase falling on road transport. To meet these
needs, substantial investments are envisioned, especially in new rail lines,
double-tracking and electrification of existing lines, new highways, and more
berths at deep-water ports. The Plan also aims to secure efficiency gains in
transportation from operational improvements; these include the development of
integrated intermodal transportation networks, in particular for coal
transportation and for import/export trade, and technological improvements
such as container-handling facilities &ad intermodal transport terminals. To
facilitate these developments, the Plan envisions significant institutional
changes in the sector, including an extension of the policy of separating the
functions of government from those of .perating enterprises and delegating
greater authority to the latter (recently begun in the ports subsector, paras.
2.7-9). Continuing adjustment of prices for transportation services is
expected to assist the funding of investments in the sector from internally
generated resources.
1.9       The Bank subscribes to the Covernment's objectives for development
of the transport sector, and is supporting its initiatives with both financial
and technical assistance. Three railway projects (Loans 2394-CHA, 2540-CHA,
2678/Cr. 1680-CHA) have assisted the expansion of capacity on key routes and
the manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches and signalling
equipment; a Fourth Railway Project, approved by the Executive Directors on
June 23, 1988, provides for strategic studies for technological modernization,
as well as expansion of line capacities and manufacturing facilities. Four
highway projects (Loan 2539/Credit 1594-CHA, Toan 2811/Credit 1792 and two
additional projects approved by the Executive Directors on June 9, 1988)
involve the construction or improvement of both national and rural roads.
Port-related activities are described in paras 2.21-2.22. Besides these
subsector-specific sperations, the Bank recently has begun to assist the
Government in conducting strategic s.ud.es and implementing projects of a
wider nature. For example a review of the utilization of wfater transport was
recently completed, a comprehensive transportation study for Guangdong



Province is in progress, and a provincial transport sector project is being
prepared for Jiangsu Province which includes highway and inland waterway
improvements. A study of coal transportation is planned for FY89-90 to
complement the recently completed study of coal pricing and an ongoing study
of coal utilization.
II. THE PORTS SUBSECTOR
2.1       China has 15 major deep-water ports; six of these (Shanghai, Dalian,
Qingdao, Qinhuangdao, Huangpu and Tianjin) handle over 801 of the total
traffic. Shanghai, with 102 berths, is one of the ten largest ports in the
world. In 1987, it handled 128 million tons of cargo and more than 12 million
passengers. Ningbo Port, which is close to Shanghai, is one of China's few
natural deep-water ports and is the only deep-water port on China's mid-
eastern seaboard. There are also many minor ports along China's extensive
coastline and 110,000 kms of navigable waterways.
A. Port Traffic
2.2       Compared to other developing countries, China's port traffic is low
in relation to the size of its economy. However, it has been growing rapidly
since the economy wab opened to foreign trade: between 1977 and 1986 traffic
at the 15 major ports more than doubled, to 344 million tons. Tonnages of
domestic and foreign cargoes are increasing about equally but foreign traffic
is growing at a faster rate. Foreign trade ia expected to continue growing in
step with the economy as a whole; the Seventh Five-Year Plan envisions total
port traffic reaching 500 million tons by 1990, which will be more than 501
higher than the volume in 1985. About one third of total traffic is coal
which mainly moves from northern coal loading ports, for distribution through
ports tn the south and east coasts. Bottlenecks in coal transport are seen as
a major constraint to continued rapiu economic growth. Other bulk and semi-
bulk cargoes also feature prominently in water-borne traffic. These include
iron ore, grain, fertilizer, construction materials, timber and cement.
General cargo usually makes up 10-20Z of the traffic at the major ports.
2.3       Cargo unitization has only just been introduced in China and the
potential for growth in unitized cargo movements using containers and pallets
is very large. In 1986, total port container traffic was 620,000 teu (twenty-
foot-equivaler units). In the first eight months of 1987, total
containerized   -go amounted to 3.3 million tons; this represented a 21X
increase over t..e same period in 1986. There now are 21 ports which handle
containers and 13 specialized container berths with a total throughput
capacity of over 1 million teu.
B. Organization and Management
2.4       One of the most important challenges facing the management of
China's ports is how to adapt the ports to the changing circumstances brought
about by the economic reforms. While the reforms were initiated in China in
1979, the port sector was not affected by them until 1984, <then the Ministry
of Communications (MOC) started the process of port decentralization. Three
features of the reforms in the port sector will be self-financing of port
operations; investment funded by internal cash generation; and increasing



-5-
competition among ports for cargo. Before the reforms, HOC set tariffs,
allocated cargo, provided grant financing for major investments, covered any
deficivzs, and rece;ved most of the surpluses generated by the ports. Now only
a portion of the total cargo is allocated, tariffs for unallocated cargo are
allowed to be set competitively within a narrow range, and profits are
retained by the ports and are subject to taxes. The tax arrangements,
however, tend to be ad hoc (usually fixed, lump-sum payments), and are
apparently based an the needs of individual ports to retain surpluses. in the
future, the government plans to progressively reduce controlled allocation of
traffic, reform tariffs and taxation policies, and phase out grant financing
of investments.
2.5       The first port to be decentralized was Tianjin under a "Pilot System
Reform" introduced in 1984. Under this arrangement the primary leadership of
the port was tranferred from MOC to the local government. This has meant that
the port received a great degree of autonomy in management, investment
planning and control over its finances. As part of the decentralization
arrangement, Tianjin port also was exempted from paying any profits tax up to
the year 1990. In 1986, the ports of Shanghai and Dalian were also
decentralized with somewhat modified provisions regarding taxes and grant
financing of investments. They are required to pay a fixed lump sum tax,
require MOC apDroval of large investments, and will receive some grant
financing through 1990.  Huangpu port was similarly decentralized, though
specific provisions were again slightly different. %ll of the remaining ports
under MOC control are to be decentralized by the e&d of 1988.
2.6       The main objectives of this program of decentralization are to
develop the capability and initiative of the ports' local managements, and to
increase coordination between port development and the development plans of
the region served by a port. Further, it is expected that the need to be
financially self-sufficient and to compete for cargo will encourage eff:ciency
in the ports subsector. Recent comments by Chinese leaders have expressed
satisfaction with the program in general, and while it is still too early to
evaluate the different models olopted, it appears that future policy will tend
to be more even handed and -.iform in its treatment of various ports. Key
elements of that policy :. l relate to taxation, tariffs and the financing of
investments, and in e:der to develop efficient policies in these areas, there
is a need to improve the information available on port operations, costs and
finances. In support of the government's initiatives in this area, the Bank
is assisting MOC in conducting a number of studies including research on
alternative organizational forms employed in other countries and development
of port costing systems (para. 2.20).
C. Operations and Maintenance
2.7       Most major ports in China operate around the clock with a three-
shift system, but operations are increasingly hampered by congestion inside
the port areas. One major factor contributing to congestion is over-aged and
outmoded equipment; another is an excessive reliance on break-bulk cargo
handling methods which have been replaced in most major ports of the world by
various forms of cargo unitization (containers, pallets, etc-i. Another
factor is a lack of adequate hinterland transport capacity at most of China's



-6-
major ports. In addition, the tariff structure is distorted (paras. 2.15-
2.20) and fails to provide incentives for efficient utilization of existing
facilities. In particular, the current port tariff does not encourage effi-
cient use of often limited port storage facilities, and the use of more effi-
cient unitized cargo handling techniques.
2.8       Port congestion peaked in 1985 when average ship delays for foreign
trade vessels were as high as 11 days. This improved somewhat in 1986 as a
result of government restrictions on imports, but port congestion is beginning
to increase again with average waiting times in excess of 4-5 days in many of
the major ports. These expensive ship delays can be traced to a number of
deficiencies in addition to the lack of an adequate number of berths. Poor
documentation procedures and inadequate information systems in the ports often
lead to delays caused by documents not being available in time, and/or the
port not having the right equipment available when a ship is ready to start
loading/discharging cargo.
2.9       There is also a need to rationalize cargo movements.  In many of the
southern and easterr. ports, a large proportion of the traffic involves ship-
to-ship or ship-to-barge transfers, some of which could be avoided by direct
movements between smaller ports through the use of modern sea-going barges
capable of operating on both coastal routes and inland waterways. MOC has
begun efforts to rationalize traffic flows, and as part of the proposed Ningbo
Port Project, a study of cargo and shipping movements in the mid-eastern
region will be undertaken.
2.10      Efforts are underway to improve the productivity of port
operations. Recently, the ports of Shanghai and Dalian have each retained
consultants to review their operations, identify weaknesses and recommend
improvements. At the ports of Ningbo, Xiamen and Shanghai, the Bank has
similarly mounted major reviews )f operations and maintenance, and has agreed
with these ports on action plans to achieve specified performance targets
within a specified time frame. The problems with productivity in China's
ports, however, have less to do with poor operational practices, and are more
related to the lack of adequate specialized facilities. As a result bulk
cargoes are often being handled inefficiently at break-bulk facilities.
Container handling capacity is well below the potential for containerized
cargo, and little attention has been given to achieving productivity improve-
ments through cargo unitization. There is a clear need to improve the
availability of specialized bulk handling facilities and to increase the level
of cargo unitization for break-bulk cargoes.
2.11      Excessive reliance on break-bulk handling has resulted in berth
productivity levels for general cargo often being as low as 50Z of that
achievable with unitized cargo handling. Whereas in foreign trade some
progress has been made through containerization, in the domestic trade little
has been achieved to date.  Palletization of break-bulk cargo and through
movement of pallets are feasible and cost-effective means for increasing
unitization of domestic break-bulk cargo, and savings would result both from
improved productivity and from reductions in cargo damage and loss. The
problems to be overcome however are both technological and institutional, with
th: latter being perhapz the more critical. MOC has initiated efforts to



introduce through pallet concepts with a pilot scheme to be implemented
between Guangdong Province and Hainan Island. Lessons learned there,
especially concerning the organization of through transport movements, will
benefit not only the introduction of through pallets in the domestic trades,
but also the through movement of containers in foreign trade. It must, how-
ever, be emphasized that many of the initiatives needed are beyond the power
of the ports: for instance the need for tariff reform (para. 2.18), and the
coordination of other entities, such as freight forwarders, involved in the
through movement of cargo.
2.12      Inadequate rail and road lin'as in a number of the ports hinder the
smooth flow of cargo through the ports, cause congestion in port storage
facilities, and increase costs to shippers.  The proper interfacing of
differen.t transportation modes is an aspect of port development which is now
receiving the urgent attention of MOC; however, only road connections are
within MOC's own jurisdiction, while railways are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Railways (MR).  MR is itself facing a serious shortage of
capacity, and the coordination of its own priority projects with those of MOC
is important.
2.13      Each major port has its own maintenance works and port equipment is
kept serviceable, although much of the equipment suffers frequent breakdowns
because of age. The most serious maintenance problem is siltation at the
estuarine ports and this requires considerable routine dredging. Some of the
dredging may be excessive and could be reduced through hydrographic work to
provide a better understanding of estuarine flows.
D. Investment Priorities and Technology
2.14      In the 7th FYP, Government proposes to invest over x 10 billion in
the port subsector. Major investments include 120 deep water berths and 80
smaller ones, which together with other improvements would increase deep-water
harbor capacity to 500 million tons by 1990, more than 50% above that in
1985. One of the Government's priorities for the 7th FYP is to update tech-
nology. For ports, this will involve in particular: (a) palletization and
containerization of break-bulk cargo; (b) specialized handling equipment for
bulk cargo, the majority of which is now mixed with general cargo handling,
resulting in Low efficiency; and (c) computerization of documentation flow and
management information.
E. Tariffs
2.15      The structure and level of port tariffs are determined jointly by
the MOC, MOF and the State Price Bureau. The present tariff structure was set
up in 1978 (and was revised in 1985 for foreign trade vessels) on the basis of
a somewhat arbitrary allocation of costs to the different port services. The
structure also reflects all the distortions inherent in the prices of the dif-
ferent factor inputs. As a first step in rationalizing tariffs, the MOC has
agreed to undertake a port costing study with the assistance of the Bank
(para. 2.20).



2.16      There are two tariffs in China's ports, one for foreign trade and
another, lower one, for domestic trade. In fore-gn trade, it is understood
that foreign ships pay the published harbor dues and charges while Chinese
ships pay lower rates. About 801 of all Chinese cargo is carried in vessels
owned or operated by the China Oceu- Shipping Company (COSCO), which is
controlled directly by MOC. In national terms, port tariffs paid by COSCO are
little more than a transfer payment between two parts of MOC. Tariff rates
could be set for efficiency objectives, but instead they seem to reflect the
relative financial strengths of COSCO and the ports and their different
investment requirements. By contrast, rates for foreign vessels seem to be
set on the bas43 of what the market will bear. A 40Z increase was effected in
February 1985, but there was no increase in the lower rates charged for
domestic vessels.
2.17      There are no shipping conference rates for Chinese ports and the
ports only rarely pay demurrage charges for ship waiting. Charter contracts
usually include an allowance for ship waiting time, but these charges are paid
by the cargo owner, not by the port. Recently, however, ports have been sign-
ing despatch agreements with ship operators guaranteeing a certain turn around
time, with demurrage charges payable by the port if the time is exceeded or
premiums payable by the ship if it is handled faster.  Usually the premiums
far exceed the demurrage charges.
2.18      Tariff reform is necessary both to assure the future financial
health of the ports and to ensure that port tariffs provide incentives for
efficient utilization of port assets. In many instances the present tariff
structure is inefficient on both counts. For instance, the relative prices
for handling break-bulk cargo, palletized cargo and container cargo do not
reflect costs and actually discourage shippers from the introduction of more
efficient unitized cargo handling technology. Also, relatively low port
storage charges encourage shippers to over-utilize port storage facilities
thereby causing congestion in the ports. ..arefore, in approaching port
tariff reform it is important to focus not only on the level of tariffs but
also on the structure.
2.19      Existing tax agreements between the ports and the Ministry of
Finance are due to expire in 1990, and future tax and tariff policies are
presently under review. In order to establish new tax and tariff policies
which will ensure both the financial health of the ports and the efficient
utilization of port facilities, there is an immediate need to improve the
information available on port operations and finances. In a number of areas,
the information systems now in place are inadequate. Ports have an
insufficient awareness of the cost of providing specific services and the
adequacy of depreciation funds and other funds needed to cover future
liabilities.  Further, in view of the elimination of grant financing and the
large investments planned for China's ports (to accommodate increased trade
flows and recent large increases in domestic transport demand), future
financial liabilities of the ports are likely to increase rapidly. For the
above reasons, it is now especially important for the government and port
managers to pay special attention to costing port operations, managing their
finances, and assuring the long term viability of investments.



-9-
2.20      To address the need for an accurate and uniform system of costing at
the ports, the Bank has undertaken discussions with MOC on developing a
management information system. Terms of reference for developing a Port
Costing and Management Information System (PCMIS) were discussed and agreed
with MOC, which will be responsible for system development (Annex 5).  This
effort would be funded by a grant from the Japanese Government. After the
system has been developed under MOC's auspices, it will be tried on a pilot
basis at selected ports before adoption at all major ports (see para. 4.4).
F. The Role of the Bank
2.21      The Bank has supported, and will continue to support, the
Government's objective of expanding capacity and improving productivity in the
ports.  The first lending operation in the subsector (Three Ports Projects,
Ln. 2207-CHA) financed additional container handling capacity in Shanghai,
Huangpu and Tianjin and a coal terminal at Huangpu.  The second (Tianjin Port
Project, Ln. 2689-CHA) is financing the construction of eleven additional
berths at Tianjin for timber, construction materials and general cargo.  The
third, (Huangpu Port Project Ln. 2877-CHA/Cr. 1845-CHA), is financing the
construction of five additional berths in the Xinsha area of Huangpu port for
coal, iron ore, bulk fertilizer and general cargo. The fourth, (Dalian Port
Project Ln. 2907-CHA/Cr. 1875-CHA), is financing construction of a new
terminal at Dayao Bay for container and break-bulk cargo.
2.22      Earlier Bank projects supported management systems improvement with
components addressing computer development, technical studies, training, and
containerization of cargo. The work of Bank missions has also been
instrumental in developing Chinese expertise in the economic evaluation of
investment projects, and in updating various aspects of port operations. A
study component in the companion Ningbo Port Project will help determine the
most economic pattern of development for the various ports in mid-eastern
China.
G. Experience in Past Lending
2.23      Construction of the Three Ports Project (Loan 2207-CHA) is complete,
one year later than envisaged at appraisal. There has been a considerable
foreign exchange cost saving under the project as a result of bids being lower
than expected, and $55 million of the original loan of $124 million has been
cancelled. The project is problem free. The Tianjin Port Project (Loan 2689-
CHA $130 million) was approved in April 1986. Implementation is on
schedule. Loan Agreements on the Huangpu Port Project and the Dalian Port
Project have been signed on June 22, 1988 and July 15, 1988 respectively, and
implementation is on schedule.
2.24      A number of studies in the port and shipping subsectors have been
initiated under previous Bank projects. These include a containerization
study which was completed by the Comprehensive Transport Research Institute in
1985. Recent investments in -ontainer facilities have benefited from the
insights provided by this effort. Studies included under ongoing port
projects include an "Intermodal Cargo Distribution Study" as part of the



- 10 -
Huangpu Port Project (in the south) and a similar effort to be undertaken in
the Dalian Port Project (in north China).
III. XIAMEN PORT
3.1       Xiamen Island, situated at 1180 04'.0" E and 240 26' 46" N in the
South-East of Fujian Province, lies across the straits from Taiwan. The
entire island was declared a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in March 1984, and is
one of only four such zones granted special status to facilitate foreign
investment in export oriented industries. Its SEZ status and close proximity
to Taiwan, with which the mainland's relations have recently improved substan-
tially, provide significant opportunities for future economic growth on the
island. The Port of Xiamen has seen a fairly rapid increase in traffic in
recent years (over 9Z annually between 1983-86), and an even faster growth
rate is projected for the future.
A. The Hinterland of Xiamen Port
3.2       The larger hinterland of Xiamen Port is made up of the southern
parts of three provinces: Fujian, Jiangxi and Hunan. However, the primary
hinterland is located within a 150 km radiis of the port and comprises Xiamen
and its neighboring districts of Longxi and Jinjiang, and is bounded by the
five cities of QuSmnzhou, Huian, Yongchun, Zhangzhou and Zhangpu.  This area is
often referred to as the "Golden Delta" of South Fujian province, and is a
major concentration of economic activity in the Province. The table below
presents key economic statistics for Xiamen City and its hinterland.
ECONOMIC STATISTICS FOR THE HINTERLAND, 1985
Primary
Xiamen   hinter-      Fujian    Jiangxi   Hunan
Item                          Island   land /a      pr vince  province  province
Area ('000s km)                   1.5        30          120      167         210
Population (million)                1         -       27.13    34.60       56.22
GVIAO (billion RMB)              2.4       3.68       27.20    29.60       51.33
of which:  Industry            2.2          -       14.90    16.40       28.80
Agriculture         0.2         -        12.30    13.20       22.50
/a Includes Xiamen and the neighboring districts of Longxi and Jinjiang.



- 11 -:
(a) Economic Situation
3.3       Xiamen and its primary hinterland expects to increase the gross
value of ind-4trial and agricultural output (GVIAO) during the Seventh Five
Year Plan (7th FYP) period (1986-90), from RMB 3.68 billion in 1985 to RMB 10
billion in 1990. This is an extraordinary annual growth rate of 22%, which is
the same as that achieved by the region over the 6th FYP period, but it
remains to be seen whether such rapid growth can be sustained. Industrial
output is projected to grow at an annual rate of 27%, and agricultu-al output
at 11% p.a. during the 7th FYP. Much of the growth in industrial output is
predicated on the success of the Xiamen Special Economic Zone (see below).
The investments already made in infrastructure and factory premises, and the
contracts already signed for joint venture industrial production indicate that
fairly rapid growth of industrial output is possible in the short-term. The
rate of agricultural growth depends on a continuation of the present pattern
of rapid growth in the production of fresh fruit, vegetables and tea for
domestic and export markets.
3.4       Xiamen Special Economic Zone.  Among the four SEZ's (Shenzhen,
Zhuhai, Shantou, Xiamen), the one at Xiamen is the only one created outside
Guangdong Province. Whereas, the other three primarily rely on overseas trade
through Hong Kong, Xiamen's SEZ is intended to eventually exploit its close
proximity to Taiwan. Recent improvements in relations between the mainland
and Taiwan should help ensure the success of the Xiamen SEZ.
3.5       The performance of the Xiamen SEZ, so far, has been mixed.  Foreign
investment, in the SEZ picked up in the 1984-85 period with over 100 projects
and over US$450 million in total investments in 1985. However, as a result of
stricter government policies, the number of projects and total investment
dropped sharply in 1986 to less than 40 projects with an investment value of
around US$30 million. Six months data for 1987 does not indicate any recovery
to past levels of activity. Hence, the future of the Xiamen SEZ is still
unclear. Continuing improvements in the mainland's relations with Taiwan
however, could lead to substantial increases in the rate of investment in
Xiamen.
3.6       Presently, some 770 industrial enterprises employing about 100,000
workers, have been established in the Xiamen SEZ. Light industry accounts for
almost 70% of total industrial output, the main products being industrial
equipment, forgings, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, textiles, cenned food and
high technology products in electronics and scientific instruments. The
projected growth rate in industrial output over the Seventh Plan Period of 27%
p.a. for Xiamen's SEZ may be somewhat optimistic, but based on current
investments in industrial capacity, it is estimated that growth over this
period should exceed 15% p.a.
(b) Transport Links to the Hinterland
3.7       The larger hinterland of Xiamen Port, which is the southern parts of
Fujian, Jiangxi and Hunan Provinces, will be linked to the port by a new dual
carriage highway. Construction of this east-west 1,200 km highway, the Three
South Highway (Sannan Lu), is presently underway for a 40 km section near



- 12 -
Xiamen, but the highway is unlikely to attract port traffic from outside
Fujian Province before the year 1995. To the north Xiamen is linked to Fuzhou
by a third class highway which is planned to be upgraded to second class by
1990 and to the South a third class highway links Xiamen to Shantou. The port
is also served by the Yingtan-Xiamen Railway (Ying Xia Railway) which connects
through Yingtan to Nanjing, Hangzhou and Shanghai. Presently this railway is
single track with a capacity of 5.9 million tons p.a. which is fully
utilized. Under the Third Railway Project (Loan 2678/Cr. 1680-CHA), the Bank
is financing electrification of the Ying Xi& which will increase its capacity
to 15.4 million tons p.a. by end-1991.
(c) Xiamen Port Vis-A-Vis Other Regional Ports
3.8       Three other ports within a 200 km distance of Xiamen Port, can be
considered significant in serving the region. These are Fuzhou and Meizhou
Bay to the north in Fujian Province, and Shantou to the south in Guangdong
Province. Fuzhou has 7 berths, of which two are for petroleum products. Due
to severe siltation problems the maximum vessel size that can be accommodated
at the berths is 5,000 dwt. Shantou has three berths which can accommodate
vessels of up to 5,000 dwt. Each of the ports, Fuzhou and Shantou, handled
approximately two million tons of cargo in 1985, as compared with over 3.3
million tons handled at Xiamen, and neither of the other two ports have
specialized container facilities. Development of Meizhou Bay is hampered by a
lack of infrastructure at the port site.  Even though the location has good
natural conditions for a deep-water port, the lack of supporting services and
infrastructure will limit development in the near term.
B. Port Traffic
3.9       Xiamen Port's traffic in 1987 exceeded even the peak levels recorded
in 1985, in sharp contrast with other ports in China. This large increase in
traffic was primarily due to strong growth in grain, fertilizer and general
cargo imports. From 1983 to 1987, traffic through Xiamen Port has increased
from 2.5 million tons to over 4.3 million tons, or at an annual average growth
rate in excess of 111. The strongest growth over this five year period was
experienced in coal (43X p.a.), construction materials (26X p.a.), cement (17%
p.a.) and containerized cargo (40X p.a.). Over the same period, low or nega-
tive growth was recorded in a few cargo categories such as timber and salt.
Overall, traffic through Xiamen Port is expected to grow at around 12Z p.a.
between now and the year 2000; detailed forecasts are provided in Table 3.1.
(a) Agricultural Commodities
3.10      The principal agricultural products in Xiamen's primary hinterland
are grain, sugar, vegetables, fruit, meat and ither animal products, eggs and
tea. Total annual production in 1985 was estimated at 8.5 million tons, and
most of this was consumed locally. Grain production is expected to rise by
2.5Z p.a.; however, population growth and improved living standards are
expected to absorb most of the increased output. Edible oil and sugar
production is projected to grow at between 5% to 7% p.a., and in both of these
commodities a substantial surplus is expected to be exported. Fresh fruit and
vegetable production are expected to register strong growth, between 8X and



- 13 -
10Z p.a., and most of this growth will be based on sharp increases in exports
to Hong Kong and Japan using reefer containers.  Tea production in the region
is also registering strong growth at 6X p.a. and is expected to contribute
substantially to export volumes.  Overall exports of agricultural produce
through Xiamen Port are projected at 340,000 tons in 1990, growing to around
2 million tons in the year 2000.
3.11      Agricultural imports through the port are primarily wheat and
chemical fertilizer. Both of these cargoes experienced a strong increase in
1987. Inbound grain shipments through Xiamen Port are likely to increase,
mostly as a result of diversion of this cargo from rail to coastal shipping.
Inbound shipments of food grains through the port stood at 670,000 tons in
1987, and are expected to grow to 2.3 million tons by the year 2000.
Increased imports of chemical fertilizer are projected to support expansion in
agricultural output in the hinterland. In 1987, inbound chemical fertilizer
shipments, mainly imports, were estimated to have been 550,000 tons, and
approximately half of this volume was transhipped to coastal vessels for
distribution to coastal areas. By the year 2000 chemical fertilizer traffic
is projected to grow to 1.2 million tons inbound, with about 300,000 tons
being transhipped for coastal distribution.
(b) Industrial Cargo
3.12      Whereas the target for growth in industrial production in the Xiamen
area is officially set at 27% p.a. during the seventh plan period, it is more
likely to be around 15% p.a. based on present levels of investment in capacity
expansion. A major factor which could have a positive influence on this rate
of growth would be improved trade relations with Taiwan. However, even this
is unlikely to impact cargo traffic significantly in the short term.
3.13      Imports of consumer goods increased substantially towards the end of
the Sixth Plan, and are expected to continue to keep pace with overall
economic growth. Imports of industrial machinery are expected to peak in the
near term, but imports of raw materials and components from overseas and from
other parts of China will continue to increase over the longer term. Imports
of consumer durables are also expected to register strong growth. Inbound
coal movements will experience strong growth as coal traffic is diverted from
rail to coastal shipping routes, and with the development of the new coal
facility, Xiamen will play a larger role in the regional distribution of coal.
It is expected that coal traffic will grow from 314,000 tons in 1987 to around
6 million tons in the year 2000, or at an average growth rate of 25% p.a.
(c) Containerization
3.14      Since completion of the existing container berth in 1983, container
traffic grew from 2,600 twentv-foot equivalent units (teu) in 1983 to 8,300
teu in 1984, and 19,200 teu in 1985. A drop was registered in 1986-1987 due
to increased restrictions on imports. Container traffic in 1987 was a little
over 14,000 teu and this represents a 45% container penetration rate for
containerizable foreign trade cargo. Total containerizable cargo in the
foreign trade is projected to increase from just over 300,000 tons in 1987 to
over 1 million tons by the year 2000. This reflects increases in industrial



- 14 -
and fresh fruit and vegetable exports. Container penetration in the foreign
trades is projected to stabilize at around 60% in 1995. Total foreign trade
container traffic is thus projected to inci ase from 14,000 teu in 1987 to
around 80,000 teu in the year 2000. This . nstitutes the low forecast for
container traffic. Increased use of containers in the domestic trades could
result in substantially higher levels of container traffic through the port.
With a 20Z container penetration rate for the domestic trades, totai traffic
could well reach 140,)00 teu in the year 2000.
C. Existing and Planned Port Facilities
3.15      Xiamen Port comprises three districts:  Dongdu District, which
includes the site of the proposed project; Hepin District located in the
downtown area of Xiamen City; and Gaoqi District located on the Northwest side
of Xiamen Island. Dongdu District is the new facility, and the four berths
constructed in this district under Phase I were completed in 1984; these can
handle ships up to 50,000 dwt. Hepin District is the oldest, and the present
facilities, which can handle ships up to 6,400 dwt, date back to 1933. Gaoqi
District consists of a large number of berths for small vessels (under 200
dwt) engaged in coastal and inland waterway operations. Table 3.2 presents an
inventory of berths in each district.
(a) Dry Bulk Facilities
3.16      Dry bulk cargoes are handled primarily at Berth No. 2 (grain) and
Berth No. 3 (fertilizer) in Dongdu District, and in Gaoqi District which is
used primarily to handle domestic movements of salt, sand and coal. Berth
Nos. 2 and 3 in Dongdu District are each fitted with two 10-ton grab cranes,
and each of these berths only achieve throughput rates of around 2000 tons per
day due to various bottlenecks in the material handling and bagging systems.
operational improvements planned under the project (para. 3.20) should
increase the capacity of these berths. Gaoqi District can only accommodate
smali vessels of up to 200 dwt, and handled 336,000 tons in 1986. This
consisted primarily of salt and sand (551) and coal (45X). It is planned to
increase the capacity of Gaoqi District to around 700,000 tons p.a. A small
quantity of coal is also handled at Berth No. 3 in Dongdu District, but this
is expected to be phased out in the future when the new coal berth is
completed.
(b) Break-Bulk Facilities
3.17      Break-bulk cargo is handled to varying degrees at all of the berths
in the Port. In Dongdu District Berths 1 and 4 handle the majority of break-
bulk cargo, though Berth No. 1 is primarily a container berth. Berth No. 4 is
fitted with two 10-ton cranes, while break-bulk handling at Berth No. 1
utilizes mobile cranes. In Hepin District, 1 and 1.5 ton mobile cranes, and 2
ton stationary cranes are used. The cargo handling facilities at Hepin are
obsolete and these would be gradually phased out as additional capacity
becomes available at Dongdu District.



- 15 -
(c) Container Facilities
3.18      Berth Nc. 1 in Dongdu District is fitted with one 30-ton container
gantry. It also has a fleet of straddle car: iers, fork-lifLs and platform
trucks for container yard operations. The condition of pavements and other
yard facilities is unsatisfactory, and it is planned to revert this facility
to break-bulk operations once the new container terminal becomes
operational. This facility presently handles around 14,000 teu annually.
(d)  Expansion Plan
3.19      Proposed future expansion of port facilities are all located in
Dongdu District. The four berths constructed under Dongdu Phase I have a
total length of approximately 770 m. According to the port's future plan a
total berth length of 4,550 meters is to be built in five phases, of which the
present project represents Phase II. When Phases I to V are fully developed
the facilities at Dongdu District will be able to handle around 30.0 million
tons of cargo.
D. Port Operations
3.20      In general, berth productivity appears to be low.  Average tons per
ship-hour at berth varied from 54 for bulk fertilizer imports to 13 for gene-
ral cargo imports. For general cargo, average berth productivity of around
twice the current level should be achievable with increased unitization and
improved equipment. For bulk operations, berth productivity depends to a
great extent on the available handling technology. Bottlenecks caused by
improper design of bagging systems, in the case of fertilizer and grain, have
resulted in berth cargo handling equipment performing at around 501 of design
capacity. An action plan to improve port operations (Annex 5) was discussed
and agreed with XPB, including an agreed set of operational performance
targets, and this will be implemented as an integra part of this project.
However, even with the proposed operational improven3nts, and with the berths
constructed under this project becoming operational, the total throughput
capacity of the port (see Annex 5, para. 23) is likely to be substantially
(20%) below tnie total traffic projected for 1995.
3.21      In 1987, Xiamen Port handled a total of 932 ship calls, of which
around 600 were foreign trade ships. On average these ships suffered a
waiting time delay of about four days. In contrast with other ports in China,
traffic at Xiamen in 1987 has increased substantially above the high levels
recorded in 1985. As a result berth congestion in Xiamen is now twice as high
as that experienced in 1985 when average waiting time delays were only around
2 days.
E. Organization, Management and Staffing
3.22      Xiamen port has never been under the direct control of MOC like
other major ocean ports (para. 2.7). Until the end of 1986 it was under the
primary control of the Fujian Provincial Covernment with MOC exercising
secondary control, chiefly in matters of cargo allocation, tariffs and long-
term investment planning. On January 1, 1987, primary control of the port was



- 16 -
transferred to the Xiamen Municipal Government (XMG), with secondary control
remaining with MOC and the Fujian Provincial Government. The main purpose of
the transfer was to put the port under the same governmental control as the
SEZ which it serves.
3.23      Management of the port of Xiamen is the responsibility of Xiamen
Port Bureau (XPB). XPB is an administrative and economic unit with legal
status and contractual capacity. It is responsible for all aspects of port
operations except harbor superintendency (which as in all Chinese ports, is
the responsibility of a department of MOC). The powers and duties of XPB are
set out in a draft charter dated October 22, 1987. This charter is acceptable
to the Bank. XPB's organization is shown at Chart A. The bureau is headed by
a director and vice director appointed by Xiamen Municipality, and is divided
into a number of functional divisions, each concerned with a particular aspect
of port operations - for example, finance, personnel, security and so on. The
managers of these divisions are appointed by the director. The operations of
the port a-e carried out by a number of subordinate enterprises whose managers
report to Lhe director of XPB. These include berth district and container and
passenger terminal operating units, stevedoring companies and repair shops.
These enterprises are self-accounting but their profits are pooled, and their
accounts are consolidated to produce the overall results of XPB, as set out in
Tables 6.1-3. Also reporting to the director, but accountable separately from
the other operations of the port, is the Port Construction Command,
responsible for new construction and major reconstruction throughout the port
area.
F. Planning, Budgeting, Accounting and Auditing
3.24      The long-term plan for XPB is developed by the port and submitted to
Xiamen Municipality, MOC, and the State Planning Commission (SPC) for approval
with a copy to the Provincial Transport Department of Fujian Province.  XPB
prepares an annual budget which must be approved by the Economic Committee of
Xiamen Municipality.
3.25      XPB operates an accrual-based accounting system and follows
accounting procedures laid down by the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Its chart
of accounts and the form of its financial statements (income statement and
balance sheet) are as prescribed by MOC. Consolidated statements are prepared
annually for XPB and its subordinate enterprises, and with the addition of a
funds flow statement, these will be acceptable to the Bank for the purposes of
financial reporting.
3.26      Besides the internal audit procedures applied by MOC to the ports,
and by the ports to their subordinate enterprises, external audit of XPB is
now carried out by the Audit Administration of China (AAPRC).  AAPRC carries
out the audit of most Bank projects in China. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained from XBP that it will submit its audited financial statements to
the Bank not later than six months after the end of each financial year.



- 17 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Ptoject Objectives
4.1       The objectives of the proposed project are to improve the
operational and maintenance capabilities of Xiamen port, to assist in the
preservation of its environment and to increase its capacity to handle cargo
flow. The project would: (a) improve port operations and maintenance
capabilities by execution of an action plan to upgrade the organization of the
port, improve its operations and develop and organize its maintenance
capabilities; (b) assist in preserving the environment by incorporating
necessary protection measures in the port master plan; (c) facilitate
technology transfer in areas such as long term planning (master planning),
financial planning and control, and improved berth management in general; (d)
assist the urgent expansion of port capacity in China, which is in danger of
becoming a constraint to economic growth; and (e) address the training needs
of port operators, maintenance pe-sonnel and managers.
B. Description of Main Project Items
4.2       The proposed project (Map IBRD 20285) consists of:
(a) construction of one container berth for 35,000 dwt ships, two multi-
purpose berths for 25,000 dwt abips capable of conversion to
container berths as and when needed, one coal berth for :5jOOO dwt
ships and a barge berth for 1,000 dwt barges. These berths will
require:
(i)   dredging of about 580,000 m3 of soft soil and about 27,000 m3 of
rock;
(ii)   construction of about 2,800 m of revetments;
(iii)   reclamation and backfilling of about 2.5 million m3 of rock and
sand and yard pavement;
(iv)   construction of the necessary railways, roads, warehouses and
storage yards;
(v)   installation of water supply, sewerage and power supply systems;
(vi)   ?rovision of the required loading/unloading equipment,
navigational aids, operating equipment and boats; and
(vii)   construction of the required auxiliary buildings.
(b) training of port managers, operators and other specialists in:
(i)   port operations, maintenance and construction supervision; and



- 18 -
(ii)   financial control including operating cost monitoring.
(c) reviewing and updating the port master plan; and
(d) implementing an action plan to improve port operations, maintenance
and environmental protection.
4.3       Berth Construction.  The new berths comprise two new terminals: one
terminal contains a 314 m long container berth and two multipurpose berths 396
m long designed to be converted to containers in the future; and the other is
a 270 m long, 24.5 m wide coal jetty connected to the shore by a causeway 90 m
long. The alongside depths are 12.2 m for the container berth, 10 m for the
multipurpose berths (designed for 12.2 m alongside depth in the future), and
12 m for the coal jetty. A 310 m long barge berth is to be constructed with
4.6 m alongside depth to the lee side of the general purpose berths. The
quaywalls for the containers and multipurpose berths are designed using
reinforced concrete caissons, while sheet piles will be used for constructing
the barge berths. The coal jetty is designed using reinforced concrete
piles. Reclamation for the yard and stockpile area will be provided by using
rock fill from a nearby mountain. Water supply, sewerage and power supply
will be provided from the mains leading to the terminals; these have enough
capacity for the present needs and for the new terminals as well. One
container freight station is planned on the container berth.
4.4       Training.  In addition to the operational training required for the
new container handling equipment which will be provided by the suppliers, XPB
will train the other personnel required for the project (Annex 2). On-the-job
training in project supervision will be provided by foreign consultants who
will also assist in the supervision.  Terms of refererce (TOR) for
construction supervision was agreed during negotiation. Foreign consultants
will also be needed to provide training in techniques of financial control,
including operating cost monitoring. Foreign consultants will be recruited
according to the Bank Guidelines. At negotiations, understanding was reached
with XPB that it will carry out the training in accordance with 'he program
agreed with the Bank (Annex 3).
4.5       Port Master Plan.  Under the Three Ports Project (Ln. 2207-CHL), the
Bank financed a Master Planning Course at Yantai during August 1985. With the
tools and techniques now available to the Chinese experts, XPB will update the
port's master plan. The master plan will take into consideration, as before,
the development of neighboring ports and the new economic zones. The master
plan will also include the long term measures specified in the action plan
(para. 4.6). At negotiations, assurances were obtained from XPB that it will
update its master plan on the basis of the terms of reference agreed with the
Bank group (Annex 4), and will complete it by June 30, 1990.
4.6       Action Plan.  The present port operational efficiency and
maintenance capacity can be further improved by implementation of an action
plan (AP). Additionally, certain environmental protection measures have to be
taken to enhance and preserve the environment. Details of the action plan
approved by XPB are presented in Annex 5. The AP also includes targets to be
achieved by the port that can be monitored during project implementation.



- 19 -
During negotiations, ur.derstanding was reached with XPB that it will implement
the action plan starting July 1, 1989 and achieve the specified targets by the
specified dates (Annex 5).
C. Cost Estimates
4.7       The total project cost is estimated at Y 354 million or US$90 mil-
lion equivalent, with a direct and indirect foreign exchange component of
Y 223 million or US$57 million equivalent. Project cost estimates are
summarized below; details are presented in Tables 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4.
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(US$1.0 = RMB 3.70, December, 1988 prices)
Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total          X            Z
-----^(RMB' mln) ------    ------ (USs' mln)-----   foreign         of total
Civil works              88.5    109.4    197.9       23.9       29.6   53.5       56.2          58.9
Equipment                12.4      65.5      77.9      3.3       17.7   21.0       84.3          22.6
Subtotal         100.9    174.9    275.8       27.2      47.3   74.5        64.0         81.5
Technical Assistance
& Training              5.9       6.3      12.2      1.6        1.7    3.3       59.1           4.7
Total Base Cost /a  106.8    181.2    288.0        28.8       49.0   77.8       63.7         86.2
Physical contingencies  10.7       18.2      28.9      2.9        5.0    7.9       63.7           8.6
Price contingencies      12.8      24.0      36.8       1.6       3.0    4.6       65.9           5.2
Grand Total         130.3    223.4    353.7       33.3       57.0   90.3       63.8        100.0
/a   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
t.8       Cost estimates for civil works including design and supervision are
based on designs and oin unit prices for ongoing similar works in China.
Equipment costs are based on the costs of similar equipment recently purchased
in China and in Bank-financed projects in other countries. Estimates are in
constant July 1, 1988 prices. Physical contingencies of 10 have been
included for all project components. Price contingencies for local costs
assume annual increases of 7.0% for 1989, and 6.5% for 1990, 1991 and 1992.
Price contingencies for foreign costs assume an annual increase of 3.0% for
1989 and 1990 and 4.0% thereafter. About 100 man-months is estimated for
technical assistance requirements. The rest of the technical assistance will
be used for training purposes.



- 20 -
D. Financing Plan
4.9       Financing for the project will be provided as follows:
(US$ million)
Source of Finance               IBRD                XPB                   Total
Civil Works                       18.0                41.7                  59.7
Equipment                         16.5                  7.5                 24.0
Training and Technical
Assistance                       1.5                  5.1                  6.6
Total                       36.0                 54.3                 90.3
The Bank loan will be made to the People's Republic of China and will be used
to finance the foreign exchange cost of civil works and procurement of
equipment under contracts awarded mainly through international competitive
bidding (ICB) (see para. 4.14), and the costs of technical assistance and
training. The Covernment will finance the remaining local costs. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will onlend the
proceeds of the loan to XPB through Xiar-en Municipal Government (XHG) on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. In accordance with the Government's
established procedures, the on-lending terms between the Government and XMG
and between XNG and XPB for the proceeds of the Bank loan will be those
prescribed for enterprises in the ports subsector; currently these are 5X p.a.
over 20 years with 5 years grace period. XPB will bear the foreign exchange
risk. These terms and conditions are acceptable to the Bank; signature of
subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
E. Status of Preparation
4.10      Preliminary designs were completed in December 1987 (by the Third
and Fourth Design Institutes) and letailed engineering is underway.
Consultants, financed by a UNDP umbrella project, will review the designs and
prepare the bidding documents. Prequalification of contractors will be
completed in December 1988 and call for bids will be issued in February 1989.
F. Implementation
4.11      Construction of the railway and highway connections to the coal
terminal started in 1987 and is the responsibility of MR and the XNG,
respectively.  The implementation of the remaining physical components of the
project is the responsibility of XPB under the overall supervision of HOC
Capital Construction Department. Assistance is provided by the Fourth Design
Institute in Guangzhou, the Third Design Institute in Shanghai, foreign



- 21 -
consultants and China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) as
appropriate for project implementation and supervision of construction. The
remaining components of the project, namely the training, technical assistance
and studies, are the responsibility of XPB.
4.12      Land needed for the project will be reclaimed from the sea and
compacted under the project. Surrounding the reclamation area by dykes will
be carried out to prevent the spreading of turbid waters. Civil works and
equipment installation are expected to be completed by December 31, 1992, and
the loan closing date would be March 31, 1994. The construction and
procurement schedules are shown in Charts B and C.
G. Procurement
4.13      Procurement would be carried out according to the following table:
(US$ Million)
Procurement method                 Total
Project element                 ICB           LCB          Other          Cost
Civil works                     29.0          30.7             -           59.7
(18.0)        (0.0)                        (18.0)
Equipment                       23.0            -              1.0         24.0
(15.5)                        (1.0)        (16.5)
Technical assistance and
training (including
studies)                        -            -              6.6           6.6
(1.5)        (1.5)
Total                           52.0          30.7             7.6         90.3
(33.5)        TK0.)           (2.5)        (36.0)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Bank loan. All figures include estimated physical and price
contingencies and are rounded.
One civil works contract will be awarded through ICB for the container and
multipurpose berths (US$29.0 million). The remaining civil works including
the coal wharf construction, the yard pavement for the container and
multipurpose wharf and the rest of the infrastructure will be financed
directly by XPB and carried out by contractors chosen through LCB.
4.14      Prequalification of contractors will be carried out for civil works
contracts to be awarded under ICB; qualifying domestic contractors for such
works will receive a preference in the bid evaluation ur 7;1 of the total
contract cost. Equipment will be procured through ICB. Bids offering
domestically manufactured goods will receive a preference in the bid
evaluation of 15% of the cif price or the import duty, whichever is lower.



- 22 -
Some small items to be agreed with the Bank and amounting to not more than
US$200,000 per contract, and aggregating to not more than US$1,000,000, would
be procured under contracts awarded after evaluation and comparison of
quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers under procedures
acceptable to the Bank group. Contracts in excess of US$200,000 will be
awarded through ICB and will be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation and of proposed contract awards. Consultants for
the technical assistance and training components will be recruited in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants.
H. Disbursement
4.15      Disbursement from the proceeds of the loan and credit will cover:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures on equipment or 100% of the local ex-factory
cost, and 75% of the cost of other items locally procured; (b) 85% of
expenditures on civil works procured under ICB; and (c) 100% of the costs of
technical assistance and training. Disbursement will be made against full
documentation except for expenditure relating to training and contracts for
goods and services each valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent, for which
disbursements will be made against statements of expenditure. Supporting
documents for the statements of expenditure will be kept in the offices of XPB
and will be available for inspection by Bank group supervision missions.
4.16      On the basis of the implementation schedules shown in Charts B and
C, a schedule of estimated quarterly disbursements has been prepared
(Table 4.5). This schedule is based on the assumption that the proposed loan
will become effective by June 30, 1989, and the loan closing date will be
March 31, 1994. It follows the disbursement profiles of similar port 7rojects
in China and in other countries.  A special account will be set up and
maintained in US dollars at a bank acceptable to the Bank, which will
facilitate the disbursement of small expenditures; the authorized advance
allocation would be US$3.0 million representing approximately four months'
estimated eligible expenditures.
I. Ecology and Environment
4.17      The project will not affect the existing ecology of the port of
Xiamen. Dredged spoil will be disposed of at dumping sites in deep water well
away from the port area, and thus will cause minimal ecological damage and is
unlikely to redeposit on shore. Any possibility of pollution was minimized
through appropriate terminal design. Model tests were carried out to reach
the optimum plan for safety and efficiency. Dykes will be used during
reclamation to prevent the spreading of turbid water and protect the
environment.
J. Reporting
4.18      XPB will submit to the Bank semi-annual reports starting January 31,
1990, covering the progress of project construction and all relevant
information including actual traffic through the existing port facilities. A
draft format that has been used for other port projects in China is presented
in Annex 6. During negotiations agreement should be reached on the report
format. In addition, promptly after project completion, XPB will prepare and
furnish to the Bank a completion report on the execution and initial operation
of the project and the costs and benefits derived and to be derived from it.



- 23 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
5.1       With the exception of the coal berth, economic evaluation of this
project is based on savings in ship and cargo time through reduction in port
congestion and improved cargo handling. The coal berth is primarily intended
to allow a shift of coal transport, to the Xiamen area, from rail to coastal
shipping. In evaluating the investment in the coal terminal, the methodology
relies on the savings in transport costs resulting from the use of a cheaper
transport mode.
5.2       The project will provide four berths, one each for container and
coal handling, and two berths for break-bulk cargo. The latter two berths are
designed to be convertible to container handling if so required. The project
will also rehabilitate three existing general cargo berths to increase their
throughput capacity. These berths constitute Phase II Development Plan for
the Dongdu District. The existing four berths in Dongdu District were built
under the Phase I Development Plan. The four berths to be built under this
project (Phase II) will become operational in 1992-1993. The present
substandard container berth will revert to break-bulk operations when the new
container berth becomes available. The total number of general cargo berths
in Dongdu District will be six upon completion of this project.
A. Break-Bulk, Coal and Container Traffic
5.3       In 1987, Xiamen Port handled approximately 360,000 tons of coal
traffic. Normal growth in this traffic is expected to be around 17% p.a. to
the year 2000. This high rate of growth reflects increased capacity at coal
loading ports (e.g. Qinhuangdao) in the north which will allow increased use
of coastal shipping for coal distribution. This "normal" increase in coal
traffic through the port is expected to result in around 3 million tons of
coal throughput by the year 2000. In addition, it is planned that the port
will receive a substantial amount of coal for regional distribution. This
will necessitate additional coal handling capacity of 1 million tons by 1990,
and 3 million tons by the year 2000.
5.4       General cargo traffic in Xiamen is projected to grow at around 10%
through the year 2000. However, container traffic i2 projected to grow faster
at a rate of around 13% p.a. to the year 2000. Projected break-bulk traffic
is 1.8 million tons in the year 1990, 2.8 million tons in 1995, and 4.5
million tons by the year 2000.
5.5       Container traffic at Xiamen Port in 1987 stood at 14,000 teu (twenty
foot equivalent units) and this represents a penetration rate of containeriza-
tion into foreign (containerizable) general cargo movements of approximately
45%. This penetration rate is already fairly high (60 to 65% penetration may
be considered mature containerization in developing country trades), and for
the purpose of projecting container traffic, the penetration rate has been
assumed to increase to 60% by the year 2000. Based on these considerations,
container traffic at Xiamen is projected to grow from 14,000 teu in 1987 to
28,000 teu in 1990 and 78,000 teu in the year 2000; details are given in
Table 5.1. These estimates do not include anv containerization in the
domestic trades. If containerization were introduced in the domestic trades,



- 24 -
and achieved a 20Z penetration, container traffic through Xiamen in the year
2000 would exceed 130,000 teu.
B. Impact on Port Operations
5.6       Without the project, general cargo facilities are projected to face
severe congestion (over 902 berth utilization) by the year 1990. With the
project, berth occupancy rates for general cargo drops to under 802 through
1995, and only reaches severely congested conditions towards the latter half
of the 1990s. The new container berth will replace the existing container
berth with a modern fully equipped container facility that has greatly
expanded capacity. The existing container berth will then be utilized as a
general cargo berth, thereby helping to relieve congestion in general cargo
operations. The poor and inadequate physical condition of the existing
container facility will result in the proposed new facility making substantial
(unquantified) improvements in the port's container operations. For instance,
subsidence of portions of the pavement in the existing container yard and the
resulting uneven surface makes container handling difficult. Also, the
existing facility does not have a container freight station and other
specialized facilities for efficient container operations.
5.7       Operational parameters assumed for general cargo and container
operations in the port are presented in Tables 5.2(a) and (b) respectively.
These parameters include: the number of berths, cranes, productivity and
utilization ratios, average ship and parcel sizes, and the average value of
cargo per ton. The tables present these parameters for the existing
conditions (without the project) and future conditions once the project has
been implemented.
C. Costs and Benefits
Project Costs
5.8       For this analysis, all inputs and outputs have been evaluated in
constant July 1988 economic prices. Financial cost eetimates were converted
to economic costs by shadow pricing major cost components and by applying
aggregate conversion factors estimated in previous Bank studies. Details are
provided in Tables 5.3(a)-(f). Price contingencies, taxes and duties are
excluded. For traded goods, cif prices of imports and fob prices of exports
were used in estimating the costs of material and equipment, with due adjust-
ment for the cost of inland transportation. The official exchange rate at
July 1988 was used to convert foreign currencies in Renminbi. Conversion
factors for various cost categories have been estimated as follows:
(a) for major items such as wharf construction, and other large civil
works, by separately shadow pricing each cost component (see
Table 5.3(e);
(b) for equipment a conversion factor of 1.4 is used based on results of
recent Bank Studies (Economic Prices for Project Evaluation in
China, AS3CO, April 1988); and
(c) for other items by applying aggregate conversion factors estimated
in previous Bank studies for port projects in China.



- 25 -
The overall factor for the project is 1.08. The factors derived for the
various cost items have been applied to the table of annual project
expenditures to obtain the stream of project economic costs which are
presented in Table 5.3(f).
Project Benefits - General Cargo and Container Berths
5.9       Quantifiable benefits attributable to the proposed project are ship
time savings, cargo time savings, and cargo-handling cost savings. These
benefits depend on reductions in ship time in the port as a result of
implementing the project.  Table 5.4 presents the ship time analysis with and
without the pro iect. The following discusses each of these benefits
separately.
5.10      Ship Time Savings.  These include both the reduction in ship time
while awaiting berth and at berth due to improved cargo handling. Estimates
of ship waiting time with and without the project were calculated in
Table 5.4.   Ship costs in port are based on the ship cost model developed by
the Bank, updated to reflect recent world market prices.  The cost of ship
time in port for an average vessel which is used to compute economic benefits
is given in Tables 5.2(a) and (b) for different types and sizes of vessel.
5.11      Cargo Time Savings.  Savings in ship time apply also to cargo:  the
benefit is in interest savings on cargo value, i.e., cargo inventory costs
saved as a reqult of reduction in ship port days. For domestic cargo, the
marginal source of working capital would be loans from PBC at 6.5-7.5Z
interest. For foreign cargo, higher foreign exchange working capital would
mean more foreign borrowing and it is assumed that this would be at China's
marginal cost of capital of around 12X.  Roughly half of all cargo passing
through Xiamen is domestic trade cargo.  Interest savings have therefore been
calculated assuming an average rate of interest of 9.5Z p.a.
5.12      Cargo-handling Cost Savings.  Handling costs estimated by XPB for
the existing as well as for the proposed new berths are given in Tables 5.2(a)
and (b). Small savings are expected from handling general cargo over the new
berths. However, without the project, the only way to handle traffic in
excess of berth capacity would be through more costly lightering; otherwise
ship time at port would be extended, which proves to be still more costly.
XPB estimates lightering costs to be 3 times the normal handling costs.
Detailed estimatea of handling cost savings are in Table 5.5. Lightering has
been assumed for cargo tonnage in excess of berth capacity at 95Z occupancy,
at a cost three times that of normal handling. Savings in handling costs have
been converted to economic benefits by shadow pricing the main cost components
of normal handling and of lightering. Conversion factors of 1.05 for berth
handling and 1.1 for lightering are used here. These factors were estimated
in a previous Bank study for the Tianjin port project.
5.13      Total project benefits by year for the three items discussed above
are presented in Table 5.7. The majority of project benefits are in ship time
savings. These would accrue first to ship owners and could be passed on to
cargo owners. As a majority of the ships calling at Xiamen are either
Chinese-owned (COSCO) or operated, we assume 901 of the project benefits will
accrue to China.



- 26 -
Project Benefits-Coal Berths
5.14      Coal traffic inbound through Xiamen Port, with the project, will
primarily comprise traffic which has been diverted from rail transport to
coastal shipping. For the purpose of economic analy.is it is assumed that
this coal originates in Datong, Shanxi Province. Without the project, lack of
adequate port facilities in Xiamen would force this coal to be moved on
already capacity constrained rail transport links. By making the use of
coastal shipping possible, the project yields a net benefit to the national
economy to the extent of the savings in the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of
coastal shipping over rail transport.  These savings are computed in
Table 5.6, and in the net amount to approximately RMB 33.6 per ton of coal
using the coastal shipping route. A more conservative estimate of the savings
is produced if rail and shipping tariffs (financial costs) are converted to
economic costs using conversion factors. The latter method (also presented in
Table 5.6) produces net savings of RMB 23.3 per ton. In evaluating the
economic rate of return for the coal berth, the more conservative figure has
been applied.
D. Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analyses
5.15      Tables 5.8(a)-(c) set out the economic rate of return (ERR) and net
present value (NPV) calculations; Table 5.8(c) shows the rate of return of the
entire project. Cost data are taken from Table 5.3 and total benefits from
Table 5.7. The rate of return calculations for the container and general
cargo berths are presented in Table 5.8(b). The calculations for these two
types of facilities have been combined since much of the benefits from
constructing the new container berth accrue to general cargo operations as a
result of the existing container berth being released for general cargo
operations. The base case rate of return is 31.3Z. The sensitivity of the
economic returns and Net Present Value (NPV) of the project to variations in
costs and benefits are summarized as follows:
NPV million Yuan
ERR Z       (12% discount rate)
Base case                                       31.3              501.8
15Z increase in cost                            27.7             449.8
15% reduction in benefits                       27.2              374.6
15% increase in cost combined with 15%
reduction in benefits                         23.9              322.6
1-year project delay                            25.5              398.5
E. Project Risks
5.16      The majority of the components to be financed under this project are
very robust from an economic stand point. Investment in the coal terminal has
a high rate of return, and the traffic forecast is subject to a low degree of
uncertainty due to the sever,e bottlenecks in coal transport throughout
China. The general cargo berths to be financed under the project are also



- 27 -
robust investments in view of the strong growth experienced recently in
general cargo traffic. In fact, the total capacity in the port is unlikely to
be adequate to the needs of future traffic increases (see para. 3.20). The
only significant uncertainty attaches to the incremental investment needed to
provide a superior container facility. Container traffic forecasts for Xiamen
are subject to some uncertainty which is closely tied to the success of the
Xiamen SEZ experiment. The project design hedges very well the possibility
that container traffic will exceed the forecasts; by providing for conversion
of the two multi-purpose berths to container operations.  The downside risk of
container traffic not materializing is primarily a function of the port's
ability to increase container penetration into break-bulk traffic. This will
be addressed through training for port staff in container services marketing.
Vi. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Past Results and Present Financial Condition
6.1       XPB's financial results for 1984-1987 are at Table 6.1; the salient
points are summarized below:
1984      1985       1986      1987
Net revenue (Y million) /a                14.7      22.2       23.0      29.8
Operating profit (Y million)              5.8       10.9        9.6      12.8
Net profit (Y million)                     1.0       2.8        3.6       4.9
Operating ratio                             60        51         58        57
Return on assets /b employed (2)            25        19         14        11
!a   Excluding taxes.
7r   At historic cost.
6.2       Tariff rates in all Chinese ports were increased in 1985 and XPB's
profit improved markedly in consequence. 1986 results suffered as a result of
a decline in traffic which was not matched by a decline in costs, but growth
of traffic, revenue and operating profits resumed in 1987. The decline in the
rate of return in that year was attributable to the transfer to XPB of the
Port Construction Command from Fujian Provincial Government, which had the
effect of doubling XPB's capital employed without significantly affecting
current earnings. Adjustment tax (a supplementary income tax to which XPB had
previously been subje_t) was removed in 1986, allowing XPB's retained earnings
to continue to grow despite the downturn in pretax profit in that year.
6.3       At December 31, 1987, XPB's financial condition was sound.  All past
capital expenditures having been funded by government grants, the equity of
the enterprise was exactly represented by net fixed assets. Current assets
substantially exceeded current liabilities, with over half the total in cash
or equivalent. The salient points of the balance sheet are as follows:



- 28 -
Y million
Fixed assets (net)                                147
Current assets                                     21
Special fund assets                                 8
176
Equity                                            147
Current liabilities                                11
Special funds                                      18
176
B. Future Financial Performance
6.4            With traffic forecast to grow at a rate in excess of 12Z per
year and tariffs assumed constant in real terms, XPB is expected to experience
a steady increase in operating profit to more than twice the present level by
1992, but interest charges will restrict the growth of profit before tax to
about 502 over the same period. XPB's operating ratio is expected to remain
stable during the period at around 58, but the rate of return will be reduced
by the doubling of the asset base resulting from the completion of the
project. From a low of 5Z in 1992 this will improve as utilization of the
facilities increases. (To some extent this reflects the fact that the tariffs
are assumed to be constant, creating divergence between economic benefits and
financial benefits.)
6.5            XPB will remain liable to income tax at 552 for the rest of the
7th FYP (through 1990), and for the financial forecast this liability has been
assumed to continue thereafter. XPB will also continue to pay a relatively
small levy on profits to the Energy and Transport fund. On this basis, after-
tax profits are expected to provide a slow but steady growth of cash flow,
which is to be held in reserve in special funds against amortization of the
Bank loan, which begins in 1994. The forecast shows that by then annual cash
flow will cover debt service 1.6 times, with about V 30 m in reserve.
6.6            XPB is not required to finance any of its capital expenditures
from internal funds during the 7th FYP. Apart from the onlending of the Bank
loan proceeds, funding for the rest of the port's capital program is provided
mainly by way of grant from the central government, with smaller contributions
(for projects other than the one described in this report) coming also from
the municipal and provincial governments. By project completion, XPB's
capitalization will be about 702 in equity, 302 in long-term debt.
6.7            The financial requirement of.XPB in the iedium term is
therefore to ensure that its revenues and expenditures (other than capital
expenditures) are kept in balance. Accordingly, at negotiations assurances
were obtained that XPB will conduct its affairs so as to cover all its costs
of operations (Including depreciation) from operating revenue, and to meet
from internally generated funds all its financial obligations including debt
service, payments to state and provincial authorities, and allocation to
special funds.



- 29 -
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1       At negotiations, assurances were obtained:
(a) from XPB, that it will:
(i)    submit to the Bank its audited financial statements not later
than 6 months after the end of each financial year
(para. 3.26);
(ii)    carry out the updating of the port master plan on the basis of
terms of reference agreed with the Bank and complete it by
December 31, 1990 (para. 4.5); and
(iii)    conduct its financial affairj so as to cover all its costs of
operation (including depreciation) from operating revenue, and
to meet from internally generated funds all its financial
obligations including debt service, remittances to the state
and allocations to special funds (para. 6.7).
(b) from Government, that it will onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan
to XPB through XM on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.9).
7.2       At negotiations, understanding was reached with XPB that it will:
(a) carry out the training in accordance with the program agreed with
the Bank (para. 4.4); and
(b) implemenc an action plan to improve port operations, maintenance and
environmental conditions according to terms of reference agreed with
the Bank and achieve the agreed upon productivity targets by
December 31, 1990 (para. 4.6).
7.3       Approval of the loan agreement by China's State Council, and
execution of a subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and XMG, and
between XMG and XPB, satisfactory to the Bank, are conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed loan (para 4.9).
7.4       With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for financing a Bank loan of US$36 million to the
People's Republic of China. The loan will be for a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, at the the standard variable interest rate.



- 30 -                              ANNEX I
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data in tOS Project File
1. Feasibility study of Dongdu Phase II Development Project, XPB, 1988
2.  Preliminary Engineering of Dongdu Phase II Development Project, XPB, 1988
3.  Preliminary Engineering, Coal Terminal XPB, 1988
4. Xiamen Port Project, Project Brief, September 1987
5.  Time Schedules for Project Execution, XPB, 1988
6. Financial Statements XPB, 1988



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Requirement of Technical Training
1.  By the end of 1987 the total number of staff in XPB was 4,283.  Management
constitutes about ltZ of the staff (743), while workers constitute the
rest with skilled workers about 42Z of the total (1,510).  Management
staff and skilled workers are usually university, college or technical
school giaduates and are distributed to the various ports by MOC.  The
port is responsible for training, through on the job training, sending
staff to be trained in other ports, and through the technical schools in
Xiamen Municipality.
2.  The proposed project will require training of additional staff divided as
follows:
General
Container       purpose        Coal        Total
Workers                       379            630         371          1,380
Technicians                    70             58          70            198
Management                     88             58          88            234
Service                        92             67          92            251
Total                     629           813          621          2,063
3.   Training for the new project will be carried out through trips abroad for
management personnel; by equipment suppliers and other ports in China for
equipment operators; by on-the-job training for stevedores; and by the
national and local training schools for the ausilliary services.
Training at foreign ports will also be arranged for the various
categories and in particular for management. Total training outside
China is estimated at 45 man-months distributed as follows:
Management        27 persons, one month each:        27 m/m
Technicians        16 persons, two months each:      32 m/m
Workers            3 persons, two months each:       6 m/m,
4. Training for the proposed project will be carried out according to the
following schedule:
Staff member
1989                              200
1990                              500
1991                              500
1992                              863



-32-
ANNEX 3
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
Schedule and Estimated Costs
Date                         Cost (US$'000)
Start          Complete    Local   Foreign   Total
Construction
supervision                1/7/89      31/12/92          400        800   1,200
TraininI
Local training             1/7/89      31/12/92          400          -     400
Training abroad            1/7/89      31/12/92            -        240     240
Financial training         1/7/90      31/12/91          200        500     700
Studies
Master plan                1/7/89      31/12/90          200        400     600
Operation action plan      1/7/89      31/12/90          200        100     300
Environmental
monitoring               1/7/89      31/12/90          400        600   1,000
Grand Total                                         1,800      2,640   4,440



- 33 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
CHINA
UPDATING THE MASTERPLAN OF XIAMEN PORT
Terms of Reference
1.  Introduction
Xiamen Port is a subt-opical seaport at Xiamen City on Xiamen
Island; it is the largest port in Pujian Province, and is located in the
southern part of the province. It serves one of China's four Special Economic
Zones (SEZ) set up to attract foreign technology and investment, and is the
gateway to the southern part of the three provinces of Fujian, Jiangxi and
Hunan.
The cargo throughput in the port has increased by more than 40Z
during the last five years. In 1986, the port handled 3.2 million tons of
cargo, of which 57% was domestic trade. All the cargo was handled in three
districts (Dongdu, Hepin and Gaoqi) and 79% of total traffic was concentrated
in six commodities (grain, 23%; fertilizer, 13%; construction material, 12%;
cement, 11%; salt, 10%; and coal, 10%). In 1986 the break-down by type of
cargo, has been estimated to be 53% dry bulks, 45% general cargo including
containers; and 2% liquid bziks.
The port of Xiamen is presently not congested. It is estimated,
however, that congestion cc4ld occur after 1990 due to: (a) fast economic
growth in the People's Republic of China since 1980; (b) a rapidly increasing
cargo throughput as a result of the new Special Economic Zone status of Xiamen
Island; and (c) a possibility of much faster growth in passenger traffic
starting in 1988. High traffic growth will affect in particular coal, general
cargo and container traffic. Once congestion occurs, it will create direct
s4d indirect economic costs for the country. It is therefore necessary to
both optimize the utilization of existing facilities and to expand the
facilities of the port. As a planning frame the Master Plan of Xiamen Port
must be updated to reflect projected increases in the demand for port
services.
2. Description of the Project/Objective
Xiamen Port Bureau (XPB) has developed a plan for the port of Xiamen
with special regard to the construction of new port facilities. This plan is
intended to enable the port to cope with the future requirements of
anticipated traffic increases.
It is necessary to update these plans, paying attention to long-
term-development to the year 2005, for the following reasons:
(a)  The layout of existing facilities and operation will not be able to
meet the tiaftic demand, both in cargo and passenger, in the future;



34                                ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8
(b) It is the aim of XPB to undertake all possible improvements in the
existing port area before engaging in major investments for new port
facilities, and it is therefore important to identify and quantify
feasible improvements in the short- and medium-term and, based on
these findings, update the plans for long-term development of the
port; and
(c) Since many of the bottlenecks are in the organization and facilities
for inland transportation from the port, the upgrading of inland
transport connections must be incorporated in and influence the
contents of the port master plan.
Further, it is the overall objective of the project to establish not
only an updated masterplan for the Port of Xiamen on the basis of a sound
long-term traffic forecast--which includes optimization of existing facilities
and subsequently future expansion of the port's facilities--but also to
enhance the planning capabilities of the port itself so that it can
periodically update the masterplan in the future.
3. Scope of Work
3.1 Traffic Forecast
(a)  Cargo
The cargo traffic forecast offered by XPB up to year 2000 requires
further explanation. It is necessary to review this forecast and to collect
such additional data as are necessary to prepare a detailed forecast for the
years up to 1995. Detailed forecasts must be produced for each main
commodity-group (e.g., oil, coal, iron-ore, NM-ore, chemicals, salt, grain,
timber, soyabean, corn, wheat, conventional general cargo, containers and
ro/ro cargo), separated into incoming and outgoing traffic for each of the
five years. A further indication of the trends of each major commodity/class
shall be given for the years 2n00 and 2005.
Special attention has to be paid to the trend towards
containerization and possible implementation of ro/ro-services in the future
as this will affect the layout of a masterplan considerably. In this
connection investigations have to be undertaken as to the likely developments
both in kind and size of ships calling at the Port of Xiamen in the future.
As far as the modal split in the landslide transportation of cargoes
is concerned, investigations of future infrastructural investment plans must
take into consideration the relative roles in long-distance transport of rail,
water and truck movements.
(b) Passenger
Review and update the passenger traffic demand by sea (Hepin
district) and by air (international airport) distinguishing the relative roles
of each. Evaluate the existing facilities and development plan to meet these
demands. The access to these terminals should be planned in co-ordination
with the overall long-term urban transport plan.



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 8
3.2 Optimization of Existing Port Facilities
To optimize existing port facilities, it is necessary to consider
appropriate allocations of the different commodities among the existing
facilities with a view to specialization, efficiency in landuse, suitability
of the layout of present facilities, and to analyze the operational methods
and available equipment and make recommendations for any physical improvements
to existing facilities and handling techniques.  These analyses should cover,
among others2
(a) operational investigations with regard to ship's preplanning, ship's
operation, stowage,methods and procedures;
(b) documentation flows and the use of computers;
(c) evaluations of the adequacy of port equipment and cargo handling
gear;
(d)) allocation of trades/commodities among port areas in order to
establish specialized terminals which will allow operational
improvements and increased productivity;
(e) development of sound operational capacity assessmentsg
(f) analysis of tariffs and their impact on operational efficiency (e.g.
free storage time, incentives for unitization of cargo);
(g) assessments of workshop facilities, installations and maintenance
and repair performance;
(h) investigations concerning rehabilitation/relocation of existing port
facilities;
(i)  hinterland connections (rail/road) to the port and recommendations
for improvements including impacts on urban traffic in the city of
Xiamen;
(j) investigations concerning possible locations for future intermodal
freight terminals as cargo distribution centers outside of the port
area and identification of the effect of such terminals on the
situation in the port;
(k) improvements in the availability of rolling stock and other
equipment for inland transport (as far as it affects the port's
performance).
Special attention should be paid to the need to increase container traffic at
Xiamen in order to achieve economic handling levels (container handling in
1986 was approximately 14,200 TEU; present estimate for 1990 is 28,000 TEUW).



_36 -AMX 4
Pasg  4 of 8
All recomme nded measures for improving existing facilities should be
identified, quantified with regard to expected increases in throughput, timed
according to priorities regarding short- and m-edium-term implementation, and
evaluated with regard to the costs ana benefits involved. These measures
should be segregated into the following categories:
(a) measures not requiring physical investments;
(b) masures requiring minor investments; and
(c) measures requiring large investments.
Any changes in the design or proposed rehabilitation of existing
port facilities must be specified in preliminary designs. Preliminary costs
must be provided for the proposals to   15  accuracy.  These costs should be
calculated on the basis of estimated quantities and unit prices applicable for
work of a similar nature in the People's Republic of China. Cost estimates
shall be made up of required expenditures in local and foreign currencies,
which are to be given separately.
3.3 Port Expansion
On the basis of newly established traffic forecasts, and the
recommended measures for improving existing port facilities, future port
expansion needs must be evaluated. This may lead to an updating of the
planned "Dongdu district" which is designed at present for bulk cargo,
containers and conventional general cargo. Also alternative locations for
port expansion, other than the Dongdu-area shall be analyzed with regard to
their feasibility, taking into account the future industrial development plans
of Xiamen and the surrounding provinces, hinterland transport connections, and
draught limitations.
These investigations should include any necessary subsoil
investigations, topographical surveys, hydrological investigations and any
other evaluations needed to guarantee the preparation of reliable preliminary
designs. Special attention should be paid to investigations of the hinterland
connections in order to clearly identify any restrictions for road- and rail-
access. Furthermore, the plans shall give indications of possible locations
for any intermodal freight stations outside of the port area for storage,
consolidation and distribution of cargo.
All preliminary designs have to be set up and the drawings must show
the principal dimensions and plans of all major structures and typical cross-
sections, indicating major features of the proposed design and should
specifically include, where appropriate, the road and rail systems proposed
for imediate access through the city. The preliminary cost estimates shall
be worked out on the same basis as indicated under item 3.2 of these Terms of
Reference. The proposals for any new port facilities should also include:
(a) number and kind of necessary handling equipment and related workshop
facilities;



37 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 8
(b) organizational recommendations for new terminals;
(c) operational systems and procedures; and
(d) sound operational capacity calculations.
3.4 Economic and Financial Evaluation
An economic evaluation of development schemes must be carried out to
determine the optimum scope and timing of investments.  The economic
evaluation should include a comparison of economic benefits and costs over the
life of each project alternative.
The feasibility study will be based on a determination of the
estimated total costs of constructing and operating the proposed facilities
and will include the determination of the net present values and economic rate
of return. For this purpose permanent installations shall be considered to
have a life of 20 years. The sensitivity of the net present values and
economic rate of return to changes, within a feasible range, in the values of
key variables shall be tested.
Benefits should include estimates of savings in transport costs
attributable to possible project alternatives, e.g. reductions in sea
transport costs, cargo handling costs, delays and inland transportation
costs. Other benefits to be considered shall include reduction in port
maintenance and equipment operating costs or, where appropriate, increases in
the value of industrial and agricultural output.
Furthermore, an analysis of future costs and revenues is to be made,
and the financial rate of return on each of these investments is to be
assessed. The financial analysis will include estimates of annual capital,
maintenance and operating costs and of the costs for cargo handling, storage,
vessels berthing and other port operations. Forecasts are to be prepared in
the form of pro-forma cash flow and income statements and annual balance
sheets up to 1995 and finally the financial rate of return on net fixed assets
and the operating ratios for the port as a whole are to be calculated.
3.5 Environmental Protection
In consultation with the Xiamen Environmental Protection Department,
the following environmental concerns should be addressed in the port's master
plan:
(a)  impact of port expansion on wetland and other natural resources;
(b)  impact of port development on urban land-use and traffic conditions;
(c) pollution of city water supply intakes as a result of port activity
and ship discharges; and
(d) etfecrs of harbor dredging and spoils disposal on marine life.



_ 38 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 8
The masterplan should indicate mitigatory measures to eliminate or minimize
any of these consequences of port development.
3.6 Masterplan
Based upon all the considerations previously described in this
section a complete masterplan must be provided which includes:
(a) sound traffic forecasts, reflecting a range of potential outcomes;
(b)  the optimum use of existing facilities (including allowances for
uncertainties);
(c)  improvements in organizational and operational methods in the port;
(d) proposed changes in existing facilities with layouts and cost
estimates;
(e) proposed additional investments in the port, their location, design
and capacities;
(f) proposals for improved land access;
(g) the economic and financial evaluation, including benefit-cost
analyses;
(h) timing of the proposed work; and
(i) environmental protection measures incorporated in the master plan.
4. Sources for Important Data
For the updating of the masterplan the following data have to be
made available:
(a) economic development plans of Xiamen and related regions;
(b) statistics on past .ad present traffic through the port;
(c) any available traffic forecasts;
(d) drawings of existing port facilities, previous studies and all
relevant technical data;
(e) c03t data on recent construction projects;
(f) topographical, hydrographical, hydrological and subsoil information
of the Xiamen port area and the entire island.
(g) plans and studies with regard to Dongdu district and other extension
projects;



- 39 .
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 8
(h) charts of Xiamen port;
(i) all studies/data on urban transport and hinterland traffic/cargo
distribution.
5. Experts' Team
For the updating of the port masterplan for Xiamen the following
experts should be nominated:
(a) 1 Project Manager/Port Engineer;
(b) 1 Civil Engineer
(c) 1 Mechanical Engineer
(d)  1 Structural Enginee.
(e) 1 Transport Planner
(f) 2 Port Operation Experts
(g) 1 Organization/Documentation Expert
(h) 1 Transport Economist
(i) 1 Financial Economist
(j) 1 Environmental Engineer
The work does not require all experts throughout the project's
period, but the experts shall be assigned according to the needs at various
stages of tlhe project.
6. Time Schedule
It is estimated that the updating of the !zssterplan for Xiamen Port
can be performed within approximately 10 calendar-months, based on the fact
that many data and investigations are already available.
As an estimate, about 55 man-months in total should be sufficient
with a possible allocation as follows:
-    Project ManageriPort Engineer            =    10 m/m
-    Civil Engineer                           =     2 m/m
-    Mechanical Engineer                     =      3 m/m
-    Structural Engineer                      =     2 m/m
-    Transport Planner                        =     5 m/m
-    2 Operation Experts                           13 m/m
-    Organization/Doc. Expert                 =     3 m/m
-    TraLsport Economist                     =    10 m/m
-    Financial Economist                     =      2 m/m



-  40                               ANNEX
Page 8 of 8
-    Environmental Engineer                  =      5 m/m
These allocations are estimates only and could be adapted to
possibly different requirements arising during the execution of the project.



-41 .                            ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Action Plan to Improve Port Operations, Maintenance
and Envirormental Protection
Background
1.   Xiaen Port is a subtropical seaport on Xiamen Island located in Fujian
province. Compared with other ports in China, Xiamen is not a big port
in terms of size and cargo throughput. It is, however, one of China's
four Special Economic Zones (SEZ) set up to attract foreign technology
and invescments and an important seaport for oceangoing and domestic
transportation on the southeastern coast of China. There are one
railway, two highways, and one international airport, which are linked
into the provincial and nationwide transport networks, connecting Xiamen
with the rest of the country. The economic hinterland of Xiamen port
covers part of three provinces (Fujian, Jiangxi and Hunan). There are
some fishing ports in this region; but none of them competes with Xiamen
port for cargo traffic.
2.   In 1986, the port handled 3.2 million tons of cargo, of which 57% was
domestic trade. About 79% of total traffic was concentrated in 6
co_mmodities (grain, 23Z; fertilizer, 13Z; construction material, 12%;
cement, 11%, salt, 10%; and coal, 10%). There are three districts under
XiA.en port authority (Dongdu, Hepin and Gaogi). The port's main
activities, however, are concentrated on zhe four berths of Dongdu
district (49%). Total port traffic is forecast to increase from 3.2
million tons in 1986 to 19.1 million tons in the year 2000. These
forecast may be somewhat optimistic, but given ia) the decision in Kay
*             1984 to enlarge the SEZ (from 1.5 km2 to 131 km ), (b) ;n overall policy
;             of foreign trade expansion, and (c) the effort to strengthen regional
transport networks (e.g., electrification of the existing railway, two
proposed highway projects and this proposed port project), these high-
growth traffic forecasts could well be achieved.
3.   In order for the port to be able to handle efficiently present and
expected traffic, until the proposed project is complete, a port
improvement action plan is needed. This action plan would address the
urgent need of the port to improve the efficiency of its operations, cut
down on operating costs by improving maintenance of both civil works and
equipment, and apply some measures to help preserve the environment in
and around the port.
A. Operational Improvements
4.   The port will hold a daily planning and coordinating meeting between
management of the respective working districts, superintendents and
foremen.



- 42-                               ANN-  5
Page 2 of 5
5.   For berth nos. 2 and 3 the bagging capacity will be improved to match the
crane capacity either by installing automatic scales or adequate buf er
storage between crane and bagging operations.
6.   For berth no. 4 the port will introduce improved handling methods fo; the
general cargo operation. This will be done by handling larger units in
the crane cycle. The average production-rate per net crane hour shall,
at the end of 1989, have reached at least 25 tons.
7.  All cargo vessels calling at Heping District will gradually be moved to
Dongdu District. After Dongdu Stage II project is completed no cargo
vessel will call at Heping District. The only remaining cargo handling
at Heping will be for passenger cum cargo vessels.
8.   Due to shortage of navigational aids the pilots can only get ships in and
out of the port during daylight. When the coal berth of Dongdu Stage II
project is completed such aids will be available and the pilots must
thereafter work around the clock.
9.  The port will attempt to minimize the diversity of equipment types in
order to obtain greater engineering experience, reduce training
requirements and achieve savings in spare parts inventory. A plan for
replacement of old equipment will be prepared and submitted to the Bank
during 1988. Thereafter this plan will become a rolling plan.
10. A training program for the present port personnel has been prepared. The
training program covers all categories of employees and will be completed
before the end of 1990.
11.  The port will, during the implementation of Dongdu Stage II, give
priority to the purchase of a new tug boat in order to reduce the present
shortage of large tugboats.
B.  Maintenance Improvements
12. The planning and execution of civil works maintenance will in the future
be the responsibility of the Engineering Section of the Port Bureau.
Frequent meetings with executing departments of the various enterprises
will be held and the works carried out will be inspected.  Some works of
immediate importance were identified and it was agreed that they be
carried out without delay:
(a) Repair of damage to pavements on roads, stacking yards and aprons.
(b) Protection around transformer houses will be provided, and will be
either of steel or concrete.
(c) Upgrading of the road to Gaoqi terminal will be included in the
present expansion of the terminal and completed before the end of
1989.



-43 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 3 of S
(d) Crane tracks at Dongdu doc'-s have been rectified in October 1987 and
will in future be checked once a month and when necessary adjusted
to manufacturers specification.
13. Periodic inspection and control of civil works facilities will be carried
out as below, starting in January 1989:
Each 6 months:   quay walls (above water), drainage, light poles,
pavements and crane tracks.
Each 12 months:  quay walls (underwater), buildings, sewerage, navigation
channel, electrical distribution system, settlement at a
number of fixed points and transformers.
Each 24 months: floating pontoons
14.  The port agreed that the mechanical maintenance and repair work is not
carried out satisfactorily. In order to correct this the port will
increase knowhow, supervision and control within the engineering section
in the bureau. There is also a reform program being implemented since
the end of 1987 to raise the level of maintenance quality and to
strengthen the role of the central Port Repair Plant. If the reform
program does not give the results expected, a reorganization as per
suggestion in the draft action plan will be undertaken. There is an
internal investigation underway to determine which workshops and spare
parts stores should be kept in the future. The proposed plan for
maintenance and repair work including: preplanning, execution, control,
and follow up, was agreed upon and will be implemented step by step.
15.  The port will introduce a preventive maintenance schedule but wants some
changes from the one presented in the draft action plan. This was agreed
upon and the new schedule will be forwarded to the Bank during 1988.
C. Environmental Improvements
16.  Oil pollution equipment to combat oil spills in the water, in order to
protect the natural resources of Xiamen, will be procured for the oil
treatment vessel which is part of the Dongdu Stage II investment program.
17.  At Dongdu District Berth No. 3, there will be a drainage ditch built to
collect fertilizer mixed with oil and water for further treatment. The
XialLen Municipal Environment Protection Bureau will urge the management
of Dongdu district to pay special attention to fertilizer spillage.
18.  Improved ventilation for the grain warehouse will be installed during
1989.
19.  The floating hotel/restaurant will dispose sewage and garbage to the oil
treatment vessel mentioned in para. 16.
20.  The Fire Brigade will be supplied with foam and powder equipment for
fighting oil and chemical fires during Stage II, and training of Fire



44                      ~~~~~~~ANNEX 5
Pago 4 of 5
Brigade personnel will be undertaken within the program mentioned in
para. 10.
21.  It is agreed that coal handling operations in Caoqi district will be
terminated as soon as the new coal berth in Phase II is completed.
22.  It is agreed that the starting date for implementing this Action Plan
will be not later than January 1989 and that moat of the items will be
completed before the end of 1990.
23.  Following monitoring indicators have been agreed upon as targets for
performance improvements.
(a) Maintenance: The following standards/targets were agreed with the
port.
(i)   Availability of mechanical equipment, should be improved
according to the following schedules 1988-82Z, 1989-83/84%,
1990-85X.
(ii)    Utilization of mechanical equipment, should be raised according
to the following schedules 1988-42X, 1989-45.
(iii)    Maximum maintenance and repair cost as percentage of purchase
price, should average 1988-10.02, 1989-9.5X.
(b) Operations: The following operational performance/productivity
targets were agreed with the port.
vi)    Berth throughput targets (1,000 tons)
Berth no.                                  Existing    1990        1995
Dongdu, berth 1, container                    14(TEU)    30(TEU)          0
Dongdu, berth 1, general cargo               215         200           500
Dongdu, berth 2, grain                       740       1,000         1,500
Dongdu, berth 3, fertilizer                  380         500           800
Dongdu, berth 4, break-bulk                  400         500           600
Dongdu, 0-50 m berths, general cargo         200         200           200
Dongdu, boat berth, general cargo            150         200           250
Dongdu, berth 6, general cargo (Phase II)      -           -           500
Dongdu, berth 7, general cargo (Phase II)      -           -           500
Dongdu, berth 8, containers (Phase II)          -          -             50(TEU)
Dongdu, coal berth (Phase II)                  -           -         1,500
Gaoqi berths                                 220         300           600
Heping berths                                350         350           200



ANNEX )
- 45 -                               Page 5 of 5
(ii) Average berth time of vessels loading, whole port (days)
Commodity                            Existing          1990             1995
Coal                                      2.0                2                 1
Non-metallic ore                          8.8                7                 S
Steel                                     0.6                1                 1
Bagged supar and grain                    3.8                3                2
Bulk grai'h                               1.2                1                 1
Cement                                    1.1                1                 1
Timber                                    107                1                 1
Fertilizer                                4.3                3                2
General cargo                             3.8                3                 3
Container                                 1.3                1                 1
(iii) Average berth time of vessels discharging, whole port (days)
Commodity                           Existing           1990             1995
Coal                                     10.0                8                2
Steel                                     5.2                4                3
Timber                                    4.3                3                2
Cement                                   13.3               11                8
Non-metallic ore                          7.9                7                6
Bagged sugar and grain                   12.1               10                8
Bulk grain                               25.0               12                8
Bulk fertilizer                          33.9               16               10
Metallic ores                             5.4                -                 -
Bulk sugar                               10.4                9                7
General cargo                             2.1                2                2
Container                                 2.3                1                1
The above performance rates are based on present ship sizes. They do not
include cargo handled at cargo owners berth, nor cargo being lightered or
handled at anchorage.



- 46 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Outline of Semi-Annual Progress Reports
1.   The purpose of these reports is to provide information on significant
events which occurred during the reporting period, together with an
evaluation of progress achieved and the prospects of future progress. To
this end, the information contained in the reports should cover at least
the following aspects of the project:
(a)  physical work accomplished during the reporting period;
(b)  a comparison of the actual progress of construction at the end of
reporting period with the original forecast of progress at this
date;
(c)  actual or contemplated material deviations from the original plans
or schedules, except that any such changes which would require prior
consultation with the Bank should be reported immediately and
subsequently included in the next report;
(d)  other changes, events or conditions which would materially delay the
construction of the project or increase its cost; and
(e)  the expected dates of completion cf the principal physical elements
of the project.
Part A of Project
2.   Construction progress should be reported on all the main physical
components of the project as follows:
(a)  Preparatory
(b)  Civil works
-    container, general purpose berths
-    reclamation
-    dredging
-    pavement
-    utilities, railways, and roadways
-    power supply
-    telecommunications
Progress on procurement of the pertinent components should be
mentioned.
(c) Equipment



- 47 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
-    Procurement
-    Installation
-    Testing and operation
(d) Supervision of construction
-    Consultants activities and effectiveness
(e) Any issues and problems arising including:
-    any proposed modifications which Was ti be reported to the Bank
immediately for review and approval and not wait for the semi-
annual report.
-    any issues that need to be addressed.
(f) Project expenditures, disbursement and its comparison with estimated
and reasons if there is any deviation.
Part B of Project
3.   Progress on the institution building items including:
(a) Master Plan Preparation
(b) Training
(c) Action Plan Implementation
(d) Environmental Monitoring
All these should include disbursements carried out during the
reporting period and cumulative through the previous reporting
periods.
(e) Port traffic that is actually handled during the reporting period,
divided up by commodity so the appraisal estimates and forecasts can
be checked and updated.
Text of the Report
4.   The text of the report should describe the work performed on each major
item during the reporting period, following the headings given above.
Where appropriate the text should include explanations of and comments
on:
(a) actual or expected material deviations from the original (or
amended) plan/design or implementation schedule;
(b) actual or expected difficulties or delays, any measures taken or
planned to correct them, and the probable effects on the implementa-
tion schedule;



- 48 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
(c)  expected changes in the completion date of any major part of the
project or the project as a whole;
(d) actual or expected delays in delivery of major items of equipment.
Reasons for such delays should be given, and their possible effects
on the implementation schedule should be estimated;
(e) numbers in the work force including the Construction Management
Bureau, consultants and contractors;
(f) any actual or expected event or condition which may affect the cost
of the project; and
(g) any unusual occurrences affecting the progress of the project.
Drawings
5.   Drawing showing the plar. and sections of the Dongdu Phase II Project
should be included. Construction progress should be indicated on the
drawings by color or other markings.
Implementation Schedule
6.   A bar chart should show separately scheduled and actual progress on each
of the principal features. Simplified CPM or PERT diagrams which may
present a more comprehensive picture of the schedule and progress than
the chart, may be used in such cases.



2                                                              -44-                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tabl 3.1
lerafi  im0 002
-----   ---       ---------     --  ----2 6 ---  --------                    25----               ---...--.--...7-.-........-----........-----2                                                                  ..0--
C.a2         tv.t4.                  24  I"211                0    4                  0    *    0    0    o                           o 04 a          4n2000s               0        7,  oa    0              70No6No
6m10.o                  0       0       4      21      21      44      4        2     V2 10  52   200    249          I'      166    272  2,01  00 no    24  2,40    200  2,110  0,00                 2001,20
Total                24    I1"      22'      31      22      22      46    222    2I10  22          270    $04      20     210    314 1,000        2001,24000 2,           0      ,002,2 44 1 1000 ,     *0,a
00 .1,10, PA                          211                      22                     221                     210                     2 31,2I2                                      2,264                  4,w0
M,'Oo2..1w.p                          0       00          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0           4  0       0       0            0       0       2      0 0      0      0       0       0
poincts hff.Olc                     9    0    9   24    0   24   21    0   29   42    4   04200    22121" 42    220on922    AT72,004,440   41,2I6m
total                 9       4       9      24       0      24      29       0      29      a2       4      M  26 ,         122313        147      591In          913      67 1,1401,440          0042,2100
Of  0,20,2i P                            0                      4                       4                       0                      02                       0                       00
WOtallac    Vv..lp                    0       0       0       0       0       4       0       2       2       0       0      4                0      0       0        0       0       0      0       4       0       0       0
0400       045.01                   2       0       2       4       0       4       7      2       9       I       0       7       I       0              20      24    10"       62      It    120       10  20    224
Total                 2       0       2       0       0       4       7       2      20       I       0       7       7       4       1     s24     so    200       0ll      0I    202    220    220    220
Of4dic,  IPA4                            2                      4                      Io                                   7                                 2 00                    242                     2404
2,m . am        o, 4w                          2      2      22       0      122222           02122         92       0      92      02       0      02      7 II            722114           0 114         204       0204
12011      fowrit,o                 I      2 2 42           5       9       9      24      22     27      20      24      41       9      22      22      12      07      29      19      27      44,     St      42      74
2.0.2                  2   24   22   27    9   24220    2222922t?    102223   02   22   75   02    072642223   22  220  212   42  224
Of 031041270                           25                      20                     20*                     222                      75                     100                     200                     224
Caitra..-For.                         0   22   25    0   42   42    0   20   so    0   22   22    02219229t                                                  0 is   93    022I2O IS                          02422912
tw    sominOc                     70  22  42  eV    9   IS0221    7920a422                                       5 21202227   00 222 4 I                           7222 23 00  2001107  404  I7I  037
aatw,.0,Y,t02                      70  1462 169P S 220421272II                                     224222 12  31141  227  20 4 11220    lot  2442300217  $148434422 I9
of d,20,274                           124                     204                     242                     201                     292                     22o                     200                    2so
Coun.2   Fpoag.                      02    0          1 02                  IF  1122    02132222                     0 223212                0 222247    0  247  004    01299   O                                    0904
Snamic                  0   02  20  21  62  64  40   7  222    2220226i    0292 45 1                                                              292212    0222 4                                2st3 4022302
lota2                00  0221071224 6 0202 204   102VI0220its241220242142 647292240N 935t   I 70 493402 ,401
of 00c2, 274                          207                     242                     m                       342                     400                    040                     074t,402
flaow        Fvai9.                   0       0       0       0       0       4       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       4       0
Smalt,                   0     27      22       2      22      24       7        2      3       2       0       2      Is       4      20      20       0      26      22       2     22       12       4       2
Total                 2      27      22       2      22      24       2       2       2      2        0      2       22       0      Is     24       0      24      22       0      22      12       0      12
Of dielat7                             22                       24                       22                                            25                      20                      32212
kt"a.022a2F04e.9                      0      24      24       4       4       0       A       2       2     27       0      22      9               9      224       0    1229    200        0    204       22       0     222
Wm,        04.002,                  4      24      20       I      a0      20      20      44     01      04       2      hi      74       9      932      6       2    220      220      29    277    224        2.    521
7.t,2                 4   40    2    6   54   62   00  44  42  92    2   92207    4   7    2    2220420S                                                           s        29227270    22047 b
Of 40,oh,2 0P                           2                      42                      42                      92                     274                     224                    27                      47
6o.ta2  404i0,                      220   0220202    02340225    0 27254V    0254  at   0141I  444    60042,45                                                                               02,022,1 J              02,A04
0w4,laW.f ~oot2,                      6    222    224        20    215    247        19    097    224       24    220    204        223    24    212        27    209    224        27       i 02 4 1042       8262    612
1.t.                224    222    340       22    207    12         294    207    442    231    220    4120 1              2404     34    427    229    906  2,006         204  2,022  2,702    320  2,122
2.20         Fvo,p                    0       2       2       0      It      22I      0       4       4       a       0      4       0       4       6       0               9       0      22      22       0      214     24
hm00,ic               107      In4    40    227    20         072    22       209    3W       22       92    022    224    IS         042    202      13 20.     21 120    2I9    29    24           224    020
lotal               207232t40422?  24 5213222059622M                                                942329220214232224224 04062210210020290200  044
f0400,20,PA                           21                      262                     290                     to                      202                     448                    120                     4A
14.,.        Fews,                  122      22    222    361         6    240    422         0    424    421       45    472    00           0    kV 42 V           0       .x  ,313        02,24222,242            032,2
0400,.                 1222222067  262342174  44 202207 21222   lit  24270240 25304200   4207S6422104702.00
7.04                222     104    449      3 0 10    2     020    449    242    712    420    244    M2            070    27      94      02    309  2,2512  2,420         1   2,724  2,222    922  2,204.
0002,027                             011"                     24                     222                     72                     940                    2,22                   2,024                   I,20
lOOm    Fy04p                        It  21225 04    1  122  20023200   450   730)227   245 200402212   212  4122222421   04632   209,047
etc        0012024 "                      120 2422422     42720t  04274  249  202472172   621322192144442406   001d
Tsui2                1      244    342    247    292    14          W6     22      002    24       2 46      112   222    220    002    274    292    040    014    Ub120 242              627       7  2,724
Of di,0, Po4                          242                     30                      002                     422                     642                    404                   2,02402,724
7.2.      F30p                  020      2    107 ,27    07     262  1,857  I,22        232  2,42   2,22020 M    1,2   2,032            422  2,222  2,240       622  2,2    2,022  2,2691  0,722  2,6    2,745  7,432
6 st22                442    722   2,22    In2    1W   2,292          72   2,214  2,0021    43         14 2,624  0.09  2,224  2,292  2,253  2,204  4,079  4,462  2,252   7,222  6.211132,299 22,704
02.0              11521  2,240  2,229   2,426    9     2,920  2,9001  1.299        3 2,204 1,47    6,22?  2,290  2,720, 1231   4,305  4,622   2,229  0,900  6,006  2,220 12.620 03,990  5.244 29,231
4002,0.7                            2,4I                    2,224                  2,0I'M 27000424770,4
Tot. 64y  0l0s 1_2    952    4    2,72    2,244    220  2,4094  2,223           442  12.59    2.29      263  1,76   2,4         0242, 2, 2,2.41         726  4011  0,5122    999  7,132 10,1149  2,430 22,120
02t.L24,d bits             I    0    9   24    4   20  09    0   29  02    4    4260    22242747    231Wm   42    0721,000I,4142to2I23
0,0. %WAS Cwgo
Fy04.   24  174  272  09l 1672452in222s2992d4AS0314290567162m In2552292011992122421,1047
6.6,22        249    100    4.77       213    410    492    292    129  2,22          44    52   2,442        443    002   2,21       402  3,00   0,426       700  2,00   2,20    2,22   2,004   2,022
Tota2       224    40       W       2       002    920    70        9      .7 t    all402  00   I,45       009  .2,22    2,077    797  1.344  2,1W   2,049  2,04  0,202  2,49   2,429  1,209
l,t0c          92      4 0     0 0    229    446    000    200    424    161    I72    002            11      202     752     93      227Il  900  2,140       24   2,022   2,0410 2S  2,428  3.029
7.02         20  00 PS        0     270 1 16 0      720    204N   0006  2,120       240    72      972     345  2.442   2,3140    4114  I.M712,5111 24  2,974  2,220               929  3,270  4,220
tit. 20000   142w   tr.442- lb#                                                                                                            222    220    24        292     42    400    229    920  2,254
-Lop        4      22      2       62    249    192       4   0          2440    40        4     240     lit    1222     22       42    242      40'1   227    422    044
120.  c3a2W          0n440ic-   Rio                                                                                                         216    02      417    22       592    009    407  2,49103.50
Lo    4 22 20 622002920  4200144042442222 42291124912044922502M
*J           In.22   062     00              AM02    920    1t    6I"   2,02?    52          70   2,204      420  2,222  1.157       094  2,22    2,62        0   2,490  2,699   2,442  2,247  4,470
La           1792   06       1W              0209   924    000    1140  2,02         512    Ya12 2,196   13  1,122  0,72             157   1,122  2,27  0 0 IS 2,742  2,217  1,022  2,720  4,401
00u  2. Cap"  40020400 to    042  MWi a           .2  24220d , Ortal22, or"0 2.22. Cm"   I4Molp-I.2  eta22 c Om4022 ldi . Co2c  Foril002w,r thpitp-lal, 6420 2d00ft2-021,
2, 600442n1,02  cMap  0142104   Cml 0204,14-all   t2O2u                     l,. 6.20 (4wu29-o22,  I2ChOca  7w3t020 . 20f4r0gp-ll  .tho e-i"ll, 6r.2. 140412g-ali m                         tc,-26,
Salrt. lion 730t 4t1ority, , NO0 stal4.



_ 50 -                                 Table 3.2
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Inventory of Port Facilities
No. of     Ship size range  Throughput capacity
berths            (Dwt)         ('000 tons p.a.)
Dongdu District                   11       Up to 50,000    1,450
of which:
for large vessels             4        10,000 to 50,0001,100
for small vessels             3        Up to 1,000        150
service craft                 4
Caoqi District                    21       Up to 200          540
Hepin District                    22       Up to 6,400        782
of which:
for large vessels             2        3000 to 6,400      250
for small vessels            13        50 to 200          390
for passenger vessels         2        50                   -
service craft                 5        -



- 51 -
72
11_34 at tltt
hI;' v, W %MI
7tul-    -                   d i------  i_  i 1t.
hatot,        i ul   Fu.t.   tbUi   LOU     Frup              trtti    (Of tital  i9
-It4i'i-i-  -ti-tW7-   4444I  (at
CWil 42s1
4. Cattiw am "mu ego
I Ceaw  lutl                        314a         4,9117   10,747   13,IS4    1,244    2,110    4,1X     2,950     3.74
2 1mr41 crp autO                    39 a         5,114    13,547    9,29M    0,90    2,44       2,29     3,44       4.7
3  r t-  %Mt Pt                   1,410 *        3,990    9,21J   13,299    5,W 21,499    3,573    2.49            3.29
4 beaus- tat Wut                    7a             999     2,294     ,113      V7        AR       I0         0      0.t0
0kdgAW- rut                                          0         0        0        0         0        0        0     0.04
4ko4      . itit .              117,2W  c..s        Is       740                40       204      290      zoo      0.24
7 Cowl  oPo- rub                 24,94 a.6           0     5,222    5,232       0    1,414    1,414    1,414       1.42
CEase! otuipal                91,604  Co.        322    3,130    3,943        40       144      920      144      I.09
iWt., I"rnr        W _           4,S0 sq.*      1,517    5,932    7,4t4       4R      1,410    2,02         0      0.04
9*kw ptl    o d   atmowIe l       9,17 0  .6.      592    2,445    2,997       lifi     at        sit        0     0.04
IC MotagI Varl                   4,70 9.            42    1,40    2,232         17iS      540      42         0     0.00
F4 .ar  cup  Td                2t,m   t4.s       2i0       902    1,222       h7       24       3u         0      0.00
we  stab0 rn                   25,14 s.s         2s    1,040    1,i4          70       270      240        0      0.04
It kot  latlirl                  0,ti14t.           20     2,442    2,702        34      00        730        0     0.04
Cdle  r760  06w.                                 112       44       320       30      e11       140        0      0.00
12 kimlu, r1    lioq                              ?,17C    7,171   It4,JS     1,40 1C,90    3.0,              0     0.04
22   utti ml/ lackflIlq       2,033,70t4 to..    11,752        0   10         9,0           0    4,t0         0     0.04
14 low pSupl  ad umap                             1,320     ,320    2,072       413      412       42lo       0     0.04
It powragpy                                           0    2,009    2,149         0      77        770        0     0.04
a Casursc r                                         112    1.004    1,200        20 n     20       350      3o      a...
17611 01 ta    lift                                   0     I,m      I,'m         0      540       540      390     0.09
It EIruOt,1  paterhas                               92          0      922 *               0       230        0     0.04
19 h,14y o uie put                                  5        310    1,024       14        140      24         0     0.04
2  10001, rful  I sOr.. r, tult at               13,111   15,117   20,24    2,345    3,25,         7,090      0     0.04
21 tkws                                          12,040    4,1114   17,044    3,52      1,,220   4,60     1.2        1.70
4.t1.0.                              72,12   93,207  1i7,1i4   .9,970       ,10   42,10    52,1704    1.O
0.0.Igt00                                           e     rh -   --    __-      _ _ __ _
22  ut) am r.tlt_                                 4,114    3,994   10,102    1,110   1,020   3,32            0     0.04
aRub  'ad Wru                                     4,214    4,791    *,22      1,213    5,2       2.59         0     0.04
24 IKE  itir                    12,000  me        2,321    2,230    9,4j2        42       74    I,            0     0.04
25 hOt,  me; at u .wo                               m2         2       444        40      04       12         0     0.04
2h    r  "pl2 I2,t4                                         I,tC     3,700      N04      X4      1,0l4        0     4L.4
27 ao_lcati." fuilltt                                0       I24      t00        0        so       so        0     0.04
a0 hf't ul     1*03.                              i,322       424    3,147      344      220       9        224     0.20
0t0a0                                19,45   20,214   30,42       2,9W5    9,332    1,330       no      0.20
1.B0- Ciall tWi,520  104,313  097,2    2,5   20,32                                            ,400  1U,t70    17i03
L, CMataw AN pwrl warp
20 Lo.iIm4J .rl9-",   squopmO                     7,914   21,U9   24,374    2,240    4,20   20,09  04,04    IO."9
2011W10   t  v isa 4M   4,040    .0,9                                             0    2,123    2,142    2,162      2.70
329urt W1cl.                                          0       204      309        0       42        42        0     0.40
_                      . 1.4.0
32 Usilag  aloaila   .rl                          2.914    26,42    22,442      37     3,49      5,5161    3,09     0.54
33 Cto"   0 rePsi                                   411      4u1       902    2,13        230     no        220     0.27
304 .011.09.04a  t9472puat                            0       322      222        4 0               94"       0     0.00
Eatstal                              11,200   39,000   70.423    3,040    2,110   29,09    23,02    20.47
U5        Wsu pat. 1212,25    5,900   _7,94                                   -304    1,011    1,915    1,594    -2.00
703.- Oq.paft                                 22,72   40,570   71,947    3,2144   17.32    20,443   27,32       252.3
1.0. kusta. ad i      runssa
2A  Order p2a                                       740      903    2,700       21       200       440      204    0ox
7 kftt   PIE                                        740       Rs0   2,220         0       too      200      204     0.12
U  FiSWll IlbOUat "doyt                               0        0         0        P        0         0        0      ,040
ti Cwnirtttu,no                                   2,40     2,m       232          4       IC0     90        IRi    0.l4
44 E0OrmtI m1tonq                                 2.41     3,224    3,304       4W *             1,60       too     0 ,t2
42 7r400d3        i                               1,410   i4t   2,27            440    3Jl         040      290     0.31
Total- 2.4. t d T7030                          3,92     0,2    l2,210    I,0    1,760    3,300    0,2i0    2.34
total km  ct                                    09,002   w1,970 ,076   9,444   6,904   77,35   22,052    40.90
601010.2 c.tlqa02u   12122                          10-,40    16,12    ;;,14    2,147    4,4"    7?,75       0,079
1low                                            227,503  199,2   210,96    31,320   s3,4       10,41   54,322
trite c.t1pr1a,                                     12,041   2297    3,023    1,0         202       4,05     444
bad T600                                           120,904  222337   23,70    2224    20,920   90,217  30,04
K s. ibud            r*_     to13.0     370
2. 4ml 4Wa ue roo.
.. ._



am
nrow Put 394537
WI 39    IIIily  I, Oqs Pces)
b.itay        tw.41   9woram      Total  I.u3    Ftvp         7,t.4   39i    9wrmp        Total   LK451   Fe, i             Tota   18K71   F.14,4   940.    4*
.6 (.1043   No "waI 5.14
4 (9*w  39t                        I1                                        ,7      324       944      44        4, n'   4         I4 p,i7   5,234    4,44    4,4    14,74?   15,354   [#,7?&
2 1 . b w    p co"  4               544.             9                        ,2        ,42     56?      331        415    7,73      1,754    I,4m      3.457    5,04    15,542   49,519   15,542
2 gsqnl   44WI                    14,14.         2,197    7,274   It34         7W     I,6m      2,44         4        9                  0        4         4    S,49%    4,213   43,349    9,211
41u4§   -O     Ow   t               7I5:             4                         3        911      j         S 1,3139 4,74    4,972                                  949    2,244    3,23
I papqerc                                            0        4         0                  0       I,        4        4         4                                    a  4 4   9           
44ro44944441'                    II' l1,19c..                                   4        44         4U     1444     SIS       422                                    I      To919  4  39       7
TMammal  4r iq-ftea             74,39.. 0me0                                          20Lef     2499         0    113,430  .151          0                                5,222   5I..       5,232
Omni 4I4g"                     41,44111c..         a        4         5      104      g4o    1,04        235    2,144    2,422         01       4         4      53    3,13       3,442    3,120
of   1141941. fee #ewmt              2=  4.3 9.          0         I        5      407    .3,34     2,93       9I10    2,574    4,994        a         0        0    1,517    5,917    -,474         0
am       ~        811 tI97   4   99,44.m            4                          W 0        0        024              923    1,144      241       925 1,1            'w    !:Wm,    2,32 
641.4  5.4  Two1                5,74 9.            0        4         0        0         4        0      15       40         1       ISO       4I1      II       24o      942    1,22
Wpu44A.4 w4                    23,99944                               *        9                         151      346       424      5        59        424      244    1 ,44      ,4
I1I 940149t5)                    40,8394.4          144      977    1,411       104      477    1,991        52      414      540         *        4                214    2,442    2,702         I
(dls4r9"4K     3 'w45                                      204      240       54       294     2V00A                0I                  9                 0      112      444       520
131.0  mut NW  bactfi14m      2,412,740 co..    7I22           4      ,22     752                 7,5     3,911        0    5,611         0        9         0 14,0251         4 14,451
is       3                                            4        9                            0        0          2,0          3,40         0                           02,4 423
44 commuscatows                                      34      19        49        34      392       44                  0         0        4                         12     14,14  ,94    1     ,144I
47?e.SptlmuNi                                         0        9         0        0      79        79           1 99,9                    0        0         0          49       199          3,9
440.,wint.Ip'90.01m                    370~      ~~~~~~ ~~~~ 49   574   372           79       4 5                 45        9        9        9       02           
101 930014  4035                                             29         4       259d     254I5541             I                                                      5        4 5     ,924Om
24.99  ,'o41 tia   & 120. .4454. iwO              5,247    5,247   10,494    5,247    5,247   19,490    2,422    2,422    3,344           GI       4         4   1,117   42,147   24,234
21 was.1                                              0         9        0    3,910    1,44353,513    5,234    4,454    7,170    3,944    1,445    5,30   17,010    4,46    17,444    4.99
04454045                   ~~~~~~~~~~11,511   10,199   55,440   22,540   24,4941  44,747   37,495   34,107   41,192   1,1.11   14,252   2,3,51   72,193   912,17  147,100   51,49
22 4.t4.o  uwIrno                                 2,42     2,99)    5,011    2,054    2,997    5,051          0        I         a        0        0         0    4,499    5,994   40,492         9
2354.4.39  W.14                                       0         0        0        9         4             3,42      2,42     7,3        934       m 4 14,444    4,791    4:,"4    9:,
24 lbhSmts                       SAM44  cv     .. 1,99      1.       2,799      932      922     4, I4I                          I        9        0              ,254    2,22       4,44
234.4.933,. 4inap                                     9         0        0       47        47      154      45.       II       25        44       44        99      25       22        444        0
29       49941                                        0         9        0      3        53      5,40       933      05       .5,50     379      370       740    4,0150    1,4154    3,744 
34 E.sM u.4.5 P.44dUI                                 9         9        0      434      244       444       3.224             154      44       24       444    I,2m        444    2,407       844
4.00145                3,053    9,394    7,~~~~~~~~~~~~1440    4,99  4,4143   0,019    3,402    5,3441  10,490    4,m1  1,43  3,423   t4,433   44,410    51,43       elf
t0t41. Crn4 ..wk                              14,444   44,44    34,00    34,33    34,049   31,404   20,4       4,345   72,40    42,415  34 23%b 3,454    As.4   499,20   492,9            55,514
L, Qtmw .4 pwalI
34 Lwowq  sal39oa     q4 0                                               0        9                       3,959   133   59,744M   3,459   45,n19 4476             74    34,444   54,574   34,007
51 F.or w,zcs .14                                     4         0        0                                    0    4,:O99    4,000        4    4,04      4.390        4    999      6,        7,949
SIPwt"minoI                                           0         9        5        0         9        0        0       432      452        0       452      552        9      24        so         I
32 14i4q     I39biq ilpm.t                           0        0         a                  0        0    2,379   45,044   47,'4        3    70 5, 47    ,357    2,499   14,433   21,3    44,012
331ut14444 0"0o0                                                                 92       492      244      244      244       402       99       9          4      443      95        943      993
31 lo44latift  adr00t4.0t9                            9         0                 0        0                  0      244       34         0.      471       47        0      n3       322         4
4.00413                        4~ ~          ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 4  0  492  402   514    b4,47    35,234   42,033    4,377  125,4421  31,491   44,20   59,444   74,457   3,974
a1 %ft  pUt  tm 442                                             0        0       49        449      a       499    3.9    4,51           a     23,24     2,949    W   S,4   AT,9  1 7444    3,997
t444- 13p.                                                  4         4      244      244       422    7,42    29,1049     M 4, 34  ,03    24,344   54,5j14 3,372   4,590   77,443   40,447
lack, bustanco. 79454394g
4394.  45. Nl7                                                of       470      322       3        35l      325      3         544      22       34       344       799o       2     I.74       4412
2744t1p3al                                           74        7       fit      332       III      332      222       III      322      39       III      3         744      374    4,144       324
3POina344r w      39OMr.sis                         40         US      333       VA4                          0        4       I"                  4         4      m      . 4           04       9
a9 fmlri.a3 "at"O                                   149       23       370      444      49    4,1444       444      444    ,1461       39       44      4,144    5,.9     5259    3,744        374
440Tr4044                                           149       49       227      394      21        no       444      244       its      449      244       no4   lam         47       44 
9444- 9.4. of T.""*I                             393      439    4,214   1,177      4,117    3,443    4,774    4,4417    3,442    4,774    t,06      3,443    3,95    I4,399       at 42,39  ,
040.44*  Oa9                                     51,04   MM47    414,251   AM51    3,4107   4749                           1234,342,541   4975 4,493   473,4   444An   44,2n  39,s74  4514
49p4145  c039la4. 44063                              2.43      law      4,425    2,454    3,4        ,40     544      4434   42,2n       4,97     4,444    4,27    34,44     00,42    5139    4,952
744.                                             55,44    II.4    44,333   314,511  36,942   47,4.    45,44    02,1451  1424,34   22,492   99,444   341,434  447,543  499,3113  55,1311  42774
low  to3                                        7-99     7.4421             4.319    4.39               cm34     4.39               4.34     4.1l
IDq ~  63                                 337       3,57              4.99      9.442            4L342   42.24               44,3      4 11
6mm                                Im~~~~~423   4,345    2,444    2,454    3,24   04,4     ,343   II'",   44.39    35,4    7,09    44,24    53,54    23,74   34,457    3,4
44.49444                                             5,074   23,4      44,757   24,214   34,744   73,94 4,4    044,471 43l,355   23,517   04,291  45,4   45124   55233   39,70    39,44
…t               .             s
mm   4 Allp  r43m we      .9   * 39.7



22
lStan    t
roet bat bfunuU
tolt por etil 1, oa    pl       t
----- ----- ------- ---   -1                                                                                                  1---
44.011t  w)   FwiI 96t) 1g.)  fw4p    1*4.)  Lace)    w.4p    Tate)   Luci   Pue)p    4641   Lu4    fueap    lel.tQ1
A. latuw " _Wa ctar"
I C4t4w 16th                       214 a            4 O         O            sn m      1     1,2ft4     4%     I, t     1.4        m 0      4       I,2m     1,24*    2,91)    4,154    2,41*
2 Osual £49 hulh                   24*.             4        I   n           474    1,41   12,12        iN     1,44    2,%         44 1 ,444    1,52    1,14          2,4*    5,2414    2,6
3 _1gat- bit P4                  1,4)44           644   I,92   2,46          l1a      . Hrt               a *               4 *               a *            I1,m     2,49     3,170    2,49
4 4.mt- Ent   t                    7 45*            *        *        4       to      24       33        1 Q      m       54         *        4         I      214       2       P9         O
S F Iq     r cKk                                    4        4        4        a                 4        4        I        0 4               *         a        *        *        0 O
r Isial,       t        x    11a,244cv.0          a        4        4       12       *4*    1          3        1I     ia          4        4         4        4      2        244      2
I C4_1  f*fif-O Me              21,444cm            4 *               *        *      as       5*         $      "        so         *        a        *        *    1,414    1,414    1,414
136lt *t4*4a                 21,11w 44.8          a        a        a       27      no       2ft  tt           242      4t         *   *             4        4       46*      4        44
I O,kw.      4"4    t           24,43 44.a          4 O                      164      *44      IN       24*      94*    1,211        *        4        4       4)1    1,41)    2,424        4
4bR1pd""NW   caaw,,              4,4448             4           I        *, 4         244      324   h           39       41 *    *           4        4       14        5       4)4        a
1a 41.l,  WOu                   46,14 §14.4          4        4        4        4        a                *5        4 a t  315       a5       24      i1        14      43       *1          4
w. tcwp tff                   26,171 444.4        4 °         O4                               4 *  * *                 1*5       25       114      III 1t             2*4     22         e
Wmf sll M     Ar              25,U4 *q.e*         4        4        4        4        4                25 1t     5      110       35       125      120      10       2N4      344 
)1) am" 4 t4t4s)                 4,Ue 144.a         a       2*4      242       24      244      22        14      12       14*        0        *        *        14     *44       1          e
C|abl trnd,   Iv1 )                              aI       52       n4       1S       x5       To        *        e        o        *        o        o       14      l1       144        4
12 oa, lly Wi,1tte"                                  O        *        *        4                 4       1       910    1,90        74      474    I ,44     .4  1,94         2,4W t
ISft ll .*   W,4111Iq    2,101,1  cm              ,952        e    I,m2    1,I          40   1,t2        97*        *      97*        o        4        4    4o o         0   4,o           4
14 sit w l aI d9 ele                                4         4        4       4O                 a      415      415      414        e        O        4      4*a      41*      4          o
11llMatm Al                                                  * O       O   0           2tO*     210        0      324      124        *        *        O        0      5241     5hl      Xtt
a to  toy  trde prt                                 To       14 Ot            100        t       4l        a                 a        4        40  0            14*     1440                0
204 os,r fralls 4 .frd, .t)d1e wI                1,4)4    1,401    2,43*    1,414    1,414    2,43*      14       109    1,414        4        4        e    2,2    3,at   1,494             4
21 OtUis                                             4        4        4    1,1 m       * i1,45    1,412          5      3,44o    1,434      29      1Xt5   M,N      1,t20    4,4W    1,a
*t tt1                               44*,2     ,95    4.4I       ,494    1,40   11,174      ,444   10,219  11,140    2,4)    3,42    6,42   19,970   25,1tt  41,10   13,10
22 hrut   d r6l9t4                                  i t            1,041      1        oi X 10 )*          4        4        4        4        a        O    1.110    1,620   2,124         o
2t Bubad 6  nwh                                      4        O        *        O           O           ,I3m    1,4    2i,4n        2        ER       511    I,Pt    l,Xt   2,5             0
24 Iscludat                     524,444 C~.        i2n      214      is*        2      252      144        4        4        4        a        4        4      in       434    1,244        4
M21*tW 5s6     4 at 1omp               °                 O             4       tI       is       24       St       34      *0        a2       12       24   fO           II       120       4
21 Pw  ugly                                                   4        4      ISO     1It       244      asO      as       1O       lOt      10t       2O      sO       500 4   ,0 1,4
27 C6catJ faclc itUn                                 *        O        *        0       is  15   1                 n        2t        *       10       10        *       10       54        0
344,aI&at,) I     rJ gtlt                            4        4        0      144       44      114      144        t      2t2      lOt       4*      174      24       24       so       2
1.4)44.1                               ii3    1,iii    2,iii    I,M      1,21     7,1;1,i4i         1'M,4    2,11       414      441      VA     i,43a    4,23       ,224      2-
1.4- an) _t                                   5,Mr5    5,141    4,542   T,17"    41   I1,t3   1,44   11,13   1i,52    3,449    4,29               ,14   12,5    24,4.50   1,49    1,
A. ta)tw r6 dprth cm"
24 L.h , i      ev oi 4  g4M                         4        4        4        4                 4    1,oo0    4,2m1  5,344    1,141 4214               t 5,344    2,U1O    O'i Xt    .1 4    0,Xt
35 vwawn,c.ussel                                     0        4        4        0        4        4        4    31,4)    141          4    1,441    1,44         I    2,142     -.2    2,112
it )'t 14c1lu                                        4        4        4        4                 4        4       41       41        4       41       41        4       42       a2        4
4. 11 ttl1
22 LasgI 6al444)4* 4                                 4        4        4        4O                4      4*O    4,01    4,41        154    0,414    l,1        174    1,0o4    5,44      I,m
i iCdtrs sta.                                        4        4        4       SI       5t2    1IO        a        is      134       13      1u        2        1to     In       2iO       IN
14 n1lg4  .iOM 'r44roe4t,                            4        O        a        o                 4        4       12       n         9       to       a4        O       4        4         4
shta.                                    4        4        4  5     2 S     15      1      1,751    9,*49   l1,3i       W       4,               1         4.1)4 1 9,12 I 4t  tt,4
t  i       tr. 11l1Oi                                4        4        4        5        3       10      in1        I   1,1IJ      12t      be       in       s1o    til 41',   1,'m
1T41d- 4d64                                       4        4        4       57 D             114    1,9*   lO,Dlt  tt49        1,*1    7,494    1,3    3,24   11,11   21,14t   11,152
tcK . 4A44)4.oW Itfualg
llutir uplot2                                                        4t*      44       n       17iN      4        I1      ain       U4       is      In       264      2as      4        Ja
77 2t1)pa                                           2        1    34   do   30    T                       0 5               4    60 1          0 1  2                   to W4 l Ol 2       IHl
7l firtrt   hri larFrT "d                            0                 o 6      0                          0        0        0        0     0           0        0        6        0        6
n  iOWtir tt     W i r_                                    W t     S 0      Ini      tiM      lt7      tin       15)     Vs        Int      Me i              "It       0       Wl        no
r4 Eblr_t.         _ts"                             4t       i       TM       In      La2 tX             In tt        tt    i       i2      IH       14                in     1,4*       1I
412r41.114                                          44       24       *4      in t       2       92      In        12      195 tIn            n       492      4*       2t it              W
7---  .1  W  TtUmg1                                      17 1     43         4      51o      T-9      a        51.      990      441      12         4    1,4      1.14     2,2441   1, 12
Idtow  "     cut                                5,X t  5,27    14,4i2 1,104   T,M    1412   14,14   12t,4 It 5,41                 5,129   1,94    07,27    234*9   ,4I*        7n,xi    tt,e
ft     4 nt  rrPK6e 11411                            513*      5T2    1,'m   t7           Im     I,44     1,42     2,231    2,244 5 Si        1,144    1,12i    2,111   4,49      71,1     1,4
Taw.1                                           0,111    5,4    1 , 1  5,04          9,t5    1415 1, U,297 5,4 t3411,5t                                      J 5,.2   42,44    1tt9*   U,15    1415   4,41   24t4"
Price crJ Urturr
tuba)  7i LOU                                           5.L lt                     LOU7              4.44 4lt  1.               4.4tt   4.44
t1_     i  ITI                                 2.2Q2    2.241             1,6      Liu                  i    1.41               tI^t    1.441
host                                           t7        t        274      252      21       Hi       *4       1,4n   2.tt      4*4    1,^4   1,51       1,41l   5,ft5    4,61*    1,44
rird tow                                            4,24     5,1    12,259    4,J7   15,Dit  19,925    .1,4    2,1*52   31,125    4,1   14,11   24,1    25,14   11,954   *o57   29,
t4  1. b,*.  rateS   l.X  * N  51t .
. ill 4t16    n  r    ,



- 54 -                                            Table 4.4 (a)
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
List of Equipment - Contalner and General Cargo Berths
Quantity  (USS'OOO)   Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total
Cargo Handling Equipment
Container Berth
Container crane                           1         2,700         0    2,700   2,700          0    9,990   9,900
Rubber tyred transtainer                  2           800         0    1,600   1,600         0    5,920   5,920
Tractor                                   3            40         0       120      120       0       444      444
Chassis                                   2            12         0        24        0       0        89       89
Forklift (2.5 ton)                        8             9         0        72       72       0       266      266
Others                                                        1,340       500   1,840   4,958    1,850   6,808
Subtotal                                                   1,340    5,016   6,356   4.958   18.559  23.517
General CargO Berths
Mobile crane (10 ton)                     3           100         0       300      300       0    1,100   1,100
Rubber tyred crane (16 ton)               6           250         0    1,500   1,500         0    5,550   5,550
Elect rubber tyred crane (16 ton)         4           250         0    1,000   1,000         0    3,700   3,700
Forklift (5 ton)                         16            20         0       320     320        0    1,184   1,184
Tractor (2,000 kg)                        8             8         0        64      64        0      237      237
Chassis (6 ton)                          48           2.3         0       110     110        0      407      407
Chassis (3 ton)                           4           1.2         0         5       5        0        19      19
Others                                                         800       241   1,041   2,960        892   3,852
Subtotal                                                   800    3.540   4,340   2,960   13,099
Total                                                    2140    8.556  10,696   7,918   31,658  39,576
Maintenance Shop and Service zSation
Maintenance shop                                                    0        82      82        0       303     303
Service station                                                     0        33      33        0       122     122
Total                                                           0       115     115        0      425      425
Port Service Vessel and Vehicles
Port vehicles                                                       0        82       82       0       3C.3    303
Port service vessel                                                 0    2,162   2,162         0    7,999   7,999
Total                                                           0    2 244   2.244         0    8       8,302



CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
List of Equipment - Coal Terminal
Unit
price
Quantity       (US$'000)   Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Ship unlopder                   2          700          0     1,400    1,400        0      5,180    5,180
Ship loacler                    1          400          0       400       400       0      1,480    1,480
Ship loader                     1          300          0       300       300       0       1,110    1,110
Stacker/reclaimer               4          400          0     1,600    1,600        0      5,920    5,920
Belt conœreyor         2,180 m/7 set                    0       510       510       0       1,887    1,887               1
Bel conveyor           1,790 m/12 set                   0       330       330       0       1,221    1,221
Car unloader                    2           40          0        80        80       0         296      296
Tractor                         3           30          0        90        90       0         333      333
Shuttle fieeder                 3            3          0         9         9       0          33       33
Vibrating feeder                5            3          0         15       15       0          56       56
Tracting cars                   1           15          0         15       15       0          56       56
DischargiLng trolley            1           10          0         10       10       0          37        37
Ditto                           4            4          0         16       16       0          59       59
Platform                        6           15          0        90        90       0         333      333
Separator                       2            6          0         12       12       0          44       44
Belt scale                      1            7          0         7         7       0          26       26
Ditto                           2            7          0         14       14       0          52        52
Ditto                           2            3          0          6        6       0          22        22
Others                                                770        161      931  2,849          596    3,445
TotaLl                                          770      5,090    5,860  2,849       18,834   21,683



- 56 _                         Table 4.5
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Cumulative Disbursement Schedule /a
Estimated         Cumulative
IBRD          cumulative          disbursement
Years from    fiscal year       disbursement        profile for
approval      and quarter      US$ mln    %    port projects in China
Year 1
1st half     9/30/89           2.0      7.0
12/31/89           7.0    18.0             18
2nd half     3/31/90           9.0    25.0
6/30/90         12.0    32.0              32
Year 2
1st half     9/30/90          15.0    40.0
12/31/90         18.0    48.0              48
2nd half     3/31/91          21.0    55.0
6/30/91         24.0    63.0              63
Year 3
lst half     9/30/91          26.0    70.0
12/31/91         29.0    76.0              76
2nd half     3!31/92          30.0    81.0
6/30/92         31.0    83.0              83
Year 4
1st half     9/30/92          32.0    88.0
12/31/92         33.0    93.0              93
2nd half     3/31/93          34.0    95.0
6/30/93         34.0    95.0              97
Year 5
1st half     9/30/93          35.0    98.0
12/31/93         35.0    98.0              93
2nd half     3/31/94          36.0   100.0            100
/a    Assumptions:  Loan effectiveness 06/30/89; construction starts
8/1/89 and expected to be completed by 12/31/92; the loan
closing date is 3/31/94.



-57                                                                  Table 5.1
CHIN
IIANEN PORT PRWJECT
Break-Bulk, Container and Coal Traffic II
(000 tons)
19i5   1986   1987           1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995               2000
Nithout project
*s52a32s..2..:
Total Break-Bulk Traffic                     1,527  1,289  1,737           1,823  2,000  2,194  2,407  2,641  2,89               4,670
Less:
Hepin district 1_2                            500    470    500            500    500    500    500    500    500                500
6aoqi district /_3                             40     36      40             40     40      40     40     40      40              40
Others 14                                     350    347.   400            400    400    400    400    400    400                400
Subtotal                         990    853    940             940    940    940             940    940             940
Total Break-Bulk Traffic
at Dongdu district                637    436    797             803  1,060  1,254  1,467  1,701  1,959             3,730
2:::=  2====  ==--=           :-=  2222   2::::   :Z3::  =:1:=   :0=              :22222
Nith project
Total Break-Bulk Traffic                     1,527  1,289  1,737            1,823  2,000  2,194  2,407  2,641  2,8W              4,670
Less:
Hepin district I_5                           500    470    500             500    500    500        0      0       0               0
6aogi district                                 40     36      40             40     40      40     40     40      40              40
0tw.".                                        350    347    400            400    400    400    400    400    400                400
Subtotal                         890    853    940             940    940    940    440    440    440               440
Total Break-Bulk Traffic
at Dongdu district                637    436    797             983  1,060  1,254  1,967  2,201  2,459             4,230
Total Container Traffic ('000 TEUs)            19.2   14.0   14.0           27.8   31.1   34.8   39.9   43.5   49.5               77.8
Coal Traffic: lanbound                           46    135    120           1,100  1,335  1,621  1,968  2,389  2,900             5,000
Outbound                         232    170    240             500    535    572    612    655    700             1,000
Total Coal Traffic                      279    305    360           1,600  1,970  2,193  2,580  3,044  3,600             6,000
==r==  === =   22= 2 ==.s  2222: =    ..      :.  S2222   222Z2  22:2              22223
Notes: 1. Includes foreign and domestic (in/out).
2. Includes the anchorage operations, the saiimun annual throughput capacity is assumed to be I sillion tons with 151
annual grouth rate.
3. Includes the traffic at cargo owner's berth (salt), the maximum annual throughput capacity is assumed to be 0.50
million ton oith 151 annual growth rate.
4. Includes all other small berths scattered around the port, the maximun annual throughput capacity is assumed to be
0.60 million ton vith 151 annual growth rate.
5. kith project, traffic is expected to be phased out.
Sources:  HOC, liAmn Port Authority and Bank staff.
Iay-I



Table 5.2(a)
41
- 58 -
CHINA
XIANEN PORT PROJECT
Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
(Container Berth)
Existing                      Proposed
Container                     Container
berth                         berth
Berths (number)                                                   I/ 5                          1
Cranes per berth (number)                                         1                             2
Average crane productivity per hour (TEUs) /-I                   15                            20
Average working hours per day (hours)                            17                            17
Throughput capacity per berth (TEUs/day)                        255                           680
Berth operating days per year (days)                            320                           320
Normal berth utilization  (1)                                    50                            50
Maximoum annual capacity per berth ('000 TEUs)                 40.8                         108.8
Ship arrivals (schedulediunscheduled)                      Unschedu                       Unscheduled
Average ship size (TEUs)                                        50  I_2                     1,400 /_3
Average ship ment size (TEUs)                                   139                           400
Cargo value (Yuan/TEU)                                      20,000                         20,000
Average daily ship cost in port (Yuan/day)                  25,160                         45,980
Unloading/loading cost (Yuan/TEU) J14                         72.00                         80.00
Notes:
(i)   theoretical daily berth capacity   cranes per berth x average crane productivity per hour
x average Norking hours per days.
(ii)  theoretical annual berth capacity   theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operating day per year.
(iii) maximua annual capacity per berth   theoretical annual berth capacity x maximum berth utilization.
/-I: One TEU = 10.00 tons.
12: Equivalent to 7,200 dwt per ship.
I)3: Equivalent to 20,000 dwt per ship.
/_4: Figures in the table are the costs for normal berth handling. If cargo traffic exceeds 95X berth
occupancy rate, additional cargo traffic will be handled by lightering at roughly three times
the costs for noreal berth handling.
I_5: The existing container berth will be used to handle general cargo after 1991 due to the demand of
general cargo traffic.
1_6: For lightering operation, throughput capacity is taken as 501 of normal throughputcapacity.
Sources: NOC, Xiamen Port Authority and Bank staff.
Nlay-S8



-59-
41                                                                                                    Table  5.2(b)
CHINA
hIAEhi PORT PROJECT
Operational Paraeters Assmeed for Economic Evaluation
(Container 8erth)
Existing                      Proposed
Container                    Container
berth                        berth
Derths (number)                                                  I/15                          I
Cranes per berth Inumber)                                        1                             2
Average crane prosuctivity per hour (TEUs) /I                   15                            20
Average working hours per day (hours)                           17                            17
Throughput capacity per berth (TEUs/day)                       255                           bee
Berth operating days per year (days)                           320                            20
Normal berth utilization 10)                                    50                            SO
Naximum annual capacity per berth ('000 TEUsl                 40.8                         109.8
Ship arrivals (scheduled/unscheduled)                     Unschedu                      Unscbeduled
Average ship size (TEUs)                                       500 1_2                     1,400 13
Average shipment size (TEUs)                                   139                           400
Cargo value (Yuan/TEl0)                                    20,000                        20,000
Average daily ship cost in port (Yuan/day)                 25,160                        45,880
Unloading/loading cost IYuan/TEU) 1_4                       72.00                         80.00
Notes:
(i)   theoretical daily berth capacity - cranes per berth x average crane productivity per hour
x average working hours per days.
(ii) theoretical annual berth capacity 2 theoretical daily berth capacity * berth operating day per year.
(ii) maximum annual capacity per berth = theoretical annual berth capacity x maximum berth utilization.
It: One TEU a 10.00 tons.
/2: Equivalent to 7,200 dwt per ship.
/13: Equivalent to 20,000 dyt per ship.
/_4t Figures in the table are the costs for normal berth handling. If cargo traffic exceeds 951 berth
occupancy rate, additional cargo traffic will be handled by lightering at roughly three tieso
the costs for normal berth handling.
/I5S The existing container berth will be used to handle general cargo after 1991 due to the demand of
general cargo traffic.
/.6: For lightering operation, throughput capacity is taken as 502 of noreal throughputcapacity.
Sources: MOC, lIen Port Authority nd Bank staff.
Nay-SD



21
ECMCl Pr*Jet Catt
Ec_Ole Al owtt tF
Fiamlial osmt        Cn-            Ecoumc tot
Wu.  --            ----…----
uoa       wnp    ?.tal   iar          z ftl  wK P t7t.0
Civil tlkrs,
A. C_    ..ta,am - eoI cr
I Etaimp berth                                 4,171   10,747   13,54      1.07    4,918  10,711    15,475
2 mmral CuMO  ptu                              3,644,  13,32   19,389      1.02   o,255   13,54    19,71
3 IMr t- OM   put                              2,*    9,213   13,249       1.09    4,314    9,213   13,529
4 Anunt- Enlt   t                                99    2,214    3,293      1.09    1,0o1    2,214    3,373
5 Irmapag- fact                                    0    2,31   2,34          -         0   2,Yt   2j34
* 1444i9r nal                                     1to     744              O.99      I4       744      467
u Want   ir.49,- rca                               0    8,103    6,103       -         0   8.103    8,103
OMNI &14,4i                    m33    I,,                      2.331     0."       33 0    1,11   2,33
I Ibe, vail tavamt                             1,t317    S.m     7,474     1.02    1,347    S."?    7,504
9 t* 0      t  tcatomlr4u                        592    2,443    2,997     1.02      t4    2,405    3,049
10 Stlacie yar                                    442    1,820    2,332     1.02      492    1,910    2,342
laum, caro  ard                                260    9I2    1,2M2       1.02      235    9*2    1,227
W        stick vwi                             2o0   I,£00     1,20      1.02      265   1,004    1,213
I to*s IstIrs)                                    240    2,442    2,702     1.21     315    2,442    2,75
Cable tre ach lmeu                             112      446    50       1.0'      121      444      529
£2 9aIIu, 1.lO4                                7,171    7,19   14,3        1.0 7O,72    ',17    41.9
IS Elru  eilt 14cfil4l,4                       110           0   11e0m      1.0?   19,311        0   19,319
14 lat  sly  ad   wap                           1,3       1,53    3n,072    1.21     ,5      1,53     3,sn
15 F     W9IV                                       0    2,49   2,t64         -         0   2,tn    2,69
14 Comonlcotle                                    112    1,194    1,29      1.21     103     1,104    1,320
1? 9n111li 4 oah                                    0    1,9"    1,9"         -         0    1.94    1,99
Is tarmmt.l 1l otutia t02                                    0      92      1.04      025        0     427
n9 0auar  lasia  put                              51l      51t   1,034      0.97      302    S$    1,020
20 bai, falls I at. 1t0d1 e l                  13,117   13,117   2,234      O.9    12,914   13,11    24,103
21 61psm                                      13,%      4,964   17,94      1.00   13,060    4,414   17,944
6Mtstal                            72,603   97,714  171,207            77,13   97,314  174,497
I. " IwWi                                            -- -- -                          -  -- --
U blt) ,o  rratat                               4,104    S,994   10,102     1.07    4,396    5,994   10,390
33 8t4  4OM Var                                 4,7l   4,791    9,32        1.02    4,47 t    ,797    9,470
20  x      t331    2331    4,42                                             0."    2,214   2.331    4.615
2a tlw t    91. MA "map                           222      m        444     1.21      24       222      41
74 P , tqly                                     1.t50    I,9S0    3,74o    1.21    2,j33     1,       4,089
2? Ct_catlan facJitIsm,                             0      la       1b        -         0      t1l      14
21 la,lr - taI     t p4ctiu                     1,1        6 14   2,141     1.00    1,333      414   2,147
111total                            14,4    14,6j   3O,93              15.400   14,llt   1,51
Total- Ci  work 0I65211 113,302 2030                                            92,591  113,542  206,093
8. Clthtimr 9am     f 4L tat"
2H11rrel4 uim1q 9wlpmt                         7,918   31,6    3WM574      1.40   I1,091   31.48   42,7a4
30 9.t  vincI   vowt                                0   C,M98   l,097         -              8,000    6,48
rI Put laWcIon                                      0      30       34                  0      344      304
*. Cml lrUll
32 Ifa4ol 14  a       popim au t                2,640   18,03   21,182      i.0    3,989   18,82I    22,922
33 Catrld Gwt                                     481      481      %2      1.40      473      481    1,138
34 V0i.d11      NW r#risratlc                       0      3m3      233                 0      333 3*3
8181.1*1                           11,246   54,0^49   70,w7            13.74?   31806'   33,334
35 fpus pts (Jai5                               1,123   5.141    7,44               1,575    5,19    7,32
74tW-41  up t                               12,314   43,370   77,9              11,322   *3,!    82,912
TmCb. k44tmce   _  Trauior
34 lsaw  p5.                                      7O    1,4,      2,22      4.0    2,94      1,40    4.440
37 Attie pl                                       74       317    1,110     4.tO    2,90       37o    3,330
39 ftF aK  ird aretlUsi st                        74I    1,t50   2,54       4.00   2,918    1,50    4.910
D  Cmst,vto. rw. uW                             1,410   2,1t0    4,444      4.00   5,920    2,940    6,9W
40 Elir..tl 4emltwm                             1,488    2,220   3,700      1.tO    2,412    2,220   4,292
J1 trusipr                                      1,48       I6    2,34?      4.00   3,926           6 ,987
7d0   T.L  ad traisro                        64,60    9,747  1,427             22,m      9,741  32,359
7Total k    ct                                107,341  I6,639  2%,44              1U2,70   10,i9  S31,344
7iooal ctlmlmn 1o1401                             l,74   Is,la4   20,440               3,271   a,t84   32,15
totOl                                         116,317 207,7 m240o           1.01  1474970  207,  m     A33.49
864u8 1 Eicip t   r4am .nn    1.0D    6  3.70.
2. t01 r   are rem died.



T1 -                                          Table  5.3(b)
CNII,
IIIIEII POIT PECT
Ectuic Projlct Cost
hIM'0OOI Ctenrl Carpo lthil
Fiamcial cot         Can           Ecoaoic cost
Local   Forei    leot.J   factpr   local   Foreign  Total
Civil lWrwki
2  ueral cargo bwth                            5,646   13,543   19,389    1.07   6,255   13,543   19,798
3  tnt- lest part                              2,664    6,142    a,so6    I.06    2,377    6,142    9,019
4 Revest- East pat                               666    1,529   2,135     1.06      719   1,529    2,246
5 Oredgio- rock                                    0    1,579    1,579      -         0    1,579    1,579
6 Drd*in- basin                                   49     493      592     0.9"       9       493      591
7 Cknaul drdging- rck                             0    4,052    4,052       -         0   4,052    4,05
Ch0nl dredging                                 167      99    1,,166    3.99      165      m      1,134
3 Skeds, yard pamant                           l,01    3,971   4,982      1.02    1.031   3,971    5,002
10 Stacking yard                                 321    1,233    1,554     1.02      327    1,233    1,560
Onral cago yard                                260     S62    1,222     1.02      265      962    1,227
Aprm statk yard                                173     667      640     1.A       176      h&7      B43
11 Roals tethers)                                173    1,629    1,601     1.21      209    1,629   ',837
Cable trncth  qron)                             75     272      347     1.06       el      27r      353
12 Aeillary buildins                           4,765    4,785    9,570     1.09    5,168    4,765    9,953
13 Earth workl backfilli e                     12,037       0   12,A37     t.0.  12,980        0   12,930
14 later uply and mr  4,e                       1,024    1,024    2,049    1.21    1,239    1,024    2,263
15 Pewr uppl7                                      0    I,899    A,699       -         0   1,899    I,999
16 C_nacatilbs                                    75      76S9     94      1.21       91     789      980
17 Ivigatiaeaid                                    O,    919       999       -         0      9m9     99
1S Eavirosental protection                       617        0      617     1.00      617       0      637
19 Railwy iside  pert                            345      345      690    0.97       335      345     680
20 Rods, rails I l"fra. ntside port            6,745    6,745   17,490     0.99   6,656   6,745   17,403
21 Oters                                       6,707    3,256   13,963     1.00   1,707   3,256   11,963
Total- Civil  ork                           47,790   58,912  .06,702           49,699   58,912  30O,90I
Equipet
2Steoading unloading equipet                   2,960   13,099   U6,09      1.40   4,144  13,099   17,243
30 Port ervice mesl                                0   5,333    5,333        -         0   5,333   5,333
31 Port vehicles                                   0      203      203       -         0      203     203
35 Spare parts (lOll                             296    1,66     2,160               414   1,664    2,279
Total- Equipmt                              3,256  20,499   23,753              4,550  20,499   25,057
Tec. Asistasce and Traimidg
36  aster plan                                   370      740   1,110      4.00    1,430     '40    2,220
37 Actioe plan                                   370      195      555     4.00    1,480     IS5    3,665
36 Finnial inforatimn syste                      370      925   3,295      4.00    1,490     925   2,405
39 Costrrctico srWvisina                         740    1,490   2,220      4.00   2,960    1,490    4,440
0 fvir.nntal smnltwring                          740    1,110    3,630     l.%0    1,036    1,110    2,146
41 Traiting                                      740      444    1,164     4.00   2,960      444   3,404
Total- T.A. ad Training                     3,330    4,S84    6,214            11,396   4,864   16,200
Total ks cat                                 54,376  84,29.  130,671             63,652  64,295  150,147
Physical coetigcine  3101)                        5,436    5,430   13,368             6,563    6,430  !5,015
Total                                         59,614  92,725  152,539      3.06   72,437   92,725  165,162
Ibtnt  1. Excht ge ratet IS$ 1.00 * RI 3.70 .
2. Al figurn are rounded.



21                                                    - 62 -
CNIII I6                                               Table 5.3(c)
IIIWI PONT PROJECT
Ecologic Project Cost
(RnHIOi   Container   rthi
Financial cost       Con-          Eco e nc cost
--------- - -----    nrsio          -
Local   Foreign   Total   factor   Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Hubs:
I Container birth                              4,587   10,767   15,354     1.07    4,90C   10,767   15,675
3 Revemnt- ust pat                             1,332    3,071    4,403     1.00    1,439    3,071    4,510
4 Revemint- East rt                              333      765    1,099      1.08     360      765    1,125
5 Dredging- rock                                   0      789      709       -         0      789    719
Dredging- basin                                  49      247      296     0.99      4f       247      296
7 Channel dredging- rotk                           0   2,026    2,026        -         0    2,026    2,026
Channel dredging                                83      500      583     0.99       82      500      592
8 Sheds, yard paveent                            506    1,996    2,492     1.02      516    1,986    2,502
9 Rod pavmnt (containers)                        592    2,405    2,997     1.02      604   2,405    3,009
10 Stacking yard                                  161      617      778     1.02      164      617      781
Apron stck yard                                 87      333      420     1.02       89      333      422
11 Roads (othtrs)                                  87      814      901     1.21      105      914      919
Cable trench (apron)                            37      136      173     1.08       40      136      176
12 Auillary buildings                           2,393    2,393    4,786     1.00    2,5B4    2,393    4,977
13 Earth  orkl/ backfilling                     6,019        0   6,018      1.07    6,439        0    6,439
14 Nater supply and srage                         512      512    1,024     1.21      620      512    1,132
15 Powr supply                                      0      950      950       -         0      950      950
16 Coneunications                                  37      395      432     1.21       45      395      440
17 Navigation aids                                  0      500      500       -         0      500      500
18 Environntal protection                         300        0      309     1.00      308        0      308
19 Railay inside port                             173      173      346     0.97      168      173      341
20 Roads, rails I infra. outside port           4,372    4,372    9,744    0.99    4,328    4,372    9,700
21 Others                                       4,353    1,629    5,9B1     1.00    4,353    1,628    5,981
Total- Civil work                           26,020   35,379   61,399            27,201   35,379   62,590
Equipwet
29-Loading/ unloading equipmnt                  4,958   18,559   23,517     1.40    6,941   19,559   25,500
30 Port service vnssel                              0    2,667    2,667       -         0    2,667    2,667
31 Port vehicles                                    0      101      101       -         0      101      101
35 Spare parts (10l                              496    2,133    2,629               694    2,133    2,627
Total- Equipmnt                              5,454   23,460   29,914             7,635   23,460   31,095
Tech. Assistance and Training
36 Raster plan                                    185      370      555     4.00      740      370    I,!i.
37 Action plan                                    195       93      279     4.00      740       93      833
38 Financial information system                   195      463      648     4.00      740      463    1,203
39 Construction supevision                        370      740    1,110     4.00    1,490      740   2,220
40 Enviroenutal monitoring                        370      555      925     1.40      519      555    1,073
41 7raining                                       370      222      592     4.00    1,490      222    1,702
Total- T.A. and Training                     1,665    2,443    4,100             5,699    2,443    9,141
Total base cost                                33,139   61,292   94421             40,534   61,282  101,816
Physical contingencies (102)                       3,314    6,129    9,442             4,053    6,128   10,191
Total                                          36,453   67,410  103,963     1.08   44,587  67,410  111,997
sa,,,  san    n.s.                    asa   m,,,   sass...=



- 63-
21
CHIIA                                            Table 5.3(d)
IIANEN PONT PROJECT
Econouic Projct Cost
(R9B'000; Coal Berth)
Financial cost        Con-          Economic cost
------------- version
Local   Foreign   Total   factor   Local   Foreign   Totai
Civil Works:
7 Channel dredging- rock                            0    2,025    2,025       -         0   2,025    2,025
Channel dredging                                 83      499      582     0.99       82      499      581
17 Navigation aids                                   0      499      499       -         0      499      499
22 Berth and revrtment                           4,108    5,994   10,102     1.07    4,396    5,994   10,390
23 Roads and yards                               4,791    4,791    9,592     1.02    4,887    4,791    9,679
24 Reclamation                                   2,331    2,331    4,662     0.98    2,284    2,331    4,615
25 later supply and sewerage                       222      222      444     1.21      269      222      491
26 Power supply                                  1,950    1,950    3,700     1.21    2,239    1,950    4,089
27 Coneunications tacilitin                          0      196      196       -         0      196      196
28 Environmental protection                      1,333      814    2,147     1.00    1,333      814    2,147
Total- Civil work                            14,719   19,211   33,929            15,490   19,211   34,701
Equipment
32 Loading/ unloading equipment                  2,849   19,933   21,682     1.40    3,989   18,833   22,922
33 Control system                                  491      491      962     1.40      673      481    1,154
34 Yentilation and refrigeration                     0      333      333       -         0      333      333
35 Spare parts (101)                               333    1,964    2,297               466    1,965    2,431
Total- Equipment                              3,663   21,611   25,274             5,1S   21,612   26,740
Tech. Assistance and Training
36 Iast-r plan                                     185      370      555     4.0       740      370    1,110
37 Action plan                                     185       92      277     4.00      70        92      832
38 Financial inforation syste                      185      462      647     4.00      740      462    1,202
39 Construction supervision                        370      740    1,110     4.00    1,480      740    2,220
40 Environaental monitoring                        370      555      925     1.40      518      555    1,073
41 Training                                        370      221      591     4.00    1,480      221    1,701
Total- T.A. and Training                      1,65    2,440    4,105              5,698    2,440    8,139
Total base cost                                 20,046   43,262   63,308            26,316   43,263   69,579
Physical contingencies 1100)                        2,004    4,326    6,330             2,632    4,326    6,959
Total                                           22,050   47,588   69,638     1.10   28,940    7,589   76,537
…-- ------…------- …                                                 ---      -- ------…



-64
amii
111I MIT OMECT
Cicolatio  of Caurdi. Fatcb
For Majw  copat
FiucaKl Cant   Co-    Efcait cost   hubhted
-         --- nvrsin                       coavrol.
Fuip        oal K  factr w   Loca    TOal    Wactor
t.iwr 'rtb
Cant                          1,344       0       -          0   I,34
stool                        1,94         0      -          0    1,594
Tiubr                           47        0                 0       47
fElctricity                      0      254      1.50      SU       34
Fwl                              0    3.I"       1.00    3,19    3,1W
,ailled l3.w                     0      571     0.50      21        26
Skillid lasw                     0       141     4.00     544       504
NWintry                       4,23        0       -          0   4,233
Mat'                              0       94     1.21      114      11l
owe. of ucMni'v 9r55                      0      -          0       55
TaWaea   owks                  477      320      3.04     339      034
I otlItiob                    114        0       -         0       114
Total                     10,7U    4,587              4,890   15,45      1.07
mw.i Carlo Matha
Cnout                        1,124        0       -         0    1,724
Stool                        2,034        0       -         0    2,034
Tltd.                           58        0       -         0       58
Elactricity                      0      298      1.50      447   . 447
Fowl                             0    4,094      1.00   4,0O4    4,04
Unhsilld bdkr                    0      775     0.50      31        SI8
Sklled lar                       0       194    4.00      776      776
ibory                         7,I92       0       -          0   I,92
at.'                             0       112     3.21      133      134
swoc. ofu cy                   960        0       -         0       96*
Teowr.v  ahk                   435      372      1.0      394      87n
Joatilatibs                    291        0      -          0      291
Total                     13,543    5,34             4,237   39,179      1.07
cod ;
Cout                            749       0       -          0     749
St..                           197        0       -          0      El
Tidy                            24        0      -          0       24
Ei.ctrkity                       0      229      1.50     5UJ       344
Fw1                              0   2,151       1.00   2,35    2,845
Mili ls   d                     0      513     0.50      28       258
Skilldid                         0       124    4.30      504      504
hlmorv                       3,470        0      -          0    3,470
latir                            0        84     1.2i     104      104
rKt. of lCy                    532        0      -          0      532
Ta4or.y owhs                    2"      234      1.0      303    59
lstollotin                      64        0      -          0       64
Tot                       5,94    4,103               4,31    10,3       1.07
EaU t rwki IKfillig
Cmgt                             0        0      -          0        0
Sbtl                             0        0      -          0        0
Tidr                             0        0      -          0        0
Elctricity                       0      944    1.50    1,446    1,46
Fwl                              0   12,62       1.00  12,620   12,t20
thilld loar                      0    2,329     0.50    1,145    1,145
Skilled Idhb                     0      574    4.00    2,304    2,304
Wier                             0        0      -          0        °
Nt                               0      361     1.21      437      437
OW Oc. Of ICY                    0        0      -          0        0
TrWar -y mks                     0    I,0        3.04    3,276    1,274
liutltim                         0        0      -          0        0
Ttl                           0   18,055              9j4   139,24       1.07



21
CHINA
lINEN PORT PROJECT
Econnoic Project Cost
1 000 11M1D
---------------------------------------------------------IS89--------            --9-------- ----------lSSI-----------------------ISS---------------- Total-----------
Local   Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total  Local   Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign    Total
Financial Cost:
Container berth                               6,992    7,147   14,139    9,749   12,830   22.579   12,954   31,338   44,292    6,759   16,094   22,853   36,453   67.410  103,863
General Berths                               11,472    9,831   21,303   15.997   17,649   33,646   21,255   43,106   64,361   11,090   22,138   33,228   59,814   92,775  152,539
Subtotal                            15,464   16,978   35,442   25,746   30,479   56,225   34,209   74,444  iOI,i53   17,849   39,232   56,081   96,267  160,135  256,402
Coal berth                                    4,229    5,04e    9,275    5,897    9,058   14,955    7,935   22,123   29,958    4,099   11,362   15,450   22,050   47,58B  69,638
Total                                     22,693   22,024   44,717   31,643   39,537   71,190   42,044   96,567  138,611   21,937   49,594   71,531  115,317  207,723  326,040
S::::n:    :::DS   :2:::::  n:::::  =:=:SD:  ::DD==   :2::::  =:::::D  2a:::::  SD-            2    2::::  :===:-3 ======S==SD 2===2
EconocIC Cost:
Container berth                               8,552    7,147   15,699   11,924   12,830   24,754   15,9E5   31,338   47,183    9,267   16,094   24,361   44,597   67,410  111,997
6eneral Berths                               13,993    9,831   23,724   19,373   17,649   37,022   25,741   43,106   gj,,97   13,430   22,138   35,568   72,437   92,725  165,162
Subtotal                            22,445   16,978   39,423   31,297   30,479   ol,776   41,586   74,444  116,030   21,697   38,232   59,929  117,024  lc0,135  277,159
CDal berth                                    5,552    5,046   10,598    7,742    9,058   16,B00   10,285   22,123   32,409    5,367   11,362   16,729   29,948   47,589   76,537
Total                                     27,997   22,024   50,021   39,039   39,537   79,576   51,971   96,567  148,438   27,064   44,594   76,658  145,972  207,724  353,696
z=e=== ==   =a   e:z8==   =======  a======   Zt=25=U.     e mzmz -====z=  =:==:==  Z=zzza=  =-=CZ==  C-=::===   ====   ===== Z-= ::e= =
LI



41
ll1 MT a AW
295    9I 2,    7           449    1b  9It2   199    199    2995               2x
9.2391 t r      .2
2btt rjc n4  4?                                       797          9    21    1, Z4  1,447  12102  1,939            2.720
9t242re4                               427    434    797            1l  I'4     1 2,234  2,t96   2,242  2,9e         4,220
lAtin     h,th i3     t                   It.2   14.0   14.0          27.   121.1   24.0   M.9   4.5   41.2                7.I
6. 979I3   t
bositil Oldef Ihitnict
-12    0,2    1.2    0.2    1.2             3.2
1. ath.io1_I                                4       4      4             4      4              4      4      4              4
2. fi4ssion G&9A.  W42   0 taN     l       97    43      797           6    2,040  12,21   1,497  i,701 1.939           3.732
5      wta.w  790 TM          29.2   14.0  124.           27.9  21.1   34.0   3 .4   975   41.3              77.6
2. _Iul rk laFth 49b7   Vwrvd 410
6..*   cap                    74     51J    99           I,    1,241  I,93  1,72   2,601  2,220             4,3
Catu                           is5 2 5  35                 It     122    224    I5s   127      III            245
9t.9.                   624    Si    99            2,l4   1,24   2,412  2,479  2.1n2  2,n4s           9.44
4. Alml 02   lat   5    a3t 510          2     ,2 .110  2,29P        I,'m   2,20  1,21  2,21 , 2KI m2 I,2
5, Bith t   .      ra,ts 4t.t4                     44     75            IF    12)  2I5    23    I9"    i95                 193
4. Intl"  hm, lo  Most #KUM              0.29   0.25                  1.15  12.2    L2t  3.21   2.         .210          2.20
7. 929   t0594  dip W   t 47
hsm.1 cap.
1.t    2 * lk blthiayp              799   322   in            12,02   1,212  1,226  1,212  1,211  12214           1,212
9.   ,       t .9.4  9              217    23      49          12,31 4,1"  4,29   4,2        ,14   4,19           4,2
t. Iu lhpUtJo     * a                        0 i  1                       2    Ii  2,02   ,7    2,271             4,244
m5                             94 t   Sp   1,407          2,54 95,414  5,92  4,424  6,914  7,2M             22,74
a. fictu   2l loop iWO                75    2       23a          299    222    234    252    272    290             702
*. Oil3i4 3034ll47                   22n            n            ISt 1,20  1,0o  2,0   2,:20  1,020               1,0
C. 91013 9toli days                   0      0 0     0    0¢               0     0      0       9                     0
low                             97         1                W 11 2.272  2,2  12,202  2,22   1,249           I2J.
C. 0229920Now
bil9ls" ISailu s ht,ct
7_2                                       7 2
1.         (NOW)                            4         4    4             4      4      4       4      4      4              4
2. 2r.6l7  30"0  tall                      927    4      77            0    1,00       2    92S  1,112  1,242           2,123
2. hfu2  dip4 lath ds, 2sp,20              749    312   490          2,029  2,247    Mt9   M3    m         444          2,45
4.93t d  lam           4611,   .22      2,li42   I,'m   I2.m   1.27  2,30  2,30 I    , 1,2  ,0 I,'M 2, 30               3,2i1
S.   a tou         " rc  it )                      *      n 2                  .,    5n       t2    49      n              293
4. 1b23.4 low 9939  *ntv,                b.29   0.02   h.50           2.3   2.22   0.Q5  0.27   0,.2   0.23              2.13
7. I td goo tk dw t Wm
6.w6 t" r
F.kW dip lath gm                     4   .513      9           2,09  12,212      s    7n      s      9            12,21
*. Pap a0l GM                       217    2k    49            12,07  4,1"9     2      S      112    20           2,2m
t. 3 1 9I9t12    67                   0       0      0             0     6 2     0      0       0      *            9
low                            924    s"   2,997          2,54  5,474    92              m     1,22          4,90
Comit4im Iw Pn                                 X n                 S    ,
L6. Goa  02t4l 2h97                   52 3          25           209  2.122  I'm
C. sip aI q        gm                 2                          220  2,0,
low                    ~ ~~~97 a      is0          242222   ,0
RIO tU_pp br
1_2
L  Trlalff s       tt                                                                 *12    24  2,H    I2              2,^
2. _nO    IF 2     0                                                                  422    9    3l9e  9  2            2,0
S. mrt                                                                                n p2 laths  2 9       n              ml0
9. 9dt.4 tiw        f_ 4 w.                                                         0,4 0.0    022  0.24                 2.12
7. dm9 42w n2 Wtt iqm
. kta  i      laWu                                                               W      19      401    492            499
h.limp 921   q9s,                                                                         32     17    in           13,24
C. No 341964d97 4p  0                                                                      0    4                     93
202.                                                                      275    422    49     920           2,t4t
T"_t _14 _" 
2. lat_s I rl                                                                                 2    O f                      I                                                                                          I
L.  "    s2 la     9as r                                                                     57      Itn4                 32
0, _m202  lath dey t,01                                                                      24    229    22              7
4. b2Uq 00. WAiq 62209                                                                      4.20   0.46   L,97           0129
7. _t tow bt     wIt 02
4. 0.i40*4ltil                                                                             2  3   4      3             21
C. Mp    ltN9d7                                                                           0  0           I              4
Oam  22   _t Oil t  *WU               2 r_rd  trdf211tied duty Cqwntj go lath
l2w la          rd no. *  9 4 athW OM r                       I  tm IM2W th     n90l22e
12v2 "tAq* tim   40610104' 4                 0 t_moqast, Km 32 M      a39d 230 a2
lath    _16,    oid  29i3, U, 0.*9, t              2.tsm
2,2    ml 022  .62024662  * _tO  00  lth rupd*t 92204  ptUlt 061091
2lt4022 fts we r_smos
3.2s 2b612d   smwtimlui laip  ml dm102c 2   19t.
1l.  b56it 2029 a  t m  11 tie nrtkgl capacity,o Om  laths. Fv the Wp                 o  ti4e .n e t6oia        it kt   6W
= _ t6 a"fill to  W, 0.., t20u  12*twtqI, to an   96e ttrafic Ut_    the wt c2th soUse U
mg  _Wbq t_ ewnw_i t00 92 larth                           rr
0u.2  2. Art s2ty ad in 024.
bt4t



- 67 -
Table 5.5
CHIN
XIAlN PORT PRWECT
Loadlunloadin   Cost vings
6enral Cargo And Container Berths
IS92   1993   1994   1995           2000
General Cargo Berths
Loading/unloading costs (Yuan million)
Without project      Birth                                4.75   4.75   4.75   4.75            4.75
Lightering                           3.21  13.51  16.90 20.63            46.22
Total                              7.96  19.26  21.65  25.38           50.97
With project         Berth                                5.97   9.37  10.49  11.71           12.07
Lightering                           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00           25.39
Total                              5.97   9.37  10.49  11.71           37.46
Net loadinglunloading savings (Yuan million)                   1.99   9.89  11.17  13.67          13.51
22222  2222V  Cau2a 22              222
Container Berth
Loadinglunloading costs (Yuan sillion)
Vithout project      Barth                                       2.94   3.29   3.67            5.96
Lightering                                  0.00   0.00   0.00            0.07
Total                                     2.94   3.29   3.67           5.93
With project         Berth                                       3.27   3.65   4.07            6.54
Lightering                                  0.00   0.00   0.00           0.00
Total                                     3.27   3.65   4.07           6.54
Net loadimg/unloading savings (Yuan million)                         (0.33) (0.36) (0.40)         (0.61)
Total                                                             1.99   9.56  10.91  13.27          12.90
32222  22223222      22222,  2a222
Notes: I 1: The conversion factor for handling coats are:s() At berth:  1.05 ;    Ib) Lightering:   1.10 .
Os2: Lightering costs are taken to he three tims handling cost at berth.
Sources:  NC, liamn Port Authority and Bank staff.
Nap-



5
-  68  -                                                         Table 5.6
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Savings in Coal Transport Cost
(Y/ton)
Datong- Qinhuangdao    Datong- Xiamen
- Xiasen Route /_1    All Rail Route
Rail distance (ke)                                              780               3,180
Coastal shipping distance (kg)                                2,050                 -
Savings Based on Long Run uarginal Costs (LRNC)
Rail LRNC           (0 V 0.025 /ton-kn) 1 2                 19.5                79.5
Shipping LRhC       (I Y 0.003 /ton-km) / 2                 16.4                 -
Port handling LRNC (Y Y 10.00 /ton-km) /12                  10.0
Total                             45.9                79.5
Savings                           33.6
Savings Based on Converting Financial Costs
Rail tariff         4Y Y 0.013 /ton-km)                     10.4                39.9
Shipping tariff    (0 V 0.008 /ton-ka)                      16.4                 -
Port tariff         (0 V 3.400 /ton-km)                      3.4
Economic costs using conversion factors:
Rail cost         (conversion factor: 1.50 ) /_3          15.6               i.9
Shipping cost    (conversion factor: 1.06 ) / 4           17.4
Port cost         (conversion factor: 1.05 ) 1-4           3.6                -
Total                             36.6                59.9
Savings                           23.3
Notes: 1_l (uinhuangdao- Xiamen coastal shipping leg uses 25,000 dwt carrier bulk.
/_2 LRNC estimates frm '*China Coal Price Study'- Draft Report, World Dank,
Washington D.C., 1988.
/_3 Conversion factor from 'Economic Prices for Project Evaluation in China',
AS3CO, World Bank, April 1988.
1_4 Conversion factors estimated in previous World Dank port projects in China and
using the Ship Cost Nodel, Transportation Dept., World Bank.



Table 5. I
- 69 -
41
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Econosic Benefits Sumaary
Total Project
(Y millioni
1992   1993   1994   1995             2000
6eneral Cargo Berths
Parts: Loadinyiunloading savings                    1.99   8.89  11.17  13.67             13.51
Ships port days savings                            44.12  44.03  46.52  49.12             20.25
Cargo port days savings                            14.79  21.25  21.98  22.14              9.50
Less: Benefits accruing to foreigners(IlOX)           6.09   7.42   7.96   8.39              5.13
Subtotal                              54.91  66.75  71.61  75.54             46.13
Container Berth
Ports: Loadinglunloading savings                    0.00  (0.33) 10.36) (0.40)            10.61)
Ships port days savings                             0.00  27.51  27.60  27.71             27.90
Cargo port days savings                             0.00   1.50   1.50   1.50              1.46
Less: Benefits accruing to foreignerslO0l            0.00   2.87   2.87   2.89              2.99
Subtotal                               0.00  25.81  25.97  25.93             25.97
Coal Berth                                            0.00  45.85  55.66  67.57            116.50
Total                                                54.81 139.41 153.14 169.04            198.50
Sources:  HOC, Xiaaen Port Authority and Bank staff.



41
CHIA
ZINOE  PORT FIPECT
Etommic Rate of Retirn IER) ad SSmitivity bulysis
_wla  Cap and Cotain  Brths
iillie  Yua 
(20 yars)
-            ae                         t            u -- -Cae-Cm 2--    --Case 3--    ----ca 4
--------0bt-----   Total   N,t                         Net                       let                        Nat              Dieits  Net
Capital Nalt-          _n-  Cab         Costs mf its  Cash        Costs  lf its Cah          Costs heeits Cah           Costs (hlay   Cah
Yea        inet. nKe Total  fits  Fla            (M15            Flw               (-15D)  Floa        (+1511 (-15V   Flow              I year)  Flo
1M          39.42        39.42        (39.41       45.33        (45.31       39.42         (39.4)       45.33         (45.3)       39.42        139.4)
I9O         61.77        61.77        (61.81       71.04         71.0)       61.77         (61.0)       71.04         (71.0)       61.77       161.77)
I19        116.03       116.03       1116.01      133.43       1133.41       116.03       111610)      133.43        1133.4)      116.03        1116.0)
1992        59.93  1.83  61.76 54.81  -6.95        71.02 54.91 -16.21        61.76 46.59 -15.17         71.02  46.51 (24.43)       61.76        161.76)
1993               9.46  9.4  92.56  93.08         10.90 92.56 91.66          9.41  79.68 69.20         10.90  71.69  67.79         9.49  54.91  45.33
14                9.9  9.49 97.48 80.00           10.90 97.49  86.59         9.49  82.86 73.39         10.90  92.86 71.96          9.4  92.56 93.09
1995               9.4   9.46 101.47 91.99         10.9  101.47  90.57        9.4B  96.25  76.77        10.90  96.25  75.35         9.46  97.48 0I.00
1I96               9.48  9.1  95.59  86.10         10.90 95.5  5U.6S          9.49  BI.24 71.76         10.90  91.24  70.34         9.49 101.47 91.49
1997               9.48  9.40 89.69  80.20         10."0 99.68  70.76         9.4B  76.23 66.75         10.90   71.23 65.33         9.48 Y5.58 96.10
1999               9.48  9.46  B3.79 74.31         lO.90 83.79  n.79          9.49 71.22 61.74          10.90  71.22 60.32          9.49  89.61  90.20
199                9.46  9.48 77.99 69.41          IO.90 77.9M  66.9          9.48 66.21  56.73         10.90  66.21  55.31         9.48 83.79 74.31
2000               9.49  949 72.4  0  62.52        10.90 72.00U 1.10                6.20  51.72         10.90  61.20 50.30          9.4  77.899 69.41
2001               9.48  9.49 72.00  62.52         10.90 72.00 61.10           9.48 61.20 51.72         1O.-9   61.20 50.30         9.U  72.00 62.52
2002               11.31  11.31  7.oo  60.69       13.01  72.00 5.99          11.31  61.20  49.89       13.01  61.20 4.19          11.31  7.oo 0  .69
2003               14.22  14.22 72.0O  57.79       i6.35 72.00 55.65          14.22 61.20  46.95        16.35  61.20 44.95         14.22  n.oo 57.7B
2004               14.22  14.22 72.00 57.76        16.35  72.00 55.65         14.22 61.20 46.99         16.35  61.20  44.95        14.22  72.00 57.78
2005              14.22  14.22  72.00 57.79        16.35 72.00  55.65         14.22 61.20  46.91        16.35  61.20  44.85        14.22  72.00 57.79
2006               14.22  14.22 72.00 57.79        16.35 72.00 55.65          14.22 61.20 46.99         16.35  61.20 44.5           14.22  72.00 57.79
2007               14.22  14.22 72.00 57.78        16.35 72.00 55.65          14.22 61.20  46.90        16.35  61.20  44.95        14.22  72.00  57.79
20                14.22  14.22 72.00 57.78         16.35 72.00 55.65          14.22 61.20  46.99        16.35   61.20  44.95       14.22  72.0o  57.79
2009              14.22  14.22 72.00 57.79         16.35 72.00  55.65         14.22 61.20  46.98        16.35  61.20  44.85        14.22  72.0o s7.79
2010              14.22  14.22 72.00 57.79         16.35  72.00 55.65         14.22  61.20  46.98       16.35   61.20  44.05       14.22  72.00 57.79
2011              14.22 14.22  72.00  57.79        16.35 72.00 55.65          14.22  61.20  46.99       16.35   61.20  44.85       14.22  72.00 57.78
Total      277.15 226.44 503.59 1557.3 1053.7     579.06 1557.3 978.19       503.59 1323.7 920.09      579.06 1323.68 744.60      503.59 145.3 99.67
ERR   24.13               ERRI  20.6                ERR2   20.0               ERR a  16.7 7              EN * 19.5 3
WV (1231 a 175.0          WV (12?) a 136.6          WV (123) - 110.3           WV (123) a  71.9           WV 1n) * 124.0
Nay-Il                                                                                                                                                                     I



CNIi
IlNE POT PRWECT
Eco9nOit Rate of Return (ERN) and Snsitivity btalysis
Coal Berth
I Nillion Yast
120 years)
----------Base SCse-- ---    ------    1-----Case 2---                                        ---Case 3-----    ----Case 4--
-------Costs------   Total   Net                         ht                          et                       flet                 enef its   oet
Capital Ibint-        Bene-  Cash        Costs Benefits Cash        Costs Benefits Cash        Costs Bnefits  Cash         Costs (Delay    Cash
Year       invest. inrce  Total  fits  FIDU          (*151)         Flow              (-1512   Flow         +1511 (-151)  Flow               I year)  Flow
1989        10.60         10.60        l10.6t        12.19        112.2)        10.60        110.6I        12.19         (12.2)        10.60         110.6)
1990        16.90         16.80         116.81       19.32        (19.3i        16.80        l16.81        19.32         (19.3)        16.80        (16.80)
1991        32.41         32.41        132.4)        37.27        (37.3i        32.41         132.41       37.27         (37.3)        32.41         (32.4)
1992        16.73         16.73        116.7)        19-24        (19.2)        16.73         116.71       19.24         119.24i       16.73        11b.73i
1993                3.98   3.98  45.85  41.87         4.58  45.85  41.27         3.98 38.97  34.99          4.58   36.97  34.39         3.98  0.00  3.98)
1994                3.98   3.98  55.66  51.68         4.58  55.66 51.08          3.98  47.31  43.33         4.58   47.31  42.73         3.8  45.95  41.87
1995 11    20.00   3.98  23.98  67.57  43.59        27.58  67.57  39.99        23.98  57.43  33.45        27.58  57.43  29.85         23.98  55.Mo  31.68
I99b                5.02   5.02  77.36  72.34        5.77  77.36  71.59          5.02  65.75  60.73         5.77   65.75  59.99         5.02  67.57  62.55
1997                5.02   5.02 87.14  82.12          5.77  87.14  81.37         5.02  74.07  69.05         5.77   74.07  68.30         5.02  77.36 72.34
1999                5.02   5.02  96.93  91.91         5.77 96.93  91.26          5.02  82.39  77.37         5.77   82.39  76.62         5.02  87.14  82.12
1999                5.02   5.02  06.71 101.69         5.77 106.71 100.94         5.02  90.71  85.69         5.77  90.71 94.94           5.02  96.93  91.91
2000                5.02   5.02 116.5v 111.48         5.77 llb.50 110.73         5.02  99.03  94.01         5.77   99.03 93.26          5.02 106.71 l0I.69
201                 5.02   5.02 116.50 111.48         5.77 llb.50 110.73         5.02  9S.P3  94.02         5.77   99.03  93.26         5.02 116.50 111.48
2002                5.02   5.02 116.50 111.48         5.77 216.50 110.73         5.02  99.03  94.01         5.77   99.03 93.26          5.02 116.50 111.49
2003                7.01   7.01 116.50 109.49         B.Ob 116.50 109.44         7.01 99.03  92.02          8.06  99.03  90.97          7.01 116.50 109.49
2004                ?.01   7.01 116.50 109.49         8.0b 116.50 108.44         7.01  99.03  92.02         8.06  99.03  90.97          7.01 116.50 109.49
2005                7.01   7.01 116.50 109.49         8.06 226.56 10.44         7.01  99.03  92.02         8.06  S9.03  90.97          7.01 116.50 109.49
20hr                7.53   7.53 116.50 108.97         8.66 116.50 107.84         7.53 W.03  91.50           8.66   9.03  90.37          7.53 11.5O 108.97
207                 7.53   7.53 116.50 108.97         8.66 116.50 107.94         1.53  9.03  91.50          8.66   99.03  90.37         7.53 116.50 108.97
2008                7.53   7.53 116.50 108.97         8.66 116.50 107.84         7.53  99.03  91.50         8.66   99.03  90.37         7.53 116.50 108.97
2009                7.53  7.53 l16.50 108.97          0.6b 126.50 107.84         7.53 99.03  91.50          8.66  99.03  90.37          7.53 116.50 108.97
2010                7.53   7.53 116.50 108.97         8.66 116.50 107.84         7.53  99.03  91.50         8.66   99.03  90.37         7.53 116.50 108.97
2011                7.53  7.53 116.50 108.97          8.66 116.50 107.94         7.53 99.03  91.50          8.66  C9.03  90.37          7.53 116.50 108.97
2012                7.53   7.53 116.50 108.97         8.66 11b.50 107.84         7.53 99.03  91.50          8.66  99.03  90.37          7.53 116.50 109.97
Total       96.54 120.82 217.36 2051.7 1834.4        250.0 2051.7 1802.8        217.4 1744.0 1526.7        250.0  1744.0 1494.1        217.4 1935.2 1717.R
ERR :  45.2 1              ERR = 41.4 1               ERR:  40.7 1               ERRt  37.11                 ERRM:  36.8 1
IPV 121) ; 334.0           IP9 (l2) a 320.4           WV 421) a 270.3            IPV M1U2)   256.7           WPV (1211 x 281.6
* 1 A additiopal investeent of  2e.0 mlli1os in 1995 sil be reQuired to upgrade the naterial handling systn to proviue the miniai  throu0mut cepantv of 5.0                    I
rnllion tons p.a.
Nay-BB



aam
lIKEN PM2998
Ecosic  ate of btua (3) ad Sautivity  alysi,
TOtal PrjKct
I fillln Yu 
(20 ywrs)
----------  Cas----    -C  2-                                                            -C--e 3-                   -:CA  4-
------Costa---   Total   Ot                              Nt                         Iet t                         t               3.its   Nt
Capital NIint-        kw    Cash          Cots lmuafits  Cnsh        Costs 3wfits  Csh          Cts buefits  Cs             Cts (Nlay    Cub
VWr        inVYt. nMuKi  Total  fits   Flv           Il151U          Flom              (-15t    Flow        (41511 (-151)  Floe               I ya)  Flow
1M          50.02         50.02        (50.01        57.52         (57.5)       50.02         (50.0)        57.52         (57.5)        50.02         150.0)
mo          79.57         79.57         178.6)       90.34         (90.4)       79.57         178.6t        90.36         (90.4)        73.57        (78.57)
(991       141.44        149.44       (148.4)       170.71        (170.7)      10.44         1148.4)       170.71         1170.7)      143.44        11.4)
1M          76.64   1.93  79.4  54.81 -23.68         90.26 54.01 -35.45         7.49  44.59 -31.90          90.26   46.59 143.67)       78.49   0.00 (73.4)
193                13.46  13.44 138.41 124.95        15.48 13B.41 122.93        13.44 117.65 104.19         15.48  117.45 102.17        13.46 54.81  41.35
M4                 13.46  13.44 153.14 139.48        15.4  153.14 137.66        13.44 130.17 116.71         15.43  130.17 114.4         13.46 133.41 124.95
m1          20.00  13.46  33.46 169.04 135.59        39.40 169.04 130.56        33.46 143.69 110.22         39.49  143.49 105.20        33.46 153.14 119.49                   -.
196                14.50  14.50 172.93 159.43        16.49 172.93 156.25        14.50 146.99 132.49        16.69  146.99 130.31         14.50 169.04 154.54
17                 14.50  14.50 176.82 16U.         16.69 176.92 160.14        14.50* 150.30 135.30        16.6  150.30 133.62         14.50 172.93 153.43
m1                 14.50  14.50 180.72 166.22        16.69 190.72 164.04        14.50 153.61 1.9.11         16.61  153.61 136.93        14.50 17M.M2 262.32
1999               14.50  14.50 194.61 170.il        16.49 194.61 167.93        14.50 156.92 142.42         16.49  156.92 14.24         14.50 130.72 166.22
2000               14.50  14.50 186.50 174.00        16.69 198.50 171.92         14.50 160.23 145.73        16.61  160.23 143.55        14.50 134.61 170.11
2001               L4.50  14.50 293.50 174.00        16.68 169.50 171.92        14.50 160.23 145.73         16.69  160.23 143.55        14.50 199.50 174.00
2002               16.33  16.33 199.50 272.17        18.75 299.50 249.72         16.33 160.23 143.90        13.78  260.23 141.45        16.33 199.50 172.17
2003               21.23  21.23 I29.50 167.27        24.42 188.50 164.09        21.23 160.23 139.00         24.41  160.23 235.32        21.23 I19.50 267.27
2004               21.23  21.23 198.50 167.27        24.41 198.50 164.09        21.23 140.23 139.00         24.41  160.23 135.32        21.23 199.50 167.27
2005               21.23  21.23 19.s50 167.27        24.41 198.50 164.09        21.23 160.23 139.00         24.41  160.23 135.82        22.23 13.50 167.27
2006               21.75  21.75 189.50 166.75        25.01 198.50 163.49        21.75 2b0.23 139.43         25.01  260.23 135.22        22.75 193.50 166.75
2007               22.75  21.75 138.50 166.75        25.01 198.50 163.49        21.75 I20.23 139.4          25.01  160.23 135.22        21.75 IU.50 16{. 75
2009               22.75  22.75 268.50 166.75        25.01 198.50 163.49        21.75 160.23 139.49         25.01  160.23 135.22        21.75 199.50 166.75
2009               21.75  21.75 138.50 166.75        25.02 198.50 163.49        21.75 160.23 139.45         25.01  160.23 135.22        21.75 19.50 166.75
2010               21.75  21.75 199.50 i1i.75        25.01 198.50 163.49        21.75 160.23 139.48         25.02  160.23 135.22        21.75 199.50 166.75
2021               21.75  21.75 199.50 166.75        25.01 198.50 163.49        21.75 60.23 138.48          25.01  160.23 135.22        21.75 19.50 166.75
TDtal      373.69 339.73 713.42 3492.5 2779.1        920.4 3492.5 2672.0        713.4 2969.7 2255.3         820.4  2968.7 2149.2        713.4 3304.0 2590.6
ERR * 31.3 1               ERR - 27.7 1               ERR    27.2 1               ERR    23.9 1               ERR a  25.5 1
WV (121) - 501.3          WPV 1121) - 449.9           NH  1121) * 374.6          WY 1121) *  322.6            WV (12U)  3S8.5
----- - -…-…--------------------…-…-…-…----- -  ---- -  ------   - ------ - ------ - - ---- - -…- - - …---…-------- - --- - ------ -  - - - - -- - --
Notei 1. All the fiqures are rounded. 
Ray-BB 



- 73 -
Silo 6.1
ml            a
cti                                               Fw
3914    130      191       99117    3m        199      19)       1991      1992      199     199
tralliac IWO Wt                2,90      ,54    3,1t      4,264     5e.04    5,919    6,9o       7,122    1.592    9.56   10,43
Pat isthiti            2,1W    3,16    2,t9O5      ,11     4,425    5,112    6,044       ,1M      1,U17 1 ,951    9,60
36,-
LudiqIWIlOAa                1,915   12,M    13,067   13,15    21.';t  24,54         Vi,i3   39,494    47,212   56,454  41,516
Utrw                         1,542    3,012   2,427    2,T2         I 2,915    3,447    4,539    5,42A    *,4 6  7,157    9,214
othr                        2,071   4,O2      5,220    1,99    10,66    13,572   16,19   20,192   24,130    3,66    34,519
PSostlag                     1,551   2,503   2,457     3,306     4,19      5,202     ,413    1,139    9,251   1,062   13,2X
Xt.t.e                     15,151  23,263  24,091   21,02    s,146    ata    0,5    12,1                1,w7   14,1x  124,51
aostilg Ta   1.1
laaqlulIq                     270      417      442      5S       461        MO    1,020      1,20      1,530    1,12     2,13
U rwe                         U4       122       a        125      151      I9       24        m         3S5      419      501
kw                            117      215      229      243       75(       440       47         4       1n       n5    1,110
Natiq                          7       267      245      2         * 44       10     719        99    i,09       t,3m     i,m
TOb    Oeatin ta              510   1,011    1,021     I,21D     l,0i9    2,115    2,431      3,146    3,761      ,4      5,31
tUi1Iq w10409               1,715   12,503   13,24    34,245   20,532   25,AM      31,96    20,214    4,6U2    54,27  0,6,0
swap                         1,496   3,40    2,52      2,14      2,73      3,0      4,290    5,122    4,134    7,m31    o,n11
614w                        2,940    3,113   5,019      ,34     10,497   13,132    16,34    19,31   23,334   21,92   2S,401
lIrkbtit                     1,4"9   2,236   2,192    2,950      3,644    4,134    5,706    4,120    3,152    9,74    l1,45
Tot*l It*  on               14,441  22,242  23,010    29,,s    31,451   44,97 29,04    69,135    93,32    99,441  119,162
99uatiffi fats
3.etiolqiediag               5,17     , 7,45  9,427   10,93    13,562   171,03    21,144   25,921   30,291   35,612   41,66
sbRW                         1,14    1,516    ,49       3,33     2:.2      ;,02     3,54t    4,243    5,012    4,045    7,253
t*w                          1,42    I3,7    3,60    3,64        4, 2      5,709    7,2014    *,413   10,29    12,312   14,124
1ttG1                         240      271      441      542        M        91      ,10J4    1,320    1,513    3,317    2,2W1
Towl  watlg Cab t             ,7,110  I1,4    13,427    14,9s    .l,l19   24,331     ,60    40,097    41,211   55,161    d,9
Lmdlqi.sh                   2,97   4*,5      4,111    5,242    4,970    1,20       10,213   12,2      15,391   19,015  2a,a43
hrwa                          32    2,374    1,04        39o       418       5        74        no      I,0m     1,212    3,52
ot6a                         1,35     , I,    2,031    4,im      5,39    1,34       9,1       0,925    13,00    15,411   1,6an
rb*t1t0                      1,240    i,96    1,151    2,26      2,9       3,97     0,4      5,s0    4,574    7,661   9,41
Tow    wstoda fuit          5,101     5       1,64a    12,6o    34,M      20,02l   24,101   29,06    2,46       4,715  5,24
Iate  otwl"                                 0       0         0         0    2,19      3,1k      5,615    *,9      7,0,0    4,949
_ W tl90  KMm                     22       34      20       211       2s       335       431       49       sff       712      92
dwatiq bp.                        a       62       U        949    1,223    1,531    l,90        2,211    2,122     3,235   3,69
"ijt  Wm  Tom                  5,430   10,207    ,93t   12,042    15,317   34,410    19,33    22,214   21,444   34,192 a,25
Iter   Ta                   2,991   5,524   4,63       6,26      1,42     9,34     10U,U0    32,213   15,0121   06,636   2,1
jt..t T1ff                   1,193    3,201       0        a         0         0        0         0        0         0        0
34w pa- t bt to t             239      49       07       113       6n2      71        63        99      1,221    !,5U3   l,
lbt Proit sitr To"               9f    2,24   3,513    4,W          4,213    4,15     71,3       9,90     11,111    13,3u   11,53
Iuati latls                   59.9    51.0    9.2        5710       a.4      51.3     51.6      51.5     5.17      54.I    9.3
berns   but, Eqlep4IU         25.0    09.0    34.0        11.0     10.0       3.0      7.0       7.0      7.0       9.0    10.0
lIet   utis  0m, n    a swtausg tn  W5 mbr  4w u-    cwastiwttonloUw stVustl    the ol    416of 093,
ISof sapurtim to  W am   4w  irustlon Ivy.
War



2l~~~~~~~~~~~~7
CHINA
IIANEI HARBOUR ADNINISTRATIWi IWREAU
Sources and Aplications of Finds
(Vear ending 31, December)
(Y '00)
ctual                                                Foecast
_- -- - - - -- - - - ._ _  _ _ -  ----  _-_ -_.                            _ _ _ --- - - -- - - - - - - - ---_-- -- -- - - - - - - - -
1984     1995     1996      1997      199        19W9      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994
Sources
Net profit                      965    2,924    3,573      4,863     6,211     6,759     7,937     9,006    11,111    13,963   17,537
Oetprciatia                   1,043    1,534    2,038      2,391     2,792     3,929     4,979     5,975      6,323     6,957    7,416
State contribution           19,943   22,439    2,762    93,904    25,740    41,967    34,462    17,899       7,366    30,000   30,000
Drroving - IBRD                   0        0        0          0         0    25,900    40,700    40,700    22,200    11,100         0
Total Sources              20,951   26,797    9,373    91,159    34,743    79,354    87,979    73,469    47,005    61,920   54,953
Applications
Capital eapenditure          19,095   22,439    2,162    93,904    25,740    67,767    75,162    59,599    29,566    41,'00   30,000
Special fund etpeediture      1,214    1,449    2,919      4,500     2,344     2,550     2,959     3,399      4,193     5,231    6,619
Loan repayent-IORD                0        0        0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0    6,496
Chanqe uIcpltal              12,766)    (966)  (1,161)       993      (959)   11,366)   (1,616)   (1,503)   (1,529)   11,970)  (2,111)
Total Applications         17,543   22,922    4,520    99,397    27,125    69,951    76,504    60,493    32,231    44,461   40,993
Not Funds Flow                   3,408    3,975    3,953      1,771     7,619     9,403    11,474    12,996    14,774    17,459   13,960
opening IlaInce               1,679    5,087    9,962    12,915    14,586    22,204    31,607    43,081    56,067    70,941  99,300
Closing Balance               5,087    9,962   !2,815    14,596    22,204    31,607    43,081    56,067    70,941   99,300  102,260
DI$ Cover                          -        -        -         -         -          4.5       2.4       i.e        1.9       1.9      2.3
--y--



- 75-
Table 6.3
21
CHINA
XIAIEN HARBOUR ADNINISTRATIONi BUREAU
Balance Sheot (Ct Dec.31)
(V '000)
Actual                                             Forecast
.. ....................... ...........................              - - -._ --------- - ------------ . 
1994    1985    1996       1997      1991      1999     1990      1991      1992      1993    1994
Assts
3..3
Fixed assts
At cost                   47,649   70,089   72,950   156,754   182,494   250,261   325,423   384,011   413,577   454,677  494,677
Lessi depreciation         3,904    5,338   7,376      9,767    12,559    16,398   21,367    27,242    33,570    40,527   47,943
Subtotal                    43,845  64,750  65,474   146,997   169,935   233,973   304,056   356,769   390,007   414,150  436,734
Current assets
Inventory                  1,300    1,409    2,560    3,240    4,047      5,127     6;421     7,661    9,026    10,676   12,595
RKceivable                 1,971      567      979    3,342     4,215     5,273     6,562     7,945    9,379    11,215   13,412
Cash                       5,007   8,962   12,915    14,596   22,204    31,607   43,081   56,067    70,941    88,300  102,260
Subtotal                     9,359   10,937   16,354    21,168    30,466    42,007    56,064   71,573    99,246   110,191  126,267
SpKial iund &assts           1,469   2,444   5,174      7,602     7,602     7,602     7,602     7,602     7,602    7,602    7,602
Total Assett                53,672  78,131   87,002   175,757   208,003   293,482   367,722   435,944   476,955   531,943  572,603
au3a3u   3*3333s  333333a  3s3s33a2 23  333  assu282 3*32838 2:-:22 33223323 2 *suau2sa2s a33222222
Liabilities I Equity
State funds-Contributed     43,945   64.750   65,474   146,987   170,383  209,700   241,204   255,694   259,967  293,636  307,019
L/T loans - IBRO                 0        0        0        0         0   25,900    66,600   107,300   129,500   140,600  134,114
Current liabs.               6,037    5,707    8,432    10,492    13,131    16,635   20,934    24,860    29,287    34,643   40,970
Special funds                3,790    7,674   13,096    19,279   24,489    31,247    39,084    48,090    59,201    73,064   90,i01
Total Lis. & Equity         53,672   79,131   87,002   175,757   208,003   293,482   367,722   435,944   476,955   531,943  572,603
3s33x3s  a3383es 2323383  3833833   m3a333"   3333333   33238 s 338332  33233"33 3a3238323  *33383833
jDebtiCapitl I1)               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      11.0      21.6      29.6     33.3      33.1    30.4
Current Ratio                  1.4      1.9      1.9      2.0       2.3       2.5       2.7       2.9      3.0       3.2      3.1
way-Bs



7 76 -                            Table 6.4
CHINA
XIAMEN HARBOR BUREAU
Assumptions for the Financial Projections
General
1.        Inflation (Z)                        1988            8.0
1989           7.0
1990 onwards   6.5
Incomes Statement
2.   Tariffs:  constant in real terms at 1987 level.
3.   Unit costs (excluding depreciation):  constant in real terms at 1987
level.
4.   Interest charges:  at 5% on Bank loan proceeds cnlent.
5.   Income tax:  at 55%.
6.   Other payments to state:  Energy and transport levy at 15% of two-thirds
of after-tax profit.
7.   Allocation of profit:
Port Development Fund: 85% of two-thirds of after-tax profit.
Bonus and Welfare Funds: one-third of after-tax profit.
Funds Statement
8.   Capital expenditure:  as planned by XHAB through 1992, nominal
thereafter.
9.   Special fund expenditure:  equal.to allocation of profit to Bonus and
Welfare Funds.
10.  Loan Repayment:  over 20 years including 5 grace.



_77  -                                        CHART A
CHINA
XUAMEN PORT PROJECT
Organkdbtln ChaXt fo Xkmen Port Bureau
wnm                               0
Gourrln  I
Office;~~~Ewvfu                                              cl
Eri+eAr:  e e e~~~~~~~~onnm
|  Fce|| anme  |on    |C>tnZ|  Cte     t     1    ua|    reu  |dInKl||  S06a|   C 
C-rO  ce oms                                                       0 
D~r tMor '                                  Pat 
DN*cn    ] etW dEr  Mlg
C      _ _  Er1naWr           Goql __         -n g              Port
Contra                        D trsct   _    ShoD              Ominc
officote                       C          ID        I     _     :11
[            I  DMbon d  L -|  Drvsontor  |     Cofhwn       t v>fdonimg       XK|
I C c~~~~~~~~~om gv                       I
bP~~~~~O _-3a-
=069 XKnn _              tvo
DNdm of  eChrWOUV  pon-Om  co"vany         D~     ~    ~         ee*se88



CAROTS
- 78 -                                   -
CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Project Schedule
Item                 1989        1990      1991       1992       1993
Containers and general
purpose berths
Quay wall construction           8/1                   10/3
Revetment
Dredging                                     1/1                 Q/30
Reclamation                                  7/1                  5/31
Water supply                                            1/1
12/31
Sewerage                                                1/1
12/31
Power supply                                            3/1      3/1
Pavement, roadways                                     6/30     12/31
Railways                                                3/1 ...4/30
Auxilliary buildings                                    1/1        12/31
Cargo handling equipment                    6/30                   8/1
Other equipment                                                    1/1
8/1
Coal terminal
Civil works                       1/1                             3/31
Equipment                                     1/1                 3/31
Auxillary buildings                                    6/30 ..J10/31



CHINA
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
Procurement Schedule
Package 1 /a        Package 2         Package 3          Package 4        Package 5
Start  Compilete  Start  Complete  Start  Complete  Start  Complete  Start  Complete
General procurement notice                   7/88
Prep. Prequalification document    5/88    8/88
Prequalification                     9/88   10/88
Prequalification evaluation         11/88   12/88
Prepared bid documents               5/88   10/88      2/89   10/89      2/89   10/89      8/89    4/90      I/89   10/89
Bidding                              2/89    4/89    11/89    2/90    11/89    2/90        5/90    8/90    11/89    1/90
Bid evaluation                       4/89    7/89      3/90    4/90      3/90    4/90      9/90   10/90      2/90    4/90
Contract award                       7/89    7/89      6/90    7.90      6/90    7/90      1/91    7/90
Start                                8/89              8/90              8/90              2/91              8/90
/a  Package 1:  civil works
Package 2:  equipw.nt for coal terminal
Package 3:  equipme.t for containers and general cargo
Package 4:  telecommunication equipment
Package 5:  service boats.                                                                                                 0



MAP SECTION
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i                                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l



IBR
To Zhong0ho0 
J=JAIEIMr H i N A
XIAMEN PORT PROJECT
GAOQI DISTRICT
EXISTING  FUTURE  PROJECT
|<= _     T>CO  -  .<7) BERTHS
RAILROADIS
CoaI Eonh_S..   ,/]t>>\-                 ~                  /                                                                                         ==1   - -    _ -       ROADS
ISORATHS IN METERS CWATER DEPTH)
-  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
C- , "d    -2 t             \                                                                                                                       _._ INTERNATIONAL NOUNDARIES
0        250      SOD        750      ITE
METERS
i      DISTRICTT
=  8<hs W                   W                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COG)§ BePBh 
X ~~~~~HEPING                                f_JXIAMEN \C>
\                 ~~~~~~~~DISTRICT   ~ /                                                                                                                                                      , 
IERJREN OTY   ISLAND
NononO                                                                                                /    .                                                                                                       *   
Quonzhou° o                                                                                                                                                            /        
JinjilnEC                                        ,,__/   ,,,  _ 
To~~~~ga~~~b                                                 /Ut-up5           /                                               '                               S
V / | Berths/ -OP&i.31'iJ t ,-  '   / / 2 /                -            X7                                  5I
Q .... h.u 0 ~  ~           ~           ~           Be-Io                 )       L 
ov               OXiomBtn                                               ''.''7                                   \                                          /?D
MONGOLIA
<t   PHASE 11                                                          . -   < ~ ~ /   >   ~               >       ~      ~    s.  ,NdOj RREP. P
-gpE0                                                                                                                                                                              .s                                                          REP
*nsvQ <= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Shipyard ;-*i@_O
I dl.1.9 ly ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~.701 O
_  /                \                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H I N A  o"b.
Molti- 'ipopose
MUIi-UhP°e O/X>< /D        NGDU                     /,                                                                                                                              lfe
/2//Y<///    PHASE I                                                                                                                              THONG K\  t  HSD O
MCO PORT.
Ten..-                                                                                                                             THAiLAND                               PH



