Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3007 CHA
(Xiamen Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
XIAMEN PORT BUREAU
Dated September 8, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3007 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and XIAMEN PORT BUREAU (XPB).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000) on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that XPB agree 
to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower, 
XMG and XPB, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available to XPB on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
WHEREAS XPB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. XPB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and port 
engineering and operating practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. XPB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. XPB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, XPB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) XPB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Loan.
(b)
XPB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the
performance by XPB of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements.
Section 2.06. XPB shall, not later than December 31, 1990, update its master 
plan under Part C of the Project in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the 
Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of XPB
Section 3.01. XPB shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and port practices under 
the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. XPB shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
Page  3
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and port practices.
Section 3.03. XPB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the term "XPB" shall 
include all enterprises and units which are under the control of XPB.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) XPB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
XPB shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, XPB shall from time 
to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the levels of its tariffs as determined by the Borrower) as shall be 
required to produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on 
December 31, 1988, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of (i) its total 
operating expenses, and (ii) the amount by which its financial obligations exceed the 
provision for depreciation and any other non-cash operating expenses.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of revenues from all 
sources related 
to port operations and net non-operating income.
 
(ii)
The term "total operating expenses" means the sum of all expenses 
related to 
port operations, including maintenance, administration, and 
depreciation.
(iii)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt, 
repayment of loans (including sinking fund payments, 
if any), all taxes or 
payments in lieu of taxes, allocations 
to special funds and other cash 
distributions of surplus, and any 
other cash outflows (other than capital 
expenditures) 
related to port operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
Section 5.O2. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of XPB 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify XPB thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making 
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For XPB:
Xiamen Port Bureau
Harbor Building
Dongdu Road
Xiamen, China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3099
93018 PENXN CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of XPB, or by XPB 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by XPB's 
Director or such other person or persons as XPB's Director shall designate in writing, 
and XPB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  5
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
XIAMEN PORT BUREAU
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
