Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3007 CHA
(Xiamen Port Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 8, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3007 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Xiamen Port Bureau (XPB) with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to XPB the proceeds
of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and XPB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and XPB of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(c)
"XMG" means Xiamen Municipal Government;
 
(d)
"XPB" means the Xiamen Port Bureau, a state-owned enterprise of the 
Borrower, established and operating pursuant to its Charter, as further defined in 
Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Charter" means the Charter of XPB, issued on October 22, 1987; and
 
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1994 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
Page  3
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent 1/2  of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the principal 
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
(e)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the first Semester of 1989 shall 
be seven and sixty-five
hundredths percent (7.65%). 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. XPB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause XPB to perform 
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of XPB 
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
Page  4
XPB to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend through XMG the proceeds of the Loan to XPB 
under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and XMG, and 
XMG and XPB, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and 
shall include that: (i) the subsidiary loan shall be repaid over a period of 20 years, 
including five years of grace, and accrue interest at a rate of five percent (5%) per 
annum; and (ii) the commitment charges and the foreign exchange risk on the repayment 
of the subsidiary loan shall be borne by XPB.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by XPB 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
Page  5
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
XPB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that XPB will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Charter  shall  have  been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of XPB to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of XPB or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower, XMG and XPB; and
(b)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by XPB 
and is legally binding upon XPB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower, XMG and XPB and are legally binding upon the Borrower, XMG and XPB in 
accordance with
their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64l45 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized  
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works           13,920,000           85%
(2)  Goods                 17,530,000           100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Consultants'           1,200,000           100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Unallocated            3,350,000
                           __________
     TOTAL                 36,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to improve 
operations and relieve congestion, and increase the cargo handling capacity of XPB 
through infrastructure development, provision of modern equipment, and technical 
assistance and training in management, operations and planning.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
A.
Construction of (i) one container berth, (ii) two multi-purpose berths capable 
of conversion to container berths as and when needed, (iii) one coal berth, and (iv) a 
barge berth; including:
(1)
dredging of about 580,000 m3 of soft soil and about 27,000 m3 of rock;
 
(2)
construction of about 2,800 m of revetments; 
 
(3)
reclamation and backfilling of about 2.5 million m3 of rock and sand and yard 
pavement;
(4)
construction of the necessary railways, roads, warehouses and storage yards;
 
(5)
installation of water supply, sewerage and power supply systems;
Page  8
(6)
provision of the required loading/unloading equipment, navigational aids, 
operating equipment and boats; and
(7)
construction of the required auxilliary buildings.
 
B.
Training of port managers, operators and other specialists in:
 
(1)
port operations, maintenance and construction supervision; and
 
(2)
financial control including operating cost monitoring.
 
C.
Reviewing and updating Xiamen Port master plan; and
 
D.
Implementing an action plan to improve port operations, maintenance and 
environmental protection.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
May 1, 1994                                           665,000.00
November 1, 1994                                      690,000.00
May 1, 1995                                           715,000.00
November 1, 1995                                      745,000.00
May 1, 1996                                           770,000.00
November 1, 1996                                      800,000.00
May 1, 1997                                           830,000.00
November 1, 1997                                      860,000.00
May 1, 1998                                           895,000.00
November 1, 1998                                      930,000.00
May 1, 1999                                           965,000.00
November 1, 1999                                    1,000,000.00
May 1, 2000                                         1,040,000.00
November 1, 2000                                    1,080,000.00
May 1, 2001                                         1,120,000.00
November 1, 2001                                    1,160,000.00
May 1, 2002                                         1,205,000.00
November 1, 2002                                    1,250,000.00
May 1, 2003                                         1,300,000.00
November 1, 2003                                    1,350,000.00
May 1, 2004                                         1,400,000.00
November 1, 2004                                    1,450,000.00
May 1, 2005                                         1,505,000.00
November 1, 2005                                    1,565,000.00
May 1, 2006                                         1,625,000.00
November 1, 2006                                    1,685,000.00
May 1, 2007                                         1,750,000.00
November 1, 2007                                    1,815,000.00
May 1, 2008                                         1,885,000.00
November 1, 2008                                    1,950,000.00
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective  
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.O4 (b) of the 
Page  9
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed 
as a percentage per annum) 
applicable to the balance 
outstanding on the Loan on 
the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years              
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but              
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but               
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not              
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not              
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before              
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for works under Part A.1 of the Project to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures described in this Part A shall be prequalified as described in 
paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured or produced in China may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 2.55 of the Guidelines and procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, China may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  10
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works under Part A (iv) of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of not more than US$3,200,000, may be procured through local competitive bidding 
procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
2.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than 
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with the procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist XPB in carrying out the Project, XPB shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
Page  11
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been made out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Page  12
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
