Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB6525 
Operation Name 
Public Resource Management and Governance Reform 
(PRMG) Development Policy Grant 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration sector (100%).  
Project ID 
P123374 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ AND 
PRÍNCIPE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND INTERNATIONAL 
COOPERATION 
Ministry of Finance and International Cooperation 
Largo das Alfandegas 
Sao Tome 
Sao Tome and Principe 
Tel: (239) 2226-748 
Fax: (239) 2222-182 
Date PID Prepared 
April 11, 2011 
Date of Appraisal Authorization 
December 13, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
May 19, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
T
he Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe (STP) is a small and fragile state and one of the 
smallest economies in Africa. The country faces many development challenges due to its small size and 
insularity, limited institutional capacity, and aid dependency. STP’s development shortcomings
 
translate 
into low productivity and low export levels as well as vulnerability to external shocks. As in other small 
island states, STP cannot exploit economies of scale in the provision of infrastructure, services, and 
economic activities. All these features translate into: (i) high costs per unit of government and utility 
provision services; (ii) limited flexibility of the economy to adapt to shocks due to a non-diversified export 
base and a dependence on external financing; and (iii) few opportunities for risk diversification within the 
domestic market. 
 
The incidence of poverty remains high and, as of 2001, 54 percent of the population lived in poverty. To 
face large poverty, the authorities have been implementing a Poverty Reduction Strategy, as outlined in the 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), since 2003, with a PRSP Unit made operational in 2005 to 
supervise PRSP implementation. The Government is preparing a new PRSP which focuses on pro-poor 
growth and improved results monitoring. 
 
For the last five years, the government has pursued prudent macroeconomic policies and implemented 
important structural reforms in line with the objectives set out in its Government program and supported by 
the Bank and an IMF’s Extended Credit Facility (ECF) program. Considerable progress has been made in 
public governance and especially in public financial management, with support of previous Bank operations 
such as the US$8 million Public and Natural Resource Management and Development (PNRMD) 
Page  2
2
Development Policy Operation (DPO), approved in 2008, and the US$5 million Capacity Building 
Technical Assistance (CBTA) project, approved in 2004. Commitment to structural reforms and 
macroeconomic stability allowed STP to reach the Completion Point of the Enhanced HIPC Initiative in 
2007 and to receive debt relief in the amount of US$314 million.  
 
Notwithstanding these achievements, STP remains vulnerable to a variety of shocks. For example, the sharp 
rise in international fuel and food prices in 2008 impacted adversely on STP’s economy through inflationary 
pressures (costly imports) that affected the poor and vulnerable. The World Food Program (WFP) estimated 
an increase in the number of vulnerable people (those for whom food is inadequate or at the limit) that need 
its support by 10-15 percent. In addition, the on-going international economic and financial slowdown has 
limited the capacity of the Government to consolidate fiscal sustainability through reduced external 
financing. Following the international slowdown, a sharp decline in FDI, tourism-related investment, 
foreign assistance, and oil signature bonuses that did not materialize slowed down GDP growth to 4 percent 
in 2009, and the annual domestic primary fiscal deficit increased to 8.2 percent of GDP in 2009.  
 
In 2010, the authorities accelerated fiscal consolidation based on the reduction of non-essential current 
expenditures, containment of the wage bill, and the enforcement of tax collection. As a result, fiscal 
performance improved and the annual domestic primary fiscal deficit is estimated at 5.7 percent of GDP at 
end-2010. The Government plans to further reduce the annual domestic primary fiscal deficit to 3 percent of 
GDP by end-2013.  
 
The Government has also demonstrated a satisfactory track record in maintaining prudent macroeconomic 
policies that are sustainable over the medium-term. For instance, inflation is on a downward path, from a 
peak of 37 percent in June 2008 to an estimated 9.5 percent at end-2010. This decline largely reflects the 
fall in food and fuel prices that make up 67 percent of the consumer price index, as well as a tightening of 
monetary policy. In January 2010, the Government introduced a new peg exchange rate system, which has 
remained stable since then, and it is expected to lower inflation expectations further.  
 
All in all, despite suffering a succession of shocks throughout 2008-10, STP has avoided major 
macroeconomic imbalances and growth is estimated to inch up from 4 percent in 2009 to 4.5 percent in 
2010 (compared to 5.8 percent in 2008). In the medium-term, growth is projected to rise to 5 percent in 
2011 and to 6 percent during 2012-13. Growth will continue to rely on oil exploration activities, especially 
in the new offshore areas, investment in construction, and tourism receipts. Risks to the medium-term 
growth outlook include further delays in private sector projects, and lower-than-expected external project 
grants through the budget. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The overall objective of the Public Resource Management and Governance Reform (PRMG) DPO is to 
assist the Government of São Tomé and Príncipe to improve public sector effectiveness. This objective will 
be achieved by: (i) raising the transparency and accountability in the management of public resources with a 
focus on improving budget transparency and accountability and the implementation of pro-poor 
expenditures, improving the management of public accounts and assets, and strengthening the oversight 
framework for public enterprises; and (ii) promoting sustainable economic policies by strengthening the 
fiscal policy framework including the management of public debt, and by improving donor coordination. 
 
This grant also supports the preparation of new PRSP based on an updated poverty profile originating from 
a
2010 household survey and an analysis of growth diversification options.  
 
Page  3
3
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rationale for Bank’s involvement rests on (i) its ability to provide significant resources (US$4.2 million 
or about 2 percent of GDP) to allow the implementation of the Government’s reform program;  (ii) its 
technical contribution to the policy dialogue and the public financial management (PFM) reform in the 
country based on analytical work including the recently completed Country Economic Memorandum; (iii) 
the success of the previous budget support operation, the Public and Natural Resource Management 
Development Policy Operation (which closed in June 2010), and the Capacity building Technical Assistance 
Project (which closed in September 2010) that supported PFM reform, PRSP implementation, and 
governance in the oil sector; and (iv) the leadership of IDA among the donor community in the country. 
 
4. Tentative 
Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
4.2 
Total 4.2 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Executing Agency. 
The Ministry of Finance and International Cooperation (MoFIC) is the executing 
agency. Other line agencies will support the ministry. The MoFIC and the Bank have agreed to monitor 
progress in the program supported by the development policy operation in the content of the Implementation 
Completion and Results report for this grant. The MoFIC is charged with collecting from the appropriate 
sources the data necessary to assess implementation progress. Reviews by the MoFIC and the Bank team 
will identify the main strengths and weaknesses of the reform program in order to identify possible 
assistance needs to sustain the forward momentum towards the Government’s planned medium-term 
outcomes, and to address possible downside risks.
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks and Risks Mitigation 
 
The benefits of the operation are the support to a structural agenda which will provide for sustainable 
economic growth, improved debt dynamics and maintain macroeconomic stability. The implementation of 
the proposed reform program faces the following possible risks: (i) external factors, such as the continuing 
slow recovery of the global economy, increasing international oil and food prices, and shortfalls in donor 
support, could have a deterring impact on economic growth, reduce government resources, and affect the 
Government’s ability to conduct its reform program—This risk is being mitigated by the Government’s 
commitment to achieve IMF-ECF targets, which may entail further fiscal policy adjustment through 
additional expenditure restrain, the acceleration of reforms aimed at improving public revenue management, 
and strengthened cooperation with donors; (ii) weak human, institutional, and managerial capacity could 
slow down the pace of implementation—This risk is being mitigated in the design of the project by 
addressing the findings from an institutional capacity assessment that was carried out, which in particular 
suggests limiting the number of sectors to be supported by the operation, and through technical assistance 
financed by the authorities; (iii) political instability could lead to policy reversals or slippages in structural 
reforms that could affect the Government’s ability to maintain a stable macroeconomic environment and 
focus expenditure on poverty reducing priorities— Early implementation of key policies, bolstered by the 
strong mandate received by the new Government in the recent legislative elections held in August 2010, and 
the overall consensus among all political parties on the  relevance of the PFM reforms and macroeconomic 
stability mitigate this risk; and (iv) fiduciary risks related to the use of public funds remain as internal and 
Page  4
4
external control mechanisms remain weak
—This risk is being mitigated through the public finance 
management reforms underway that increase transparency and accountability of public resources. Overall, 
the project’s risks are also being mitigated by the degree of the government ownership of the proposed 
measures, and its commitment to advance its reform agenda, in particular public finance management, as 
well as by an active and supportive policy dialogue with Bank and IMF staff.  
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The actions supported by this Grant are expected to have positive poverty and social impacts. Notably, 
supported by this operation, the budget allocation for pro-poor expenditures has increased relative to 
previous years. Also, as spelled out in the PRSP, weak public financial management systems and poor 
governance are perceived to be critical causes of poverty. Joint World Bank and IMF staff assessments of 
STP’s PRSP have emphasized the need for the poverty strategy to be more explicit on key priorities and 
budgetary allocations. Indeed, weak Public Financial Management (PFM) has led to inefficiency, limited 
control and loss of impact of limited public resources. To achieve faster poverty reduction, the PRMG 
program will provide US$4.2 million to help implement the Government’s economic reform program. First, 
PFM reforms will help ensure that domestic and external resources are used effectively and more 
transparently, and that the budget can be used as a tool for poverty reduction by improving the 
accountability system and enhancing the external oversight of public resources. Second, the revision of the 
PRSP will update the poverty reduction goals in line with the new macroeconomic framework and will 
foster a growth strategy that benefits the poor through more employment and increasing income. 
 
The conclusion of an environmental screening of the proposed reforms is that reforms are not likely to be 
significant from an environmental point of view. Policy actions supported by the proposed operation are not 
likely to have significant positive or negative effects on the environment, forests, or other natural resources. 
The policies supported under this grant address primarily institutional reforms. The focus of the reforms is 
on transparency and accountability or public resources, on the efficiency of public expenditures, and on 
promoting good governance. If environmental impacts arise, they are expected to be beneficial for STP.  
 
8. Contact 
Point 
 
Contact: Mr. Marco Antonio Hernández 
Title:  Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-6802 
Fax: (202) 473-8466 
Email: marcohernandez@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington, D.C.  
 
For more information contact:  
 The 
InfoShop 
 The 
World 
Bank 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-4500 
 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
 Email: 
pic@worldbank.org 
 Web: 
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
