Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB6046 
 
Operation Name 
Public Resource Management and Governance Reform (PRMG) 
Development Policy Operation  
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%).  
Project ID 
P123374 
Borrower(s) 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND INTERNATIONAL 
COOPERATION 
Ministry of Finance and International Cooperation 
Largo das Alfandegas 
São Tomé  
Date PID Prepared 
October 13, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 09, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 31, 2011 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe (STP) is a small and fragile state and one of the 
smallest economies in Africa. The country faces many development challenges due to its small size and 
insularity, limited institutional capacity, and aid dependency. STP’s development shortcomings
 
translate 
into low productivity and low export levels as well as vulnerability to external shocks. As in other small 
island states, STP cannot exploit economies of scale in the provision of infrastructure, services, and 
economic activities. All these features translate into: (i) high costs per unit of government and utility 
provision services; (ii) limited flexibility of the economy to adapt to shocks due to a non-diversified export 
base and a dependence on external financing; and (iii) few opportunities for risk diversification within the 
domestic market. 
 
The incidence of poverty remains high and, as of 2001, 54 percent of the population lived in poverty. To 
face large poverty, the authorities have been implementing a Poverty Reduction Strategy, as outlined in the 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), since 2003, with a PRSP Unit made operational in 2005 to 
supervise PRSP implementation. A Committee was appointed in 2008 to develop a new Development 
Strategy to replace the PRSP, and this strategy is expected to be finalized in 2011, after the poverty profile is 
updated. The new Development Strategy will be based on a domestic-led pro-poor growth strategy, and, 
given the increased uncertainty in petroleum production revenues at this time the petroleum economy will 
not be considered in the new Development Strategy.  
 
For the last five years, the government has pursued prudent macroeconomic policies and implemented 
important structural reforms in line with the objectives set out in the IMF’s 2006-2008 Poverty Reduction 
and Growth Facility (PRGF) and 2009-2011 Extended Credit Facility (ECF) programs. Between 2001 and 
Page  2
2
2009, real GDP growth averaged 6 percent a year and the primary fiscal deficit was steadily reduced from 
14.7 of GDP in 2004 to 7.5 percent of GDP in 2008, financed thanks to oil signature bonuses and 
privatization receipts.  
 
Considerable progress has been made in public governance and specially in public financial management, 
with support of previous Bank operations such as the US$8 million Public and Natural Resource 
Management and Development (PNRMD) development policy operation (DPO), approved in 2008, and the 
US$5 million Capacity Building Technical Assistance (CBTA) project approved in 2004. This 
macroeconomic and governance efforts have paid off, allowing the country to reach the Completion Point 
under the Enhanced HIPC Initiative in 2007 and receive debt relief in the amount of US$314 million.  
 
Notwithstanding these achievements, STP remains vulnerable to a variety of shocks. For example, the sharp 
rise in international fuel and food prices in 2008 impacted adversely on STP’s economy through inflationary 
pressures (costly imports) that affected the poor and vulnerable. The World Food Program (WFP) estimated 
an increase in the number of vulnerable people (those for whom food is inadequate or at the limit) that need 
its support by 10-15 percent. In addition, the on-going international economic and financial slowdown has 
limited the capacity of the Government to consolidate fiscal sustainability through reduced external 
financing. Following the international slowdown, a sharp decline in FDI, tourism-related investment, 
foreign assistance, and oil signature bonuses that did not materialize slowed down GDP growth to 4 percent 
in 2009. This has translated into lower public revenues that the new corporate and personal income tax laws 
introduced in 2009, aimed at enhancing compliance, have not been able to compensate with additional 
public resources. Despite efforts to contain discretionary current expenditure the domestic non-oil primary 
deficit has increased to an estimated 8.2 percent of GDP in 2009. 
 
To cushion the impact of the global slowdown on the poor and vulnerable groups, the government seeks 
additional fiscal resources to protect and increase priority spending, which is intended to address the basic 
needs of the population and foster productivity. To ensure that fiscal resources are used most effectively to 
support long-term growth and achieve policy objectives as defined in the PSRP and the Millennium 
Development Goals, the authorities have committed to accelerate reforms in public finance management and 
improve the quality of public governance to raise the effectiveness of public expenditure at a time 
progressive fiscal consolidation is required. 
 
The proposed Public Resource Management and Governance Reform (PRMG) Grant in the amount of 
US$4.3 million (about 2.3 percent of GDP) to STP. The proposed single tranche operation supports the 
objectives set out in the Government’s Program that are in line with STP’s poverty reduction strategy, as set 
out in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which is in line with the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note 
under preparation and the ECF IMF program. The PRMG grant supports the continued progress and 
consolidation of reforms supported by the preceding PNRMD DPO and the CBTA project, and helps to 
consolidate macroeconomic stability.  
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The PRMG operation supports critical public finance management reforms to raise public sector 
effectiveness at a time that fiscal consolidation limits available resources in line with reforms launched 
under previous operations. Uncertainties surrounding the outlook for oil production and the recent adoption 
of the peg against the Euro underscore the importance of reversing the recent fiscal deterioration and STP 
will accelerate fiscal consolidation to maintain macroeconomic stability and support growth. Improved 
public finance management will be critical to raise public sector effectiveness at a time that fiscal 
consolidation limits available resources. Specific government objectives supported include: (i) raising the 
Page  3
3
transparency and accountability of budget preparation, improving the execution and control of public 
financial management, and strengthening the alignment of public expenditures with poverty reduction 
activities; and (ii) promoting sustainable economic policies by strengthening the fiscal policy framework 
and improving coordination with donors. In addition, this operation will support the Government’s plan to 
initiate preparation of a new PRSP. These two areas are expected to have a positive direct impact on STP’s 
overall governance and poverty reduction. In particular, the DPO will help raise the level of transparency in 
public resource management and reinforce the fiduciary framework through the production of public 
accounts and its review by external oversight bodies. 
 
The PRMG objectives broadly coincide with key recommendations of the Public Expenditure Management 
and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR), the European Union’s Public Expenditure and Financial 
Accountability Review (PEFA), the Debt Management Performance Assessment (DeMPA), and the on-
going Country Economic Memorandum (CEM).   
 
3. Preliminary 
Description 
 
Building upon the achievements and lessons of previous and current projects, the recommendations of the 
PEMFAR and the recently completed CEM, and the results achieved under the IMF-ECF, the proposed 
operation supports policy reforms identified in the Bank’s ISN (currently under preparation). The ISN will 
cover the period between 2011 and 2013 and continues to support areas of previous engagement (i.e. 
deepening reforms in social sectors and public sector governance, and supporting macroeconomic stability 
and pro-poor growth).  
 
The proposed PRMG operation supports the Government’s Program that is in line with STP’s poverty 
reduction strategy, as set out in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). Considerable progress has 
been made in improving public financial management over the last five years, with substantial support from 
two predecessor operations (CBTA and PNRMD). Accelerating reforms in the two areas of focus of this 
operation is expected to have large positive impacts not only on growth and poverty but also on governance 
across the country. Funds from this operation will help sustain economic growth without undue pressure on 
the country’s balance of payments—a critical issue for small states facing large volatilities in revenues and 
world prices.  
 
The proposed PRMG DPO is expected to improve the public sector’s capacity to better deliver key services 
and support growth. This operation will also support the preparation of a new results-oriented poverty 
strategy that incorporates lessons learnt from the previous PRSP implementation, updates the poverty 
profile, and provides growth diversification prospects. The focus of a DPO would be on public finance 
management (PFM), with the aim to enhance public sector and economic governance, thereby strengthening 
the links between public expenditure, fiscal sustainability, and sector strategies. The activities that would be 
supported by this operation can also enhance the capacity of the country to better design and implement 
medium term strategies by introducing a formal consultative mechanism to coordinate donor assistance. The 
PRMG operation would also support the preparation of a new results-oriented poverty strategy that 
incorporates lessons learnt from the previous PRSP implementation, updates the poverty profile, and 
provides growth diversification prospects. The PRMG operation will be coordinated closely with the IMF 
ECF program, and with other donors. 
 
4. 
Rationale for Bank’s Involvement 
 
The rationale for Bank’s involvement rests on (i) its ability to provide significant resources (US$4.3 million 
or 2.3 percent of GDP) to allow the implementation of the 2011 budget in line with the Government’s 
Page  4
4
reform program;  (ii) its technical contribution to the policy dialogue and the PFM reform in the country 
based on the PEMFAR, the DeMPA and the recently completed CEM; (iii) the success of the previous 
budget support operation, the PNRMD Policy Grant (which closed in June 2010), and the CBTA project 
(which closed in September 2010) that supported PFM reform, PRSP implementation, and governance in 
the oil sector; and (iv) the leadership of IDA among the donor community in the country. 
 
5. Environment 
Aspects 
 
Policy actions supported by the proposed PRMG Grant are not expected to have significant impacts on the 
environment, forests, or other natural resources. The specific policies supported under this Grant address 
primarily institutional reforms. The focus of the reforms is on transparency and accountability or public 
resources, on the efficiency of public expenditures, and on promoting good governance. 
 
6. Tentative 
Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
4 
Total 4 
7. Contact 
Point 
 
Contact: Mr. Marco Antonio Hernández Oré 
Title:  Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-6802 
Fax: (202) 473-8466 
Email: marcohernandez@worldbank.org 
 
