Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14181-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(FHIS SECOND STAGE)
JUNE 16, 1995
Country Department II
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =    Lempira (L)
US $1.00           =     9.30 Lempira (Feb. 1995)
SDR 1.00           =     US $1.57582 (April 30, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AMNHON                   Honduran Association of Municipalities
(Asociaci6n de Municipios de Honduras)
FHIS                     Honduran Social Investment Fund
(Fondo Hondureino de Inversion)
GOH                      Government of Honduras
IDA                      International Development Association
IDB                      Inter-American Development Bank
Kf4W                     German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
(Kreditanstaltfur Wiederauflbau)
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
MIS                      Management Information System
MOE                      Ministry of Education
(Secrelaria de Educacion Pzihlica)
MOF                      Ministry of Finance
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Pfiblica)
MOH                      Ministry of Health
(Secrefaria de Salud Pfiblica)
NCB                      National Competitive Bidding
NGO                      Non-governmental Organization
OPEC                     Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PRAF                     Family Assistance Program
(Programa de Asignaci6n Familiar)
RUTA SOCIAL              Regional Unit for Technical Assistance in the Social Sector
SECPLAN                  State Secretariat of Planning, Coordination, and Budget
(Secrefaria de Planificaci6n, Coordinaci6n y Presupuesto)
SDB                      Standard Bidding Document
SEDA                     State Secretariat of Environment
(Secretaria de Ambienfe)
SIF I                    Social Investment Fund Project
SIF II                   Second Social Investment Fund Project
SOE                      Statement of Expenditure
UNICEF                   United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
UNDP                     United Nations Development Program
USAID                    United States Agency for International Development



HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT                                                       I
A. Economic Reform                                                                   I
B. Poverty Reduction                                                                 2
C. Government Strategy                                                               3
D. Bank and IDA Support                                                              3
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement                                                     4
2. HONDURANSOCIAL INVESTMENTFUND                                                     S
A. Background                                                                        5
(1) Objectives                                                                     5
(2) Approach                                                                       5
(3) Achievements                                                                   8
B. Implementation Experience and Issues                                             10
(1) Targeting                                                                     10
(2) Subproject Portfolio                                                          12
(3) Management Information System                                                 15
(4) Collaboration with Line Ministries and Other Govermnent Institutions          15
(5) Resource Mobilization and Needs                                               16
C. Lessons Learned from Past Operations                                             17
3. THE PROJECT                                                                      22
A. Project Objectives and Description                                               22
B. Project Components                                                               22
4. PROJECT COST, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITS                                25
A. Project Cost and Financing                                                       25
B. Procurement                                                                      29
C. Disbursements                                                                    31
D. Accounts and Audits                                                              32
This report is based on the findings of a joint IDA, IDB, and KfW appraisal mission that visited
Honduras in February 1995. The IDA team was composed of Messrs./Mmes. Willem Struben
(mission leader), Livio Pino (IDA), Steve Maber, Maria Eugenia Zavala, Maria Elena Anderson,
and Alfredo Sarmiento (RUTA Social), David Warren, Gillette Hall, Peter Sollis, Luis Schmidt,
and Alejandro Cano- Ruiz (consultants). The IDB team was composed ofMs. Beatriz Uribe
(mission leader), Mr. Jorge Torres, and Mr. Andres Garrett (consultant). Mr. Nassir Djafari
(KfW) joined part of the time. Mmes. Diane Steele, Rosaria Troia, and Lerick Kebeck
contributed to the report at headquarters. Peer reviewers are Messrs. Jacques van der Gaag
(PHN) and Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine (LAIHR). Messrs Edilberto L. Segura and Kye Woo Lee
are Director and Division Chief respectively, for this operation.



ii
5. PROJECT MANA GEMENT AND SUPER VISION                                     34
A. Project Implementation                                                   34
B. Project Supervision                                                      36
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                                               36
A. Project Benefits                                                         36
B. Participation of Women and Indigenous Groups                             36
C. Environmental Impact                                                     37
D. Project Risks                                                            37
E. Poverty Category                                                         38
7. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                             38
8. ANNEXES                                                                  41
1.    Social Sector Data and Requirements
2.    FHIS Poverty Targeting
3.    FHUS Organization Chart
4.    Community Participation
5.    Subproject Environmental Assessment
6.    Subproject Proposals and 1995 Program
7.    Coordination with Line Ministries and Municipalities
8.    Infrastructure Subprojects Component
9.    Basic Needs Program Component
10.   Institutional Strengthening Technical Assistance Component
11.   Social Sector Data Technical Assistance Component
12.   Environmental Technical Assistance Component
13.   Project Costs
14.   Project Financing
15.   Credit Disbursement
16.   Project Implementation
17.   Monitoring and Evaluation
18.   Supervision Plan and Mid-Term Review
19.   List of Documents in Project Files
LIST OF TABLES
1. Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects by Type of Soliciting
Agency
2. Distribution of Resources for Approved Subprojects by Menu Category
3. Investments Approved by Poverty Category of Municipality and Year
4. Amounts and Sources of Financing by Year
5. Project Cost Summary
6. Financing Plan
7. Procurement Methods by Category



111
HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       The Republic of Honduras
Implementing
Agencies:                    Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS), State
Secretariat of Planning (SECPLAN), and State
Secretariat of Environment (SEDA).
Poverty:                        Program of Targeted Interventions. The project
would address priority needs in the social sectors in
accordance with a poverty targeting formula
favoring the poorest municipalities.
Beneficiaries:                  Low-income groups in both rural and urban areas
targeted on the basis of access to basic social
services.
Amount:                         SDR 19.1 million (US $30.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                          Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity,
including 10 years of grace.
Commitment Fee:                 0.50 percent on disbursed credit balances, beginning
60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                 See para. 4.5
Net Present Value:              Not applicable.
Environmental Classification:    B
Map:                            IBRD No.27058
Project Identification Number:   37709






HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
1. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONTEXT
A. Economic Reform
1.1   Although Honduras experienced some economic progress over the last two
decades, per capita GNP remains low at an estimated US $580 in 1993. One-third of the
population of 5.5 million still lives in extreme poverty and 80 percent of the poor live in
rural areas. With the level of poverty closely linked to average wages, particularly in rural
areas, the country's economic performance is of primary importance to improving the
poverty ratios. However, in recent years, this performance has fluctuated considerably.
1.2    Until recently, Honduras' development strategy was based on import substitution,
protected by high tariff barriers and extensive Government intervention. This resulted in a
large and inefficient public sector and serious structural imbalances in the economy. By
the end of 1989, the parallel exchange rate was twice the official rate, external arrears
amounted to US$620 million, and the country had been cut off from international
creditors. Starting in 1990, the Government successfully implemented a stabilization and
adjustment program, complemented by a series of sectoral reform programs. Combined
with a tightening of fiscal controls in early- 1991, these reforms began to show positive
results during the second half of 1991. In 1992, GDP growth increased, inflation fell to
the lowest level since 1987, and the current account deficit improved. Arrears with the
multilateral and bilateral institutions were cleared by mid-1990, after which point
Honduras was declared eligible for IDA credits on the basis of its heavy indebtedness and
low income level. In September 1991, Honduras was reclassified as an exclusively IDA
country.
1.3   However, the promising economic trends of 1991-1992 were not sustained in
1993. As the elections approached, the fiscal deficit, which was targeted to fall to 3.8
percent of GDP in 1993, reached over 10 percent. Inflationary pressure began to build up,
and foreign exchange reserves were depleted. The Government, which took office in
January 1994, thus inherited serious fiscal and balance of payments problems, but is
committed to the resumption of sustainable economic growth through the implementation
of a medium-term program that aims to: (a) reduce the fiscal deficit; (b) reform the public
sector by reducing its size and increasing its efficiency; (c) reform the judicial system; (d)
restructure the social security system to eliminate the existing financial deficit; (e) privatize
selected public enterprises; (f) reduce the number of tax exemptions, and (g) strengthen
tax administration. At the same time, the Government intends to maintain the present
level of social expenditures in the face of fiscal austerity, and continue its program of
poverty alleviation and human resource development.



2
B. Poverty Reduction
1.4   The conclusions of a joint Bank-IDB Public Investment Review mission in
November/December 1994 confirm that substantial social expenditures will continue to be
required to help improve the country's poor social indicators, including an illiteracy rate
for the adult population of 32 percent (reaching over 42 percent in rural areas), a total
fertility rate of 4.5 per woman of child bearing age, a maternal mortality rate of 221 per
100,000 live births, an infant mortality rate of 45 per 1,000 live births, and malnutrition
affecting 46 percent of children under five. (More detail is provided in Annex 1.)
1.5    Although Honduras has made considerable progress in improving education in
recent decades, particularly at the primary school level, it still experiences major problems
related to quality, efficiency, and equity, including overcrowded and dilapidated physical
facilities and limited school access. More than one-third of the rural primary schools are
incomplete, i.e., they cover only the first three or four grades of instruction. As a result,
there are still 70,000 children with no access to full primary education, predominantly in
rural areas of extreme poverty and geographic isolation. According to recent data from
the Ministry of Education (MOE), there is a need, over the next four years, for about
3,200 additional classrooms, as well as for the repair and rehabilitation of about 11,800
existing classrooms, meaning a total investment of about US$61 million,' excluding the
cost of furniture and supplies.
1.6    Health and nutrition indicators also reflect the acute problems still facing the poor:
i.adequate diets lack of sanitation, deficient coverage of the primary health care system,
ignorance about hygiene, correct nutritional practices, and preventive health care. Infant
and matemal mortality are much higher in rural areas, and are subject to wide regional
variations. For example, in three of the poorest regions of the country, maternal mortality
is estimated at above 340 per 1 00,000. Nutritional deficiencies are a contributing factor in
about 60 percent of infant deaths. By the time they enter primary school, the growth of 35
percent of children is stunted. Undernutrition is also a major health problem of pregnant
and nursing women: over half the women attending health centers suffered from mild or
moderate anemia and vitamin A deficiency. According to recent data from the Ministry of
Health (MOH), primary health care still does not reach about 20 percent of the
population. This would require, inter alia an investment in new health centers, as well as
in repairing and rehabilitating existing centers, of about US$3 million. This amount, too,
excludes furniture and supplies.
1.7    The provision of water and basic sanitation is highly inefficient and biased in favor
of urban areas. Although about 70 percent of the population -- 90 percent of the
population in urban areas and 54 percent in rural areas -- has access to a water supply
system, treatment is deficient, and only 17 percent of the population has safe water. In
About US$6.2 million for 290 classrooms is provided for under the Basic Education Project (see para.
1.10).



3
addition, those who have no access, mainly the poor, pay up to 77 times as much for
water as those who have access. To correct this, and to provide access to an additional
300,000 families in rural areas alone, would cost at least US$27 million. In addition, there
is a need for major investment in basic sanitation. Sewerage covers only 25 percent of the
population, concentrated in urban areas. Waste removal in most of the country, covering
about 37 percent of the population, is handled through latrines. For latrines alone, there is
a need for more than 50,000 new and replacement ones yearly, estimated to cost about
US$25 million over a four-year period.
C. Government Strategy
1.8   The Government has a clear understanding of the social needs, and is assigning
high priority to overcoming the country's education and health problems. However,
although Government spending in education and health amounted to about 7 percent of
GDP, corresponding to about one-third of central government spending over the period
1985 - 92, inefficiency ard inequity of spending have been ongoing problems. The
Government is making an effort to strengthen the project planning and implementation
capacity of the responsible ministries and agencies, but in the meantime, considers its
social safety net programs of critical importance. The Honduran Social Investment Fund
(FHIS) and the Family Assistance Program (PRAF) were both established in 1990, and
targeted at the poorest and most vulnerable groups; FHIS to generate emergency
employment and to build and rehabilitate small-scale infrastructure quickly and efficiently,
and PRAF to provide food coupons to poor, pregnant and nursing women, children under
five, and primary school children in departments with the highest malnutrition rates. Both
programs have been quite successful, and have become the conduit for substantial donor
support. Until the line ministries have overcome ongoing weaknesses in procurement,
disbursement, civil service systems, and planning and budgeting, the Government wishes
FHIS to complement the ministries' activities. FHIS will have the authority to manage the
implementation of small and medium-scale subprojects, while the ministries will focus on
policy and norm setting, as well as monitoring and evaluation responsibilities.
D. Bank and IDA Support
1.9   The social sector has received, and will receive, considerable Bank and IDA
support. MOE efforts to improve the efficiency of service delivery were assisted through
the Administration of Rural Primary Education Management Project (Ln. 2804-HO in
1987; US$4.4 million), followed by the recently-approved Basic Education Project
(Cr.2694-HO in 1995; US$30 million). The latter aims to improve primary school student
academic achievement levels, to reduce high repetition rates, to provide for bilingual
instruction in primary grades, and to improve sector management efficiency. In health and
nutrition, the Nutrition and Health Project (Cr. 2452-HO in 1993; US $25 million) assists
PRAF in improving the nutrition status of children and pregnant and nursing women
among the poorest segments of the population, supports the development and



4
implementation of a longer-term nutrition assistance strategy, helps to improve the quality
of services provided by MOH and to control the spread of AIDS, and assists in
strengthening the institutional capacity of MOH and PRAF for sector planning, program
formulation, monitoring and evaluation, as well as for the procurement of drugs. A
proposed joint IDA-IDB Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Project,
expected to be appraised in mid-1995, would help improve the water supply and sanitation
policy environment, and an ongoing sector study, funded by the Bank and UNDP, would
provide much useful information on water and sanitation sector needs (see Annex 8). The
recently-approved Environmental Development Project (Cr.2693-HO in 1995; US$10.8
million) aims to strengthen the capacity of the State Secretariat of Environment (SEDA)
and key sector agencies in environmental and land use planning, policy development, and
development of a sound legal and regulatory framework; to develop the capacity to carry
out environmental impact assessments and audits, to monitor for environmental quality
and environmentally sustainable resource use, and to enforce environmental laws and
regulations; and finally to develop the capacity of selected municipalities and local
conmmunities for environmental management, as well as to identify, design, and implement
priority small-scale environmental investments. The implementing capacity of MOE and
MOH would also be improved under the proposed joint IDA-IDB Public Sector
Modernization Project, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors in
September 1995, and with the assistance of a recent IDF grant in the amount of
US$198,000 for Institutional Development of Social Sector Ministries.
1.10  Under all of the above recently-approved projects, the civil works components are
being managed by FHIS, including US$5.4 million under the Nutrition and Health Project,
US$6.2 million under the Basic Education Project, and US$2.9 million under the
Environmental Development Project. Under the Environmental Development Project,
FHIS is also receiving US$0.7 million for incremental operating expenditures and the
adrninistration of environmental subprojects. FHIS has been directly supported under the
First and Second Social Investment Fund (SIF) Projects (Cr. 2212 - HO in 1991; US$20
million and Cr. 2401-HO in 1992; US$10.2 million), which both aimed to help protect and
improve the standard of living of marginal social groups in both rural and urban areas
through the provision of employment and improved services, mainly through the financing
of labor-intensive social infrastructure subprojects. The Government has now asked that
various donors, including IDA, IDB, and KfW, continue to assist FHIS in addressing
poverty alleviation through priority subprojects at the municipal and community level.
E. Rationale for ]IDA Involvement
1.11  Continued assistance to FHIS is consistent with the Bank Group's country
assistance strategy for Honduras, which was discussed by the Board in August 1993 in
conjunction with the presentation of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (P-5923-
HO of July 14, 1993). This strategy aims at reducing poverty, modernizing the economy
and the public sector, and prudently managing the country's natural resources. An OED
Performance Audit Report (No. 13839, December 30, 1994) on the two IDA credits



5
supporting FHIS confirmed that FHIS has succeeded in producing a large number of
small, widely-dispersed projects targeted to the poor. Further IDA involvement would be
critical to help the Government mobilize additional resources for poverty alleviation to
accompany its economic reform program. FHIS would serve as a powerful mechanism to
mobilize and coordinate donor assistance for the social sectors. Equally important, the
Country Economic Memorandum/Poverty Assessment (No. 13317 of November 17, 1994)
stated that FHIS has had a significantly positive impact on the development of small-scale
infrastructure, as well as upon improving the implementation capacity of small private
construction firms, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and municipalities,
strengthening their institutional capacity, and laying the groundwork for decentralization.
2. HONDURAN SOCLAL INVESTMENT FUND
A. Background
(1) Objectives
2.1   FHIS was established in 1990 as a temporary agency, part of the Government's
response to the potentially serious impact of the economic adjustment program on the
country's poor. Through the financing of a large number of subprojects in social and
economic infrastructure, social services, and informal sector activities, FHIS aimed to
generate emergency employment, and to protect and improve the standard of living in
poor communities.
2.2   Recognizing the success of FHIS as an institution that has become a key element in
implementing the Government's poverty alleviation strategy, the Government recently
extended its mandate to 12 years. Under this new mandate, it is expected that FHIS will
continue to play an important role over the medium term as the implementing arm of the
line ministries in the management of critical small and medium-scale social and economic
infrastructure subprojects, as well as in the funding of priority programs in basic needs,
until those ministries have overcome the weaknesses mentioned in para. 1.8.
(2) Approach
2.3   Subprojects. FHIS finances subprojects in accordance with eligibility criteria and
evaluation parameters established in its Operational Manuals, which have recently been
updated, and which will be further revised under the proposed project. Investments have
been financed in the areas outlined below, according to a standardized menu of
subprojects:2
2 The menu and categorization of subprojects (particularly in the Basic Needs program) will be updated
under the proposed project (see para 3.6).



6
(a)    Social and Economic Infrastructure: This program includes (i)
rehabilitation, maintenance, and expansion of preprimary, primary, and
junior secondary schools, health centers, and water and sanitation systems,
as well as maintenance of rural roads; (ii) simple works such as repair and
construction of canals and ditches, and construction of bridges, gutters and
sidewalks; and (iii) rehabilitation of archeological and historical sites aimed
at the preservation of cultural heritage and ethnic minorities.
(b)    Basic Needs: This program provides funding for priority social programs
such as nutrition, childcare, training of midwives and other health workers,
care for the elderly and disabled, and school and health center furniture and
teaching materials.
(c)    Micro Credit:. Under the Program of Support for the Informal Sector
(Programa de Apoyo al Sector Inlformal - PASI), FHIS makes funds
available to NGOs for on-lending at market rates to help establish and
expand small and micro-enterprises in the productive sectors. Terms and
conditions for financing of informal sector subprojects are spelled out in the
Operational Manuals.3
2.4    Targeting. Several mechanisms have been put in place to ensure that subprojects
are properly targeted to the poor. First, FHIS allocates its funds on the basis of a poverty
map, ranking all 18 departments and 293 municipalities of the country based on
population, and adjusted for levels of child malnutrition and access to potable water and
basic sanitation. These indicators have been used to produce a departmental and
municipal index of poverty and to assign additional resources to the poorest departments
and municipalities. The formula is currently being revised, and, starting as of 1996, the
formula will also include illiteracy, and be adjusted for differentials in the cost of materials
across departments. (More detail is provided in Annex 2.) Second, FIUS' emphasis on
social infrastructure and social sectors, and its concentration on subprojects with the
highest social return (primary education, primary health care, and water and sanitation)
also contribute to the proper targeting of funds toward the poor. Third, wages paid on
FHIS-financed subprojects are aligned with the market rate for unskilled labor, to ensure
participation of individuals in the lowest deciles of the income scale. Finally, FHIS makes
special efforts to ensure that its targeting goals are attained, including the use of
subproject eligibility criteria, promotion in poorer areas, and technical assistance to those
who lack project preparation capacity.
2.5    Sponsors. As shown in Table 1, subproject financing can be requested by
government ministries, municipalities, NGOs, and community groups. The subprojects are
3 A separate program funded by the European Development Fund (EDF), the Program of Credit and
Technical Assistance for Rural Micro-enterprises (Programa de Credito y Asistencia Tecnica a la
Microempresa Rural - PROCATMER), provides credit for rural microenterprises. PROCATMER
also lends through NGOs, but operates independently of FHIS management and has a codirector
appointed and paid by the EDF. PASI. too, is now being reorganized to operate independently.



7
executed by private sector contractors or NGOs, and supervised by FHIS or a third party
with the necessary technical qualifications. Subject to the municipal allocations, F-US
evaluates each subproject based on a site inspection, strict cost specifications, and social
benefits in accordance with its Operational Manuals agreed upon with IDA.
Table 1. Distribution of Number and Amount of Approved Subprojects
by Type of Soliciting Agency (1990-94)
Soliciting Agency        |    No. of        %      US$'000    %
______________________________________    l  Subprojects   I l
Ministry of Education                   188           3     3,813         3
Ministry of Health                      121           2     3,439         3
Municipalities                        3,133          54    48,177        40
NGOs                                    145           3     5,768         5
Other                                 2,206         38    60,573         50
HTOTAL                                 5,793         100    121,771   : 100
Source: FHIS, January 1995.
2.6   Institutional and Managerial Aspects. FHIS was created by law of February
22, 1990, with an initial life span of three years. On April 1, 1994, the FHIS mandate was
extended for two more years, and on December 24, 1994, until the year 2002. In addition
to stipulating FHIS' life span, the law specifies that FHIS: (a) is to be a financing, and not
an executing, entity; (b) is subject to external audits; and (c) uses special streamlined
procedures for public contracting.
2.7   The continued operation of FHIS has been declared a high priority by the President
of the Republic. Clearly, FHIS has solid support at all levels of the Government, and is
given priority by government agencies. FHIS has a Board of 10 members, chaired by the
President of the Republic, and including top government and congressional officials and
representatives of the private sector, cooperatives, and NGOs. It meets quarterly to: (a)
approve general policies and rules of operation; (b) approve the annual budget (once a
year); (c) authorize FHIS to negotiate loans; and (d) review FLIS' performance.
Subproject approval is left to the operations committee, which is headed by the FHIS
Executive Director and includes key FHIS department directors. The current Executive
Director, who comes from the private sector, was appointed in early 1994, and has the
rank of cabinet minister.
2.8   Following a recent organizational restructuring, FHIS is now organized into five
main departments: Projects, Legal, Control and Supervision, Planning, and
Administration. (See Annex 3 for the new organization chart.) A new Deputy Executive
Director assists the Executive Director with day-to-day operations and line manages the
support units, including the newly formed environment and community participation
advisory units; she was Vice Minister of Planning, and will contribute to the effort to
ensure that FHIS' activities meet the macro and sector priority criteria. As of March 31,
1995, FHIS had a total staff of 305, of whom 134 were professionals, including civil



8
engineers, economists, sociologists, credit specialists, computer engineers, and other
technical specialists. Most department heads have graduate degrees, and their competence
is comparable to the highest levels in the public sector.
(3) Achievements
2.9   Subproject Processing. As of January 1,1995, FHIS had approved 5,793
subprojects for a total of about US$121.7 million. As of the same date, a total of 976
subprojects were in execution, with 4,817 completed. The average subproject size of
about US$21,000 is comparable to the size of subprojects in other social investment funds
in the region. On average, informal sector (credit) subprojects have been considerably
larger.
2.10   Operational Efficiency. In general, FHIS has been able to process and approve
subprojects rapidly and efficiently. Average time of subproject processing, from reception
of a formulated project request to approval, has been about two months. FFHS-financed
subprojects have also been implemented reasonably well. The average implementation
period for FHIS subprojects has been about 6-9 months, depending upon the sector and
type of project.
2.11  Total FHIS administrative costs have represented about 10 percent of total
investments. This figure seems reasonable based on the number of subprojects processed
and their average cost; it is also consistent with the administrative costs in other regional
social investment funds.
2.12   Sectoral Accomplishments. FHIS has had a significant development impact by
acting quickly and providing infrastructure of generally good quality. By January 1, 1995,
FHIS had provided financing for the construction or refurbishing of 4,925 school
classrooms (20 percent of all classrooms in the country), 372 health centers (41 percent of
all health centers); and 84,246 latrines (34 percent of all latrines), and had provided access
to drinking water and sanitation systems to 88,700 and 467,000 people, respectively.
FHIS' basic needs program had provided 335,526 school desks (68 percent of the total),
as well as training for 4,632 midwives (about 70 percent of the total). It is also expected
that FHIS' efforts in basic sanitation subprojects will have a major long-term impact on
health, especially on infant and child mortality. They have helped contain the propagation
of cholera and lower the incidence of diarrhea, especially in the southern departments and
in the densely populated poor areas in the outskirts of major cities. Because of its special
procedures, higher quality of operations, promotion, technical assistance, and beneficiaries'
involvement, FHIS has delivered quickly a much larger program than the line ministries
could have done with the same budget, since they do not have the institutional capacity to
plan, implement, and supervise a high volume of decentralized infrastructure subprojects.
2.13  As shown in Table 2 below, the largest share of FHIS financing went to social and
economic infrastructure--75 percent of commitments from 1990 to January 1, 1995,



9
compared to a 67% target at appraisal of SIF 2. The vast majority of this has been in
social infrastructure projects, including construction, expansion, and rehabilitation of
primary and preprimary schools, health centers, and water and sewerage systems; this
result confirms FHIS' commitment to supporting infrastructure projects with a high social
return. Other infrastructure subprojects included the areas of drainage, road construction
and repair, markets, and other community facilities. The basic needs program received 18
percent of FHIS financing--a share close to the appraisal target of 22 percent; the school
desks program has accounted for about three-fifths of this total (see para. 2.12). Micro
credit subprojects account for about 7 percent of total commitments, compared to an
appraisal target of 11 percent.
Table 2. Distribution of Resources for Approved Subprojects by Menu Category
(percent)
Program               SIF I               SIF I         Actual Results
I Appraisal Targets  Appraisal Targets  1990-Jan. 1995
Social Infrastructure         43                 54                 65
Economic                      27                  13                 10
Infrastructure
Subtotal                   70                  67                 75
Basic Needs                   22                 22                  18
Micro Credit                   8                  11                  7
Total                        100                100                100,0
Source: FHIS, January 1995.
2.14   Employment Generated. Through 1994, FHIS subprojects generated
approximately 689,000 person-months of temporary employment, equivalent to about
57,000 person-years, at an average cost per employee-year of US$2,120, a cost that is in
line with other social funds in Latin America.4 Credit programs are estimated to have
created about 24,000 additional person-years of employment of a more permanent nature.
Although these figures are small as percentages of the total labor force, representing only
about 1 percent on an annualized basis, they are more significant as percentages of open
unemployment, representing 20 to 30 percent per year.
2.15   Institutional Impact. FHIS has had a positive impact on the institutional
development of executing agencies. NGOs have improved their subproject appraisal
methodologies and implementation strategies. FHIS subprojects have had a large impact
on private contractors, some 900 of whom have worked on FHIS-financed subprojects to
date. The number of private contractors has increased and several of them, who were
4 Figures regarding employment creation need to be interpreted with some caution. These data are
derivative; they are based on calculations using subproject contractor payrolls and average execution
tinme of projects.



10
individual contractors, have expanded into small firms. Another interesting development
has been the improvement of the municipalities' capabilities in project preparation. Several
of them, which were institutionally weak at the start of FHIS, have contracted qualified
engineers who can put together good-quality project proposals. The poorest
municipalities have received special assistance from FLUS in project preparation. FLIS is
also starting to have an impact on line ministries, which recognize FLIS' comparative
advantage in getting subprojects implemented. They are looking at the FHIS model, and
considering ways to improve their methods of operation.
B. Implementation Experience and Issues
(1) Targeting
2.16  FHIS resources have been allocated to all 293 municipalities, which is consistent
with its goal of achieving national recognition for the organization, and developing general
political support for the economic reform program with which FHIS is associated. Since
there are poor pockets even in wealthier municipalities, nationwide coverage is justified.
2.17   Experience in several social funds has shown that, if no targeting mechanism is
used to allocate investments, a larger proportion of funds will be absorbed by wealthier
municipalities, which have a greater capacity to prepare subproject proposals because of
the larger number of private firms, engineers, and NGOs operating in these areas. The
purpose of FHIS' targeting mechanism has been to ensure that funds would be more fairly
distributed. To a significant extent, this was attained, although the goals set by FLITS were
not reached. Table 3 presents a breakdown of FHIS' resource allocations from 1990 until
January 1, 1995 to municipalities by poverty level and by year, along with a breakdown of
allocation targets for the period as a whole. FHIS' achievements with respect to targeting
have improved over time, with allocations to "very poor" municipalities increasing from 8
percent in 1990 to 20 percent in 1994, while allocations to "regular" municipalities shrank
from 44 percent to 36 percent over the same period. Achievements were still well below
FHIS' ambitious targets, however: poorer municipalities (i.e., the total of the three
groups "very poor", "poor", and "deficient", representing 65 percent of the population)
received 64 percent of total resource commitments, versus a target of 73 percent, while
wealthier municipalities received 35 percent, versus a target of 25 percent.5
s Since some of FHIS' funds are specifically earmarked by donors for investment in wealthier
municipalities, the results in table 3--which are based on the totals of all funds invested by FHIS each
year--somewhat distort the results of FHIS' targeting mechanisms.



I1
Table 3. Investments Approved by Poverty Category of Municipality and Year
1990 - 1994
Investment %                1
Poverty  % Total                                       Cum.  tTa
CategoryaPp    1990 11991    1992  .1993   1994  Avg.  agv               a
Very Poor   20       8    19      21      20      20    19    27        .73
Poor        21      12    17      25      24       19    22    24       .92
Deficient    24     28    21      24      22       14    22    23       .97
Subtota  65      47    57       70     66       53    64    73        .86
Regular     26      44    36      26      25      36    29    20       1.46
Acceptable   9       3      8      4       7        5     6      5     1.13
Subtota  35      47    43       30     32       41    35    25       1.39
Various              6     0       0       2        6     1     2
. , TOTAL 100   100   100     100    100      100   100   100   I
Source: FHIS, January 1995.
a Map at end of this report uses different nomenclature and combines "regular" and
"acceptable".
bAs of mid-year 1994.
2.18  FHIS targeting has actually been better than shown by the above numbers, because
the current poverty mapping does not take into account the wide disparities in poverty
levels within metropolitan areas. For instance, within Tegucigalpa--a municipality
categorized as "regular"--an estimated 152,000 people (some 2.8 percent of the national
population) live in conditions of poverty comparable to the poorest municipalities in the
country. According to FHIS staff, FHIS investments within the Central District have been
concentrated in these poorer zones; if investments within Tegucigalpa and other
metropolitan areas were disaggregated by smaller geographical units--which is planned
under the proposed project--the coverage index for the "very poor" category would be
closerto 1.0.
2.19  Other factors contributing to a weaker than desired record on targeting are: (a)
poorer municipalities generally have a lower capacity to prepare subprojects; (b) NGO-
sponsored subprojects tend to be located in "regular" and "acceptable" municipalities,
where there are better developed informal sectors; (c) promotion has been insufficient in
poorer municipalities; and (d) subprojects are usually smaller in poorer areas. Also, the
lack of a unified and reliable data bank regarding social needs (see para. 2.46) reduces the
ability of FIUS to efficiently target its resources.



12
(2) Subproject Portfolio
Quality, Sustainability, and Implications for FHIS' Institutional Capacity
2.20  Although FHIS' subproject quality is generally good, there are some problems
related to implementation and sustainability, which got worse during the rapid expansion
of subproject approvals in the election year 1993. FHIS has recently made significant
progress in addressing these "problem" subprojects. Nevertheless, the remaining problems
point to the need for FHIS to further improve its institutional capacity as it relates to a
number of critical steps during the subproject cycle. The underlying issues are discussed
briefly below.
2.21   Planning. Up until now, FHIS has responded to project requests more or less on a
first-come, first-served basis, filling up its bi-annual sectoral and municipal allocations on
an ad hoc basis. Under the proposed project, FHIS would establish a more systematic
methodology for planning, implementing, and monitoring its work program, based on the
banks of raw requests and of formulated projects already in the pipeline, and on estimates
of when projects will enter the different departments. This planning system would enable
FFHS to determine whether it is meeting its production goals, and to make appropriate
adjustments regarding staffing and other inputs.
2.22  Promotion. The first steps to ensuring that there will be sustained interest in the
implementation, operation, and maintenance of an investment are (a) the verification that
subprojects are responsive to genuine local demand, i.e., on the part of beneficiaries, and
(b) the involvement of beneficiaries early on in the identification and design stages of
subproject development. Therefore, FHIS promotion staff should facilitate the
identification of priority subprojects with the participation of communities, on the basis of
a series of selection criteria. FHIS promoters do carry out these activities, which they call
"direct" promotion; however, about 85 percent of the subprojects implemented since
FHIS' creation have been identified and formulated on the basis of what FHIS refers to as
"spontaneous" promotion, which is where FHIS staff are not directly involved in
overseeing or facilitating subproject development. FHIS has now embarked on a major
community participation effort (see Annex 4), and, in that context, is addressing both
staffing and methodological deficiencies in its Promotion Unit to improve its capacity to
carry out direct promotion and to address community participation issues in the early
stages of subproject development.
2.23   Appraisal. In accordance with FHIS' Operational Manuals, the Evaluation Unit
appraises formulated subprojects on the basis of a number of criteria, including community
involvement, feasibility, social impact, and sustainability. However, the actual process of
subproject evaluation could be improved. As is the case in the Promotion Unit, the
staffing and methodologies of the Evaluation Unit will have to be improved to ensure that
FHIS has the capacity to evaluate whether subprojects accurately respond to the
community's demands, and that proposed solutions are appropriate, efficient, and
sustainable.



13
2.24  Contracting. Despite the ongoing need for direct contracting for subprojects
costing less than US$35,000 (see para. 4.8), FHIS will have to ensure that this mechanism
is properly controlled. Direct contracting helps: (a) speed up implementation of the
project cycle and stimulate a wide distribution of smaller projects; (b) compensate for the
weak technical capacities of many municipalities to carry out feasibility studies; and (c)
overcome the small size of the contracting sector as an obstacle to FHIS' program
development. However, the incentives provided under direct contracting could contribute
to a reduction of the role beneficiaries are to play in the processes of subproject
identification and formulation. Thus, although direct contracting should continue to be a
substantial procurement mechanism, FHIS needs to somewhat reduce its reliance on this
method of procurement, and to strengthen safeguards against possible misuse.
2.25   FHIS also needs to ensure that its policies and practices regarding contractor
guarantees and subproject advance payments provide proper incentives for contractors to
respect their responsibilities in subproject implementation. During the 1993 run-up to the
presidential elections, contrary to its own Operational Manuals, FHIS, on occasion,
relaxed its own requirements for the application of bank guarantees to secure subproject
progress in favor of the much less reliable promissory note, sometimes without requiring
any cosigner. FHIS also, sometimes, increased the percentage of total project cost that
could be paid in the form of a project advance. However, FHIS has recently corrected
these practices, and started legal action against non-performance.
2.26   Supervision. The implementation problems mentioned above point most
significantly to ongoing deficiencies in FH1S' capacity to supervise subproject execution.
FHIS' original idea regarding supervision was that the subproject sponsor would have the
direct responsibility for supervising the construction phase, with FIUS inspectors
supervising these local supervisors on a semi-monthly basis. However, this system has
proved difficult, since the majority of supervisors simply did not have sufficient technical
skills to satisfactorily perform this function, and subproject sponsors did not have
sufficient resources to pay these individuals. Moreover, FHIS' Tegucigalpa-based
inspectors have been overwhelmed by the numerical and geographical explosion in the
number of FHIS subprojects financed during 1993, and have been unable to visit some
subprojects even once a month. In the past, FHIS hired additional inspectors, but that was
not sufficient. Therefore, FHIS will now consider more innovative solutions than simply
hiring additional staff for its Tegucigalpa headquarters, such as contracting subproject
supervision out to regionally-based firms or individuals, to be supervised in turn by FHIS
inspectors, and increasing the involvement of beneficiaries in supervision activities. FHIS
will also improve the capacity of the Supervision Department to oversee the increased
community participation components of subprojects, as well as the basic needs program,
and include the cost of supervison in the subproject cost.
2.27   Ex-post Evaluation. Systematic ex-post evaluation of FHIS subprojects is
important to ascertain whether the program is achieving the objectives for which it was
designed, whether subproject sponsors are meeting their commitments to maintain and



14
operate the subprojects financed by the FHIS, and whether beneficiaries are actually
making use of FHIS investments. Monitoring and evaluation also facilitate the drawing of
lessons from the program for the improvement of planning. However, at present, FHIS
does not have a coherent system of subproject impact evaluation. While some information
regarding financial and physical aspects of subprojects is gathered in the course of
supervision, and in the context of periodic external audits, this information is not yet
sufficient to permit the evaluation of impact, subproject quality, utilization, maintenance,
and the perceptions and levels of participation of beneficiaries. The proposed project
would support corrective action in this area (see para. 2.39).
Other Issues in the Subproject Portfolio
2.28   Basic Needs Program. This program aims to improve the living conditions of
vulnerable groups, complement MOE and MOH actions through activities of direct benefit
to vulnerable populations, and support social assistance subprojects executed by NGOs
that target vulnerable groups. Priority attention is given to women and children, especially
female-headed households, and indigenous groups. Although the program has achieved its
goal of focusing on the county's most marginal groups--indeed, the country's 118 poorest
municipalities received 100 percent of planned financing--the program lacks some
definition. As mentioned above, three-fifths of FHIS' investment under this program has
gone toward the provision of school desks, and much of the rest toward the training of
midwives. New needs should be identified in close consultation with the social line
agencies, NGOs, and communities. Also, FHIS' capacity to supervise the program will
need to be improved. At present, supervision tends to parallel infrastructure subproject
supervision, which focuses on the quantifiable, physical dimension of subprojects rather
than their social dimension (e.g. community participation). FHIS is also weak in
monitoring these subprojects' success in achieving their objectives. The basic needs
program would be supported under the proposed project through a technical assistance
component (see para. 3.6 and Annex 9).
2.29   Water and Sanitation. As mentioned in para. 1.7 above, the provision of water
and basic sanitation in Honduras is highly inefficient, and biased in favor of urban areas.
Although FHIS has the potential to make a significant impact in these sectors, to date, the
water supply and sanitation component of FHIS' portfolio has been somewhat weak. Of
5,793 subprojects approved as of January 1995, only 8 percent were in the water supply
and sanitation sector--including 3. 1 percent in construction of latrines. Smaller-scale
water projects, particularly in rural areas, have been especially under-represented.
Sustainability of water and sanitation subprojects has also been identified as an area
needing improvement. These subsections would be supported under the proposed project
through a technical assistance component (see para. 3.6 and Annex 8).
2.30   Environment. FHIS' activities with respect to the environment fall into two
areas:



15
(a)    For all subprojects, FHIS carries out environmental impact assessments.
Its Operational Manuals stipulate that subprojects not adversely affect the
environment and indigenous cultures. FHIS evaluators use a checklist of
questions to undertake a short environmental impact assessment for each
subproject. The main factors analyzed are the potentially negative effects
that may result from: (i) location of infrastructure; (ii) generation of
sediments; and (iii) alteration of waterways. With the help of technical
assistance under the Environmental Development Project, FHIS is
improving its environmental evaluation criteria (see Annex 5).
(b)    FHIS also finances subprojects in environmental infrastructure and
prolectiont. To date, FHIS has financed relatively few subprojects in this
area; such subprojects have accounted for only 0.5 percent of all
investments (in forestation/reforestation, erosion protection, and
irrigation). However, subject to the outcome of the technical assistance
provided under the Environmental Development Project, FHIS intends to
expand its activities in this sector, and has already established an
Environmental Advisory unit to oversee its activities in the sector.
(3) Management Information System
2.31   FHIS has developed a substantial microcomputer-based management information
system (MIS), which has facilitated subproject administration and monitoring by enabling
the staff to rapidly access data on the current status of any subproject, especially in
discussions with sponsors. The MIS has also helped to improve subproject supervision
and financial analysis, especially in the areas of cash flows and monitoring of
administrative costs. However, FHIS has been slow to implement improvements in the
system, necessary to provide integration between financial and operational modules. The
proposed project would address this (see para. 2.38.e).
(4) Collaboration with Line Ministries and Other Government Institutions
2.32   Since its inception, FIHS has actively promoted and achieved good working
relations with line ministries and other government agencies, which has contributed to
improved quality and sustainability in FHIS-financed subprojects. Specifically, FHIS has
signed letters of understanding and inter-institutional agreements with different entities.
The general objective of the agreements has been to guarantee the participation of sectoral
institutions in the development of concrete subproject activities and provide subproject
supervision and continuity. However, there is a need for stronger collaboration at the
identification and completion stages, to ensure that only priority subprojects get carried
out and that maintenance is provided for. This is even more important in view of the
current decentralization effort, with more of the Government's responsibilities expected to
be passed on to the municipalities. As part of the preparation and implementation of the



16
proposed project, considerable corrective action has been and will be taken (see para.
2.44).
(5) Resource Mobilization and Needs
2.33   Since 1990, FHIS has mobilized financing in the amount of about US$121 million,
of which US$99 million, or 82 percent, has come from the international community.
Table 4 provides a breakdown of amounts and sources of financing. Total uncommitted
funds available from all donors as of January 1, 1995 were nil, but a loan from OPEC in
the amount of US$5 million has since become available.
Table 4. Amounts and Sources of Financing by Year
(in US$ million)
Donor            i 1990   1991   1992   1993 11994l Total
Govermment of Honduras        1.9     2.1    8.0      6.5     3.1    21.6
IDA                          -        10.1   10.0    5.7      2.0    27.8
IDB                                   -       3.7    19.4     5.5    28.5
Government of Germany (KfW)   -        1.7    7.5     8.1     4.2    21.5
USAID                        3.7      4.5    0.3      2.8     1.6    12.9
Others                       1.3       1.0    2.1     1.3     2.6     8.3
Total                        6.8      19.4  31.6    43.8  1j9.0   1026
Note: This amount does not include the contribution which FlS has received from subproject
beneficiaries in the fonn of money, materials, land, labor, etc.
Source: FlI-S, January 1995.
2.34   Total disbursements of FHIS since its creation until January 1, 1995 have been
US$111.6 million. The first and only IDB loan in the amount of US$31.5 million is fully
committed, and 95 percent disbursed. With regard to the IDA Credits, SIF I was closed
on March 31, 1994, three months beyond the original schedule; the last disbursement was
made on July 29, 1994. Under SIF II, US$9.0 million had been disbursed by May 4, 1995,
and credit closing is expected by June 30, 1995, six months beyond the original target.
Disbursements in 1994 were slower than expected, because commitments during that
period were reduced. This was due primarily to uncertainties surrounding the
administrative transition of FHIS, although these problems were exacerbated by Hurricane
Gert, which hit Honduras in September 1993, and by the severe shortages of cement and
electricity that developed in the last months of 1993. However, FHIS has used this slow
down to correct some of the problems created in the election year, and to demonstrate its
renewed ability to channel considerable amounts of resources into a solid subproject
portfolio. As of April 28, 1995, FHIS had developed an active pipeline of 1,483
infrastructure projects and 279 basic needs projects, amounting to the equivalent of
US$42.0 million and US$3.8 million, respectively (See Annex 6). In light of FHIS'
proven implementation capacity, Honduras' continuing investment needs in the social
sectors, and the Government's firm commitment to continue to provide adequate



17
counterpart funds, it is expected that FHIS could easily channel resources of US$100
million over the course of the next four years.
C. Lessons Learned from Past Operations
2.35  There has been considerable experience with social investment funds in other
countries and under the first two IDA Credits for FHIS. The lessons of this experience
have been discussed in numerous World Bank and FHIS reviews and reports (see Annex
19). The principal lessons, and how they are incorporated in the proposed project, are
described in this section.
2.36 Limited Roles and Objectives. Limiting social investment funds' roles to the
tasks of contracting for the construction of social and economic infrastructure, related
goods and services, and a limited range of social services has promoted professionalism
and efficiency in the use of funds and prevented duplication of functions with the sector
ministries. The proposed project will continue to limit the use of funds to specific social
subsectors for well-defined subprojects. Although environmental subprojects may be
added, this would only be supported after the successful implementation of pilot
subprojects under the Environmental Development Project (see para. 3.4).
2.37  Government Commitment. An important aspect of FHIS' success in achieving
its objectives was that it became an integral part of the Government's high priority
economic and social policy; i.e., a program to cushion the social costs of the economic
adjustment program. This policy framework provided FHIS with sustained, high level
political support and the budgetary resources to start the program even before external
financing could be mobilized. This, in turn, attracted donors from the international
community. The new administration, which took office in early-1994, continues to view
FlUS' work as a priority. Under the proposed project, the President of the Republic
would continue to serve as the Chairman of the Board, and the Government has
committed to the continued provision of adequate counterpart funding.
2.38  Operational Efficiency. Under SIF I and II, Fl-HS succeeded in processing and
approving subprojects--and disbursing funds--relatively rapidly, while sustaining
subproject quality reasonably well; furthennore, FHIS was able to keep administration
costs within acceptable levels. The factors that seem to be most important in ensuring
operational efficiency in social investment funds, and a description of the measures FIUS
would take under the proposed project to maintain and improve its capacity in this area,
are described below:
(a)   A high degree of autonomy. Freedom from normal government
budgeting, procurement, and disbursement restrictions enables social
investment funds to award contracts to private contractors simply and
quickly, and makes the SIF's financial resources independent from the
Government's annual budget cycle and cash management procedures,



18
which means that contractors can be paid in a timely manner. Under the
proposed project, FHIS would continue to enjoy freedom from these
restrictions.
(b)    Professionally competent, hard working, and well-motivated staff,
particularly at senior levels. High quality management teams enable SIFs
to be managed like private enterprises. In FHIS, efficient management is
reflected in clearly defined products, large-scale production, quality
control, accountability, the capacity to attract and retain quality staff, and
an implementation strategy based on decentralization and privatization.
The most critical factors in ensuring the quality of the staff have been good
salaries, lack of tenure, carefully detailed operating procedures, and an
executive director giving priority to technical competence and efficiency.
FHIS would implement further improvements under the proposed project,
which includes provisions for management training courses, and reforms in
the system for recruiting and remunerating staff on the basis of technical
competence, including the establishment of a personnel evaluation system.
(c)    A sound organizational structure. FHIS has recently simplified its
organizational structure, and made it better suited to new strategic
emphases, such as community participation and attention to the
environment. This includes the establishment of the position of Deputy
Executive Director, thus relieving the Executive Director of some of his
day-to-day activities. Further changes could result from technical
assistance to be provided under the proposed project, and from a proposed
study of the future role of FHIS and its relationship with the line ministries,
to be funded under the proposed Public Sector Modernization Project.
(d)    Efficient subproject processing mechanisms, including (a) the use of a
standardized menu of subprojects, which contributes to efficient subproject
implementation by: (i) limiting the range of specialists to be recruited by
FHIS, (ii) providing standard parameters and specifications used by
sponsors in subproject preparation, and (iii) facilitating appraisal and
supervision of subprojects by FHIS staff; (b) comprehensive operational
manuals with clear eligibility, appraisal, procurement, implementation, and
supervision criteria; and (c) close supervision of subprojects during
implementation to ensure quality control. To improve the efficiency of
subproject processing, as well as to enhance the quality of subprojects,
FHIS has already begun to address a number of methodological and
staffing weaknesses in the units responsible for project promotion,
appraisal, and supervision. The project would also provide technical
assistance to improve management of the project cycle, and to further
improve and simplify operational manuals.



19
(e)    A well-designed management information system to facilitate
automated subproject processing, and to enable line managers to obtain
quick access to information necessary for decision-making. The project
would provide technical assistance and equipment to help FHIS establish a
better integrated MIS.
2.39   Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation mechanisms provide
feedback on operational processes as well as on subproject quality and impact, and can
thereby enable SIFs to make institutional and methodological improvements during the
course of program implementation. Under the proposed project, FHIS would receive
technical assistance (para. 3.6) to improve its capacity to monitor program performance
and to evaluate its subproject portfolio through: (a) adjustments in the methodologies
used for ex-ante evaluation, in order to improve the basis upon which FHIS selects its
subprojects for financing, and to better enable FHIS to conduct ex-post evaluation of
subprojects; (b) elaboration of the indicators FHIS uses to provide information on
targeting, operational efficiency, and subproject quality and impact; (c) compilation of
semi-annual progress reports based on the monitoring indicators; and (d) carrying out of
periodic in-depth evaluations of the impact of the FHIS program.
2.40   Transparency/Accountability. The insistence of external donors on the need for
full transparency has contributed to generally proper use of funds, as well as reduced the
temptation of political interference in FHIS operations. Transparency of operations has
been an essential element in attracting external resources and projecting a good public
image in Honduras. Under the proposed project, FHIS would continue its system of
quarterly and annual audits, as well as strengthen its internal auditing and control systems.
2.41   Targeting. Targeting mechanisms in social investment funds are important to
improve equitable distribution of resources, as well as to increase transparency in the
allocation of resources. In general, FHIS has targeted its subprojects well. Furthermore,
since the number of proposals has grown to exceed budgets for each municipality, and
FlI-S plans to put greater emphasis on community participation in the formulation of
projects, it is likely that targeting will improve in the future. Nonetheless, with the help of
technical assistance, a number of measures have been, or would be, taken under the
proposed project to improve FHIS' targeting. These include the following:
(a)    The process by which budget allocations are derived from the population
data and the poverty index has been reviewed and improved. This includes
the adjustment of formulas to take into account illiteracy and differing local
costs of factors of production (i.e., labor, materials, equipment).
(b)   The indicators used to calculate the municipal poverty index would be
updated and improved. This would include the incorporation of new
information regarding existing social infrastructure in each municipality and
likely beneficiaries of such infrastructure.



20
(c)   Larger municipalities would be broken down into smaller "zones," which
can be categorized and targeted appropriately.
2.42 Emphasis on sustainability. In Poverty Alleviation and Social Investment
Funds: The Latin American Experience,6 the authors point out that subproject
sustainability continues to pose problems for many social investment funds. As mentioned
in para. 2.20 above, FHIS is no exception. Although FHIS' involvement in subproject
processing technically ends with the completion of construction and the legal closing of a
subproject account, there are a number of areas in which FHIS has a strong influence on
the prospects for the sustained operation and maintenance of its subprojects. Indeed,
FIlS has attempted to structure its subprojects to ensure the sustainability of investments
and benefits. Elements of this emphasis on sustainability include: supporting subprojects
with low recurrent costs; in cases of construction, requirements that line ministries create
and budget necessary staff positions; provisions to ensure adequate cost recovery and
maintenance of social infrastructure (including organization and training at the community
level'); selection of basic needs subprojects sponsored by NGOs with proven track
records; and expansion of already successful projects, with significant cost sharing
requirements from sponsors, and in consultation with line ministries and municipalities.
2.43   Under the proposed project, FHIS would make additional efforts to improve the
prospects for subproject sustainability. Probably the most important effort FHIS intends
to make is to ensure that beneficiaries are involved in subproject development at an early
stage. However, this increased emphasis on community participation should not end once
the project is formulated but, rather, needs to be instilled in FIUS' operations at every
stage along the subproject cycle, including through the construction and operation phases.
To this end, FH-S has established a Community Participation advisory unit. FHIS also
intends to increase its emphasis on components that are complementary to its
infrastructure and social services subprojects, such as community training, and the
development of user boards and committees. To assist this effort, KfW has provided a
grant in the amount of DM650,000 to fund a Sustainability Pilot Project, to be carried out
by a local NGO. Its results should be available in early-1996. FHIS would arrange a
workshop with the participation of IDA, IDB and KfW following the completion of the
various pilot projects to discuss all ongoing efforts to promote community participation,
and to agree upon follow-up action. Under the proposed project, technical assistance
would be provided for studying cost-sharing and other financial arrangements to improve
the prospects for subproject maintenance and sustainability. Finally, increased monitoring
and evaluation of post-implementation quality, sustainability, and impact may also provide
valuable inputs regarding other ways FHIS can improve prospects for subproject
sustainability.
6P.J. Glaessner, Kye Woo Lee, A.M. Sant'Anna. and J.J. de St. Antoine. 1994. PovertyAlleviation and
Social Investment Funds: The Latin American Experience. World Bank Discussion Paper 261,
Washington, D.C.
For example, FHIS has developed training activities to accompany latrine construction, and introduced
user comnittees for water and sanitation projects.



21
2.44 Collaboration with Social Ministries and Municipalities. Coordination with
social sector ministries has been essential for the effective delivery of priority social
services to beneficiaries, and will be facilitated through the institutional strengthening of
MOE and MOH pursued under the Nutrition and Health, Basic Education, and Public
Sector Modernization Projects. Such coordination, as well as coordination with the
Honduran Association of Municipalities (AMHON), will grow increasingly important as
FHIS enters the next, longer-term phase (see Annex 7). Under the proposed project,
FLITS' good record in collaboration with these agencies would be maintained and improved
through: (a) inclusion of the Ministers of Education and of Health on FHIS' Board of
Directors; (b) renewed letters of understanding / inter-institutional agreements with
relevant entities; (c) cooperation with line ministries and agencies in the establishment of
broad targets for priority spending within each of the social subsectors (education, health,
water and sanitation, etc.); and (d) involvement of the line agencies in the annual
discussions between the Government, FHIS, and the donors on FHIS' work program,
budget, and recurrent costs (see para. 5.3). New agreements between FL-US and MOE
and MOH. as well as a model agreement between FHIS and the municipalities. including
assurances regarding operations and maintenance, were discussed and agreed during
negotiations, and their incorporation in the Subsidiary Agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness of the credit (see paras. 4.6 and 7.2(a)).8
2.45   One aspect of the coordination with social sector agencies would be the
establishment of broad targets for priority spending within each of the social subsectors
(education, health, water and sanitation, etc.). These broad targets would not be intended
to diminish the capacity of FHIS to respond to local demand for priority subprojects.
However, in light of the increasingly important role FHIS has come to play in the national
poverty alleviation strategy, and in light of social spending limits established in the context
of the macroeconomic reform program, these targets will enable the line ministries and
FHIS to set parameters--based on national priorities--within which local demand can more
rationally be addressed.
2.46   As a necessary step to set these parameters, however, Honduras would have to
develop a unified and reliable data bank regarding national social needs. At present, bits
and pieces of information regarding population and social infrastructure can be found in
various institutions and agencies in Honduras. Yet, in order for the Government to
establish national priorities, and for FHIS to effectively and efficiently target its
investments (see also para. 2.41), these data would have to be collated and analyzed
systematically. This will be supported under the proposed project through a technical
assistance component (see para. 3.7 and Annex 11).
8 Collaboration with the municipalities would also be helped by the proposed technical assistance for
decentralization and municipal development, financed by RUTA Social and coordinated by
SECPLAN, FHIS, and the Presidential Comrnksion for Modernization of the State, as well as by the
local capacity building technical assistance component included in the project (see para. 3.6).



22
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.1    The proposed project would continue to assist the Government in strengthening its
poverty alleviation efforts and in maintaining social cohesion, while the Government
attempts to regain fiscal balance and the line ministries strengthen their institutional
capacities. It would also support the Government's decentralization strategy, development
of the local contracting industry, the sustainability of subprojects, and the targeting of
scarce resources to the poorer areas. To achieve this, it would focus on meeting priority
social and economic infrastructure and basic needs, decided in close consultation with
relevant government departments, municipalities, NGOs, and communities, within the
parameters of municipal allocations decided on the basis of a poverty targeting formula.
3.2    The project would support FHIS' investment program for a four-year period, as
well as efforts to establish a better social data base and to assist municipalities on
environmental matters. It would provide for (a) a range of small-scale, social and
economic infrastructure subprojects; (b) a priority basic needs program; (c) a
comprehensive program of technical assistance to help FHIS overcome some institutional
weaknesses; (d) the establishment of a social data mapping system and strengthening of
the design and implementation of the national household survey as the major tools to
target the poor and to monitor progress of social development programs; and (e) subject
to trials carried out by FHIS under the Environmental Development Project, a small
program of technical assistance to municipalities in assessing environmental issues and in
preparing programs for corrective action.
B. Project Components
3.3    The project would have the following investment, technical assistance, and project
management components:
3.4   Infrastructure Subprojects (US$95 million or 84 percent of total project costs).
Subprojects sponsored by municipalities, community organizations, and NGOs, dealing
with (i) rehabilitation, maintenance, and expansion of preprimary, primary, and junior
secondary schools, health centers and posts, and small water and sewerage facilities, as
well as maintenance of rural roads; (ii) construction and repair of drainage and irrigation
canals and ditches, public markets and other public facilities, and construction of bridges,
gutters, and sidewalks; (iii) rehabilitation of archeological and historical sites aimed at
preserving cultural heritage, as well as programs focused on ethnic minorities; and (iv)
subject to the outcome of the pilot subprojects carried out under the Environmental
Development Project in 20 municipalities over the next year, small-scale environmental
investments, such as urban and community parks, solid and liquid waste management,
protection of water sources, soil protection and erosion control, biodiversity, and energy



23
generation and conservation. These subprojects would be executed by private
contractors, NGOs, municipalities, and public sector agencies. A more detailed
description of the water supply, sanitation, and environmental projects is given in Annex 8.
3.5    Basic Needs Programs (US$5 million or 4 percent of total project costs).
Programs dealing with nutrition, training of midwives and other health workers, childcare
and early development programs, care for the elderly and disabled, teaching materials, and
community development for ethnic minorities.9 They would be executed by NGOs and
private and public sector agencies, and require significant promotional efforts from FHIS.
The programs would address priority social needs, identified and designed in consultation
with MOE and MOH. A more detailed description of this program is given in Annex 9.
3.6   Institutional Strengthening of FHIS (US$0.8 million or 1 percent of total project
costs). This component would include: (i) 16 months of technical assistance to help
strengthen FHIS' policies and practices for management of subproject cycle / production
line (planning, identifying, appraising, contracting, supervising, and evaluating
Subprojects); this would include, inter alia, analysis and recommendations on
organizational structure, manuals, staffing, and training requirements; (ii) training
programs for FHIS' management and staff, (iii) four months of technical assistance to help
improve FHIS' systems for recruitment, training, evaluation, and remuneration of
personnel; (iv) six months of technical assistance to help improve the MIS system; (v) two
months of technical assistance to help strengthen FHIST' basic needs program; (vi) two
months of technical assistance to help promote community participation in all stages of the
subproject cycle; (vii) a promotional training program to make US Peace Corps volunteers
and their Honduran counterparts aware of how to access FHIS funding for priority
community development subprojects; (viii) six months of technical assistance to improve
FHIS' accounting and internal auditing practices; (ix) six months of technical assistance
for analysis of financing mechanisms for maintenance of subprojects; (x) 12 months of
technical assistance to help improve FHIS' water supply and sanitation policies and
practices; and (xi) workshops and materials organized by the Program of Support to the
Informal Sector (PASI) to assist its micro-enterprise program in general and female
entrepreneurs in particular.
3.7   Social Data Collection and Analysis (US$0.1 million or 0.1 percent of total project
costs). Because Honduras has no single information tool with which to assess overall
deficiencies in coverage of the social sector needs, this component would assist with
creating a social data mapping system and improving the household survey sample,
questionnaire, and execution. With input from the line ministries, coordinated through the
State Secretariat of Planning (SECPLAN), the mapping system would allow FHIS and the
responsible line ministries to better assess priority needs in given communities, and to
evaluate progress over time. In addition, to obtain more useful data on poverty and social
indicators, there is a need to update and improve the household survey sample, redesign
the questionnaire, and improve field work practices. A modest program of technical
9School and health center furniture, which previously were part of the Basic Needs prograin, would be
moved to the Infrastructure subprojects category.



24
assistance, managed through SECPLAN, in consultation with FHIS, would be provided
under the project. A more detailed description is given in Annex 11.
3.8   Environmental Assistance to Municipalities (US$0.9 million or I percent of total
project costs). Subject to the outcome of the technical assistance to municipal
environmental management in 20 municipalities under the Environmental Development
Project, the proposed project would include a modest environmental awareness and
training program for municipalities not covered under the earlier assistance. This
component should help the municipalities to improve management of their natural
resources and to address their environmental problems, as well as to increase public
participation in the solution of the environmental problems of the communities. It would
be managed by SEDA, in close cooperation with FHIS. A more detailed description is
given in Annex 12.
3.9   Project Management (US$10.8 million or 10 percent of total project costs).
Project administration during the four-year implementation period is expected to cost the
equivalent of US$9.5 million. Other subcomponents would be the procurement of some
vehicles and equipment, and the services of the external auditor. A more detailed
description is given in Annex 13.



25
4. PROJECT COST, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITS
A. Project Cost and Financing
4.1   Project Cost. The total project cost, including taxes and duties, is estimated at
about US$1 12.6 million equivalent, of which an estimated US$22.9 million would be in
foreign exchange (20 percent of project cost); taxes and duties amount to about US$4.4
million. The table below summarizes the estimated cost by component. Investments
amount to 88 percent of total costs, technical assistance to 2 percent, and management to
10 percent. Project costs were estimated at February 1995 price levels. Since the project
is essentially a financial intermediary type operation, and physical targets are not the main
objectives of the proposed project, no contingencies have been provided for the
subprojects. Any increase in the average subproject cost would be reflected in a reduced
number of subprojects executed. Since most technical assistance would be provided in the
first project year, no price contingencies have been provided for this category either.
However, for project administration, vehicles and equipment, and the external auditor,
price contingencies were calculated at 1.8 percent for 1996, 2.4 percent for 1997, and 2.5
percent annually thereafter, according to the Bank Group's estimated Index of Unit Value
of Manufactured Exports, October 1994. These rates have been applied to local and
foreign costs, since Honduras has adopted a floating exchange rate system which results in
periodic market adjustments, that tend to compensate for the difference between
international inflation on a US dollar base and local inflation rates. No costs for
environmental subprojects have been included, since these will depend on the results of the
pilot subprojects funded under the Environmental Development Project, which are
expected in about one year (para. 4.14). However, subject to the outcome of these pilot
projects, environmental subprojects would be eligible for funding under the credit. In that
case, the allocation to other sectors would be reduced. Also, except for a modest amount
of technical assistance to PASI, no costs have been included for FHIS' special operations,
such as the micro credit schemes under PASI and PROCATMER; these two operations
have sufficient funding for credit at present.



26
TABLE 5. Project Cost Summary
(USS 000)
|__ _ __   Local      Foreign:    |     Total
A. FlIS Portfolio
1. Infrastructure Subprojects                 74,250.0      20,750.0          95,000.0
2. Basic Needs Programs                         4,250.0        750.0            5,000.0
Subtotal                                    78,500.0      21,500.0         100,000.0Q
B. histitutional Strengthening of FHIS
1. Basic Needs, Community Participation and
Cooperation with US Peace Corps              57.0          43.0              100.0
2. Personnel and Management Training, MIS,       105.0         349.0             455.0
Subproject Cycle, Accounting,
and Maintenance
3. Water Supply and Sanitation                    30.0         123.0             153.0
4. Micro Credit (PASI)                            89.0            -               89.0
Subtotal                                      281.0         515.0             797.0
C. Project Management
1. Administration                               9,500.0          -              9,500.0
2. Vehicles and Equipment                        230.0         689.0             918.0
3. External Auditor                              250.0           -               250.0
Subtotal                                     9,980.0        689.0           10,669.0
Total FHIS                                  87,047.0      24,560.0         111,607.0
D. Social Sector
Data Mapping and Household
Survey                                            96.0          49.0             145.0
E. Envirorunental Assistance to
Municipalities                                   860.0          30.0             890.0
Grand Total                                89,753.0      22,889.0         112,642.0
a Includes taxes and duties estimated at about US$4.4 million.
4.2     The total cost projections of the FHIS subprojects reflect both the demand in the
various social subsectors, described in paras. 1.5 - 1.7, and the country's limited budget
prospects. Estimated construction costs for classrooms and health centers are based on
unit prices per square meter, provided by FHIS and derived from current contracts and
unit costs for similar standards of construction. Estimated school and health center
rehabilitation and repair costs are based on unit prices, provided by FHIS and derived
from current contracts. Estimated construction costs for water supply, sanitation, and
other facilities, as well as the estimated average basic needs subproject size, too, were
provided by FHIS, and derived from current contracts. There is also a provision for
supervision at 3-6 percent and, for preinvestment studies at up to 7.25 percent of total
subproject cost, depending upon the type of subproject. Estimates for technical assistance
are based on current rates for local and foreign experts, and estimates for operating costs,
too, are based on current costs of FHIS. Annex 13 provides detailed cost tables.
4.3    Incremental Recurrent Costs. As detailed in Annexes I and 13, over the period
1995-99, there is a need for the construction/reconstruction of about 2,900 classrooms,
the rehabilitation/repair of about I11,800 classrooms, the rehabilitation/repair of about
2,600 school bathrooms, and the rehabilitation/repair of about 6,300 school latrines, as
well as some minor work on health centers. If fully addressed by FHIS, this would mean
incremental recurrent expenditures for operation and maintenance of about US$0.6 million



27
in the second project year, US$1.6 million in the third year, US$2.4 million in the fourth
year, and US$3.0 million thereafter. However, FHIS' contracting capacity is limited, and
the incremental recurrent expenditures can be expected to be much less. Furthermore,
additional teachers for new classrooms would require about US$0.6 million in the second
year, US$1.8 million in the third year, US$3.2 million in the fourth year, and US$4.5
million thereafter. Based on the 1994 MOE budget of about US$141 million and projected
budget increments of 4 percent per year during the project period, and even assuming that
all incremental costs would have to be borne by MOE, the impact of these costs on the
MOE budget would be 0.2 percent in 1996, 0.8 percent in 1997, 1.7 percent in 1998, 2.4
percent in 1999, and 2.7 percent in 2000, thus remaining manageable.
4.4   MOE and MOH are responsible for operation and maintenance costs in their
respective sectors. However, in the context of the Government's decentralization drive,
the Government has decided that the municipalities should start to bear at least part of
these costs. Consequently, the model agreements to be signed between FHIS and the
municipalities (see para. 2.44) provide for the municipalities to pay 60 percent and the
beneficiaries 40 percent of the maintenance cost of completed education and health
subprojects. To help specify the operational arrangements among the various actors, the
project will provide technical assistance, and a proposal on the improved funding of
maintenance costs will be submitted to IDA by the Government no later than March 31.
1996 (para. 7.1 (a)). Teacher salaries are the responsibility of MOE, and this would be
reflected in the new agreement between FHIS and MOE (see para. 2.44). The cost of
operation and maintenance of water and sanitation subprojects would be borne by the
beneficiaries, which reconfirms the importance of establishing a water user board already
at the time of project identification. The early establishment of "ownership" is of critical
importance in ensuring beneficiary contributions.
4.5   Project Financing. The proposed project would be financed by IDA, IDB, the
Government of the Federal Republic of Germany through KfW, various other donors, and
the Government of Honduras. In addition, subproject beneficiaries would contribute in
the form of cash, labor, materials, or land. The proposed IDA credit of US$30.0 million
equivalent (SDR 19.1 million) would finance 27 percent of total project costs, net of taxes
and duties; it would finance 30 percent of foreign exchange expenditures and 26 percent
of local expenditures. The IDB loan of US$40.0 million, on soft terms, and grant of
US$619,900 would finance 36 percent of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The
KfW soft loan of about US$ 10.0 million equivalent (DM 15.0 million) would finance 9
percent of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The amount of local cost financing
by IDA is in line with other social projects elsewhere in Latin America. The IDA credit
would be made to the Repulblic of Hotnduiras, which would make the funds available to
FHIS and SEDA for the execution of the project. The Government of Honduras would
finance US$11.2 million equivalent, or 10 percent of total project costs, including taxes
and duties estimated at US$440,000 equivalent. The proposed financing plan is
summarized in the table below, and expanded in Annex 14.



28
Table 6. Financing Plan
(US$ million)
____________________               Local      |    Foreign   i      TotalJ
Government of Honduras              11.2             0.0             11.2
IDA                                 23.2             6.8             30.0
IDB                                 33.1             7.5             40.6a
Government of Federal                6.7             3.3             10.0
Republic of Germany (KfW)
OPEC                                 3.3             1.7              5.0
Other Donors                         7.1             3.5             10.6
Subtotal 82.9                                      24.6            107.6
Beneficiaries b                      5.0             0.0              5.0
fTota I                             89.7            22.9            112.6
a Includes USS619,900 million in grants for technical assistance
b Contributiom in cash labor, land and/or materials.
4.6    During negotiations. agreement was reached that the Govemment would provide
annual budget allocations for the project. as well as ensure the funding of the recurrent
costs of completed FHIS investments, and that these allocations would be reviewed with
the Bank. IDB. and KfW during annual project implementation reviews (paras.5.3 and 7.1
(b)). During negotiations, the Government also provided assurances that financing of
US$40.0 million would be available from IDB. DM 15.0 million from KfW.and US$15.6
million from other donors, and that the respective funding agreements would be signed b
March 31. 1996:, if not. alternative financing would have been arranged (para. 7. l(c)). As
a condition of effectiveness, a FHIS Agreement for making the IDA funds available to
FHIS. as well as describing the new arrangements between FHIS and MOE and MOH.
satisfactory to IDA. would have been entered into by the Government and FHIS (para.
7.2(b)).



29
B. Procurement
4.7    A Country Procurement Assessment Report for Honduras was issued in
September 1990. Honduran procurement legislation and procedures are generally
satisfactory, except where participation of foreign contractors and consultants are
concerned, due to the preference provisions for local contractors and consultants.
However, at its establishment, FHIS was exempt from the Government's standard,
complex procurement procedures. FHIS' special procurement procedures have proved
successful in expediting project implementation and in ensuring competitive prices, and
would thus continue to be applied under the proposed project. Procurement of civil
works and goods would be done following the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits of January 1995 (Procurement Guidelines). The hiring of
consultants would be done following the Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank of August 1981 (Consultant Guidelines). For
international competitive bidding (ICB), FIlS would use the standard bidding documents
(SBDs) issued by IDA, with such modifications as agreed to by IDA to be necessary for
the purpose of the project. For purposes of bid evaluation under ICB, a margin of
preference for local manufacturers may be applied, in accordance with IDA guidelines.
For national competitive bidding (NCB), SBDs, satisfactory to IDA, would be used. Table
7 shows estimated project costs by procurement methods.
Table 7. Procurement Methods by Category'
(US$ million)                              ._
Category                 Procurement Method                  . -
ICB     NCB         Otber     - NoI[A -'-Od
.FhlGlCed:
FIRS Subprojects
Civil Works                            4.2         20.0       61.3         85.5
(4.0)      (19.2)                   (23.2)
Goods                                  1.4          1.4        6.7          9.5
(1.3)       (1.3)                    (2.6)
Services                    -                       2.0        3.0          5.0
(2.0)                   (2.0)
Vehicles and Equipment for  0.7                      0.4        -            1.1
FHIS                       (0.5)                    (0.3)                   (0.8)
Consultants and Auditor                              0.4        0.6          1.0
Services for FHIS                                   (0.4)                    (0.4)
Training and Learning                                1.0        0.1          1.1
Materials                                           (1.0)                    (1.0)
Salaries and Operating Costsc                        -          9.5          9.5
Total                       0.7         5.6         25.2       81.2        112;6
(0.5)      (5.3)       (24.2)                   (3
a Figures in parentheses are amounts estimated to be financed by IDA.
b Non-ICB/LCB are aggregated as Other, including local shopping and direct contracting and hiring of
consultants.
c Procurement methods not applicable.
d Figures may not add due to rounding.



30
4.8   Civil Works. Because of the small size of the civil works in dispersed locations
(see para. 2.24) to be funded under the Credit, there will be no ICB for the civil works
costing approximately US$24.2 million equivalent. NCB would be used for contracts
between US$50,000 and US$500,000 equivalent. To the extent possible, similar types of
works in the subprojects would be combined in bid packages of at least US$50,000
equivalent, to minimize administrative costs and take advantage of contractor
specialization. Works estimated to cost between US$35,000 and US$50,000 equivalent,
up to an aggregate amount of US$6.7 million equivalent, would be procured under lump
sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from a least three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. To encourage
competition and increase interest by contractors whenever feasible, contracts for repairs
and rehabilitation would be grouped into contract packages expected to cost no less than
US$35,000 equivalent. Procurement of contracts of works and goods, or a combination
thereof, in small subprojects with a cost less than US$35,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount of US$13.3 million equivalent, would be done through direct
contracting of local contractors where competitive proposals cannot be obtained. In
these cases, to ensure fair pricing, FHIS has a well-tried system of regional, standard unit
prices, which are being updated periodically, to be used as the basis for negotiations with
the contractors. During negotiations. FHIS provided assurances that it would continue to
periodically review its standard regionalized unit prices of civil works and goods. and
change prices promptly. in a form and substance satisfactory to IDA. if so recommended
by such a review (para. 7. 1 (d)). In addition, FHIS agreed to gradually reduce the share of
direct contracting from the historical average of 75 percent of the amount of contracted
subprojects to no more than 40 percent in 1998. Monitoring procedures would ensure
that: (i) contracts are not divided into smaller packages for the purpose of awarding
smaller contracts under direct contracting; and (ii) there is no unjustified concentration of
contracts awarded to the same individuals or contractors.
4.9   Goods. Procurement of vehicles, equipment, furniture and other goods would be
done through procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA. Vehicles and equipment,
estimated to cost US$ 1.1 million equivalent, would be procured through ICB for bid
packages of US$150,000 equivalent or more, through limited international bidding (LIB)
for bid packages of US$50,000 to US$150,000 equivalent, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$0.2 million equivalent and through international shopping for bid packages of
US$25,000 to US$50,000 equivalent, in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.1
million equivalent. Contracts for equipment, valued at less than US$25,000 equivalent,
would be awarded on the basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited from at least
three suppliers, in an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.1 million equivalent. School
and health center furniture and other goods, estimated to cost US$2.8 million equivalent,
would be procured through NCB for contracts between US$25,000 and US$150,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.4 million, and through national shopping
(based on quotations from at least three eligible suppliers) for contracts of less than
US$25,000 equivalent (up to an aggregate amount of US$0.9 million equivalent). In
cases where it would not be possible to obtain competitive proposals for furniture,



31
contracts estimated to cost less than US$8,000 equivalent, and up to an aggregate amount
of US$0.5 million equivalent, may be awarded through direct contracting.
4.10 Technical Assistance. Individual consultants and consulting firms that would carry
out technical assistance, amounting to about US$0.4 million, would be hired following the
Consultant Guidelines. During appraisal, the time tables for technical assistance under the
proposed project were reviewed, and found satisfactory. The appointment of consultants
would be done using standard contract documents for larger contracts, and standard
documents, to be agreed with IDA, for smaller assignments.
4.11   Prior Review. Prior review by IDA would include: (a) procurement arrangements
in accordance with Appendix 1, paragraph I of the IDA Guidelines; (b) all procurement by
ICB and LIB; (c) the first two NCB contracts for each works and goods, and all works
contracts equal or above US$150,000 equivalent, with respect to subprojects; and (d) all
amendments to works contracts under direct contracting raising the contract value above
US$35,000 equivalent and under contracts based on quotations obtained from at least
three domestic contractors raising the contract value about US$50,000 equivalent. Prior
review by IDA of the selection and hiring of consultants would not be required for (i)
individual consultants when the contract is valued at less than US$25,000 equivalent, and
(ii) consulting firms when the contract is valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent. This
exception does not apply to prior review of terms of reference and single source selection.
The level of IDA prior review of procurement is relatively low, but is considered
acceptable in light of the audit arrangements for the project, which include quarterly and
annual auditing by a qualified external firm, including physical audits of subprojects.
Periodic project physical performance evaluations would also look at procurement issues
in the course of random review of subprojects, including field visits. In addition, prior
review by IDA will be supported by ex-post review of procurement documentation during
regular and frequent supervision missions (Annex 18).
C. Disbursements
4.12  The proposed project would be implemented over a four-year period, and is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1999 and closed by December 31, 1999. The
proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over a 4 1/2 year period as follows: (a)
subprojects, 96 percent of disbursements by FHIS approved on or before March 31, 1999,
according to FHIS' project selection and evaluation procedures; (b) vehicles and
equipment: 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported goods, 100 percent of total
expenditures for locally-produced goods (ex-factory cost), and 93 percent of other local
expenditures; (c) technical assistance: 100 percent of the cost of eligible training,
workshops, learning materials, and consultant services, and (d) external auditors and
special independent reviews for FlUS: 100 percent. Retroactive financing of up to US$3.0
million equivalent would be permitted for eligible expenditures under subprojects incurred
as of January 1, 1995. This is justified since the second IDA credit was fully committed
as of the end of 1994, and also other donor funding in early-1995 has been in short supply.



32
4.13  Proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against expenditures that
would be presented to IDA and fully documented for civil works and goods contracts of
US$150,000 or more and for consultant contracts of US$25,000 or more for individuals
and US$50,000 or more for firms, subject to prior review (para. 4.11). Claims for
expenditures under contracts below these amounts would be disbursed against
presentation of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which the supporting
documentation would be retained by the relevant implementing agencies - FHIS and
SEDA - for periodic inspection by IDA and by external auditors. In order to facilitate
project implementation, the Government would establish a special account in US Dollars
at the Central Bank with an authorized allocation of US$ 2.0 million, representing the
average of four months of expenditures that are expected to be made from the account.
The possible need for a separate Special Account for SEDA, to help implement the
environmental technical assistance component, would be reviewed when the condition for
this component has been met (para. 4.14(i)). Withdrawals from the Special Account
would be solely for eligible expenditures under the credit, supported by the required
documentation, and at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of withdrawal. The
minimum amount for withdrawal applications submitted outside the Special Account
would be US$400,000 (20 percent of the authorized allocation).
4.14  During negotiations. agreement was reached that no disbursements would be made
under the credit against any environmental technical assistance managed by SEDA until:
(i) the technical assistance provided under the Environmental Development Project was
being implemented successfully, and (ii) detailed terms of reference (including design of
methodologies and materials) had been drafted, and were acceptable to IDA. Similarly, no
disbursements would be made against any environmental subprojects until the
environmental subprojects carried out by FHIS on a pilot basis in 20 municipalities under
the Environmental Development Project were judged to be progressing well (paras. 7.3(a
and (b)). Also, no disbursements would be made against food expenditures (unless the
relevant IDA policy were to be changed) (para. 7.3 (c)).
D. Accounts and Audits
4.15  FHIS and SEDA would maintain records and separate accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and expenditures of
the project. During negotiations. agreement was reached that FHIS and SEDA would:
(a) have the records and accounts of the project for each fiscal year. including the Special
Account, audited by independent and qualified external auditors, in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards and procedures. and terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA: (b) furnish IDA, no later than four months after the end of each year. a certified
copy of the agreed audit reports: and (c) furnish IDA such other project financing
information as IDA would from time to time reasonably request (para. 7. I(e)). For all
expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and for all expenditures with respect to



33
which withdrawals were made from the Special Account, FHIS and SEDA would provide
access to the independent auditors to all records, accounts, and the supporting
documentation necessary to allow the timely performance of their audit obligations. The
audit reports would include separate opinions on the eligibility of expenditures included in
the SOEs and on the accuracy and reliability of the SOEs themselves.
4.16  FHIS' intemal auditing unit is currently being strengthened through staff training;
additional technical assistance is provided for under the project. With a stronger unit,
cooperating closely with the external auditor, the role of the external auditor could
probably be reduced over time. However, during negotiations. it was agreed that, for the
time being. FHIS' extemal auditor would continue to also carrv out quarterly performance
audits, combining a financial review with physical inspection of works in the field (para.
7.1 (f)). Quarterly, the auditor would examine a sample of subprojects, review the
standard regionalized unit prices, review the individual contracts, ascertain whether the
terms of these contracts are complied with, inspect the progress of works, reconcile the
physical progress with the financial expenses incurred, and state whether procurement
procedures specified in the Credit Agreement have been properly followed. The auditor
would prepare quarterly reports for the Board of FHIS and for IDA (to be submitted
within thirty days after each quarter) and an annual summary for IDA, to be submitted
together with the audit report on the project financial statements.



34
5. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Implementation
5.1   Project Preparation. The project was prepared with technical support from the
Regional Unit for Technical Assistance in the Social Sectors (RUTA Social) and financing
from a Government of Japan grant. The FHIS components were designed by EFIIS with
the help of consultants, the social data component by a group of SECPLAN, FHIS, and
statistical officials under the coordination of the Vice-Minister of SECPLAN, and the
environmental component by SEDA with the help of consultants and in consultation with
FHIS. High-level MOF, SECPLAN, MOE, and MOH officials were consulted at all
stages of the project cycle, ensuring that the Government's strategies for the sectors are
reflected in the project design. The experience gained by FHIS from the implementation
of the earlier IDA, IDB, and KfW-assisted projects and by SEDA in helping to prepare the
Environmental Development Project were instrumental in helping to prepare their
respective components. Similarly, the experience of SECPLAN and USAID helped to
design the social data component. The findings and recommendations of the Public
Investment Review mission in November/December 1994 set the framework for the total
budget and social sector investment projections. Based on the review of technical and
institutional components, and the organizational and staffing changes made in recent
months, the appraisal mission concluded that project preparation has been completed to an
advanced stage of readiness for implementation. In addition, with grant funding from
IDB, some of the consultants required for further strengthening of FHIS' management and
operations are already being recruited, including a Technical Assistance Coordinator to be
based in Honduras. Because of the importance of ensuring continued good management
and operations, FHIS has now filled the remaining vacant senior management positions,
agreed upon a detailed investment program for 1995 with relevant central and line
ministries, and revised its Operational Manuals in line with the recommendations made
during project preparation. During negotiations. FHIS provided assurances that any
future appointment to the positions of Executive Director. Deputy Executive Director,
Director of Planning. Director of Projects. Director of Control. Director of Supervision.
and Director of Administration would be subject to prior IDA consultation (para. 7. 1(g)).
In addition, a strengthened and simplified Operational Manual would be introduced by no
later than June 30, 1996. A detailed project implementation schedule is provided in Annex
16.
5.2   Project Monitoring. Project implementation of the FHIS components would be
monitored by FHIS according to performance indicators agreed with IDA (see Annex
17). ' FHIS would compile semi-annual and annual progress reports, which would be
jointly discussed with IDA, IDB, and KfW during the project's annual and mid-term
reviews. In addition, with the help of the technical assistance to be provided for
10 The key performance monitoring indicators would be subject to review by the consultants to be recruited
to help improve the management of the subproject cycle, including the monitoring and evaluation
system, and by the consultants who are to work on the MIS system.



35
strengthening policies and practices for management of the project cycle, FELS would
elaborate a set of subproject evaluation indicators to evaluate subproject quality and
impact, including, inter alia, physical progress, employment generated and number of
beneficiaries.
5.3    Annual Implementation Reviews. Annual project reviews would take place in
November of each year, starting in 1995, and would be conducted jointly by FH[S, IDA,
IDB, and KfW. During these reviews, the following aspects of the project would be
analyzed and agreed: (a) financial performance and budget execution against projected
targets; (b) work plan and budget proposed for the following year; (c) recurrent budget
implications of FHIS' investments; (d) possible adjustments required in project design and
implementation schedule; and (e) results of evaluation studies and indicators on subproject
quality and impact. During negotiations. FHIS provided assurances that: (a) it would
present to IDA. by October 31 of each year. starting in 1995, annual progress reports on
the implementation and impact of the project. and the action plan and budget for the next
year: (b) it would conduct, jointly with IDA. IDB. and KfW. annual project
implementation reviews by no later than November 30 of each year. starting in 1995: and
(c) agreements reached at such annual project implementation reviews would be
implemented expeditiously (para. 7. 1(h)).
5.4   Mid-term Review. A comprehensive mid-term review would be conducted as
soon as 50 percent of the credit had been allocated to specific subprojects, or two years
after effectiveness, whichever comes first, to assess project performance and initial impact,
in light of project objectives, in addition to the review of activities normally covered under
annual implementation reviews. The mid-term review would focus on (i) the targeting of
FIS funds (in order to channel more resources to poorer municipalities; (ii) the
prioritization of sector investments; (iii) the quality of the ongoing and completed
subprojects financed by FELS; (iv) the impact of FHIS-financed subprojects; (v) the
administrative efficiency and the financial soundness of the operations of FHIS; (vi) an
assessment of the extent to which the experience of FHIS can strengthen municipalities,
and improve their operations; (vii) an assessment of the relationship of FELS with the line
ministries (particularly with regard to the prioritization of investments and the maintenance
of completed subprojects); and (viii) the prospects for the future of FHIS. FELS would be
responsible for preparing all information, background papers, and reports to be discussed
during the project reviews, and for recording the minutes of the agreements reached
during the mid-term review (Annex 18). During negotiations. FHS provided assurances
that: (a) a mid-term project review would be conducted in November 1997, with IDA.
IDB. and KfW. under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. to assess project
performance and impact: and (b) agreements reached at the conclusion of the mid-term
review would be implemented expeditiously (para. 7.1(i)).



36
B. Project Supervision
5.5   The proposed project would require close supervision to avoid the recurrence of
implementation problems such as those experienced in 1993-1994 (see Annex 18). IDA
missions would visit a sample of subprojects at least once a year. Supervision
requirements are estimated at about 17 weeks of headquarters and consultancy staff per
year. During negotiations. agreement was reached that FHIS would submit to IDA semi-
annual progress reports (not later than three months after the end of each semester) (para.
7.1 .(i)), including the following information by region and sector: (a) subprojects
presented, appraised, in execution, completed, and evaluated ex-post, including number of
subprojects and beneficiaries, and amounts committed and executed; (b) sources of funds
for each subproject; (c) FHIS' personnel and consultants, indicating the changes that have
taken place during the reporting period; and (d) operating costs of FHIS. The reports
would also include a brief analysis and recommendations based on the key performance
monitoring indicators (see para. 5.2).
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.1   The project would help reduce poverty through improved access to basic social
and economic infrastructure and social services in poor areas and for poor communities.
It would help the Government complete the rehabilitation of long-neglected social
infrastructure, improve the social and economic conditions of women and indigenous
groups, and address environmental concerns, and also provide employment generation
during the economic adjustment period. Establishment of proper social data mapping and
improved implementation of the household survey and analysis would allow for better
investment planning and poverty targeting and, thus, assist the Government in obtaining a
more equitable social expenditure program.
B. Participation of Women and Indigenous Groups
6.2   The project would be of benefit to the poorer segments of the population in
general, and infrastructure subprojects would help both men and women. Traditionally,
men have enjoyed the benefits of the employment created, but FILS is making an effort,
with the help of pilot subprojects supported by KfW to promote additional employment
for women. Also, improved education, health, water, and sanitation services have been of
particular importance to women. Women would also be expected, as community
managers, to play an important role in the identification, execution, and maintenance of
completed works. The basic needs program has traditionally prioritized subprojects
affecting women, and would be expected to continue to do so. High priority would
continue to be assigned to training traditional birth attendants and health promoters.



37
Additional attention would be given to pre-school children of female heads of households
who have to work to support their families. Finally, the project's technical assistance for
PASI would include a major component to promote female micro-entrepreneurs.
6.3   The project would address the needs of indigenous people through infrastructure
subprojects and a subproject in the basic needs component specifically designed to
improve communities' well-being. The design of the subproject would be based on the full
consideration of the options preferred by the indigenous people. FILS has drafted a
strategy on the approach and types of projects to be pursued in promoting the
participation of indigenous people.
C. Environmental Impact
6.4   The project would have no significant environmental risks. A General
Environmental Law was enacted in 1993, which changed the legal, institutional, and
operational framework for environmental management. The body of laws and regulations
is still far from consistent or properly harmonized, but this is being pursued under the
Environmental Development Project. That project is also assisting FILS in revising its
environmental review mechanism, in line with the new law and regulations, for the pilot
environmental subprojects. FHIS will use the same screening mechanism for all
infrastructure subprojects funded under the project and reflect it in its Operational
Manuals. The process to arrive at a new review mechanism is described in Annex 5. As
a condition of effectiveness. any revisions to the Operational Manuals requiring approval
by FHIS' Board would be so approved. This would include appropriate references to the
use of the revised environmental review mechanism. satisfactory to IDA (para.7.2(b)).
Additional technical assistance to ensure compliance with environmental norms in FHIS
subprojects is funded as part of the Environmental Development Project. If this pilot
proves successful, FHIS would also get involved in environmental promotion activities
(para. 3.8). An environmental rating of category "B" is agreed.
D. Project Risks
6.5   A substantial risk would be possible political interference in FHIS' decision making
process and a weakening of its management and staff. However, the Government has
confirmed its commitment to continuing with an independent and strong FHIS,
complementing the activities of the social line ministries. This has been followed by action
on a strengthened management team and the continued implementation of agreed
subproject processing procedures, including the use of sound and transparent targeting
mechanisms. There is also a risk that, as a maturing organization, FHIS may lose its
energy, efficiency, and desire to explore new venues. This risk would be mitigated
through the selection of dynamic management and motivated staff with a clear work
program. However, an effective FHIS also requires continuous monitoring and evaluation



38
of project inputs and outputs to ensure that it maximizes its contribution to the country's
poverty alleviation efforts. This would be achieved through improved information, the
proposed social data mapping, the use of sound and transparent targeting mechanisms, and
annual investment program revisions with FHIS, relevant government agencies, and the
major donor agencies.
E. Poverty Category
6.6   The project would support a program of targeted interventions. Through the use
of a targeting formula based on poverty indices (see para. 2.4), the project would channel
resources especially to the poorest municipalities and, within those municipalities, to the
poorest districts which are otherwise underserved. A detailed description of the targeting
is provided in Annex 2. During negotiations, FHIS provided assurances that its revised
poverty targeting formula would be applied for allocating its 1996 and future resources to
the municipalities. (para. 7.1 (j).
7. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   During negotiations agreement was reached that:
(a)   the Government would provide proposals on the implementation of an
improved formula for the funding of incremental recurrent expenditures by
the line ministries, municipalities, and beneficiaries by no later than March
31, 1996 (para. 4.4);
(b)   the Government would provide funds as indicated in the project financing
plan and the means to cover the operating costs of FHIS and the
incremental recurrent costs of completed FHIS investments (para. 4.6);
(c)   the Government would sign funding agreements for approximately US$40
million with IDB, DM 15 million with the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany, and US$15.6 million with other donors by March
31, 1996, or alternative financing would have been arranged (para. 4.6);
(d)   FHIS would periodically review its standard regionalized unit prices for
civil works and goods, and change prices promptly, in a form and
substance satisfactory to IDA, if so recommended by such a review (para.
4.8);
(e)   FHIS and SEDA would: (i) have the records and accounts of the project
for each fiscal year, including the Special Account, audited by independent
and qualified external auditors, in accordance with generally accepted



39
auditing standards and procedures, and terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA; (ii) furnish IDA, no later than four months after the end of each year,
a certified copy of the agreed audit reports; and (iii) furnish IDA such other
project financing information as IDA would from time to time reasonably
request (para. 4.15);
(f)   quarterly and annual audits of FHLS would be carried out by private,
independent external auditors, acceptable to IDA, on the basis of
acceptable contracts, accounting norms, procedures, and terms of reference
(para. 4.16);
(g)   any future appointment to FILS' positions of Executive Director, Deputy
Executive Director, Director of Projects, Director of Supervision, and
Director of Administration would be subject to prior IDA consultation
(para. 5.1);
(h)   FHIS would (i) submit to IDA, IDB, and KfW semi-annual progress
reports not later than three months after the end of each semester; (ii)
present to IDA, IDB and KfW by October 31 of each year, annual progress
reports on the implementation and impact of the project, and the action
plan and budget for the next year, starting in 1995; and (iii) conduct, jointly
with IDA, IDB, and KfW, annual project implementation reviews by
November 30 of each year, starting in 1995; and that (iv) agreements
reached by such annual project implementation reviews would be
implemented expeditiously (para. 5.3 and 5.5);
(i)   FHIS would conduct a mid-term project review in November 1997, jointly
with IDA, IDB, and KfW, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, to
assess project performance and initial impact; and that agreements reached
at the conclusion of the mid-term review would be implemented
expeditiously (para. 5.4);
(i)   EHIIS would apply its revised poverty targeting formula for allocating its
1996 and future resources to the municipalities (para. 6.6).
7.2   As conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)   a FIHIS Agreement for making the funds available by the Borrower to FHIS
as well as describing the new arrangements between FHIS, MOE, MOH,
and the municipalities, satisfactory to IDA, would be entered into (para.
4.6); and
(b)   the Operational Manuals would be revised, including appropriate
references to the use of the revised environmental review mechanism,
satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.4).



40
7.3   As conditions of disbursements:
(a)   for disbursement of funds for environmental technical assistance to the
municipalities, SEDA would present (i) evidence acceptable to IDA that
the corresponding technical assistance provided under the Environmental
Development Project was being implemented successfully; and (ii) detailed
terms of reference for the technical assistance (including design of
methodologies and materials), acceptable to IDA (para. 4.14);
(b)   for disbursement of funds for environmental subprojects, FHIS would
present evidence acceptable to IDA that the pilot environmental projects
funded under the Environmental Development Project were progressing
well (para. 4.14); and
(c)   no disbursements would be made against food expenditures (para. 4.14).
7.4   Recommendation. Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 19.1 million (US$30.0 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Honduras, to be repaid on standard IDA terms with 40
years maturity, including 10 years of grace.



41
8. ANNEXES
1.    Social Sector Data and Requirements
2.    FHIS Poverty Targeting
3.    FHIS Organization Chart
4.    Community Participation
5.    Subproject Environmental Assessment
6.    Subproject Proposals and 1995 Program
7.    Cooperation with Line Ministries and Municipalities
8.    Infrastructure Subprojects Component
9.    Basic Needs Program Component
10.   Institutional Strengthening Technical Assistance Component
11.   Social Sector Data Technical Assistance Component
12.   Environmental Technical Assistance Component
13.   Project Costs
14.   Project Financing
15.   Credit Disbursement
16.   Project Implementation
17.   Monitoring and Evaluation
18.   Supervision Plan and Mid-Term Review
19.   List of Documents in Project Files



42                             ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SOCIAL SECTOR DATA AND REQUIREMENTS
Honduras    Year
A.   General Country Data
GNP Per Capita (US$)                              580.0       1993
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)                 112.5       1994
Population Estimate (Millions)                      5.5       1994
Rural Population (% of Total)                      60.6       1994
Population Projection, Year 2000                    6.3       1994
B.    Social Indicators
Crude Death Rate                                    6.2       1994
Average Annual Rate of Population Growth            2.6       1994
Total Fertility Rate                                4.5       1994
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)      45.3       1994
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                   67.6       1992
Adult Illiteracy Rate (% of persons 15 and over)   32.0       1992
C.   Education Statistics
Primary (Net Enrollment) (Grades 1-6) (%)          85.0       1994
Lower Secondary Enrollment (Grades 7-9) (%)        37.0       1992
Total Primary Enrollment (millions)                 1.0       1993
Primary School and Efficiency Data:
Number of Teachers (thousands)                    29.0       1993
Student/Teacher Ratio                             34.0       1993
Incomplete Schools (% of total enrollment)         8.8       1993
Single Grade Schools (% of total enrollment)       0.4       1993
Repetition Rate (%)                               28.0       1993
Dropout Rate (%)                                   4.9       1993
Completion Rate (%)                               30.0       1993
Education Expenditure Data:
Total Public Education Spending (% of GDP)         4.1       1993
Public Education Spending (% of Central
Government Expenditures)                          15.2       1993
Public Primary Education Spending (% of
Public Education Expenditures Among all Levels)   47.3       1993
D.    Health Statistics
Basic Health Indicators:
Mortality of Children 0-5 yrs. Caused by
Diarrhea and Acute Respiratory Infections (%)     43.9       1992



43                                 ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
Maternal Mortality Rate
(per 100,000 live births)                           221.0        1990
Births Unattended by Health Staff(%)                   56.0        1993
Physicians (per 10,000 inh.)                            3.0       1993
Nurses (per 10,000 inh.)                                1.4       1991
Auxiliary Nurses (per 10,000 inh.)                     10.0       1991
MOH Expenditures (% of Total
Current Expenditures)                                  8.4       1993
MOH Expenditures (% of GDP)                             2.4        1993
E. Basic Nutrition Indicators:
Low Weight of Infants at Birth (%)                     11.0       1993
Children 0-5 yrs. malnourished (weight/age) (%)        46.4       1990
Children 6-9 yrs. malnourished (height/age) (%)        35.5       1993
Households Consumption of Food below
80% adequacy (%)                                     49.1        1987
F. Environmental Health Indicators:
Lack of access to safe water supply (%):               31.9        1992
rural areas (%)                                 48.6        1992
urban areas (%)                                 10.7        1992
Lack of access to adequate excreta disposal (%):       37.0        1992
rural areas (%)                                 56.9        1992
urban areas (%)                                  9.9        9992
Sources: MOE, MOH, and Bank Staff estimates, 1994.
UNICEF, El Gasto Social en Honduras, 1993.
PLAN Honduras: Proyecciones de Poblaci6n, 1992.
Encuesta 91/92; Estatisticas MOH 1993.



44                                    ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SOCIAL SECTOR DATA AND REQUIREMENTS
I.     The following describes the demand for infrastructure in education, health, and water
supply and sanitation in Honduras.
EDUCATION
2.     There are still major problems with infrastructure.  In the first place, the current
facilities can only cover about 90 percent of potential primary school students. In addition,
coverage is biased against the poor. As a consequence, there is a need for a substantial
program of civil works, but carefully planned as part of a larger plan of action to improve the
quality and efficiency of the education system. Table I below presents the state of the
physical infrastructure as of 1993.
3.     Priority for the construction of  new  educational facilities should be given to
classrooms where the community is involved, and has expressed a formal conmmitment to
maintain them. Once this is accomplished, the ranking should be as follows: (a) rehabilitate
classrooms in the worst condition (bad); and (b) rehabilitate classrooms in fair condition. In
both cases, priority should be given to schools with the highest student-classroom ratios.
Table 1: Condition of Physical Infrastructure of the Public Schools, 1993
~~j   Urbanj  ~~~~Total]j  Rurall                           Toal       aml.
.____           odj  l-;          Ba  d    Urban io  Fair                              . Bad  ..Ur . Tdt
Schools /1       716      32                748    4,885    1,892        93     6,870    7,618
Students                                340,314                               595,541   935,855
Classrooms     4,805   1,458      409     6,672    8,824    3,879      1,404    14,107   20,779
Bathrooms      1,548    887       614     3,049    2,140      608       400     3,148    6,197
Latrines         561    509       253     1,323    4,785    3,498      1,911    10,194    11,517
Electricity /2   515              215       730    1,172              5,569     6,741     7,471
Blackboards    4,741   1,410      536     6,687    9,975    5,470     2,611    18,056   24,743
Teachers                                  9,946                                13,501    23,447
Potable water    606              124       730    3,458              3,283     6,741     7,471
Tables         2,974   1,495      800     5,269    4,304    3,197      1,411    8,912    14,181
Desks /3      36,531   2,787  105,811   145,129   49,167   13,157   247,496   309,820  454,949
Notes:
/1 Good = Complete schools; Fair = Incomplete; Bad = One classroom.
/2 Good means it is serviced; Bad means no service.
/3 School desks refer to the following: Good = One student; Fair = Two students; Bad = More
students.
Source: MOE, SECPLAN and UTN, 1993.



45                                      ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
4.     Table  2  shows estimates  of the  necessary  construction, reconstruction, and
rehabilitation of classrooms for the next four years. New classrooms are required to serve the
following population groups':
(a) children between seven and 12 years of age, who cannot attend school at present
because of lack of space. This potential demand is found principally in rural areas and
in municipalities with less population and higher rates of illiteracy;
(b) children between seven and 12 years of age, who will add to the total because of the
population growth projected between 1994 and 1999. This population is concentrated
principally in the poorer parts of the larger cities; and
(c) children in schools with more than 60 students and only one teacher and one
classroom  (estimated at 980).  With the Basic Education Project assisting the
construction of 290 classrooms, there remain 690 to be constructed.
Table 2: Need for Construction, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Schools2
(Projected for 1995-1999)
1995      1996      1997  -1998          Total
New Population/ 1 (7-12 years of age)  15,944    16,748    16,875   16,237   65,804
New Classrooms (Normal pop. growth)      371        389       392      378    1,530
Total Coverage                           300        400       500      428    1,628
Total New Classrooms Needed              671        789       892      806    3,158
Stock of Existing Classrooms          21,783     22,572    23,465   24,270
Rehabilitation and Repairs Needed /2   1,089      1,129      1,173    1,214    4,605
Accumulated Needs /3                    2000       2000      2000     1195     7195
Total Classrooms to Rehab/Repaired     3,089      3,129     3,173    2,409   11,800
Notes:
/I The annual growth rate of the population for this age group is calculated on the basis of the population
projections made by SECPLAN/ILO/FNUAP, September 1992.
/2 A 5% rate is used for necessary annual rehabilitation and repair.
/3 Calculated on the basis of information on the condition of classrooms in fair or bad state
(as of September 1993).
5.     As shown in the table, there is a total need of about 3,158 new classrooms and of the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of about 11,800 classrooms. The total cost is estimated at
The number of children is divided by 43, which is the average number of students/classroom reported by
the Ministry of Education.
2  This excludes the need for construction/rehabilitation of junior secondary schools.



46                                 ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
US$61 million. In addition, there is a need for the reparation and rehabilitation of school
toilets and bathrooms, as well as the provision of furniture.
HEALTH
6.    The Ministry of Health (MOH) has a good network of primary care.  For
administrative purposes, the country has been divided into eight regions. In 1993, there were
seven national hospitals, seven regional hospitals, 15 area hospitals, 197 health centers
(Centros de Salid con Medico (CESAMOS)), 609 rural health centers (Centros de Salud
Rural (CESAR)), and four maternal-infant clinics (a total of 839 official State medical centers
and 10 from the private sector). The principal problem with the construction of physical
infrastructure in health is the recurrent cost in terms of maintenance and personnel. No center
should be built if there is no assurance as to the financing of the recurrent costs. MOH has
therefore decided to give priority to the rehabilitation and repair of existing centers.
7.    From  a geographical coverage point of view, it is estimated that MOH's health
network covers 60 percent of the country. According to the Household Survey of 1992, 78
percent of the people who had problems with health were attended by some public health
center. In terms of physical facilities, it is estimated that it will be necessary to substitute,
repair, or rehabilitate 40 centers. It is assumed that the useful life of the centers will be an
average of 20 years, and that the civil works will cost about US$3.2 million.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
8.    The National Autonomous Water and Sewerage Service (SANAA) has failed to
provide adequate outreach to the rural and peri-urban communities3, and the country's water
supply and sanitation are inefficient and inequitable. The poor pay many times more (up to
77) for each cubic meter than families with medium incomes. Water is rationed throughout
the country, but particularly in the rural sector; and its supply is precarious. The service
coverage of the system is 70 percent of the population;4 90 percent of the urban and 54
percent of the rural population are connected to water (3.5 million total residents). However,
only 17 percent of the population receives safe drinking water.
9.    For small civil works, such as for wells and small aqueducts, the most important point
is to guarantee maintenance, and teach the communities to operate the water system and to
guard the sources of water.  It is important to obtain the formal participation of the
communities to guarantee the sustainability of the works. In Honduras, this type of action has
been and is accomplished through the establishment of community water boards.
3  This is currently being reviewed as part of a sector study funded by the Bank and UNDP, which may be
followed up by a joint IDA-IDB Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Adjustment Project.
4 According to Desarrollo Humano. Infancia y Juventud, UNISfUNDP/UNICEF, Honduras, 1994.



47                                     ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
10.    The needs in this subsector are great, with the main responsibility in the hands of the
municipalities. This is an important area of action for FHIS, particularly in rural areas. If it
were decided to establish in the rural areas house connections for 1.5 million people, or more
than 300,000 families, over the next four years, at a cost-per-beneficiary of US$18, it would
cost at least US$27 million. It should be taken into account, however, that the costs will
increase with the increasing difficulty of access. The total cost is still relatively small given the
importance of the service and its effect on health and productivity, but the most complex task
is to assure that completed civil works are maintained and that water is purified. (The
Government of Spain is considering the coverage of urban demand through a program of
potable water plants, covering about 1.2 million users from small cities.)
11.    Basic Sanitation. Conventional sewerage systems cover only about 25 percent, and
are concentrated in the urban areas. In the rural areas, conventional sanitation is practically
non-existent. The disposal of excreta is realized in most of the country through the use of
latrines, which cover about 37.5 percent of the population.5 Nevertheless, deficiencies in the
construction and maintenance of latrines have, on occasion, caused problems with
contamination, misuse, and early deterioration.
12.    Table 3 shows the annual construction of latrines. The total stock of about 230,000
implies the construction of about 46,000 latrines annually just for maintenance 6. As a result,
there is a need for at least 50,000 latrines each year over the next four years, costing US$25
million.
Table 3: Annual Construction of Latrines, 1980-1993
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .     .-    . . . .   . .   .   s' '...    
, , ~~~~...,..       ..     ..   -.   -.... .   ^.    . -   ...........-i-- ..
1980       16,810         16,810     3,362
1981       16,381         29,829     5,966
1982       26,293         50,156     10,031
1983       31,380         71,505     14,301
1984       22,747         79,951     15,990
1985       37,461        101,422     20,284
1986       34,636        115,773     23,155
1987       33,218        125,837     25,167
1988       19,322        119,991     23,998
1989       31,583        127,576     25,515
1990       36,778        138,839     27,768
1991       89X914        200.985     40,197
1992       61,126        221,914     44,383
1993       55,000        232,531     46,506
Source: UNICEF, Ministry of Health and FHIS.
Collaborative Group on Water and Sanitation. Survey on the operation and maintenance of latrines, June
1993.
f' The Collaborative Group wvants to cnsure that one toilet lasts at least 5 years.



48                                 ANNEX 2
Page 1 of2
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
FLIS POVERTY TARGETING
1.    The current formnula used by FHIS to determine the amount of funds available for
investment in each of the 18 departments and 293 municipalities is based on population,
and then adjusted according to a poverty index, which is composed of three indicators
(weights in the index are shown in parentheses): water supply (.5); malnutrition (.3), and
sanitation (.2). The water supply indicator represents the proportion of the population
without access to piped water within 100 meters of their home. The malnutrition indicator
represents the weighted sum of the proportion of the population, which is severely
malnourished (.5), moderately malnourished (.3), and slightly malnourished (.2). The
sanitation indicator is the weighted sum of the proportion of the population with no
sanitation system (.5), those with a simple latrine (.3), and those with a hydraulic latrine
(.2). The data used to calculate these indicators are from the 1988 population census, and
from an anthropometric census of school children in 1987-88.
2.    Beginning with the 1996 allocation, FHIS will modify the targeting formula in two
ways. First, an indicator of access to educational services will be incorporated into the
poverty index. As shown in the appendix, a brief examination of departments ranked by
the FHIS poverty index and then by illiteracy rates demonstrates substantial differences.
Since more than half of total FHIS investments to date have been in educational
infrastructure, the incorporation of illiteracy would allow the poverty index to more
accurately reflect deficiencies in areas where FHLS investment is likely to be strong. The
latest illiteracy figures available are from the 1988 population census. Second, the final
allocation will be adjusted for regional differences in construction costs, so that FHIS
funds will have the same real purchasing power across municipalities. The impact of
adjusting the allocation for variations in regional costs for actual FHIS subprojects has
been tested, and shows that only two departments (with very small populations) had
significant differences in construction costs, and therefore the overall distribution of funds
changed very little. However, the allocation of FHIS funds to these two departments rose
significantly, by 40 percent (Gracias a Dios) and 70 percent (Islas de la Bahia),
respectively.
3.    Once the social data mapping system (described in Annex I 1) becomes available, it
will provide an additional tool with which to improve the accuracy of the FHIS poverty
targeting formula. One of the main weaknesses of the current formula is that it is based
largely on data from 1988, and thus does not control for the ongoing impact of FHIS
investments on access to social services. Since the new maps will be regularly updated
with information on completed FHIS (and line ministry) subprojects, it will provide the
information required to calculate up-to-date "deficiency rates" in education, health, water
and sanitation services, and thus to periodically adjust the targeting formula.



49                                       ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
APPENDIX
Ranking of Departments by FHIS Poverty Index and Illiteracy Rate
Department            Poverty Index     Poverty Ranking    Illiteracy Rate   Illiteracy Ranking
IntibucA                   60.08                1                40.7                5
Lempira                    58.55                2                54.6                1
Gracias a Dios            55.66                3                 34.7                11
La Paz                     49.64               4                 36.0                9
Copan                     48.73                 5                47.2                2
Valle                     46.00                6                 34.7                10
El Paraiso                 44.42                7                39.5                7
Santa Barbara             43.98                8                 44.2                3
Choluteca                 43.78                9                 36.5                8
Olancho                    42.03               10                40.6                6
Col6n                      38.35               11                32.0                12
Comayagua                 37.93                12                30.1                13
Ocotepeque                 37.44               13                42.0                4
Yoro                       34.13               14                30.1                14
Atlantida                 31.82                15                25.8                15
Francisco MorazAn          22.44               16                18.8                17
IslasdelaBahia             19.80               17                11.3                18
Cortes                     18.42               18                25.7                16
Sources:     1. FIS Poverty Index: Informe de Avance, al I de Julio de 1994. Fondo Hondureflo de
Inversi6n Social.
2. Illiteracy rate: Municipios de Honduras (map). Comisi6n Presidencial de Modernization del
Estado. Based on 1988 census data.



HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
FHIS ORGANIZATION CHART
DOARD~
Internal Auditon |
EeuieDirecto
Advisor
~~~~~~~~OperationLsComte
IEPuDecputiyP.AS.I.
L ~~~~~~D irector                                                      ................................................. .....................|P.A..I............                                       U    t
_J                                                   0
7-so-ci--,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~P.R.O.C.A.T.M.E.R.
Projects Depatment           Legal Department                    Supevisia ing                                                                                Aministration
De partment     l                          l    Department                               Department
Fisca                Project                Sytm                                                                 Genera
Employment _ _    Special                                        l           l       |  ClosinR                s l       l                                                      |Services  |
Generation        Projects
Promnotion    [T ~ ] Cnrcig~ ~ i                             lfrsa-l                    Socs-  [ialProjects   ianil         Cotn       Monitoring &         Accountig          rasr
!L                              [                p L _J  t onSmpection               n          Anal                 g    Eval. Ex-pt



51                                ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
1.    So far, community participation at all stages of FIlLS' sub project cycle has been
insufficient. Earlier, beneficiary organizations were rarely involved in the identification of
the works, and were excluded almost entirely from the subproject design and execution
stages. By minimizing community involvement, FHIS was able to spend money quickly,
but the consequence has been a number of finished subprojects that are either not working
for lack of resources to cover operational costs, or are falling into disrepair because the
subproject beneficiaries have not assumed the responsibility to undertake maintenance.
2.   FHIS has now recognized the weaknesses inherent in the previous approach, and
has responded with a broadly-based set of initiatives. Reforms of the management of the
promotion, evaluation, contracting, and execution stages of the subproject cycle have been
introduced with a view to improving subproject sustainability. A new department of
Social Participation has been created. A pilot project designed to demonstrate how
subproject sustainability can be achieved was launched in October 1994, and covers health
center projects located in Tegucigalpa. Further, guidelines have been drawn up to
contract NGOs in the first instance, but with the intention of including other development
actors in the future, to execute subprojects that promote social participation. In addition,
FHIS is awaiting the results of the KfW-financed, UNICEF-executed, monitoring exercise
designed to identify the factors enhancing sustainability of water and sanitation, health,
and education projects. Finally, FIlS is also involved in three municipal development
initiatives designed to build local level subproject management and planning capacity;
these are the USAID-financed municipal development program, the UNICEF-inspired
"Pacto de la Infancia", and FIRS' own proposal to undertake municipal development
activities to promote the sustainability of its subprojects.
3.    These are clearly steps in the right direction, but need further work with regard to:
the subproject cycle and minor adjustments that can be made to introduce beneficiary
participation at all stages of decision making; the FHIS initiatives to introduce
sustainability into projects; and the programs to build local level capacity. To assist FIlS'
management, the project would provide technical assistance for community participation
and local level capacity building.
4.    The effort at community participation would also be helped through the new
agreement between FHIS and the US Peace Corps for cooperation initially in the water
supply, sanitation, and micro credit sectors. Under this agreement, the Peace Corps
volunteers could assist with:
Promotion and community organization.
Identification and/or preparation of subprojects.



52                                ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Strengthening of community participation in all phases of implementation
and sustainability of subprojects.
Supervision and technical evaluation of the execution of the subprojects.
Training the communities and municipalities, and organization of the
financial application process of FIS.
Assistance in monitoring activities and impact evaluation of the subprojects
by the FElS.
Subproject implementation assistance.
The project would provide up to US$50,000 in training funds to acquaint the volunteers
and their Honduran counterparts with FHIS policies and procedures.



53                                ANNEX S
Page 1 of I
HONDURAS TEIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SUBPROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
1.    The environmental assessment rating for this project is category "B", since certain
types of subprojects eligible for financing under the project, such as road construction and
maintenance, bridge construction, water supply and sewerage works, and solid waste
facilities, have potentially significant adverse environmental impacts that should be
avoided or mitigated.
2.    Under the Environmental Development Project (EDP), FHIS has hired consultants
to develop an environmental review mechanism for all subprojects which it finances
(independent of subproject category or funding source). The mechanism will be consistent
with the provisions of the "National Environmental Impact Assessment System"
regulation to the 1993 General Environmental Law.
3.    A random sample of 72 completed FHIS subprojects was selected for ex-post
environmental audits. The subprojects were distributed throughout the country and were
selected from all the subproject categories with potentially adverse environmental impacts.
All 72 subprojects were visited by February 1995. Based on the results of the audit, the
consultants have formulated a draft proposal for an efficient environmental review
mechanism. It is anticipated that the main elements of the mechanism will be:
(a)   Questionnaires or check-lists specific to each subproject category, which
will be used as a screening tool;
(b)   Depending on the answers to the questionnaire, and on guidelines added to
the Operation Manual, the subproject could either require a formal
environmental impact assessment, a rapid environmental review or no
further environmental evaluation; and
(c)   Inclusion of environmental criteria in subproject supervision and
monitoring.
4.    It is also anticipated that, as a result of the environrental audits, certain subproject
category guidelines and specifications will be amended to prevent the most common
environmental problems identified during the audits.
5.    The consultants presented FHIS with a proposed mechanism at the end of March
1995. It is anticipated that the mechanism will be in place and reflected in the Operational
Manual in June/July, after review and approval by FHIS and SEDA, followed by training
of the staff in FHIS responsible for its day-to-day implementation. Its reflection in the
Operational Manual would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.



54
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS THRHD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SUBPROJECT PROPOSALS AND 1995 PROGRAM
1.    As detailed in Appendix 1, FHIS now has a sizable subproject pipeline, which has been
awaiting funding. As of April 28, 1995, it had an active pipeline of 1483 infrastructure
subprojects and 279 basic needs projects, amounting to the equivalent of US$42.0 million and
US$3.8 million, respectively. Taking into account the existing applications, a recently started
aggressive promotion effort, and FHIS' substantial processing capacity, there is little doubt
that FHIS can, and should, process the equivalent of US$25 million per year, on average, over
the period 1995-1999.
2.    Now that funding will be forthcoming, FHlIS' management is working out a more
detailed work program for 1995, to be reflected in Appendix 2 to this Annex, and to be
agreed with IDA as a condition of negotiations. Traditionally, most projects have been in the
education and health sectors, and relatively little in the more complicated water supply and
sanitation sectors, but with virtually no new schools and health centers and an increasing need
in water supply and sanitation, particularly in rural areas, the latter are expected to take an
increasing share of FHIS' investment portfolio (see Annex 1). The share of basic needs
subprojects will be reduced considerably. First, school desks and latrines will become part of
education and health infrastructure, respectively. Second, with most of the country's nutrition
needs covered by PRAF, relatively little will be required from FHIS. And third, FHIS will
reassess its basic needs program (see Annex 9). Technical assistance would be provided
under the project for further development of the basic needs program.



APPENDX I
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
FIlS PROJECT PIPELINE (AS OF APRIL 28, 1995)
APPUCATIONS  BRING PROCESSED                    BRINGCOSTED                WIlHBOARD                     TOTAL
IRF . NO. PROJECT TYPE                                                                    NO.          NO.    AMOUNT (L)    NO.    AMOUNT(L)   NO.   AMOUNT                           NO.      AMOUNT (L)
(PAGE)  INMFSI4 UCTURIE:                                                                      nil    923    278,690,160.00        85      14,905,707.00    475     96,693,00.ee       1483    390,377,067."
20    Civil Works (fences and patios)                                                        52       1         200,352.00       1         212,979.00     4       2,1S3.735.00        6       2,597,066.
21    Rafsuction/vaintenmne/Expansionofpublicschools                                       2261    218        41,098.761.00     19       3,155,997.00    94      18,814,1SS.00      441     63,06,946.N0
0     Cfrluction of Schools                                                                1276    227       36,182,792.00     31        5,109,118.00    114     19,583,389.00     372      61,575,299.00
23    RehabilitatiaiaintenancdEa Eaion ofhealth cotto  id snail hospitals                   121      17        4,033,289.00                              53       11,566,944.00      70      15,600,233.t
24    Contudion ofhalth cnters                                                              252      22        5,361,524.00      2         387,464.00     8       1,272,344.00       32       7,021,332."
26    RehsbilitationvMuintenance/Expnsion of day care etersand kindergardens                109       8         908,112.00       1         100,000.00     2         347,339.00       11       1,355,451.00
27    Conua tionofpublicdaycarecentersand kindergrdem                                       256      74       12,431,711.00      8       1,395,182.00    22       3,845,743.00      104      17,672636.00
28    Rdsabilitation/MaintenancelExpansion of public outdoor vendor markets                   6       1          155,000.00                                                           1        155,000*
29    Construction ofpublic outdoorvendor murkets                                            56                                                           1         191,654.00        1        191,6S4.00
30    Coraution of Latnos                                                                   315      10         367,000.00                               16       6,647,716.00       26       7,014,716.0
31    Constuction of Public wash houses                                                       9                                                                                       0
32    Rehabilitahio   ntanoeExpaswion of histonrcl monuants                                  10       3        1,352,000.00                                                           3       1,352,000.00
33    RehabilitationtMsintenance1Et ansion infant & nursing lunchrooms                        7                                                                                       0               -              U
34    Constuction of lunchrooms for infants and nursing                                      56       2         386,509.00                                                            2        386,09."
0     Rehabihationraintenarie/Exparnsionofbasicommunityservices                              29       7        1,442,703.00     5         950,000.00      4       1,111,541.00      16       3,se4,244ee
36    Construction of basic community srices                                                  3                                  1         269,633.00                                 1        269,633.00
37    Civil works and irngation mid drainage ditches                                         97       1         382,740.00                                                            1        382,740.0
38    Consuion of sewerage facilities                                                       263      37       70,673,39900       2         660,376.00    23      19,062,337.00       62     90,396,112.00
39    Construction ofpotable water works                                                    393    136        l,854.113.00      9       1,231,898.00     8       2,367,699.00      153     85,453,780.00
40    Consurtionofadrinageworks,major andnunorworks                                         491      59       13,287,474.00      4         965,986.00     9        1,317,540.00      72      15,641,00.00
41     Rehabiitation/Mainteanc/Expanion of sewerage facilities                              13                                                           3         267,880.00        3        267,A88.00
42    RdabiitaiotvAainsriarnExpansion of poble waer works                                   151       a        3,483,683.00      1         314,624.00     1       2,670,032.00       10       6,468,339.00
43    Pavenent adimprovement ofsweets                                                       250       1         222,206.00                               14         533,412.00       IS        755,618.0
44    Conruction of sreets and nihts of way                                                 343       7        2,096,827.00                               2         538,458.00        9       2,A6,285."0
45    RehabilitationAaintennce/Etpsion of draLnge,nmajor andrinnor works                     48       4         813,708 O0       I         232,450.00     2         339,360.00        7       1,315,518.00
46    Constuction/Expansion of streets                                                       21                                                                                       0
47    Rchlbilitation/MAintenance/Expansion of streets                                        18       4          160,000.00                              89       3,318,862.00       93      3,478,862.00
48    Rehabilitation/aintince/Expansion of drainage works                                     4                                                                                       0
49    Rehabilitation/MaintensncExpansion of soil protection works                             2                                                                                       0
51    Fotiemon and Urban reforestation                                                        4                                                                                       0               -
53    Rehabilitation.4aintenance/Exansion of cwees was                                        1       1         215,78100                                                             1        215,781.00
55    Forestation and Rural reforestation                                                    26                                                           4         474,135.00        4        474,13S.00
57    Rehabilitabtion/Mainteance/Expaion of connections and drainage                          2                                                                                       0
58    Rehabihtati<i/Maintenane/Expansion of satr caes                                         4       1         249,571.00                                                            1        249,571.00
59    Consucion of sair cases                                                                58       4         639,028.00                                                            4        639,028.00
60    RehabilitationlMaintenance/Expaaion of Latri                                             I                                                                                      0               -
82    RehabilitationofEquipmentandFuniture  HealthCCentersandHospitals                        2                                                           1         108,150 00        1        10,150.00
93     Rehabilitation of School Furniture                                                      I                                                                                      0
94    Cotouction ofPre-school and school fumture                                            270                                                           I          60,542.00        1         60,S42.00



APPENDIX 1
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
FRIS PROJECT PIPELINE (AS OF APRIL 28,1995)
APPUCATIONS  BEINGPROCESSED                      BEING COSTED                WITH BOARD                    TOTAL
REF. NO. PROJECT TYPE                                                                      NO.         NO.    AMOUNT (L)    NO.    AMOUNT (L)    NO.    AMOUNT (L)                      NO.       AMOUNT (L)
BASiCNEEDS                                                                             821    125       27,261,331.00      13         579,720.00    141       7,692,264.00      279      35,533,315.00
15    Impovnat in lving cnditinas and health                                                  225       1          40,000.00      13         579,720.00    135       6.963,550.00      149       7,583,270.00
71     Feeding Centers                                                                         21                                                                                         0
72     School lunches                                                                           I                                                                                        0                -
73     Micro-farns and family vegetable grdens                                                420      37        8,103,26S.00                                                           37       8,103,268.00
74     Micro-fum  nd faily vegetable gadens                                                     9       1          217,812.00                                                             1        217,312.00
76     Progam ofmatcral entepises (EMMAAS)                                                      5       2         498,176.00                                                             2         496,176.00
81     Bsic health training prograns                                                            6                                                                                        0                -
83     Comunuity buic health proums                                                            15      10        2,272,681.00                                                           10       2,272,681.00
84     Savices to Handicapped                                                                   5       3         613,572.00                                                             3         613,572.00
86     Services for Elderly                                                                     7       3         740,665.00                                                             3         740,665.00            :
87     Semvices for Children ofthe strets                                                      62      50       11,192,04600                                 2         372,674.00       52      11,564,720.00
88     Training on basics ofuse oftoilets                                                      10                                                            4         356,040.00        4         356,040.00
91     Early childhood development                                                              4                                                                                        0                -
95     Tring on basic equipment                                                                 8       5        1,155,24000                                                             5       1,155,240.00
32     Support to CEPENF                                                                       23      13        2.427.871.00                                                           13       2,427,871.00
Source: FTIS.



57
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
APPENDIX 2
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PROGRAM FOR 1995
|PROJECT TYPE                                   NO.       %     US$ Million              l
Education
Rehabilitation/expansion of primary schools       529       35      7.6           33
Rehabilitation/expansion of junior secondary school  232    16      2.3           10
Sub-total                                       761      51      9.9           43
Health
Rehabilitation/expansion of health centers         88        6      1.6           7
Rehabilitation/construction of latrines            29        2      1.2           5
Sub-total                                       117       8      2.8           12
Water and Sanitation
Rehabilitation/construction of water supply systems  72      5      3.2           14
Rehabilitation/construction of sewerage systems     30       2      2.3           10
Sub-total                                       102       7      5.5           24
Other Infrastructure
Irrigation/drainage                                33        2      0.5           2
Community facilities (includ. roads)               197      13      2.3           10
Forestation and soil conservation                  129       9      1.2           5
Sub-total                                       359      24      4.0           17
Total for Infrastructure                      1,339      90    21.9            95
Total Basic Needs                               157      10      1.2            5
Grand Total                            1,496    100    23.0            100
Source: FHIS, May 1995.



58                                 ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
COOPERATION WITH LINE MINISTRIES AND MUNICIPALITIES
1.    Since 1990, FHIS has entered into formal agreements with other institutions,
among them line ministries, the Association of Municipalities of Honduras (AMHON), and
NGOs, and is now in the process of drafting new agreements with a host of other agencies
(see Appendix).
2.    FEHS has entered into several agreements with the MOH to implement activities
related to health infrastructure, training of midwives, and latrine installation. These
documents serve to define the responsibilities of each party to the agreement for specific
activities.
3.    FLIS has also entered into specific agreements with the MOE to implement
activities related to education infrastructure and furniture included in externally financed
projects. These agreements spell out the responsibilities of each party signatory to the
agreement, such as provision of teachers by MOE for each new classroom that FHIS
builds.
4.    While entering into these agreements with the line ministries has been a positive
effort, the agreements have so far not helped to resolve the main issue, which is the inter-
institutional coordination required for purposes of planning, programming, and
establishing responsibility for the definition of technical norms. The line ministries have
not yet been able to provide FHIS with the information on sector priorities by
geographical location, nor have the institutions formally agreed on the adequacy of
technical designs.
5.    However, the social sector ministries, through support received under the
Institutional Strengthening components of the Nutrition and Health and Basic Education
Projects, as well as the Public Sector Modernization project and the recent IDF grant for
Institutional Strengthening of the Social Sector Ministries, will be able to improve their
planning capacity so that they can define and plan priority investments and provide this
information to FHIS at periodic intervals. MOE and SECPLAN have already developed a
data base that contains sufficient information to determine current education investment
priorities by geographical location. MOH has also developed a mapping system that can
be used to determine current health investment priorities. In addition, SECPLAN is
putting in place a program to monitor investments in the social sectors. All of these
efforts, coordinated and supported further under the proposed project, will facilitate not
only the planning and programming of activities of these ministries, but also make FHIS'
investment projects respond to the sectors' needs in the poorest regions of Honduras.
6.    With regard to the definition of technical norms for infrastructure, designs are now
available in the sectoral ministries, and these would be given to FHIS to use for its



59                                 ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
contracts. In addition, a unit to be set up at MOE with support under the Basic Education
Project will monitor and review all education subprojects. Pre-approval by the MOE unit
is a pre-condition for FHIS financing any education subproject. MOE norms are expected
to cover new schools, expansions, rehabilitation, maintenance and school furniture (at the
pre-primary through secondary level) as well as community and municipal participation.
Equally important, given functions assigned to FERS by the Govermnent, phasing out
MOE School Construction Department is planned. The timing for this action will ensure
completion of on-going works financed by other donors, but new financing for education
infrastructure is expected to be channeled through FFHS. A small physical planning unit
will be created at MOE, possibly in the Planning Department, to: (a) monitor FHIS
compliance with MOE norms; (b) improve upon existing MOE norms; (c) assist
municipalities in taking over routine maintenance of schools; and (d) carry out school
maintenance activities at municipalities unable to do so by themselves.
7.    The proposed project will be guided by new agreements, which will define
institutional coordination; ensuring that the line ministries retain the responsibility for
defining sector priorities and technical norms. They will include references to the line
ministries' responsibilities for maintenance should this not be done by the municipalities or
communities. In addition, MOE will continue to be responsible for staffing the extra
classrooms.
8.    In mid-1994, FHIS entered into an umbrella agreement with the AMIION on
municipal infrastructure and its funding. The agreement provided for counterpart funding
by the municipalities: 25 percent of the subproject cost for the poorest municipalities and
up to 50 percent for the relatively more well-to-do municipalities. However, because of
insufficient municipal resources, these clauses are not yet operational.
9.    FHIS has prepared a model contract, which each of the country's 293
municipalities would have to sign, covering all parties' responsibilities, including the
possible funding of maintenance of completed education and health subprojects (60
percent by the municipalities and 40 percent by the beneficiaries).
10.   A recent draft agreement between FHIS and the US Peace Corps would provide
for cooperation in the water supply, sanitation, and micro credit sectors. Projects
designed with the assistance of Peace Corps volunteers would be eligible for FHIS
funding, and Peace Corps volunteers could participate in FHIS activities (see Annex 4).



60                                ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
APPENDIX
LIST OF FHIS AGREEMENTS WITH OT'HER INSTlTUTIONS
MUNICIPALMES
1.    Umbrella agreement between FHIS and the Association of Municipalities of
Honduras (AMHON), signed in June 1994, setting the overall framework for collaboration
between FHIS and the municipalities.
2.    Agreement between FELLS and the Municipality of the Central District. This
agreement is under negotiation, and seeks to define specific responsibilities of both
institutions in the execution of FHIS-financed projects in the Tegucigalpa metropolis
(draft).
3.    Agreement between FHIS and each of the municipalities, defining the
responsibilities of all parties in the execution of FES-financed subprojects, including the
maintenance of completed education and health facilities (draft).
HEALTH
4.    Cooperation agreement between FHIS and the Ministry of Health signed on
October 13, 1992 to carry out a latrine construction program.
5 .    Subsidiary agreement between FHIS and the Ministry of Health, signed on
October 26, 1992, setting the inter-institutional coordination mechanisms to implement
infrastructure-related activities within the IDB's Social Infrastructure Improvement
Project (Lb. 889-SF/HO).
6.    Cooperation agreement between FELS and the Ministry of Health, signed on
January 7, 1993, to carry out a training program for mid-wives.
7.   Inter-institutional Cooperation Agreement between FHIS and the Ministry of
Health, signed in February 1993, to manage activities financed under the World Bank-
financed Nutrition and Health Project.
8.    Cooperation agreement between FELS and the Ministry of Health, setting the
inter-institutional coordination mechanisms to implement infrastructure-related activities
within the proposed project (draft).



61                               ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
EDUCATION
9.    Subsidiary agreement between FHIS and the Ministry of Education, signed on
October 26, 1992, setting the inter-institutional coordination mechanisms to implement
infrastructure-related activities within the IDB's Social Infrastructure Improvement
Project (Ln. 889-SF/HO).
10.   Draft inter-institutional coordination agreement between FLIS and the Ministry of
Education to implement infrastructure-related activities under the World Bank-financed
Primary Education Project (draft).
11.   Cooperation agreement between FHIS and the Ministry of Education, setting the
inter-institutional coordination mechanisms to implement infrastructure-related activities
within the proposed project (draft).
OTHER
12.   Draft Inter-institutional cooperation agreement between FMILS and the Municipal
Development Foundation (FUNDEMUN) to support municipal development activities and
to promote community participation (draft).
13.   Draft cooperation agreement between FLIS and the US Peace Corps on
cooperation in the fields of water supply and sanitation and micro enterprises development
(draft).



62                                ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE SUBPROJECTS COMPONENT
Water Supplv and Sanitation Subwroiects
1.    The water and sanitation program is still being worked out, but could cover:
(i)   annual construction of about 18,000 latrines;
(ii)   annual construction of 100 community-level water systems
(including 30 percent rehabilitation of existing system); and
(iii)   annual installation of low-cost water systems in 100 communities
(based on hand -- or where necessary electric -- pumps or public
standpipes).
2.    There is no question that the use of low-cost appropriate technologies has been
under-represented in FIlS subprojects to date. However, FHIS is now prepared to take
more control, through its pre-investment program, over the design standards for water
supply subprojects, and proposes to insist on more solutions which can be effectively
operated and maintained at the community level. This is likely to be a process which will
evolve slowly over the next year. More detail is provided in the Appendix to this Annex.
3.    The use of handpumps has been accepted by FHIS as a valuable and low-cost
methodology for improving access to safe water supplies in the rural areas, whilst also
engendering community participation and promoting self-sufficiency. However, before
launching into a handpump campaign, FHIS will have to consider:
(a)   the identification of adequate and safe supplies of groundwater to ensure
the long-term success of these subprojects; and
(b)   the drilling of deep boreholes in areas where hand-dug wells would prove
too difficult or too dangerous.
4.    The installation of latrines will need ongoing review. They are the easiest items to
install, but the most under-utilized if not accompanied by adequate community training
and education. The demand for latrines remains very high; it is estimated nationally to
stand at over 142,000 new units, with perhaps as many as 46,000 additional replacement
units needed per year for latrines which have deteriorated beyond repair (assuming a 5-
year useable design life). The current installation capacity of FHIS is some 18,000 units
per year (conducted in three 4-month cycles), representing an investment of about US$3
million per year. Accordingly, this rate would have to be more than doubled if all of this
demand were to be satisfied during the four-year project. All future models will be based
on the Ventilated Imported Pit (VIP) Latrine. Costs for these latrines range from US$125
to US$200 per installed unit, but the costs of community training and hygiene education
components can raise the total cost to US$165. Thus, the overall financial requirement
amounts to almost US$25 million in order to meet the full demand for new units and to



63                                     ANNEX S
Page 2 of 4
about US$7.5 million per year if replacement of the depreciated stock is to be included as
well. FHIS' experience with conventional sewerage networks and communal treatment
systems has not been entirely successful, so these should be avoided.
5.     FMIS is also keen to generate a portfolio of subprojects which concentrate on
repairing or expanding existing water supply systems. This type of subproject also has the
advantage of large and immediate increases in coverage for a relatively small investment.
6.     To help FHIS implement a larger and better water supply and sanitation program,
the project would provide up to 12 months of technical assistance.'
Environmental Subprojects.
7.     Environmental subprojects within the current standard FIS menu, such as
latrines, would be eligible for financing under the proposed project. New environmental
subprojects would be tested on a pilot basis under the Environmental Development Project
(EDP) in 20 municipalities and would include the following:
SUBPROJECT TYPE                        SUBPROJECT CATEGORY
Urban and community parks              *  Construction and rehabilitation of urban and
community parks
Solid and liquid waste management      *  Urban and small industry solid waste collection,
processing, disposal, and recycling
*  Septic tanks and oxidation ponds
Soil protection                        *  Planting and maintenance of wind breaks
*  Construction of erosion prevention drainage ditches
and other minor infrastructure
Biodiversity conservation              *  Community and family operated ecotourism facilities
in and around protected areas
* Posting boundary of demarcated protected areas
* Small infrastructure for the sustainable management
and rehabilitation of community and traditional fishing
operations
Energy generation and conservation     *  Alternative energy generation initiatives (e.g. wind,
solar)
*  Construction of high efficiency wood-burning stoves
and ovens
FEIS will also benefit from the findings and recommendations of an ongoing study on the reform of
water and sanitation in rural and semi-urban areas. This study is financed by the World Bank and UNDP,
and will look into community participation, organization for sustainability, funding, sanitation and gender
training, protection of micro-basins and wells, low-cost technologies, and operational relations between
communities, municipalities, ministries, and NGOs. It should provide a directory of contractors, case
studies on replicable self-sustaining systems, a map of coverage and investment priorities, and a national
information system.



64                                ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
8.    Some of these could be incorporated into the standard menu, and become eligible
for funding under the project subject to:
(a)   Standard documents having been developed, inter alia technical
specifications, and evaluation guidelines, and activity-cost tables; and
(b)   At least two subprojects in each new subproject category to be included in
the menu having been completed, and receiving a favorable evaluation
under the terms agreed for the EDP between the Government and IDA.
9.    This mechanism would provide sufficient flexibility for the financing of robust
environmental subprojects.



65                            ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
APPENDIX
LOW-COST WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION COMPONENTS FOR FHIS
The following is a list of possible additional and low-cost water supply and sanitation
subprojects. These types of subprojects would ensure that FHIS is reaching the areas of
Honduras where the need for safe water supplies and hygienic sanitary conditions is
greatest, whilst ensuring that the communities are involved in the operation and
maintenance of their own systems. These projects are not appropriate for urban areas,
they do not involve major construction works, and they do not require any future support
from SANAA in terns of operation and maintenance, tariff-setting, etc.:
* Simple Handpumps installed in shallow hand-dug wells
(e.g., the Bomba Maya manufactured in Guatemala or the Catracha manufactured in
Nicaragua).
* Simple Handpumps installed in deep hand-dug wells and boreholes (up to 10 meters
deep)
(e.g., the Camisa and Rope Pump manufactured in Honduras).
- Heavy-Duty Handpumps (or where necessary electric pumps) installed in deep
boreholes
(e.g., the Afridev and India MkII imported by UNICEF).
* Simple Gravity-Fed water supply systems with public standpipes (piletasp6blicas)
(Low-cost installation, very low consumption rates: 10 to 15 liters/person/day).
* Installation of Chorinators in existing water supply systems
(particularly effective in areas with high incidences of gastro-enterric diseases, e.g.,
cholera).
* Repair of Existing Systems
(Rapid results for increasing coverage statistics for minimal intervention).
* Expansion of Existing Systems
(Addition of storage tanks, network extensions, public standpipes increases coverage).
* Upgrading of Existing Systems
(Providing additional capacity, coverage, and quality to improve overall service).
* Training for Rural Technicans to provide regional, mobile technical support
specialists.
(e.g., the American Circuit Riders program implemented by USAID in northem
Honduras as TOMs - Tecnicos en Operaci on y Mantenimiento).



66                                ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
THIRD HONDURAS SOCIAL iNVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
BASIC NEEDS PROGRAM COMPONENT
1. The basic needs program objectives are to improve the living condition of vulnerable
social groups, complement MOH and MOE actions through activities of direct benefit to
vulnerable populations, and support social assistance subprojects executed by NGOs that
target vulnerable groups. Target groups include malnourished children under six years of
age, children ages six to 12 years in precarious conditions, pregnant and nursing mothers,
ethnic minorities, the disabled, and the elderly. From 1990 to the present, the basic needs
program funded 1,432 subprojects with approved financing in the amount of about L 12.8
million. Forty-two NGOs (37 national, five international) executed 646 subprojects or 45
percent of the total. The remaining subprojects were executed by religious organizations,
community groups, municipalities, social ministries, or individual contractors.
2. The current portfolio contains 19 subproject types: traditional midwife training,
creation and development of maternal enterprises (EMMAs), integrated attention to street
children, non-formal preschool education centers, integrated attention to the disabled,
integrated attention to the elderly, infant feeding, school breakfasts, mini-farms and school
gardens, basic health training, community health education, integrated community
development for ethnic groups, early child development, support to primary education,
hospital and health center equipment, emergency rotating fund for flood relief, preschool
equipment and furniture, and school desks. In terms of financing, the most important
component has been school desks. Twenty-four NGOs executed 559 school desk
subprojects, or 86 percent of the total number of NGO subprojects. The main benefit in
contracting NGOs to produce school desks was that a large-scale government project
achieved nation-wide coverage at a relatively small cost to the Government. One problem
encountered with NGO participation was that not all NGOs delivered school desks
directly to schools as mandated; therefore, these subprojects cannot be closed.
3. So far, complete evaluation of the basic needs program has not been conducted, and
relatively little information exists on the results of NGO participation. Mid-term
evaluations of a small sample of NGO-executed maternal enterprise subprojects
(EMMAs), Centers for Non-Formal Preschool Education (CEPENFs), and garden and
micro-farm subprojects showed that: (i) NGOs correctly selected beneficiaries according
to subproject criteria; (ii) subproject design was often flawed due to insufficient
consultation with social ministries, NGOs, and communities; (iii) subproject supervision
was hampered by the fact that FHIS lacked supervisors with experience in social
subprojects; (iv) where subproject objectives were not clearly stated, subprojects could
not be evaluated; and (v) subproject sustainability was more likely to occur in areas where
the NGO implementing agency maintained a permanent presence.



67                                 ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
4. An internal FS report on basic needs program activities found three problems with
program implementation. First, the number of technical program staff was insufficient.
Second, timely assistance was not forthcoming from other FHIS units. For example,
subprojects were promoted, evaluated, and approved in a relatively short time, but
subproject start-up was delayed for as long as three months. Third, disbursements were
not always rapid or opportune. The report recommended that the selection of subproject
executors should be more rigorous, FHIS supervision personnel should be experienced in
the evaluation of social subprojects, an efficient MIS for subprojects was needed, the
program should be fully staffed, and new FH1S personnel should receive training from the
program and other relevant FIHIS units. This is now being addressed by FIHS'
management.
5. There is now agreement between FHIS and the donors on:
(a)   limiting the program to high priority social needs of a national
nature;
(b)   rationalizing the subproject composition, including transferring
latrine, health center furniture, and school desk subprojects to
infrastructure;
(c)   eliminating possible overlap with other programs, such as PRAF's
nutrition activities;
(d)   including priority needs identified by the indigenous population
during the ongoing discussions between the Government and
representative organizations of indigenous peoples; and
(e)   defining the justification and possible scope of emergency
subprojects.
6. Based on this agreement, the project would provide for funding up to 5 percent of
FilS' total investment program over the next four years. The project would also provide
some technical assistance to help FHIS' management implement its revised program of
priority basic needs.



68                                   ANNEX 10
Page 1 of`3
HONDURAS THIRD SOCLAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
INST1IUTIONAL STRENGTHENING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
COMPONENT
1.    In view of the need to assist FHIS' management in (i) overcoming remaining
organizational and operational problems and (ii) moving into new directions, the project would
provide for a substantial program of technical assistance, as detailed below.'
Manaeement of the Subiroiect Cycle
2.    Four consultants would be made available for a total of 16 person-months to help
strengthen EHIS' policies and practices for the management of its production line / subproject
cycle in all of its phases, from work program planning to the identification, appraisal, contracting,
supervision, and evaluation of subprojects. Consultants would carry out analysis and make
recommendations on organizational structure, manuals, staffing, and training requirements.
Trainin2 Proerams for Management and Staff
3.    This subcomponent would provide for seminars, training courses, and visits to and from
other regional SIFs, in order to strengthen FHIS' management and to train staff in the new
policies and practices emerging from the study on management of the subproject cycle (para. 2).
Accounting and Internal Auditing
4.    Two consultants for a total of six months would help FlHIS strengthen its accounting and
internal auditing systems, with the objective of increasing transparency and reliability in the
management of funds.
Personnel Systems
5.    Two personnel experts would assist FHIS for a total of four months to advise on: (i)
selection and contracting of personnel; (ii) remuneration; (iii) performance evaluation; and (iv)
promotion and incentives. The consultants would also review and advise on the recommendations
emerging from the study on management of the subproject cycle (para. 2) with respect to staffing
and training requirements, and organizational structure.
X In addition, FIllS would benefit from an ongoing study of water supply and sanitation in rural and semi-urban
areas (financed by the Bank and UNDP), a proposed study of the future role of FHIS and its relationship with the
line ministries (financed under the joint IDA-IDB Public Sector Modernization Project), and a proposed study of
decentralization and municipal development (financed by Ruta Social).



69                                  ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
MIS
6.    This component would comprise two phases. In the first phase, two experts in
information systems would provide a total of about four months of assistance to advise FHIS'
management on the definition, development, and production of information and reports needed to
manage and monitor the institution's achievement of its objectives; information needs would be
determined in coordination with FHIS management and the consultants making recommendations
on the subproject cycle (para. 2). In a second phase, one consultant would provide about two
months of assistance to advise FHIS on the necessary incremental hardware, software, and
training requirements to produce the above-mentioned reports, as well as to carry out the
recommendations emanating from the studies on management of the subproject cycle and on
accounting and internal auditing.
Basic Needs
7.    A social scientist with experience in the design and evaluation of social welfare type basic
needs subprojects, would assist FHiS for a period of about two months in the development of its
basic needs component (see Annex 9)
Community Participation
8.    A social scientist specializing in community participation in small-scale infrastructure
subprojects would provide about two months of assistance to help FHIS in all aspects of the
development of its model of social participation (see Annex 4).
Financin2 Mechanisms for Maintenance
9.    Two consultants would provide a total of about six months of assistance to advise on the
implementation of the Government's decision that the municipalities assume all or most of the
costs of maintenance for FHIS education and health subprojects. The consultants would make
recommendations regarding appropriate and feasible financing arrangements among central
government actors (line ministries and other social sector agencies), municipalities and
beneficiaries.
Cooperation with US Peace Corps
10.   To help implement the proposed agreement between FHIS and the Peace Corps on
cooperation in the fields of water supply and sanitation and micro credit development, Peace
Corps volunteers and their Honduran counterparts would join special workshops to acquaint them
with FHIS policies and procedures, which should enable them to assist community participation at
all stages of FHIS' subproject cycle (see Annex 4).



70                                   ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
Water Suiply And Sanitation
11..  A civil/sanitary engineer, specializing in low-cost water and sanitation projects, would
assist FHIS for one year in all aspects of the development of their water supply and sanitation
component activities, especially with regard to community participation and the effective
utilization of low-cost technologies.
Micro Credit (PASI)
12.   To assist PASI, FHIS' micro credit arm, during its transition to an autonomous,
commercially-operated unit, technical assistance would focus on: (a) workshops to strengthen the
micro-enterprise sector (including workshops aimed at assisting women entrepreneurs); and (b)
development and distribution of learning materials for intermediary organizations and micro-
enterprises (including materials aimed at assisting women entrepreneurs).
FHIS - Program of Technical Assistance
for Institutional Strengthening
-*;      D -: 0T : escv ition:     Time  j::l Iplementation Perod j Cost  S$X
*  Strengthening Management     16 months    Aug 1995 - Nov 1996    185,000
of the Subproject Cycle*
*  Training Programs for           to be      Aug 1995 - Nov 1996    71,625
Management and Staff*        determnined
*  Accounting and Internal       6 months    Sep 1995 - Feb 1996      57,750
Auditing*
*  Personnel Systems*            4 months    Sep 1995 - Dec 1995      48,000
*  MIS*                          6 months    Sep 1995 - Jun 1996      74,625
*  Basic Needs*                  2 months    Aug 1995 - Dec 1995      25,000
*  Community Participation*      2 months    Aug 1995 - Dec 1995      25,000
*  Cooperation with US Peace      2 years     Sep 1995 - Aug 1997     50,000
Corps
*  Financing of Maintenance*     6 months    Aug 1995 - Jan 1995      18,000
*  Water Supply and Sanitation  12 months    Sep 1995 - Aug 1996     153,000
*  Micro Credit (PASI)          12 months    Jan 1995 - Dec 1995      88,600
S
*     IDB grant funding. IDB is also funding the services of a part-time technical assistance coordinator for the
first year of the project.
** Detailed termns of reference for all technical assistance have been agreed with IDA and IDB.



71                              ANNEX 11
Page 1 of4
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SOCIAL SECTOR DATA TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
Social Data Mampine
1.   In order to improve the capacity of the Government and FHIS to assess the
priority of investments at and below the municipal level, a social data mapping system will
be elaborated and ready for use by early-1996. This computerized system should show
population figures by aldea (there are on average 25 aldeas in each municipality) and the
corresponding location of schools, health posts, water and sewerage systems, and should
be updated every six months to track progress in extending the country's social
infrastructure. This will allow FHIS promoters to better determine investment priorities
by sector and within each municipality, and to monitor progress in meeting sectoral and
regional service deficiencies. This system would be expected to work in tandem with new
community participation methods to ensure that FMILS promoters and community leaders
are able to identify and agree upon municipal investment priorities. It would also allow
FHIS to promote a more equitable distribution of social services within each municipality,
particularly between the municipal capital and the aldeas, and to refine the poverty
targeting formula according to actual deficiency rates, as discussed in Annex 2.
2.    Data Sources: Reasonably current (1993) information on the location of schools,
health posts and water supply are available from the line ministries. However, the most
recent population data available is for 1988, from the national census. In general,
reasonably accurate estimates can be derived directly from the 1988 data and the rate of
national population growth (estimated from the 1974 and 1988 censuses). However, in
14 municipalities, migration trends have changed population growth rates significantly
since 1988. In these municipalities, the simple estimation method outlined above will be
insufficient, and should be augmented by more recent data (for example, on school
matriculation and vaccination rates, which are available from the Education and Health
ministries).
3.    Implementation: Since it is the mandate of SECPLAN to determine national
investment plans and to provide the line ministries with the information necessary for their
execution, SECPLAN will manage this project component in close consultation with
FILS. SECPLAN has also just begun a project to map the existing social infrastructure in
the municipal capitals. Its staff has substantial experience with mapping, data gathering,



72                               ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 4
and computer systems, but will require technical assistance in carrying out specific tasks,
including:
(a)   Identification of the information needed in the system: what characteristics
of each school, health center, and water system should the system provide?
How should the population data be presented (sex, age, etc.);
(b)   Design and implementation of a system to guarantee regular updating of
the mapping system with data from FHIS and the lines ministries;
(c)   Determination of an appropriate methodology with which to estimate
current population data in high-growth areas; and
(d)   Development of a user's training program.
4.    Costs
System design contract                                        US$15,000
6 weeks of technical assistance                               US$15,000
(2,500 per week including honoraria, travel and subsistence)
5 software licenses
(EHS (3), Ministry of Health (1), Ministry of Education (1))    US$ 3,000
1 year of technical assistance (national)                    US$24,000
1 year of statistical support in 1996                        US$13.000
Total                                                         US$70,000
Analysis of CoveraLe by FIS
5.    To obtain a baseline for the analysis of the efficiency and impact of FHIS, it is
necessary to obtain detailed information on infrastructure coverage by sector and region.
This should be closely coordinated between SECPLAN and FH1S to ensure that the data
collected fit within the data system currently being established for social data mapping. It
will require the assistance listed below.
6.    Costs
12 months of technical assistance (national)        US$ 15,000
24 months of statistical support                    US$ 26,000
2 computers, etc.                                   US$ 8.000
Total                                               US$ 49,000



73                                ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 4
Household Survey Data Analysis
7.    The above targeting tool needs to be complemented with analyses of national level
household survey data, which identify areas of current investment priorities in the nation
as a whole, and which monitor changes over time in social sector indicators such as
malnutrition, consumption, infant mortality, illiteracy, and educational attainment. While a
national household survey does not determine the actual impact of a given program (such
as FLIS investments, it does monitor national and regional advances (or setbacks) in
social progress. The usefulness of household survey data therefore lies in being able to
monitor social sector improvements over time and point out areas of continued weakness,
thus providing a general orientation for social investment programs in Honduras.
8.    Data Sources: Several sources of household survey data are currently available:
the Encuesta de Prop6sitos Multiples (EPM), a semi-annual national survey focusing on
employment indicators and rotative modules on other living standards indicators,
conducted by the Direcci6n General de Estadisticay Censo (DGEC); the Encuesta
Nacional de Epidemiologiay Salud Familiar (ENESF), which includes coverage of water
supply and sanitation, and is scheduled to be conducted in mid-1995 and repeated in 1999;
and, the Encuesta Sobre Indicadores Socto-Econ6micos conducted in 1994 (and
scheduled to be repeated at least once, in 1997), which provides a more detailed
assessment of living standards indicators, and was conducted by a private consulting firm.
All three surveys are financed by USAID.
9.    Given the existence of these data sources and plans to update them, only a small
amount of resources will be invested in analyzing the results of existing data sources,
particularly the recently released results of the Encuesta Sobre Indicadores Socio-
Econ6micos. This survey represents what may be a significant improvement over the
EPM, which suffers from the limited nature of its questionnaire, changes in sampling
methodology which have made comparisons over time difficult, and the slow and
incomplete dissemination of results.
10.   Implementation: SECPLAN will coordinate these analyses and present them for
discussion at two workshops planned for mid-1995. These workshops would build upon
the research currently being conducted by USAID on basic poverty and nutrition
indicators from the Encuesta Sobre Indicadores Socio-Econ6micos, which will be
presented at a seminar in April 1995. The analyses would be designed: (a) to provide a
baseline of social indicators for 1993/94 to guide sectoral investment priorities for FIS
(and line ministries) for the next 3-4 years; (b) to foster broader capacity within
government agencies to use survey data to identify current social conditions; and (c) to
evaluate the strengths and weaknesses in existing survey work, in order to determine
future improvements which may be necessary. Analyses would be solicited from qualified
researchers in line ministries, universities, and international organizations, and would focus
on:



74                               ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 4
(a)   access to social services by income level (education, health, water supply
and sanitation) and migration; and
(b)   employment, unemployment, underemployment, female employment, and
income level.
In addition, UNICEF is interested in preparing an analysis of child employment,
and in participating in the seminar. They would finance this study.
11.   The results would be presented and discussed at the two workshops, where the
implications for social policy and the strengths and weaknesses of the existing survey data
would be discussed and documented. The general findings of each analysis and the
conclusions reached during the workshops would be summarized clearly and concisely and
be published in a document for wide dissemination throughout the Government, To help
achieve this, four weeks of technical assistance are required for the following tasks: (i)
coordinating analysis plans with on-going work at USAID; (ii) providing statistical
support to analysts as needed; (iii) directing the seminars; and (iv) producing the summary
document.
12.   Costs
4 weeks of technical assistance (international)                  US$ 10,000
Preparation of two studies                                       US$ 10,000
Carrying out of two workshops                                     US$ 2,000
Publication                                                       US$ 4.000
Total                                                            US$ 26,000
Technical Assistance: Social Data Mauming and Survey Analysis Components
13.   A total of 10 weeks of international technical assistance and two years of local
technical assistance is needed by SECPLAN in support of the social data mapping
component and the survey data analysis. To ensure appropriate coordination between
FIHS and SECPLAN, the latter's role as coordinator would be agreed upon formally by
"convenio" with FHIS, with responsibilities and expected products clearly delineated.



7 5                          ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 5
HONDURAS THIRD SOCLAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
1.    The objective of this component is to further the efforts supported by the Environmental
Development Project (EDP) in developing the environmental management capacity of
municipalities and communities. The EDP pilot efforts will, inter alia, strengthen the capacity of
20 municipalities, in four different regions of the country, to manage their natural resources and to
address their environmental problems. Subject to its outcome, this would be complemented under
the proposed project.
2.    The National Program of Environmental Technical Assistance to Municipalities
(PROATAM) is an environmental awareness and training program addressed to municipal
authorities and employees and community leaders of all 271 municipalities not covered under the
EDP (Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula are excluded). Its objective is to provide them with
sufficient information to enable them to undertake specific environmental protection and
management activities by: (a) developing technical manuals, teaching methods, and supporting
materials; and (b) implementing workshops for about 1,400 participants (4 to 9 per municipality),
half of whom would be municipal corporation members or employees and the other half
community leaders. The project would limit its activities to those municipalities not covered
under the EDP, and would support: (a) one local technical staff within SEDA to promote and
monitor program design and implementation for about 36 staff months; (b) development of
curricula, methodologies, technical and teaching materials, specific to the needs of the different
types of municipalities; (c) reproduction of technical and teaching materials (26,000 manuals,
16,000 pamphlets, 200 videos, and 300 flipcharts); (d) about 150 workshops, of 2 to 3 days
duration; (e) fees and per-diem of instructors to prepare and teach workshops (about 1,600
instructor days); (f) about 4,600 surface round-trips for participants; (g) participant lodging and
meals (about 10,600 participant days); (h) an implementation contract with an NGO or private
firm; and (i) international consultant services (about 3 staff months) to advise SEDA on the
detailed contents of terms of reference (TORs), the technical merit of proposals, and the quality of
intermediate products developed in the design phase of the program. The participants in each
seminar would come from municipalities with similar environmental problems and levels of
organization. The workshops would cover the most important local environmental issues in the
different regions of Honduras, and would promote local environmental commnittees and demand
for resources available in the project and elsewhere to finance small environmental projects.
3.    SEDA is responsible for the component in close consultation with FHIS. The component
is expected to be implemented over a three-year period: one year for the design phase and two
years for workshop execution. The workshops would require 3 to 4 instructors working full time.
TORs and a time-bound action plan for the execution of the component have been prepared by
SEDA, in consultation with FHIS. As condition of disbursement against this component. SEDA
would provide evidence to IDA that satisfactory progress in the implementation of the pilot
municipal environmental management subcomponent of the EDP had been achieved in at least
two of the four selected regions through, inter alia, completed municipal diagnostics, draft



76                             ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 5
municipal environmental actions plans, letters from mayors certifying benefits derived from the
technical assistance, and successful implementation of local workshops.



APPENDIX 1
HONDURAS THIRD SOCLAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PROATAM: Detailed Cost Matrii
10. 0l
days to                                                                   No.    Totli Cost
No. of   Prepare      No of        No. of                              No. of     Persons  of each Type Totel da   Total days
Visits to    and    Partidipnts  MunkipalItkes  Cost of    No. or  Munmdpaltles  Trained    of Task         of        per      Cost of
Task                          Durtion  the Plidd   Report    In Tak         In Task       Task      Tasks      Serviced    per Theme   (USS)   Instruction paticipant Instructors
InbroducIo,acg fiarnework                                    2          0        14      30          3to7        3,450.00     47         271         1410       162,150         346     2,120     S4,600
Envormeuncmt mu_   t  in,mrl m                              2.7       0.7         3      30          3to7        3,020.59     47         271         1410       141,968         395     3,815     39,535
Ernvironsmetalnumtgenmtinurbanmra(iTnplecam)                2.5       0.5         3      30           5to6       2,925.00     11          60          330        31,075          33      325       3,300
Enviranents_,numag.nninurban rem (conpvex)                   3          1         3      30          3to4        3,300.00     7           24         210         23,100          63      530       4,200
Technique La1rim                                             2          1         2      30         12 to 16     2,400.00     7          105         210         16,800         42       420       4300
Technique ofwater trnsent (rcsidual)                         2          1         2      30          12to 16     2,400.00     7           105         210        16,S00          42      420       4,200
Techniques ofnimuosmwwid arms                                2          1         2      30         12to16       2,400.00     7          105          210        16,300          42      420       4,200
TechniqusofxeSxradm                                         2          1         2      30         12to 16      2,400.00     7           105         210        16,300          42      420       4,200
Techniquesofprotectiz_wata sourco                            2          1         2      30         12to16       2,400.00     7          105          210        16,300          42      420       4,200    -J
Tcchniqucoffirmomig nenaausatiesand ahniisation              2          1         2      30         12to16       2,400.00     7          105          210        16,300          42      420       4,200
Totad                              N.A.      N.A.      N.A.    N.A            N.A.           NA.    154          N.A.         4620       459,093      1,644    10,510    164,435
Unk Costs (USS)
Inaitr per day                                             100
psnicipnt per day                                           20                                                                      Days avaiable per year                      260
TranpoUtion of pmtcipa                                      15                                                                      Yeam in execution of PROATAM                 2
Loicvs  to field                                             5                                                                      No. of ntructors needed (full-time)         3.2
Instuton/ask                                                 2
Source: SEDA, 1995
C    .



APPENDIX 2
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PROATAM: Detailed Cost Matrix
Number of Tasks                             Costs (US$)
Task                                     1997       1998       1999          1997          1998       1999   TOTAL
Introduction, general framework                                          11         26         10       37,950         89,700    34,500    162,197
Environmental management in rural areas                                  11         26         10       33,226         78,535     30,206    142,014
Environmental management in urban areas (simple cases)                    3          6          2         8,475        16,950      5,650     31,086
Environmental management in urban areas (complex)                         2          4          1         6,600        13,200      3,300    23,107
Technique latrines                                                        1          4          2         2,400         9,600      4,800     16,807
Techniques of water treatment (residual)                                  1          4          2         2,400         9,600      4,800     16,807
Techniques of management of undeveloped areas                             1          4          2         2,400         9,600      4,800     16,807
Techniques of reforestration                                              1          4          2         2,400         9,600      4,800     16,807
Techniques of protecting water sources                                    1          4          2         2,400         9,600      4,800     16,807
Techniques of municipal financing and environmental administration        1          4          2         2,400         9,600      4,800     16,807
Totals                                     33         86          35      100,651       255,985    102,456   459,246
No. of months of administration:           12             12         6         30
Salaries:                               3,150         2,250      2,250
Office expenses:                          750           750        750
Utility (20% of salaries/expenses):       780           600        600
Total administration per month:         4,680          3,600     3,600
Total administration costs:            56,160        43,200     21,600    120,960
Total Implementation PROATAM:         156,811       299,185    124,056    580,053
Source: SEDA, 1995.
a-=1



APPENDIX 3
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PROATAM: Detailed Cost Matnx
Cost     Tota bas 
per        cost       (-                    % -       ----- (-----                    -USS '000--------)
Item                             Quantity   -Unit        unit       USS '000       1996         1997      1998         1999_       1996       1997        1998       1999 
Semnur-workshop: Intoction, GeneradFranework                      47   Workshop         3450        162.15       0          2.3        55          21          0.0        38.0        89.7       34.5
Semiar-workshop: EnvwomnetalMnagementmnRuralAmas                  47   Workshop      3020.59        141.97       0          23         55          21          0.0        33.2        78.5       30.2
Semmar-workhhop: EmironmnentalM nfageent mUrbanAreas              11   Workshop         2S25         31.08       0          27         55          18          0.0         8.5        17.0        5.7
Seminar-workshop: EnvoronmentalMNagcementinTUrban Arcas            7   Workshop         3300         23.10       0          29         57          14          0.0         6.6        13.2        3.3
Seminar-workahop: Techniques Lasincs                               7   Worshop         24000         16.80       0          14         57          29          0.0         2.4         9.6        4.8
Seminar-workshop: Techniques of Water Tatment                      7   Workshop         2400         16.80       0          14         57          29          0.0         2.4         9.6        4.8
Seminar-workshop: Techtiques of Operating Wildlife Aras            7   Workshop         2400         16.80       0          14         57          29          0.0         2.4         9.6        4.8
Semninr-woikhop: Techniques of Reforestafion                       7   Workshop         2400         16.80       0          14         57          29          0.0         2.4         9.6        4.8
Seminar-workshop: Techniques Protecting Sources                    7   Workshop         2400         16.80      14          57         29           0          2.4         9.6         4.8        4.8
Seminar-workshop: Techniques MunicipalFiances                      7   Workshop         2400         16.80       0          14         57          29          0.0         2.4         9.6        4.8
Technical assistance: Municipal techniques                        36      r/p            550         19.80      17          33         33          33          3.3         6.6         6.6        6.6
Advi-sy services: Supervision products                             3      m/p          10000         30.00      80          20                                 24.0        6.0         0.0        0.0
Adniitration ofte imsplcnentationofPROATAM                        30 man-months         4032        120.96       0          46         36          18          0.0        55.2        43.2       21.6
Cunicula devecpment PROATAM                                        I    Study          50000         50.00      100                                            50.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Didactic Material Devdopment                                      15      Unit          4000         60.00      60          40                                 36.0       24.0         0.0        0.0
Didactic Matrial AdAtion                                          15      Unit          1000         15.00      60          40         9            6          0.0         0.0
PrintingWreproducngManua                                       26,000     Unit             3         78.00      20          S0                                 15.6       62.4         0.0        0.0
Printing/repod   Pampleft                                      16,000     Unit             1         16.00      20          80                                 3.2        12.8         0.0        0.0
Printingreprodig Folio                                         16,000     Unit           0.3          4.80      20          S0                                 1.0         3.8
Fofios                                                           300      Unit           100         30.00      20          S0                                 6.0        24.0         0.0        0.0
Production of Videos                                             200      Unit            32          6.40      20          80                                 1.3         5.1         0.0        0.0
TOTAL                                                  N.A.        N.A.       NA.          890.06      17          35         34          15         149.3      307.6       305.8       130.7
Source: SEDA, 1995
CAh



80                                 ANNEX 13
Page 1 of6
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
Local Costs  Foreign Exchange       Total Cost
Project Component.              US$'OOO    US$'OOO       / %    US$'000      %
A. FHIS Portfolio
1. Subprojects                           74,250.0    20,750.0      22      95,000.0     84
(a) Education                           (32,800.0)   (8,200.0)    20    (41,000.0)    36
(b) Health & Latrines                    (5,250.0)   (1,750.0)    25      (7,000.0)     6
(c) Water & Sanitation                  (17,500.0)   (7,500.0)    30    (25,000.0)    22
(d) Other                               (18,700.0)   (3,300.0)    15    (22,000.0)    20
2. Basic Needs Programs                    4.250.0      750.0      15       5.000.0      4
Subtotal                           78,500.0    21,500.0     22    100,000.0      89
B. Institutional Strengthening
1. Strengthening Management ofthe            27.0       158.0      85        185.0      0
Subproject Cycle
2. Training Programs for Management and      35.0        36.6      51         71.6      0
Staff
3. Accounting and Internal Auditing           5.2        52.5      91         57.7      0
4. Personnel Systems                          8.5        39.5      82         48.0      0
5. MIS                                       12.0        62.6      84         74.6      0
6. Basic Needs                                3.5        21.5      86         25.0      0
7. Community Participation                    3.5        21.5      86         25.0      0
8. Cooperation with US Peace Corps           50.0         -         -         50.0      0
9. Financing of Maintenance                  18.0         -         -          18.0     0
10. Water Supply and Sanitation              30.0       123.0      80        153.0      0
11. Micro Credit (PASI)                      88.6         -         -         88.6      0
Subtotal                             281.3       515.2      65         796.6      I
C. Project Management
1. Administration/Supervision             9,500.8         -         -      9,500.8      8
2. Vehicles and Equipment                   264.8       794.5      75       1,059.4     1
3. External Auditor                         250.0         -         -        250.0      0
Subtotal:                          10,015.6      794.5       7      10,810.2     10
TOTALFHIS        :                 88,796.9    22,809.7     20    11 1,606.8     99
D. Social Sector Data                        96.0        49.0      34         145.0     0
E. Environmental Assistance                 860.0        30.0       3        890.0      1
GRAND TOTAL'                       89,752.9   [22,888.7 j 20    112,641.8    100
I Including taxes and duties amounting to USS 4.4 million.



81                                 ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 6
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENT COSTS BY YEAR (US$'000_
Project Component-       11995t '-:|F:: 1996    -  1997 .    1998.  |  1999'  |   Total
A. FHIS Portfolio
1. Subprojects             10,925.0  22,800.0  23,750.0  24,700.0   12,825.0   95,000.0
(a) Education            (4,825.0)  (10,000.0)  (10,300.0  (10,600.0)   (5,275.0)  (41,000.0)
(b) Health & Latrines    (1,350.2)  (1,550.0)  (1,600.0)   (1,650.0)    (850.0)   (7,000.0)
(c) Water & Sanitation   (2,750,2)  (5,550.0)  (6,150.0)   (6,650.0)   (3,900.0)  (25,000.0)
(d) Other                (2,000.0)  (5,700.0)  (5,700.0)   (5,800.0)   (2,800.0)  (22,000.0)
2. Basic Needs Programs     575.0    1.200.0   1.250.0     1.300.0      675.0    5.000.0
Subtotal            11,500.0  24,000.0   25,000.0   26,000.0   13,500.0   100,000.0-
B. Institutional
Strengthening
1. Strengthening             77.0      108.0             -                -        185.0
Management of the
Subproject Cycle
2. Training Programs for     30.0       21.6      20.0         -          -         71.6
Management and Staff
3. Accounting and nternal    38.5       19.2       -           -          -         57.7
Auditing
4. Personnel Systems         48.0        -         -           -          -         48.0
5. MIS                       37.6       37.0       -           -          -         74.6
6. Basic Needs               25.0        -         -           -          -         25.0
7. Community Participation   25.0        -         -           -          -         25.0
8. Cooperation with US       20.0       30.0       -           -          -         50.0
Peace Corps
9. Financing of Maintenance  15.0        3.0       -           -                    18.0
10. Water Supply and         50.5      102.5       -           -          -        153.0
Sanitation
11. Micro Credit (PASI)      88.6        -         -           -          -         88.6
Subtotal             455.2      321.3      20.0         -          -        796.6.
C. Project Management
1. Administration2        1,137.4    2,315.7   2,371.3     2,430.7    1,245.7    9,500.8
2. Vehicles and Equipment2  525.0      534.4       -           -          -       1,059.4
3. External Auditor2         30.0       61.0      62.4       64.0        32.6      250.0
Subtotal            1,692.4    2,911.1   2,433.7    2,494.7    1,278.3    10,810.2
TOTAL FHIS                13,647.6  27,232.4   27,453.7   28,494.7   14,778.3   111,606.8
D. Social Sector Data        80.0       65.0       -           -          -        145.0
E. Environmental Assistance             33.3     216.8      426.6       213.3      890.0
GRAND TOTAL..   .         .13,727.6.. 27,330.7  27,670.5   28,921.3   14,991.6   112,6418
Because of the four-year implementation period, from mid-1995 to mid-1999, 1995 and 1999 show only
half of the projected costs for FHIS' investments, administration, and external auditor.
2 Including price contingencies of 1.8 percent in 1996, 2.4 percent in 1997, 2.5 percent in 1998, and 2.5
percent in 1999,



82                                   ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 6
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
COSTS OF ADMINISTRATION (US$'000)
.Cate~~~~~~ory  J__19951__J . .... . . 19.96. j   199799'jTo
Personnel Costs         796.4    1,621.5     1,660.4       1,701.9       872.2      6,652.4
Services                189.5     385.8        395.1         405.0       207.6      1,583.0
Materials and Supplies   71.0      144.6       148.0         151.7        77.7        593.0
Transfers                42.6       86.7        88.8          91.0        46.7       355.8
Depreciation             37.9       77.2        79.0          81.0        41.5       316.6
.Tot..-                1137.4    2,315.7     2,371         2,430,7       2          950l:8
1/ Because of the four-year implementation period from mid-1995 to mid-1999, 1995 and 1999 show only
half of the projected costs.
2/ Including price contingencies of 1.8 percent in 1996, 2.4 percent in 1997, 2.5 percent in 1998, and 2.5
percent in 1999.
COSTS OF VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
-C:-: :-Conipouient;  i t|000: -; :iNumber  U Unit C ost (US$1  j Total ost (IJS$)
*  Vehicles (4WD)             30                28,000.0            840,000.0
*  Copier Machines             8                12,500.0            100,000.0
*  Computers                  30                 2,000.0             60,000.0
*  Laser Printers              4                 6,000.0             24,000.0
*  Accessories                                                       26,000.0
iT-tdBase Cost!                                                    , 050,0  0
Purchase Year
1995                                                        525,000.0
1996                                                        534,400.0 1/
!-Total Cost   -   - ::                   I --                                      I
1/ Including price contingency of 1.8 percent in 1996.



83                                       ANNEX 13
Page4 of6
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
RECURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS'
Education
As detailed in Annex 1, it is estimated that, for the next four years, 2,868
classrooms will require construction and reconstruction and 1 1,800 classrooms will
require rehabilitation and repair. Moreover, 2,566 bathrooms and 6,294 latrines in
existing schools need repair or rehabilitation. The necessary investment per year is
estimated as follows:2 3
Table 1: Necessary Investment in Education
(Total Number)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5
Classrooms:
Construction                           381    789    892    806    2,868
Rehabilitation/Repair                 3,089   3,129   3,173   2,409   11,800
Bathrooms:
Rehabilitation/Repair                  700    700    700    466    2,566
Latrines:
Rehabilitation/Repair                 2,000  2,000  2,000      294   6,294
Source: Bank estimates, February 1995.
If these investments are realized and to be sustained, the additional operations and
maintenance costs amount to US$3.0 million as of the last year of the project. Also, an
amount of approximately US$4.5 million annually would be required to cover the salaries
of teachers of new schools/classrooms. The incremental recurrent costs are projected as
follows:
The recurrent costs in this section reflect the maximum costs if FlIS were to meet all current needs.
However, this goes well beyond F.IS' capacity.
2 The total number of new classrooms excludes the 290 classrooms which will be constructed under the
Basic Education Project assisted by IDA.
3 Includes only investments in Basic Education for which detailed information is available (see Annex 1).
The recent Ministry of Education's decision to also invest in secondary education means that
construction and rehabilitation of some secondary school classrooms will replace programmed
construction and rehabilitation of primary school classrooms. The financial resource requirements to
cover recurrent costs would remain the same.



84                                      ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 6
Table 2: Incremental Costs for Education
(USS '000)
Year 1     Year 2        Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
Clasurooms:
Maintenance of new classrooms         0          60.9        187.2       330.0       458.9
Maintenance of
rehabilitated classrooms            0         494.2         994.9     1,502.6      1,888.0
Bathrooms:
Maintenance                           0         168.0        336.0       504.0       615.8
Latrines:
Maintenance                           0          8.0          16.0        24.0        25.2
Total                          0         631.1       1,534.1     2,360.6     2,987.9
Source: Bank staff estimates, February 1995.
The teachers' salaries needed for the new classrooms would be as follows:
Table 3: Additional Teachers' Salaries
(US$ '000)
Year 1   Year 2       Year 3      Year 4    Year 5
Salaries                                0       594.0        1,825.6    3,217.8    4,474.6
Source: Bank staff staff estimates, February 1995.
The Ministry of Education (MOE) would have to budget the annually required
amounts for teachers' salaries.



85                                 ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 6
HEALTH
Various existing health centers (CESAMOS and CESAR), which are in poor
shape, need to be replaced, as shown in the table below:
Table 4: Necessary Investment in Health
(Total Number)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Total
Health Centers                     40      40    40    40    160
Source: Bank staff estimates, February 1995.
If these investments are realized and to be sustained, the incremental cost for
operations and maintenance would be as follows:
Table 5: Incremental Costs for Health
(USS '000)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year s
Health Centers                       0    16.0  32.0  48.0  64.0
Source: Bank staff estimates, February 1995.
Water Supply and Sanitation
Due to the nature of the water supply and sanitation projects which FHIS finances,
it is expected that the operations and maintenance costs of the water systems, the drainage
systems, and latrines would be covered entirely by the beneficiaries.



86                                                              Annex 14
Page 1 of I
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PROJECT FINANCING BY SOURCE (US$'000)
TOTAL          IDA      IDB hi          GOH         Beneficiaries /c   Others d/
A. FHIS Portfolio                        100,000.0     27,773.9  39,048.1         2,450.5           5,000.0      25,727.5
1. Subprojects                            95,000.0     25,773.9  38,000.0          748.6            4,750.0      25,727.5
(a) Education                            (41,000.0) c/  (8,773.9) (23,000.0)       (-)             (2,050.0)     (7,176.1)
(b) Health and Latrines                   (7,000.0) F   (1,000.0)  (2,000.0)       (----)            (350.0)     (3,650.0)
(c) Water and Sanitation                 (25,000.0)    (10,000.0)  (4,000.0)        (  )           (1,250.0)     (9,750.0)
(d) Other                                (22,000.0) g/  (6,000.0)  (9,000.0)      (748.6)          (1,100.0)     (5,151.4)
2. Basic Needs Programs                    5,000.0      2,000.0   1,048.1         1,701.9            250.0            ----
B. Institutional Strengthening              796.6         291.6     504.9  /a
1. Strengthening Management of the Subproject  185.0       ----     185.0  /a       ----               ----
2. Training Programs for Management and Staff  71.6        ----      71.6  /a.       ----              ----
3. Accounting and Internal Auditing          57.7          ----      57.7  /a.       ----              ----          ----
4. Personnel Systets                         48.0          ----      48.0  /a .      ----              ----          ----
5. MIS                                       74.6                    74.6  /a.                         ----          ----
6. Basic Needs                               25.0                    25.0  /a                          ----          ----
7. Community Participation                   25.0           ---      25.0  /a        ----
8. Cooperation with US Peace Corps           50.0          50.0      ----           ----
9. Financing of Maintenance                  18.0          ----      18.0  /a
10. Water Supply and Sanitation             153.0         153.0      ----
11. Micro Credit (PASI)                      88.6         88.6       ----
C. Project Management                     10,810.2      1,044.5     951.9         8,813.7              ----          ----
1. Administration                          9,500.8         ----     951.9        8,548.9               ----
2. Vehicles and Equipment                  1,059.4       794.5                     264.8               ----
3. External Auditor                         250.0        250.0       ----            ----              ----          ----
TOTAL FHIS                               111,606.8     29,110.0  40,504.9        11,264.2           5,000.0      25,727.5
D. Social Sector Data                       145.0          ----     115.0  /a        ----              ----         30.0  /a
E. Environmental Assistance                 890.0         890.0      ----            ----              ----          ----
GRAND TOTAL                              112,641.8     30,000.0  40,619.9        11,264.2           5,000.0      25,757.5
Source: Bank staff estimates, February 1995.
/a Grb:.t funding.
/b IDB ulsz funding part-time support by technical assistance implementation facilitator for the first year of the project.
/c Contributions in cash, labor, land and/or materials.
d Inc!uding KfW and OPEC.
,' Including US$6.2 million under the Basic Education Project (USS4.6 million KfW, USSO.3 million from IDA, and US$1.3 million from GOH).
f Including US$2.8 million under the Nutrition and Health Project (US$2.5 million from IDA, and US$0.3 million from GOH).
'y Including I TSS2.9 million under the Enviromnmental Development Project (US$2.6 million from IDA, and US$0.3 million from GOH).



87                                    ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROJECT
CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements*
(USS'000)
2a:!Fl    - ::-       e       -D Diab   -      C uuti eDbs                Loa b Balane
Ean Fica    Semester       ihsbursed       C ultve Dibursement    La   aac
Yer            ndn           Durnng
S:-::Sester   A- ount           % of Total
1996           December 95       5,000.0**      5,000.0           17          25,000.0
June 96           2,600.0        7,600.0           25          22,400.0
1997           December 96       2,700.0       10,300.0           34          19,700.0
June 97           2,800.0       13,100.0           44          16,900.0
1998           December 97       3,125.0       16,225.0           54          13,775.0
June 98           3,125.0       19,350.0           65          10,650.0
1999           December 98       3,750.0       23,100.0           77           6,900.0
June 99           3,775.0       26,875.0           90           3,125.0
2000           December 99       3,125.0       30,000.0           100              0.0
* Disbursement schedule has been estimated based on experience with the first two FHJS projects.
** Includes initial deposit in the special account of USS2.0 million and reflects retroactive financing of up to
US$3 million for expenditures incurred on or after January 1, 1995.



HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1995                     1 199S                    1997                     1 19981                   1999      
ID    Task Narme                                    Duratio      Start       Finish   Otr 1 |Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 |Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 lQtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 lQtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 |Qtr 2Qtr 3 QIr 4
I     Cr*I Efledlvas                                      Od iIas6                          8/16Ma
2     Subptd C       _t Inb                             1108d       I1/2/95    3/31 1                          I                                                                                   3/31
3     S.bpr*kdDi.bru...nt                               1143d 8t.9            12J31t
4     T.ulo     Alsdft   to FIUS                         521d      895    1U/31/97
5            Ssbpr4wty.W 5C.d                                       t29195     11/14t97          8/2                                                            1
6            Pwronnd M   gemnt & Troing                  5S8d      8/16t95     11/14/97         8/1S                                                             11/14
7            Accqmnang/Audtng                            112d      9/25         2/8966                              2/
89         - Pwaoermle Sy|m.                              69d      9n26/95     12129/95            9/26_        129
9          -MIS                                =    9      d       9/26/95      6/296              9
199d ~~~~~~~~~~~~2.6/2890
10          - B.skN..d.                                   Sd        SU9tu      -V9-95             8
894  8/29/95  12/29/95       ~~8/29          12/29
11          - Coammunfty Paridpal n9Nd                              8/29/95    12129/95           8/29  -112/29
12          - Coop da ntIJUS Pe C.rp.                    523d    I/1/96  12/31/97                               __ _ _                                              12/31
13          - FtaundngofM.Int|                           112d       8/29195     1/31/96                            1/31
14    Sodal Dolt (SECPLAN)                               1634       816/t95     3/29/96          8/1                   3/29
15    M        Fuv1 Euro.mbnISapp4rt(SEDA)t             783d        7/1196     6130/99                                    _                                                                          _
16           (a) fordgn aonIftant                         66d        7tV        9/3099
Task                                                Milestone                                           Rolled Up Milestone
Project:                                       Task Progress                                       Summary                                             Rolled Up Progress
Date: 5/11/95                                  Critical Task                                       Rolled Up Task                         _                            
Critical Task Progress                              Rolled Up Critical Task                                                'rr 
Page 1                                                     .                                                         (a,
NIh



HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1           1                     1995                     1996                     1997                     1998                      1999
ID    Task Namrie                                  Duratio      Start      Finish   Qtr  Qtr  Qtr 3Qtr 4Qtr I Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr I |Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr I OQtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 410trI 1Qtr 2 Qtr 3Qtr4
17          (b) _o.J ___hmt.                            783d       7/1U96     6/30/99                                 711                                                                             6130
18          (e) Wns-kslsnps      -5224                             7/1/S7     6/30/99                                                          7/1                                                     6/30
19     Vhkk.and Equlp.nmt                                  d 34Sd  9/119S    12/31/96         .                   _               _
20          - Bidding                                   t51d       9/1/95     W 319196_
21          -dK.ry                                      2S4d      11/30/95    12/31/96               11/30                              12131
22    P*d Compidlon                                       Od       6J39/99     6/30/99                                                                                                                   6/30
23    codIt Closing                                       04      12/31/99    12/31/99
'00
Task                                               Milestone                                         Rolled Up Milestone       *
Project:                                      Task Progress                                      Summary                                            Rolled Up Progress
Date: 5/11/95                                 Critical Task                                      Rolled Up Task                                                                                                       cm
Critical Task Progress                             Rolled Up Critical Task r
_  a0
Page 2



90                               ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 5
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1.    Because of the change in FIHIS' objective from emergency response to poverty
reduction, there is an urgent need to establish a monitoring and evaluation system
allowing the Government, FHIS, and the donors to assess: (i) regularly, the project's
organizational, financial, and physical progress; and (ii) from time to time, the project's
impact on meeting critical social sector needs, as described in Annex 1. The system
should provide all data needed by FILS' management for its decision process, by the
external auditors for their quarterly and yearly audits, and by FHIS' management and the
donors for supervision, Annual Project Reviews, the Mid-Term Review, and the Project
Implementation Completion (see Annex 18).
2.    To assist in establishing a simple, realistic, and useful system, technical assistance
would be provided in the context of the study on strengthening the management of the
subproject cycle (see Annex 10). However, FHIS' management needs access to project
performance data as of the start of the project, and a set of key project performance
monitoring indicators was discussed during negotiations; agreement was also reached on
their inclusion in semi-annual progress reports. (See Appendix).
3.    The eventual full set of performance and impact indicators should cover: (a) the
efficiency and quality of FillS' subprojects; (b) the administration and financial efficiency
of FHIS; (c) the focus of FHIS' investments; and (d) the impact of FHIS' subprojects.
4.    The Efficiency and Quality of Subprojects. A comparison of results ex-ante
and ex-post of completed subprojects needs to cover: (a) the established and projected
physical capacity; (b) the total actual and projected costs of the subprojects and the
counterpart amounts from the community; (c) the person-months of direct employment
generated and projected; (d) the number of projects implemented which show unit costs
which fall outside the established acceptable range; (e) the number of projects which
comply with the norms established by the principal sector agency and with the technical
specifications of the designs of the subprojects; (f) the percentage of cases with
satisfactory quality of workmanship; (g) the percentage of cases with satisfactory quality
of materials; (h) the percentage of subproject which have a satisfactory location; (i) the
percentage of cases which comply with environmental protection measures; and (j) the
number of projects which comply with the established criteria in the operational manual
for promoting, evaluating, contracting and supervising.
5.    The Efficiency of FHIS' Administration and Finance. General performance
indicators for FHLS and its operational units need to cover: (i) the number of subprojects
and the amounts processed by each unit (promotion, evaluation, approval, contracting,
implementation, closing and submission of the subprojects) and the comparison with the
objectives established in the Annual Operational Program; (ii) average period of



91                                 ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 5
processing in each of the operational units, compared with the established period; (iii) the
number of technical and administrative personnel in each unit, compared with the target;
(iv) administrative cost, compared with the established target; (v) disbursements of the
subproject components; (vi) disbursement of the institutional strengthening component;
(vii) revenues and expenditures by sources of funds; (viii) development of the inter-
institutional coordination with established principals of each sector; and (ix) compliance
with the contractual norms established in the agreement.
6.    The Use of FHIS Resources. This will include the review of: (a) the total
amounts channeled to the municipalities, classified by levels of poverty (very poor, poor,
deficient, regular, and acceptable), and compared with the targets; (b) the number of
subprojects and the amounts channeled to the sectors, classified by sector and compared
with ehe targets; and (c) the municipal per capita investment classified according to one
of the poverty levels and compared with the initially assigned per capita level.
7.    The Impact of the Subprojects. The impact of the subprojects will be
determined based on the evaluation of a sample of completed subprojects and during the
implementation phases. This evaluation will be realized for the Mid-Term Review report
and for the Project Implementation Report (PIR). FHIS will have the basic responsibility
for preparing the information for this analysis. The information for these reports will be
gathered through field visits and direct interviews with the beneficiaries. The analysis will
concentrate on (i) the characteristics of the beneficiaries to determine how FHIS
distributes investments for the poor and complies with the established selected criteria;
(ii) the effective utilization of the subprojects and the start-up of the social services for
those which were originally approved; (iii) the maintenance and operation of the projects
to-date and the perspectives for their future sustainability; and (iv) the priority of the
subprojects, according to the direct beneficiaries.



92                                                       ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 5
HONDURAS THIRD SOCLAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
WORK PROGRAM FOR YEARS:
LAST UPDATE:
No   INDICATORS                           INFORMATION              INDICATOR'S                     RESULT PRESENTATION
.SOURCE                   OBJECTIVE                       MAY    JUNE   JULY
.EiirP       R  mRECIOIaATE (PROMOTIONi AN  EVALUATION) ....
I      Total number and amount of project   Project data base.     Deteminea effective demand
investments requests tht comply         (Promotion)        and FHIS's Promotion capacity.
with eligibility criteria and appraisal
requirements.
2      Number of Promoters.               Personnel data base.     Determines whether Promotion
Directorate has the required
amount of promoters.
3      Total number and amount of project   Project data base.     Determines appraisal capacity.
invstment appraised.                    (Evaluation)
4      Number of evaluators.              Personnel data base.     Detennines whether Promotion
Directorate has the required
amount of evaluators.
OPERATIONS.COMMITTEE LEGAL DIRECTORATE 7.
1      Number and amount of project       Project data base.       Determines project processing
investment appraised in Operations      (Committee)        capacity.
Conmnittee.
2      Number and total amount of projects  Project data base.     Determines potential bottlenecks
under contract                       (Legal Directorate)    in Legal Directorate.
3      Number of persons working in Legal  Personnel data base.    Determines whether Legal
Directorate.                                                Directorate has the necessary
amount of personnel required for
speeding up contractin&
TARGETING AND GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION........
1      Percentage of total project        Project data base.       Ascertain FHIS's reaching
investment approved in                  (Targeting)        target criteria.
municipalities with poverty category
VERY POOR.
2      Percentage of total project        Project data base.       Ascertain FHIS's reaching
investment approved in                  (Targeting)        target criteria.
municipalities with poverty category
POOR.
3      Percentage of total project        Project data base.       Ascertain FHIS's reaching
investment approved in                  (Targeting)        taget criteria.
municipalities with poverty category
DEFICIENT.
4      Percentage of total project        Project data base.       Ascertain FHIS's reaching
investment approved in                  (Targeting)        target critefia.
municipalities with poverty category
REGULAR
5      Percentage of total project        Project data base.       Ascertain FHIS's reaching
investment approved in                  (Targeting)        target criteria.
municipalities with poverty category
ACCEPTABLE.
6      Investment per capita in           Project data base.       Measures closeness of real
municipalities with poverty category    (Targeting)        allocations versus projected
VERY POOR.                                                  allocations.



93                                                       ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 5
No     INDICATORS                         INFORMATION             INDICATOR'S                    RESULT PRESENTATION
SOURCE                  OBJECTIVE                      MAY    JUNE   JULY
7      Investment per capita in           Project data base.      Measures closeness of real
municipalities with poverty category    (Targeting)        allocations versus projected
POOR.                                                      allocations.
8      Investment per capita in           Project data base.      Measures ctoseness of real
municipalities with poverty category    (Targeting)        allocations versus projected
DEFICIENT.                                                 allocations.
9      Investment per capita in           Project data base.      Measures closeness of real
municipalities with poverty category    (Targeting)        allocations versus projected
REGULAR                                                    allocations.
10     Investment per capita in           Project data base.      Measures closeness of real
municipalities with poverty category    (Targeting)        allocations versus projected
ACCEPTABLE.                                                allocations.
SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTP ATION
I      Total project investment contracts  Project data base.     Ascertain how close total cost
over total appraised cost base.      (Evaluation/Legal)    estimated are to reality.
2      Total number and amount of project   Project data base.    Determines FHIS's production
investment in initial execution.       (Supervision)       capacity.
3      Total number and amount of project   Project data base.    Determines FHIS's installed
investment in current execution.       (Supervision)       capacity.
4      Number of project investment in    Project and personnel   Determines whether supervision
actual execution over number of   data base.               has the effective capacity for
supervisors                                                handling current comnitrments.
5      Percentage of total project        Project data base.      Determines potential bottlenecks
investments in actual execution with   (Supervision)       in Supervision and project area
original contracted execution time                         that are on critical path.
overdue.
6      Percentage of total project        Project data base.      Determines FHIS 's capacity for
investment modified due to cost        (Supervision)       estimating costs as close to
overruns.                                                  reality as possible.
7      Number and amount of project       Project data base.      Determnines projects' flow
investment actually suspended due      (Supervision)       efficiency, evaluation and
to contractors failure to comply with                      supervision quality.
contract requirements and
specifications.
S      Number and amount of total project   Project data base.    Measures how close actual
investment terminated.                 (Supervision)       executed projects are getting to
total program of project
terminated.
9      Number and amount of projects      Project data base.      Measures compliance upon
completed in relation to               (Supervision)       project completion.
disbursements.                       (Administration)
10     Average execution time of project  Project data base.      Determines projects' flow
investment terminated (Days).          (Supervision)       efficiency, evaluation and
(Administration)     supervision quality.
11     Average time span between contract   Project data base.    Deternines potential bonlenecks
signing and ftrst disbursement         (Supervision)       in the Supervision and
(Days).                              (Administration)      Administration Departments.    .



94                                                       ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 5
No   INDICATORS                           INFORMATION              INDICATOR'S                     RESULT PRESENTATION
SOURCE                   OBJECTIVE                      MAY    JUNE   JULY
12     Accumulated disbursements for the    Project data base.     Determines execution levels,
period.                                 (Supervision)       balance to be disbursed and
(Administration)     FHIS's capacity for handling
disbursements at a certain period
of time.
13     Percentages of total disbursements in   Project data base.  Determnines degree of FHIS's
relation to total commitments.          (Supervision)       financial progress.
(Administration)
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION, PROJECT QU ALIT  NOPINEO
ENVIROXNMElTAlREGULATIONS                    :
I      Month employrnent generated from   Projec data base.        Ascertain how close appraisal
executed projects over month        (Supervision/Evaluat.)   employment estimates are to
employment projected at ex-ante                             reality.
appraisal.
2      Percentage of total project executed    Project data base.  Monitors quality of projects
with quality on or above the norm.  (Supervision/Quality)    executed.
3      Percentage of total projects executed   Project data base.  Monitors compliance of
for which contracton have complied  (Supervision/Quality)    environmnental regulations
with the requisites and                                     specified in the contracts.
environmental regulations



95                              ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN AND MID-TERM REVIEW
I.    Although the proposed project is the third operation of its kind, experience under
the first two projects confirms the justification of close supervision. In addition, with the
objective of the FHIS changed from emergency fund to fund for poverty reduction, there
is now a need to review not only the physical results of the subprojects, but also the extent
to which they (i) respond to demand expressed by the communities, and (ii) fit within the
Government's social sector priorities. Consequently, the project will require about 17
staff-weeks of supervision each year. In addition, 3 staff-weeks are budgeted in 1995 for
the first Annual Project Review, 12 staff-weeks in 1997 to support the Mid-Term Review,
and 6 staff-weeks in 1999 to support the Project Implementation Completion.
2.    The proposed composition and staffing level of the supervision program for each
year of the project is presented in the appendix. The supervision teams will vary in
composition, and include, apart from the Task Manager, as needed, other IDA staff and
consultants with expertise in the areas of engineering, water supply and sanitation,
statistics, community participation, environment, MIS, procurement, disbursement, and
auditing. Supervision missions will normally be conducted twice a year, in May and
November, beginning in November 1995. The November supervision missions will
coincide with the Annual Project Reviews. A Mid-Term Review mission has been
scheduled for when 50 percent of the credit has been committed, or two years after credit
effectiveness, whichever comes first; this is tentatively budgeted to coincide with the
November 1997 supervision mission, but may be advanced. All missions will involve
discussions with project officials in FHIS, as well as field visits, on the basis of which the
missions will evaluate:
(a)   credit commitments and disbursements by project component;
(b)   technical quality of subprojects;
(c)   implementation progress of the agreed annual work program;
(d)   project benefits in education, health, and water supply and sanitation,
measured on the basis of agreed monitoring indicators;
(e)   relationship with social line ministries and municipalities;
(f)   organization and management of FHIS; and
(g)   compliance with project administrative procedures, including procurement,
disbursement, accounting, and semi-annual reporting requirements.
3.    The missions will be helped by the data and information provided by FHIS in the
semi-annual progress reports by no later than March 31 and September 30 of each year, as
well as by the quarterly audit reports of both ongoing and completed projects prepared by
the independent external auditor.
Annual Reviews
4.    Beginning in 1995, Annual Reviews will be held by November 30 of each year by
FHIS, MOF, SECPLAN, MOE, MOH, and IDA, IDB, and KfW to cover, inter alia: (a)



96                               ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3
progress in implementing the project and attaining its objectives, according to the agreed
set of key project performance monitoring indicators (see Annex 17); (b) the agreed work
program for the past year and the proposed work program for the next year; (c) the
proposed investment and administrative budget for the next year; (d) the provision of
teachers for completed education facilities by MOE and the funding of maintenance by
MOE, MOH, the municipalities, and/or the final beneficiaries; (e) progress in community
participation in general and by women and indigenous people in particular; and (f)
modifications in project design, if needed, to adjust to changing circumstances.
5.    Each year, FHIS will provide IDA, IDB, and KfW, by no later than October 31 (a)
for their approval, a proposed annual work program for the subsequent year, including
activities to be implemented in each subcomponent and their respective costs and funding
and (b) annual reports on project progress (supplementing the semi-annual report
mentioned in para. 3). If, as a result of the review of these documents and the subsequent
discussions, it is decided that corrective action by Government or FHIS is required, the
Government or FHIS, as the case may be, will promptly carry out such action.
Mid-Term Review
6.    The Mid-Term Review will be held after about two years. It will have the same
participants as the Annual Review meetings. The main objectives of the Mid-Term
Review are to evaluate project performance during implementation, to provide project
management with immediate feed-back on project achievements as well as on areas
needing improvement, to justify and decide upon eventual changes in project scope and
design, and to document the status of project execution thoroughly for the benefit of the
Borrower and the donors. The Mid-Term Review consists of an initial period of
approximately two weeks, when FHIS collects data and reviews information, assembled
since the beginning of project implementation on technical, administrative, and financial
aspects of the project. Following the arrival of the donor representatives, there will be
joint field visits, a joint report, and discussions with all relevant government parties,
focusing on (i) the targeting of FHIS funds (in order to channel more resources to poorer
municipalities; (ii) the prioritization of sector investments; (iii) the quality of the ongoing
and completed subprojects financed by FHIS, (iv) the impact of FHIS-financed
subprojects; (v) the administrative efficiency and the financial soundness of the operations
of FHIS; (vi) an assessment of the extent to which the experience of the FHIS can
strengthen municipalities, and improve their operations; (vii) an assessment of the
relationship of FHIS with the line ministries (particularly with regard to the prioritization
of investments and the maintenance of completed subprojects); and (viii) the prospects for
the future of FHIS. Following the Mid-Term Review meeting, the Government and FHIS
will ensure expeditious implementation of the agreed corrective action.



97
ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3
APPENDIX
SUPERVISION ANNUAL RESOURCES'
Approx. Dates         Key Activities                Expected Skill              Input
Requirements             Staff Weeks
November 1995   Supervision and Annual    Task Manager                               6 SW
(12 SW)      Project Review            Operations Analyst                       1.5 SW
Procurement Specialist                   1.5 SW
Engineer                                 1.5 SW
Statistician                             1.5 SW
May 1996      Supervision               Task Manager                              6 SW
(8 SW)                                 Operations Analyst                         I SW
Environmental Specialist                  I SW
November 1996   Supervision and Annual    Task Manager                               6 SW
(9 SW)       Project Review            Operations Analyst                       1.5 SW
Procurement Specialist                   1.5 SW
May 1997      Supervision               Task Manager                              6 SW
(9 SW)                                 Operations Analyst                       1.5 SW
Environmental Specialist                 1.5 SW
November 1997   Supervision and Mid-Term  Task Manager                               7 SW
(20 SW)                        Review  Operations Analyst                         3 SW
Engineer                                  2 SW
Economist                                 2 SW
Community Participation Specialist        2 SW
Procurement Specialist                    I SW
Organization Specialist                   I SW
WID Specialist                            1 SW
Auditor                                   1 SW
Mav 19982      Supervision              Task Manager                               6 SW
(7 SW)                                 Operations Analyst                        1 SW
November 19982   Supervision and Annual    Task Manager                              6 SW
(10 SW)      Project Review            Operations Analyst                       1.5 SW
Procurement Specialist                   1.0 SW
Statistician                             1.5 SW
May 19992      Supervision              Task Manager                               6 SW
(7 SW)                                Operations Analyst                         I SW
November 19992   Final Supervision and     Task Manager                              6 SW
(16 SW)       Project Implementation   Operations Analyst                         3 SW
Completion               Engineer                                   2 SW
Economist                                 2 SW
Community Participation Specialist        I SW
Environmental Specialist                  I SW
Auditor                                   I SW
May be reduced because of cooperation with IDB and KfW and their participation in, at least, the
Annual Project Reviews and Mid-Term Review.
2 The focus .-nd intensity of the supervision work and the composition of the teams in 1998 and 1999 will
be reviewed after the Mid-Term Review to reflect project implementation requirements.



98                             ANNEX 19
Page 1 of2
HONDURAS THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
A.    Studies and Reports on the Project
World Bank. "Honduras: Social Investment Fund Project," Staff Appraisal Report,
February 6, 1991
World Bank. "Honduras: Second Social Investment Fund Project," Staff Appraisal
Report, May 18, 1992.
World Bank. "Honduras: Social Investment Fund Project," Project Completion Report,
August 5,1994.
World Bank. "Honduras: Second Social Investment Fund Project," Mid-Term Review,
December 12, 1994 (draft).
OED. "Honduras: Second Social Investment Fund Projects I and II," Performance
Audit Report, December 30, 1994.
FILS. "El FHIS en Cifras," June 30, 1994.
FMILS. "Informe de Avance," July 1, 1994.
FIlS. "Suggestions for a Draft Appraisal Report. The Third Social Investment Fund
Project," October 24, 1994.
IDB. "Honduras: Evaluaci6n Institutional y Financiera del Fondo Hondureilo de
Inversi6n Social y del Programa de Asignaci6n Familiar," January 1995.
IDB. "Programa Hondurenio de Compensaci6n Social": Propuesta de Prestamo," 1995.
B.    General Studies and Reports
OED. "Honduras: Municipal Development Pilot Project," Performance Audit Report,
March 10, 1995.
Rodriguez Heredia, Rene. "Los Fondos de Inversi6n Social: Proyectos Puntuales o
Procesos Sociales?" June 1994.
UNICEF. "Desarrollo Humano, Infancia y Juventud: Primer Informe de Seguimiento y
Evaluaci6n del Plan de Acci6n Nacional," 1994.
USAID. "Caracteristicas Generales de la Vivienda," 1994 (draft).
World Bank. "Honduras: Nutrition and Health Project," Staff Appraisal Report,
December 14, 1992.
World Bank. "Honduras: Women in Development," January 1993.
World Bank. "Honduras: Country Economic Memorandum/Poverty Assessment."
ReportNo. 13317, 1994.
World Bank. "Poverty Alleviation and Social Investment Funds, The Latin America
Experience." May 23, 1994.
World Bank. "Honduras: Environmental Development Project," Staff Appraisal Report,
March 1, 1995.



ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
World Bank. "Honduras: Basic Education Project," Staff Appraisal Report, March 8,
1995.
World Bank. "Honduras: Reforming Public Investment and the Infrastructure Sectors."
Report No. 14084, April 28, 1995 (draft).
C     Other Documents
FMIS. "Convenio de Cooperaci6n Interinstitucional entre la Asociaci6n de Municipios de
Honduras (AMHON) y el Fondo Hondurenio de Inversi6n Social (FHIS)," June
10, 1994.






88                                                       86,                                                        84,
B E L I Z E                                                                                                                         HONDURAS
I  BELIZE                                                                                                                        AREAS OF POVERTY
0     25    50    75    1 00 Kibomer
i                                                                                                                                     I      I      I     IIROATANG
I  A  ZSDEiA
1 6'                                                                                                                                                                                                6
P.erto Cort&s 0'       TTela
GUATEMALA                         CORE"*)
,-SAN PEDRO   a,4             TAN(>
14~~~~~~~~L                          f         --ATIAPvclNTIcRLg 14'
E                                         .                               _Prores o     P                   0
SAN1A  ~ ~~~~~LACH
(.COPAN0                                        AU
OCOTE ~~~~O                         COM~~~G~~SA            R,
EL SALVADOR 2    HGPOET 0 o5
~~~~~~~~_a  -               N  EIM OET 0' o4
-IB  _ _ 1-                     JAMAI7CtrA-           <       3     f      <                                       classiflenilOns os os ,,, JUIAP
MEXICO' WEO T                           IZEQ
--'  1.         7            ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~              CITIES ~~~~~~AND TOWNS
OUATEMoALA, ls.5rh .1 R;Sa
- EiL{4 > _  jy, J              14 _                                    N  I C A  R A  0  U A                           DEPARTMENT CAPITALS dY PRCEnoto  Id Any
SALVADOR  NCA'AUA                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                       on this sop do out
_  O0 -(-)STA RCA  lo _ERIVERS                                                                                                                                  The Wodld Soon roup3,
r- - ~- - DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES Ntocts oP ony seCrrcorn.  0
y d'if-"Ir   nyndosoen 
JAMAICA~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
MEI6 0, iEIZEOIMc
_  \  P A N A M A E                                                   86    ~~~~~~~  |-| INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES   84                                   to, ndrepDEPARMENT APITALod- -t    nd  O
EL j                                                                           N  I CO AMI  R A  G   U 









I J1IG I NG
Report No:       14181 HO
Type: SAR



