Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19589
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCLIL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
FHlIS SECOND STAGE)
(Credit 2766-HO)
June 29, 2000
Human and Social Development Department (LCHSD)
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lempira (IJ.)
Average Exchange Rates
1995 L/. 9.46 =US$1
1996 L/.1 1.69 = US$1
1997 LJ.13.00 = US$1
1998 LJ.13.38 = US$1
1999 L/.14.16 = US$1
2000 L.14.75 = US$1
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1-December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AMHON               Honduran Association of Municipalities
FH[S                Honduran Social Investment Fund
FOPRIDEH            Honduras NGO Federation
IDA                 International Development Association
IDB                 InterAmerican Development Bank
KfW                 German Development Bank (Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau)
MIS                 Management Information System
NGO                 Non-Govermmental Organization
OPEC                Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
RUTA SOCIAL         Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
SECPLAN             State Planning Secretariat
SERNA               State Secretariat of Natural Resources and Environment
Vice President             David de Ferranti
Country Director           Donna-Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director            Xavier Coll
Country Sector Leader      Helena Ribe
Task Manager               David Warren



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE ................................................
EVALUATION SIJUMMARY ..............................................                                    ii
PART ONE: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................1
INTRODUCTION ...............................................1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ................................... .      ..               .       .        .       1
PROJECT COMPONENTS ..................................2
ACH1EVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .....3.............................3
PROJE,CT DESIGN ...................................11
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..................................                                11
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..................................                                             12
IDA P'ERFORMANCE ..................................                                                   13
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...................................                                              13
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..................................                                              13
FUTURE OPERATION ..................................                                                    14
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..................................                                                 15
PART TWO: STATISTICAL DATA ..................................                                          13
Table 1:        Summary of Assessments
Table 2:        Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3:        Project Timetable
Table 4:        Credit Disbursements
Table 5:        Key Performance Indicators
Table 6:        Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:       Project Costs
Table 7B:       Project Financing
Table 7C:       Amount and Sources of Financing, by Year
Table 8:        Investment Program, 1995-May 1999
Table 9:        Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:       IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11:       IDA Resources: Missions
Appendixes:   A. Mission Aide-Memoire (includes Borrower's Evaluation)
B. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCLL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(FHIS SECOND STAGE)
(Credit 2766-HO)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Social Investment Fund Proj-
ect in Honduras, for which Credit 2766-HO in the amount of SDR19.1 million, equivalent to about
US$30 million, was approved on July 11, 1995. The Credit was declared effective on November 14,
1995. The Credit closed on schedule on December 31, 1999. The last disbursement took place on Janu-
ary 21, 2000, and an undisbursed balance of SDR 268 (US$352 equivalent) was canceled on April 30,
2000. Cofinancing for the project was provided by IDB, KfW, OPEC, and other bilateral agencies.
*The ICR was prepared by Maria Elena Anderson (Consultant, LCSHD), reviewed in draft by
Willem Struben (Consultant, LCSHD), and updated by Ian Walker (Consultant, LCSHD) and David War-
ren (Task Manager, LCSHD). The final version was reviewed by Helena Ribe, Country Sector Leader
(LCC2C). Assistance was provided throughout by Patricia Oma, Language Task Assistant (LCSHD).
Preparation of this ICR was started during a completion mission in May 1999. The report was
updated and finalized in June 2000 to take into account the results of an impact evaluation study com-
pleted in late 1999'. The report is based on documents available in the project file, as well as discussions
with representatives of the Borrower (including line ministries), cofinanciers, NGOs, municipal authori-
ties, beneficiaries, and IDA. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by compiling statis-
tical data, commenting on the draft ICR, and developing an evaluation of the project (included within the
mission's aide-memoire in Appendix A). A draft ICR was shared with IDB and KfW, the main cofinan-
ciers, and their comments and suggestions have been incorporated into the final version.
'While efforts were made to update all data at that time, in some cases informnation remains as of May 1999.






EVALUATION SUMMARY
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(FI;HS SECOND STAGE)
(Credit 2766-HO)
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
The objectives of the Third Social Investment Fund Project were to support the Government's poverty
alleviation and social sector development efforts, and to help maintain social cohesion, by financing pri-
ority small-scale social and economic infrastructure and special programs for disadvantaged groups, and
by targeting these investments to the poorest areas; and to support the Government's decentralization
strategy, and to improve prospects for sustainability of investments, by promoting-and increasing ca-
pacity for-local participation in the identification, design, implementation, operation, and maintenance
of subprojects.
The project was designed to support FHIS's investment program for a four-year period (mid 1995 to mid
1999). This implementation period corresponded roughly to the phase of the FHIS program named "FIRS
2" by Government, to distinguish it from FIRS 1 (which corresponded to the 1990-94 administration).2
Among the most important changes in program methodology under FHS 2 for the small-scale infra-
structure program, compared with FIRS 1 (1990-94), which was supported by two earlier IDA social
fund credits, were the following: (a) a shift from a short term focus on employment creation as a measure
to compensate for the social costs of structural adjustment, towards a demand-led social investment strat-
egy, where the principal benefits to be expected from program investments are: increased coverage and
2 The distinction between these "phases" of the FHIS program is actually not quite as clear-cut as the names ("FHIS
1", "FHIS 2") might suggest. Subprojects initiated under one phase often have implementation periods that carry
forward into the following phase; thus FHIS continued to execute the FHIS 2 phase of the program, even as it initi-
ated the FHIS 3 phase in 1998. Also, as FHIS's implementation capacity has grown, funds have often been com-
mitted more quickly than expected at the beginning of a phase, making it necessary for FHIS to mobilize additional
financing during interim years in order to ensure a steady stream of new subproject investments. Also, importantly,
FHIS (like most social funds) does not limit its strategic adjustments to the beginning of a phase, but rather contin-
ues to evolve and adapt its procedures on an ongoing basis.
For this reason, it is difficult to attribute given outcomes specifically to one phase or another, and even more diffi-
cult to attribute them to a specific "project" or "credit", since the financing provided for subprojects (usually the
bulk of the credits) is just one share of a total portfolio, and overlaps across timne with other installments of financing
from different-and sometimes even the same-donor agencies (for instance, IDA Cr. 3118-HO, for the Fourth
Social Investment Fund [SIF 4] was approved in mid 1998, before all the subproject activities under SIF 3 had been
completed). Therefore, throughout this report, some information (such as numbers of subprojects completed, etc.)
is provided by year, rather than by project. While an attempt has been made to exclude subprojects financed from
sources not identified in the SIF 3 SAR, this has not always been possible. Nonetheless, certain activities other than
subprojects can be associated with a specific project / credit (such as the institutional strengthening activities that
formed a specific component under the SIF 3 project) in these cases, attribution of outcomes is more straightfor-
ward.
To distinguish between "phases" and "projects" the following notation is used throughout this report: "FHIS" 1, 2,
and 3 refer to phases, while "SIF" 3, 4, and 5 refer to projects.
ii



quality of basic social infrastructure in line with the communities' perceived priorities; (b) an improve-
ment in targeting in order to increase the proportion of program resources reaching the poorest communi-
ties; (c) improved consultation at local level to assure congruence of subproject choice with community
priorities; (d) improved subproject sustainability through the creation of community-based mechanisms
for operation and maintenance; (e) better coordination with the line ministries and other agencies which
would be responsible for operating the facilities built or upgraded by FHIS to assure that staffing and
other revenue funding would be assigned in a timely manner when the works were completed; (f) im-
proved environmental control in the project cycle; (g) institutionalization of gender concerns in the proj-
ect cycle; (h) the development of a specific program for ethnic minority groups.
In this context, the project funded: (a) investment in small-scale social and economic infrastructure sub-
projects; (b) a priority "basic needs" program to support programs for vulnerable / disadvantaged groups;
(c) a comprehensive program of technical assistance to help FHIS overcome some institutional weak-
nesses; (d) a social data mapping system and strengthening of the design and implementation of the na-
tional household survey as the major tools to target the poor and to monitor progress of social develop-
ment programs; and (e) a small program of technical assistance to municipalities in assessing environ-
mental issues and in preparing programs for corrective action.
Implementation Experience and Results
Total project cost amounted to US$117.9 million, of which IDA financed SDR19.1 million (this amount
was originally equivalent to US$30 million, but due to changes in the exchange rate between the SDR and
US dollar, ultimately amounted to US$27.4 million).
Program Execution
The physical objectives of the project were substantially achieved. Over the period 1995-98, Ff1S in-
vested: (i) US$96.3 million in small-scale infrastructure projects in education, health, water and sanita-
tion, and municipal improvement, (ii) US$3.3 million in projects to provide furniture and equipment to
schools and health centers, (iii) US$2.0 million in projects to train communities in basic health, in col-
laboration with the Ministry of Health, and to train beneficiaries to improve project sustainability, (iv)
US$3.8 million for access road improvement and to provide temporary employment through the "Nues-
tras Raices" (Our Roots) program for ethnic communities, (v) US$1.6 million in facilities, meals, and
medical supplies to orphanages, child care and elderly care centers, and (vi) US$0.8 million to develop
environmental improvement projects.
Targeting
The project's targeting objective was substantially achieved. FHlIS 2 invested 51% of the resources of the
small-scale infrastructure program in the two poorest categories of municipalities; 41% of the population
is concentrated in these municipalities. Only 28% was invested in the least poor municipalities, where
35% of the population is concentrated. In contrast, FFHS 1 had invested only 41% in the first group and
35% in the second group, a distribution exactly proportional to population. At the household level, the
targeting results of FFHS 2 were even more impressive. Due to the concentration of the subproject menu
on basic social infrastructures used mainly by poorer households, some 40% of the overall value of in-
vestments benefited households in the poorest quintile, while only 7% went to benefit the richest quintile.
However, the pattern varied by project type. Investments in sewerage systems were regressively distrib-
uted (favoring the less poor).
iii



Decentralization, consultation, and community participation
FH[S 2 supported the Government's efforts to decentralize authority and responsibility to the local level
by encouraging municipal authorities and communities to participate. Technical assistance was included
in the IDA credit to help FHIS develop mechanisms for improving social participation. The impact
evaluation found that consultation at community level had been undertaken in over 70% of cases. As a
result, the investments made under FHIS 2 broadly matched the communities' priorities, especially those
in primary schools, health posts and water systems. Latrine and sewerage projects were less popular.
Additionally, with the support of KfW, FHJS also developed and piloted a methodology for improving
community training to reinforce prospects for sustainability; a workshop held in 1997 to evaluate this pi-
lot showed it to be effective in raising community awareness and capacities regarding local responsibili-
ties for operations and maintenance, and consequently FHIS instituted the training program as a standard
practice (although too late to have been incorporated in the majority of subprojects financed under the
SIF 3 project). The FHIS 2 program's emphasis on social participation laid the groundwork for subse-
quent efforts to strengthen local participation and consultation: in 1998, as part of the FHIS 3 program,
FHIS undertook a nationwide community level consultation, which culminated in town hall meetings
("cabildos abiertos"), held in each municipality, to prioritize social infrastructure subprojects for future
FHIS funding.3
Improvements in the coverage and quality of basic social infrastructure
FHIS 2's investments in school building and upgrading are estimated to have increased from 48% to 63%
the proportion of the national stock of primary classrooms which is in good condition and FHIS built over
60% all new classrooms completed in this period. FIRS 2 also accounted for over 70% of all new rural
health posts and 56% of new urban health posts completed and 17% of all new sanitation systems con-
structed (23% of rural and 17% of urban solutions). In water, the impact on coverage was less marked, as
FHIS dedicated itself to upgrading existing systems and accounted for less than 2% of new household
connections built nationwide.
Household level development impacts
The 1999 impact evaluation compared conditions in FHIS beneficiary communities with those in com-
munities yet to benefit from program investments. Although the study was hampered by the absence of
baseline data, it showed that educational attainment (measured by the number of children aged 7 and 8
years in the appropriate grade for their respective ages) was improved where FHIS had invested in pri-
mary schools; that the proportion of sick people who sought professional medical assistance when ill rose
from 41 'o/ to 51% where FHIS had built health posts; that the proportion of households with basic sanita-
tion rose from 35% to 100% when FHIS implemented latrine programs and that as a result diarrhea inci-
dence fell by 35%; and that the reliability of water services was improved by FHIS investments, increas-
ing the average service days per month from 18 to 25, and the average service hours per day from 10.9 to
12.7.
3 The FHIS 3 program was originally supported under the SIF 4 project (IDA Cr. 3118-HO). (See also footnote 2.)
When Hurricane Mitch struck in late 1998, resources under the FHIS 3 program were fully diverted to finance
emergency reconstruction activities; this included the bulk of resources under SIF 4, as well as a supplemental credit
for SIF 4 approved by IDA in late 1999 to assist with ongoing reconstruction needs. During the emergency phase,
FHIS also temporarily suspended the community training component. Together with several cofinancing agencies,
IDA is currently preparing a proposed SIF 5 project, which would aim to support FHIS in reestablishing the strate-
gic directions of the FHIS 3 program, including the emphases on participatory community / municipal planning, and
on greater local involvement in all stages in the subproject cycle.
iv



Quality and cost of works
Overall, the physical quality of FHIS 2's small-scale infrastructure investments was satisfactory, although
in some cases projects exhibited shoddy finishing, faulty roofs, and, in some schools and health centers,
non-functioning toilets due to lack of piped water. These issues suggest a need to improve supervision
further, including through better coordination with sectoral authorities during implementation, and possi-
bly to improve design standards and contracting arrangements. The progtam did not advance as quickly
as had been hoped on increasing the proportion of works let through competitive bidding. However, the
unit costs of its investments were generally acceptable compared with similar programs. This is an indi-
cation that the cost system used for determining prices under direct contracting worked reasonably well in
most cases. An exception to this rule was water and sanitation investments, whose relative complexity
ill-suits them to standardized costing and which were found by a cost effectiveness study undertaken in
1999 to have been generally overpriced. A pilot project is planned under the proposed SIF 5 project to
develop a community-based mechanism to better supervise and administer water and sanitation projects.4
Environmental Improvement Program
The envirommental improvement program included activities under various components, as well as a spe-
cific component linked to the IDA-financed Environmental Development project for training to munici-
palities in environmental issues. Under the project, FHIS completed 11 small-scale projects, amounting
to US$50,000, carried out with US Peace Corps volunteers' support. Two regional training centers were
built in coordination with the municipalities, and a book on environmental subjects was designed and
printed, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, for distribution to primary schools. FHIS also
developed and implemented improved environmental assessment mechanisms. While the Environmental
Assistance to Municipalities component suffered some initial delays, due largely to the restructuring of
the Ministry of the Environment (which was originally responsible for its implementation), an amend-
ment to the Credit Agreement in 1997 allowed FHIS to place the component back on track. Under that
component, FHIS provided technical assistance in a few municipalities. FHIS also provided financing for
some 50 environmental subprojects.
Basic Needs and Nuestras Raices programs
Under the Basic Needs program, which was intended to provide special support for vulnerable / disad-
vantaged groups, FHIS financed about US$1.6 million (1995-98) worth of facilities and supplies for or-
phanages, child care and elderly care centers, partially filling the virtual void in public financing for such
social assistance programs. However, the relatively small amount invested in such projects, and the con-
centration in just a few types of subprojects, reflect a lack of strategic direction and weak technical ca-
pacity in FHUS to evaluate and oversee these social programs. Future support in this area will be redes-
igned following a pilot project, developed in collaboration with the Honduran Institute for Children and
Families, slated for financing under the proposed SIF 5 project.5 The "Nuestras Raices" (Our Roots) pro-
gram-originally part of the Basic Needs program-financed US$3.8 million (1995-98) worth of con-
struction and rehabilitation of rural roads in ethnic minority communities using paid labor of community
members, thus providing benefits both in road upgrading and employment generation. Under the SIF 3
project, the scope of this program was expanded to include the provision of training to community mem-
bers to help them learn to use the wages earned to organize and finance agricultural and commercial in-
come income-generating activities initiated and identified by the communities themselves. Under the SIF
4 project, FHIS aimed to consolidate community-level gains by providing training in the formation of
4This pilot was originally to be financed under the SIF 4 project, but was suspended following Hurricane Mitch,
when resources under SIF 4 were diverted to emergency reconstruction activities.
5 This pilot was originally to be financed under the SIF 4 project, but was suspended following Hurricane Mitch,
when resources under SIF 4 were diverted to emergency reconstruction activities.
v



communal banks; this activity was delayed during FHIS's Hurricane emergency / reconstruction period,
but is now scheduled to be completed during 2000. The proposed SIF 5 project would include financing
for further development of the Nuestras Raices program.
Institutional strengthening
The institutional strengthening component was successful. Technical assistance and training were given
to support the establishment of a management information system (MIS) with 48 key performance indi-
cators that allow managers to monitor their operations. Under the project, FHIS developed into a highly
efficient institution with an effective management team. In many respects, FHIS became a model social
fund in the application of modem information technology and analytical tools for decision-making, tar-
geting investments, and monitoring program progress.
One indication of FHIS's improved institutional capacity was FHIS's outstanding performance following
Hurricane Mitch. FHIS responded in a rapid and flexible manner to the crisis caused by the devastating
impact of hurricane Mitch in November 1998. It modified its organization through the creation of tempo-
rary decentralized regional offices with executive authority to implement reconstruction activities, and
through streamlining of the subproject processing cycle. Donors also showed flexibility by supporting
FHIS and the Government in their reconstruction efforts. In the first 100 days following the hurricane,
F11S5 executed over 2,100 subprojects (worth about $40 million). By end 1999, about 3,400 emergency
subprojects had been financed, representing an implementation rate four times faster than the pre-Mitch
averages.
At the same time, the rapid deployment of FHIS staff and the changes in subproject processing proce-
dures also created some confusion, undermining some of the advances that had been made under the in-
stitutional strengthening program and creating some inconsistencies in the hitherto orderly information
banks. This situation was complicated by two changes in FHIS's leadership (in July 1999 and again in
January 2000), leading in each instance to some institutional reorganization. Nonetheless, the foundation
laid under the institutional strengthening program (information systems, procedures, well-trained manag-
ers and staff) remains solid, and FHIS is on track toward the reestablishment of its pre-Mitch institutional
order in preparation for the proposed SIF 5 project. Activities underway include: development of a re-
vised, simplified, Operations Manual, incorporating lessons learned since the hurricane; improvements in
monitoring and evaluation systems; and enhancements of efficiency and competition in contracting pro-
cedures.
Other institutional strengthening activities included: (i) development of a social data mapping system,
which proved useful and effective in poverty targeting and program evaluation, but which is in danger of
growing obsolete due to the dissolution of the administrative unit and ministry (SECPLAN) responsible
for collecting and analyzing social sector data; and (ii) a series of training activities / workshops to
strengthen the micro-enterprise sector, focused in particular on intermediary organizations and on women
entrepreneurs.
Factors contributing to success
The factors that contributed to the success of the project include: (i) strong government support for the
institution and adequate counterpart funding; (ii) strong leadership and a group of well-qualified, well-
paid, and highly-committed key staff that made FHIS a respected institution in the country; (iii) develop-
ment of clear, transparent, and (in many cases) automated operating procedures, which help shield the
institution's investment program from discretionary influence and ensure continuity in the program even
when staff change; (iii) promotion of community / municipal involvement in determining investment pri-
orities; (iv) development and application of tools to target investments to the poor; and (v) continuous and
vi



specialized support from-and cooperation among-the donors, which have shown flexibility to make
changes and reassign resources when necessary.
Perceived weaknesses / lessons
(i)    There was an initial lack of understanding by management, engineering staff, contractors, and
supervisors of the importance of community participation in all stages of subproject development
and implementation. As a result there were inadequate organizational arrangements and a lack of
technical capacity for dealing with social aspects of infrastructure subprojects and activities in-
cluded under the Basic Needs program. Likewise, the importance of training for beneficiaries to
enhance subproject sustainability was not given attention early enough in the program, and as a
consequence, training covered only a small number of the subprojects rehabilitated and built with
FHIS financing.
(ii)    Coordination with line ministries on the construction of new schools and health posts and on the
supervision of the works for these facilities was generally inadequate. Although as a rule formal
approval was given for the FHIS investment to be undertaken, real involvement of the ministries
was low, leading to dissatisfaction with the quality of works and the risk that operational funding
would not be forthcoming, although it should be noted that among almost 50 completed projects
visited for the 1999 impact evaluation only one health post had not yet been staffed.
(iii)   The dissolution of the State Secretariat for Planning has left FHIS as the agency responsible for
maintaining the social data mapping system developed under the project. While the tool has
served FHIS well for targeting and program evaluation, FHIS is ill-placed to hold sole responsi-
bility for social data collection and analysis; another, more appropriate, home should be found for
this sophisticated geographic information system.
(iv)   Notwithstanding FHIS's outstanding performance in responding to communities' needs following
Hurricane Mitch, the institution's rapid reorganization during the emergency period took a toll on
the order and efficiency that had been previously established. Since natural disasters are always
a threat in Honduras, and in light of the vital role that FHIS (like other social funds) can play
during such emergencies, FHIS (and IDA) should work to be better prepared for emergency
situations; this should include the development of "contingency" procedures for such occasions.
Summary and Prospects for Sustainability
The overall project outcome was satisfactory. There were important achievements related to institutional
strengthening, targeting of investments, and decentralization of decision-making to local levels. The pro-
gram's investments had a positive impact on infrastructure coverage and this fed through into measurable
improvements in human development and poverty reduction, such as improved educational achievement,
better take up of primary health services, better sanitation conditions and reduced diarrhea incidence.
FHIS has had good management and staff, and has shown institutional flexibility and a capacity to adapt
to challenging situations; this capacity was clearly on display as the institution mobilized to become a key
actor in the country's response to the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch. IDA and the other donors
also showed commitment to the project by being flexible when the situation warranted it, and have pro-
vided timely technical assistance to strengthen the institution. However, as mentioned above, the Gov-
ernment and IDA placed insufficient emphasis, early in the project, on community participation and
training, and on FHIS's coordination with the eventual owners of the facilities needing improvement.
Nonetheless, FHIS has begun to address these deficiencies, and plans to consolidate improvements under
the proposed SIF 5 project.
vii



Prospects for sustainability of the project's impact are good. While this report makes a number of rec-
ommendations on ways for FH[S to enhance subproject sustainability further in the future, the 1999 im-
pact assessment confirms that in general, FHIS investments are operating and well-maintained, and corre-
spond to community priorities; thus the improvements in human development and poverty reduction
mentioned above are likely to continue well into the future. The project's development objectives do not
depend upon the sustainability of FHIS as an institution, and it should be recognized that external fi-
nancing will likely continue to play an important role in supporting FIlS. Nonetheless, the institutional
strengthening activities provided under the project lay the groundwork for FHIS to continue serving as an
effective conduit for financing of small-scale social and economic infrastructure to poor communities, in
accordance with local priorities, and for building local capacity through the participatory process.
viii






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    The Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS) was established in 1990 as a temporary
agency as part of the Government's response to the potentially serious impact of the economic
adjustment program on the country's poor. Through the financing of a large number of small-
scale subprojects in social and economic infrastructure, social services, and informal sector ac-
tivities, it was hoped that FF1S would generate emergency employment, and would protect and
improve the standard of living among the poor. Throughout the 1990s, FHIS evolved into a key
instrument in the Government's poverty alleviation strategy. In recognition of this role, FHIS's
legislative mandate has been extended to 2012, and its activities have been reoriented toward
construction of social infrastructure related to human capital formation, with the aim of contrib-
uting to poverty reduction in the medium and long term; FHIS also continued to support and de-
velop social assistance programs for disadvantaged groups, and placed increased emphasis on
engaging local actors in subproject identification, supervision, operation, and maintenance-both
to enhance prospects for subproject sustainability, and as part of an increasing focus on decen-
tralization and local development. At the same time, FHIS de-emphasized employment genera-
tion as an explicit program goal.
2.    IDA, in cooperation with other donors (mainly IDB and KfW), has provided substantial
support through four credits: Cr. 2212-HO (US$20 million), Cr. 2401-HO (US$10.2 million), Cr.
2766-HO (US$30 million), and the ongoing Cr. 3118-HO (US$45 million), for which an emer-
gency supplemental credit was approved in 1999 (US$22.5 million) to assist with reconstruction
in the wake of Hurricane Mitch and subsequent rains. Cr. 2766-HO, the subject of this report,
was closed on schedule on December 31, 1999, with US$27.4 million equivalent disbursed.' The
last disbursement took place on January 21, 2000, and an undisbursed balance of SDR268
(US$352 equivalent) was canceled on April 30, 2000. Cofinancing for the project was provided
by IDB, KfW, OPEC, and other bilateral agencies.
Project Objectives
3.    The objectives of the project, as presented in the Staff Appraisal Report, were: to con-
tinue to assist the Government in strengthening its poverty alleviation efforts and in maintaining
social cohesion, while the Government attempted to regain fiscal balance and the line ministries
strengthened their institutional capacity; and to support the Government's decentralization strat-
egy, development of the local contracting industry, the sustainability of subprojects, and the tar-
geting of scarce resources to the poorer communities. The project aimed to achieve these objec-
' Changes in the exchange rate between the SDR and US dollar explain the decline in the US dollar-
denominated amount from the initial equivalent of US$30 million to US$27.4 million at present.
1



tives by focusing on meeting priority social and economic infrastructure and basic needs, decided
in close consultation with relevant government departments, municipalities, NGOs, and commu-
nities, within the parameters of municipal allocations determined on the basis of a poverty tar-
geting formula.
4.     Assessment. The project's objective and approach were realistic in light of good experi-
ence under previous credits, and were consistent with Government and IDA strategies for poverty
alleviation, social sector development, and local / municipal development in Honduras, as well as
with the role that had been assigned to FHIS in the context of those strategies. However, at the
same time, the objective statement was fairly broad, and was found during implementation to re-
flect inadequately the evolution FHIS was making from a short-term, compensatory mechanism
to an instrument for investments in medium to long-term poverty reduction. For instance, the
assumption at appraisal that FHIS would exercise its roles only for as long as it took Government
to "regain fiscal balance", and for "line ministries [to strengthen] their institutional capacity" was
no longer appropriate a few years after appraisal, by which time FMIS had for all intents and pur-
poses taken over the project-implementing function from the line ministries and begun to look at
a new focal point of institutional strengthening and development partnership: municipalities and
community organizations. Therefore, to provide a better frame of reference regarding the hierar-
chy among objectives, the objective statement was rephrased slightly, together with the Bor-
rower, during the project's mid-term review in March 1997, to read as follows: "To support the
Government's poverty alleviation and social sector development efforts, and to help maintain so-
cial cohesion, by financing priority small-scale social and economic infrastructure and special
programs for disadvantaged groups, and by targeting these investments to the poorest areas; and
to support the Government's decentralization strategy, and to improve prospects for sustainability
of investments, by promoting-and increasing capacity for--local participation in the identifica-
tion, design, implementation, operation, and maintenance of subprojects." This rephrasing did
not constitute a restructuring.
Project Components
5.     The project was designed to support FHIS's investment program for a four-year period
(mid 1995 to mid 1999). This implementation period corresponded roughly to the phase of the
FHIS program named "FHIS 2" by Government, to distinguish it from FHIS I (which corre-
sponded to the 1990-94 administration).2
2 The distinction between these "phases" of the FHIS program is actually not quite as clear-cut as the
names ("FHIS 1", "FHIS 2") might suggest. Subprojects initiated under one phase often have implementa-
tion periods that carry forward into the following phase; thus FHIS continued to execute the FHIS 2 phase
of the program, even as it initiated the FHIS 3 phase in 1998. Also, as FHIS's implementation capacity has
grown, funds have often been committed more quickly than expected at the beginning of a phase, making it
necessary for FHIS to mobilize additional financing during interim years in order to ensure a steady stream
of new subproject investments. Also, importantly, FHIS (like most social funds) does not limit its strategic
adjustments to the beginning of a phase, but rather continues to evolve and adapt its procedures on an on-
going basis.
For this reason, it is difficult to attribute given outcomes specifically to one phase or another, and even
more difficult to attribute them to a specific "project" or "credit", since the financing provided for subpro-
jects (usually the bulk of the credits) is just one share of a total portfolio, and overlaps across time with
other installments of financing from different-and sometimes even the same-donor agencies (for in-
stance, IDA Cr. 3118-HO, for the Fourth Social Investment Fund was approved in mid 1998, before all the
subproject activities under SIF 3 had been completed). Therefore, throughout this report, some informa-
2



65.    Among the most important changes in program methodology under FHIS 2 for the small-
scale infrastructure program, compared with FH1S 1 (1990-94), which was supported by two ear-
lier IDA creclits, were the following: (a) a shift from a short term focus on employment creation
as a measure to compensate for the social costs of structural adjustment, towards a demand-led
social investment strategy, where the principal benefits to be expected from program investments
are increased coverage and quality of basic social infrastructure in line with the communities'
perceived priorities; (b) an improvement in targeting in order to increase the proportion of pro-
gram resources reaching the poorest communities; (c) improved consultation at local level to as-
sure congruence of subproject choice with community priorities; (d) improved subproject
sustainability through the creation of community-based mechanisms for operation and mainte-
nance; (e) better coordination with the line ministries and other agencies which would be respon-
sible for operating the facilities built or upgraded by F-IS to assure that staffing and other reve-
nue funding would be assigned in a timely manner when the works were completed; (f) improved
environmental control in the project cycle; (g) institutionalization of gender concerns in the proj-
ect cycle; (h) the development of a specific program for ethnic minority groups.
'1.    In this context, the project funded: (a) investment in small-scale social and economic in-
lrastructure subprojects; (b) a priority "basic needs" program to support programs for vulnerable
/ disadvantaged groups; (c) a comprehensive program of technical assistance to help FHIS over-
come some institutional weaknesses; (d) a social data mapping system and strengthening of the
(lesign and implementation of the national household survey as the major tools to target the poor
and to monitor progress of social development programs; and (e) a small program of technical
assistance to municipalities in assessing environmental issues and in preparing programs for cor-
rective action.
8.     Assessment. The components were consistent with the project objectives, and were ap-
propriate in light of FHIS's established implementation capacity..
Achievement of Project Objectives
9.     Achievement of project objectives is rated as satisfactory. This section discusses the
rationale for this rating, drawing on the findings of the May 1999 completion mission, subsequent
supervision missions (including of the ongoing SIF 4 project), and a 1999 impact evaluation
study.3
Contribution to Social Sector Investment
10.    FHIS investments have made an important contribution to the Government's efforts to
alleviate poverty and maintain social cohesion by investing in the social sectors. On average,
tion (such as numbers of subprojects completed, etc.) is provided by year, rather than by project. While an
attempt has been made to exclude subprojects financed from sources not identified in the SIF 3 SAR, this
has not always been possible. Nonetheless, certain activities other than subprojects can be associated with
a specific project / credit (such as the institutional strengthening activities that formed a specific component
under the SIF 3 project) in these cases, attribution of outcomes is more straightforward.
To distinguish between "phases" and "projects" the following notation is used throughout this report:
"FHIS" 1, 2, and 3 refer to phases, while "SIF" 3, 4, and 5 refer to projects.
ESA Consultores, "Impact Evaluation of the Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS II, 1994-97), 1999.
3



during the project period, FHIS investments represented about 0.8 percent of total GDP, about 11
percent of public social sector expenditures, and virtually all of the capital expenditures in the
education and health subsectors. There is evidence that FHIS has contributed to "crowding in" of
resources for social investments: FHIS has been instrumental in attracting additional foreign re-
sources to social investments, with donor inflows averaging US$23 million from 1995 to 1998;
Government contributed 17 percent of total funds during the same period; and FHIS has contrib-
uted to the mobilization of resources at the local level, in the form of beneficiary contributions to
investment costs (including labor, money, materials), as well as community and municipal con-
tributions for maintenance. At the same time, evidence suggests that FHIS has not crowded out
investments that would otherwise have been made by the line ministries.
Targeting
11.    Chart 1 compares poverty targeting by FHIS during 1990-1993 and the period 1994-
1998; this shows that the institution improved the targeting of its investments in the latter period.
The project contributed to this outcome by providing technical assistance and training to design
and establish a social data mapping system, in coordination with the social sector ministries, to
better target and prioritize project investments, as well as to evaluate progress over time.
CHART 1: FHIS Investments by Municipal Poverty Index
GOOd
Acceptable
0 1994- 1998
Regula                                                   1990- 1993
I oor                                                i % of Total  Pop ulation
oVery Nor
0     5     10    15    20    25    30    35
12.    Assessment: The project's targeting objective was substantially achieved. FH-S 2 in-
vested 51% of the resources of the small-scale infrastructure program in the two poorest catego-
ries of municipalities; 41% of the population is concentrated in these municipalities. Only 28%
was invested in the least poor municipalities, where 35% of the population is concentrated. In
contrast, FHIS 1 had invested only 41% in the first group and 35% in the second group, a distri-
bution exactly proportional to population. At the household level, the targeting results of FHIS 2
were even more impressive. Due to the concentration of the subproject menu on basic social in-
frastructures used mainly by poorer households, some 40% of the overall value of investments
benefited households in the poorest quintile, while only 7% went to benefit the richest quintile.
However, the pattern varied by project type. Investments in sewerage systems were regressively
distributed (favoring the less poor).
4



Decentralization, consultation, and community participation
13.    FIIS 2 supported the Government's efforts to decentralize authority and responsibility to
the local level by encouraging municipal authorities and communities to participate. Technical
assistance was included in the IDA credit to help FHIS develop mechanisms for improving social
participation. The impact evaluation found that consultation at community level had been un-
dertaken in over 70% of cases. As a result, the investments made under FHIS 2 broadly matched
the communities' priorities, especially those in primary schools, health posts and water systems.
Latrine and sewerage projects were less popular. Additionally, with the support of KfW, FEHIS
also developed and piloted a methodology for improving community training to reinforce pros-
pects for sustainability; a workshop held in 1997 to evaluate this pilot showed it to be effective in
raising community awareness and capacities regarding local responsibilities for operations and
maintenance, and consequently FHIS instituted the training program as a standard practice, espe-
cially for water and sanitation subprojects (although too late to have been incorporated in the
majority of subprojects financed under the SIF 3 project). The FHIS 2 program's emphasis on
social participation laid the groundwork for subsequent efforts to strengthen local participation
and consultation: in 1998, as part of the FHIS 3 program, FHIS undertook a nationwide commu-
nity level consultation, which culminated in town hall meetings ("cabildos abiertos"), held in
each municipality, to prioritize social infrastructure subprojects for future FHIS funding.4
14.    Assessment: The project had moderate success in the implementation of mechanisms for
decentralization and consultation. Only in 1998 was a systematic community level consultation
organized, and while this consultation was generally considered successful, FHIS's decision to
hold town hall meetings simultaneously in all municipalities made it difficult for FHIS to monitor
the quality of the processes. Nonetheless, the SIF 3 project did succeed in establishing decen-
tralization, consultation, and community participation as key strategic themes for future devel-
opment of the FIS program. As part of the SIF 4 project, FIRS developed a pilot program to
further improve participatory planning methodologies and to decentralize parts of the subproject
cycle to municipal control. This pilot was suspended following Hurricane Mitch, when resources
under the SIF 4 project were diverted to emergency reconstruction activities, but is scheduled to
be re-initiated under the proposed SIF 5 project.
Physical Objectives.
15.    Over the period 1995-98, FHIS invested: (i) US$96.3 million in 4,120 small-scale infra-
structure projects in education, health, water and sanitation, and municipal improvement,
(ii) US$3.3 million in 680 projects to provide furniture and equipment to schools and health cen-
ters, (iii) US$2.0 million in 416 projects to train communities in basic health, in collaboration
with the Ministry of Health, and to train beneficiaries to improve project sustainability, (iv)
US$3.8 million for access road improvement and to provide temporary employment through the
"Nuestras Raices" (Our Roots) program for ethnic communities, (v) US$1.6 million in facilities,
meals, and medical supplies to orphanages, child care and elderly care centers, and (vi) US$0.8
4 The FHIS 3 program was originally supported under the SIF 4 project (IDA Cr. 3118-HO). (See also
footnote 2.) When Hurricane Mitch struck in late 1998, resources under the FHIS 3 program were diverted
to finance emergency reconstruction activities; this included the bulk of resources under SIF 4, as well as a
supplemental credit for SIF 4 approved by IDA in late 1999 to assist with ongoing reconstruction needs.
During the emergency phase, FHIS also temporarily suspended the community training component. To-
gether with several cofmancing agencies, IDA is currently preparing a proposed SIF 5 project, which
would aim to support FHIS in reestablishing the strategic directions of the FHIS 3 program, including the
emphases on participatory community / municipal planning, and on greater local involvement in all stages
in the subproject cycle.
5



million to develop environmental improvement projects, eleven of which were carried out
through a Cooperation Agreement with the US Peace Corps (see Chart 2).
Chart 2: FHIS Investments by Type
%  %                    E]~~~~~~~~oSocial infrastru-cture
3946 2                                 j Furniture and equipment
* Training in basic health
i ATraining for project sustainability
_  Fhals and nedical supplies
o Nuestras Raices Program
Environmental inrprovenent
16.   Assessment: The above Chart shows that, as originally designed, most of the investments
by FFHS were for small-scale social infrastructure (for details, see Table 8 in part two). Im-
provements in subproject processing, from promotion through closing, together with an improved
supervision system and the incorporation of quality indicators at key stages of the project cycle,
resulted in better quality subprojects. A difficulty that has not yet been overcome is the low qual-
ity of some construction materials, particularly of roofing provided by local suppliers (because of
a monopolistic situation).
17.   It is noteworthy that the decision to include pre-investment funds in the project resulted
in greater investments in complex subprojects than before. Thus, more water supply and sanita-
tion subprojects were built and rehabilitated during this period than in earlier years (171 in 1990-
94 vs. 605 in 1995-98). These subprojects have also included training for beneficiaries in opera-
tion and maintenance (see para 13). However, a KfW-financed evaluation of water and sanitation
subprojects showed that FHIS' rehabilitation of water supply and sanitation systems has been
better than its new construction activities. Many of the latter suffered from serious design flaws,
possibly due to the lack of expertise in this subsector in the country. Recommendations made
during project preparation and execution with regard to the implementation of low-cost water
supply projects, were not followed up by FFHIS.
Improvements in the coverage and quality of basic social infrastructure
18.    FHIS 2's investments in school building and upgrading are estimated to have increased
from 48% to 63% the proportion of the national stock of primary classrooms which is in good
condition and FHIS built over 60% all new classrooms completed in this period. FHIS 2 also
accounted for over 70% of all new rural health posts and 56% of new urban health posts com-
pleted and 17% of all new sanitation systems constructed (23% of rural and 17% of urban solu-
tions). In water the impact on coverage was less marked. FHIS dedicated itself to upgrading ex-
isting systems and accounted for less than 2% of new household connections built nationwide.
6



19.   Assessment: FHIS 2 made a significant contribution to the coverage and quality of Hon-
duran social infrastructure in primary education and health and in basic sanitation. Its contribu-
tion in water was not as significant.
Household level development impacts (poverty reduction)
20.   The 1999 impact evaluation compared conditions in FHIS beneficiary communities with
those in communities yet to benefit from program investments. Although the study was ham-
pered by the absence of baseline data, it showed that educational attainment (measured by the
number of children aged 7 and 8 years in the appropriate grade for their respective ages) was im-
proved where FHIS had invested in primary schools; that the proportion of sick people who
sought professional medical assistance when ill rose from 41% to 51% where FHIS had built
health posts; that the proportion of households with basic sanitation rose from 35% to 100%
when FHIS implemented latrine programs and that as a result diarrhea incidence fell by 35%; and
that the reliability of water services was improved by FHIS investments, increasing the average
service days per month from 18 to 25, and the average service hours per day from 10.9 to 12.7.
21.   Assessment: The evidence suggests that there were measurable development impacts in
various important areas. Greater attention should be paid in the future to conceptualizing and
quantifying the development impacts of FHIS and to understanding the inter-relation between
FHIS's input (capital construction) and the other inputs needed to get the desired results (com-
munity involvement and revenue funding).
Quality and cost of works
22.  FlIS 2 continued to use a sophisticated cost system to determine the price of contracts
and most works were below the threshold allowed for direct contracting. The contractors were
supervised by FHIS although this supervision was not always adequate.
23.   Assessment: Overall, the physical quality of FHIS 2's small-scale infrastructure invest-
ments was satisfactory, although in some cases projects exhibited shoddy finishing, faulty roofs,
and, in some schools and health centers, non-functioning toilets due to lack of piped water.
These issues suggest a need to improve supervision further, including through better coordination
with sectoral authorities during implementation, and possibly to improve design standards and
contracting arrangements. The program did not advance as quickly as had been hoped on in-
creasing the proportion of works let through competitive bidding. However, the unit costs of its
investments were generally acceptable compared with similar programs. This is an indication
that the cost system used for determining prices under direct contracting worked reasonably well
in most cases. An exception to this rule was water and sanitation investments, whose relative
complexity ill-suits them to standardized costing and which were found by a cost effectiveness
study undertaken in 1999 to have been generally overpriced. A pilot project is planned under the
proposed SIF 5 project to develop a community-based mechanism to better supervise and ad-
minister water and sanitation projects.5
Employment generation
24.   Although the goal of employment generation is no longer considered central to the pro-
gram, FHIS' monitoring system makes it possible to determine the number of jobs created by the
program. Over the four-year implementation period, FHIS generated temporary employment of
' This pilot was originally to be financed under the SIF 4 project, but was suspended following Hurricane
Mitch, when resources under SIF 4 were diverted to emergency reconstruction activities.
7



203,100 person-months of work at an average cost per job (including capital costs) of US$455
per month.
Gender
25.   FHIS also carried out an innovative program, financed by KfW, to incorporate women as
unskilled labor in construction crews; program evaluations confirmed its success, and the pro-
gram is now being extended by actively encouraging contractors to hire at least two women for
each subproject. The program includes training for women, as well as for contractors and super-
visors. It is expected that this effort will continue, and that most subprojects will include female
labor in the future.
Basic Needs and Nuestras Raices programs
26.   Under the Basic Needs program, which was intended to provide special support for vul-
nerable / disadvantaged groups, FHIS financed 69 projects, worth about US$1.6 million (1995-
98), including construction and rehabilitation of facilities, as well as medical supplies and meals,
for orphanages, child care and elderly care centers, partially filling the virtual void in public fi-
nancing for such social assistance programs. However, the relatively small amount invested in
such projects, and the concentration in just a few types of subprojects, reflect a lack of strategic
direction and weak technical capacity in FHIS to evaluate and oversee these social programs.
Future support in this area will be redesigned following a pilot project, developed in collaboration
with the Honduran Institute for Children and Families, slated for financing under the proposed
SIF 5 project.6
27.   A program for ethnic minorities, which began implementation in 1995, has emerged as
the most successful part of the Basic Needs program. Under this program, called "Nuestras
Raices" (Our Roots), the project provided US$3.8 million (1995-98) in financing for construction
and rehabilitation of rural roads in ethnic minority communities using paid labor of community
members, thus providing benefits both in road upgrading and employment generation. During
preparation of the SIF 3 project, on the basis of consultations with program beneficiaries, the
scope of this program was expanded to include the provision of training to community members
to help them learn to use the wages earned to organize and finance agricultural and commercial
income income-generating activities initiated and identified by the communities themselves.
From 1995 to mid 1999, the program provided financing to some 3,500 community groups, rep-
resenting ten different ethnic groups, for projects such as road rehabilitation, hanging bridges,
rehabilitation of navigation canals, school expansion works, construction of wells and latrines,
and construction of traditional ovens. Of the program's estimated 107,000 beneficiaries, 42%
were women. Under the SIF 4 project, FHIS aimed to consolidate community-level gains by
providing training in the formation of communal banks; this activity was delayed during FHIS's
Hurricane emergency / reconstruction period, but is now scheduled to be completed during 2000.
The proposed SIF 5 project would include financing for further development of the Nuestras
Raices program.
Environmental Improvement Program.
28.   The environmental improvement program included activities under various components,
as well as a specific component linked to the IDA-financed Environmental Development project
for training to municipalities in environmental issues. Under the project, FHIS completed 11
6 This pilot was originally to be financed under the SIF 4 project, but was suspended following Hurricane
Mitch, when resources under SIF 4 were diverted to emergency reconstruction activities.
8



small-scale projects, amounting to US$50,000, carried out with US Peace Corps volunteers' sup-
port. Two regional training centers were built in coordination with the municipalities, and a book
on environmental subjects was designed and printed, in collaboration with the Ministry of Edu-
cation, for distribution to primary schools. Additionally, during project preparation, a consultant
hired under the IDA-financed Environmental Development Project (Cr. 2693-HO), helped FHIS
to develop an improved subproject environmental assessment mechanism, which was incorpo-
rated into FHIS's Operations Manual.
29.   The "Environmental Assistance to Municipalities" component, which was originally to
be managed by the Ministry for the Environment (SERNA, formerly SEDA) in close collabora-
tion with FHIS, called for a modest environmental awareness and training program for munici-
palities. Implementation of this component was subject to a pilot program of technical assistance
in 20 municipalities under the Environmental Development Project. Because of delays in the im-
plementation of the pilot program, due largely to restructuring of SERNA, this component was
also delayed-as was FF1S implementation of about US$3.0 million worth of "innovative envi-
ronmental subprojects" to be financed under the Environmental Development Project. Eventu-
ally, in mid 1997, an amendment to Cr. 2766-HO was signed to transfer responsibility for imple-
mentation of this component to FHIS; arrangements were also made to provide FHIS access to
the funds under the Environmental Development Project, in order to allow FFHS to finance a set
of environmental subprojects. Once this amendment was made, implementation proceeded satis-
factorily. FHIS provided technical assistance in a few municipalities. FHIS also provided fi-
nancing for some 50 environmental subprojects.
Institutional Strengthening
30.   FHIS was very much strengthened under the project. It was transformed from a highly
centralized management structure, with few analytical tools to carry out its mandate, and subject
to political influence, into an efficient institution with strong leadership and an effective man-
agement team who use modem technology and analytical tools for decision-making, targeting
investments, and monitoring program progress. In addition, FHIS supported the Government's
efforts to decentralize authority and responsibility by encouraging municipal authorities to help
promote priority investments and by introducing a participatory process to encourage decision-
making on priority investments at the local levels. Municipal authorities contacted, as well as the
Honduran Association of Municipalities (AMHON), reported being pleased with FHIS's resource
allocation mechanisms and its response to municipal subproject proposals. Some municipalities
expressed interest in managing the resources allocated to them, which appears to be a logical next
step, and is now being pursued by FIRS in the context of a pilot program (see paras 13-14).
31.   Under the project, financing was provided for technical assistance and training activities
to assist in: (i) design and establishment of a social data mapping system; (ii) development of
policies and manuals for the management of the various stages of the subproject cycle, including
planning, identification, evaluation, contracting, and supervision; (iii) redesign and implementa-
tion of a management information system (MIS) that allows FHIS to monitor and improve con-
tinuously its operations; and (iv) carrying out of studies (e.g., evaluation of basic needs projects,
analysis of financing mechanisms for the maintenance of subprojects, recruitment, training,
evaluation and remuneration of personnel, subproject processing procedures, and accounting and
intemal auditing practices); (v) carrying out of a modest program of training activities / work-
shops to strengthen the micro-enterprise sector, focused in particular on intermediary organiza-
tions and on women entrepreneurs.
9



32.   During 1996 and 1997, with donors' support, FHIS carried out the institutional strength-
ening program. One of the highlights of the program was the establishment of a modem MIS
with 48 key performance indicators that allow managers to monitor FLIS operations (see Table 5
part two). The MIS allows each administrative unit, and each person within most units, to set
productivity targets and monitor compliance. Although the MIS requires additional fine-tuning,
as well as the incorporation of more quality-oriented indicators, the tool has been effectively used
by FHIS' management to improve its operations and productivity, as well as quality at each step
of the subproject cycle.
33.    The project also financed training for management and staff, including study tours to
various countries to learn from the experience of similar institutions, as well as attendance at
short courses, seminars, and conferences on various topics of interest. The results show that
FHIS benefited greatly from these training opportunities.
34.   One indication of FHIS's improved institutional capacity was FHIS's outstanding per-
formance following Hurricane Mitch. FIRS responded in a rapid and flexible manner to the cri-
sis caused by the devastating impact of hurricane Mitch in November 1998. It modified its or-
ganization through the creation of temporary decentralized regional offices with executive
authority to implement reconstruction activities, and through streamlining of the subproject proc-
essing cycle. Donors also showed flexibility by supporting FHIS and the Government in their
reconstruction efforts. In the first 100 days following the hurricane, Fl-US executed over 2,100
subprojects (worth about $40 million). By end 1999, about 3,400 emergency subprojects had
been financed, representing an implementation rate four times faster than the pre-Mitch averages.
35.   At the same time, the rapid deployment of FHIS staff and the changes in subproject proc-
essing procedures also created some confusion, undermining some of the advances that had been
made under the institutional strengthening program and creating some inconsistencies in the hith-
erto orderly information banks. This situation was complicated by two changes in FHIS's leader-
ship (in July 1999 and again in January 2000), leading in each instance to some institutional reor-
ganization. Nonetheless, the foundation laid under the institutional strengthening program (in-
formation systems, procedures, well-trained managers and staff) remains solid, and FHIS is on
track toward the reestablishment of its pre-Mitch institutional order in preparation for the pro-
posed SIF 5 project. Activities underway include: development of a revised, simplified, Opera-
tions Manual, incorporating lessons learned since the hurricane; improvements in monitoring and
evaluation systems; and enhancements of efficiency and competition in contracting procedures.
36.   Under the project, FH[S also developed a social data mapping system, which integrates
digitized maps of Honduras with available statistics on access to social services, population char-
acteristics and social indicators, and FHIS investments. This system was originally developed
and managed in collaboration with the Unit for Social Indicators within the State Secretariat for
Planning (SECPLAN); Government has since dissolved SECPLAN, as part of the IDA-supported
Modernization of the State program. Thus there is a risk that the system could grow obsolete, as
FHIS is ill-placed to hold sole responsibility for social data collection and analysis. Another,
more appropriate, home should be found for this sophisticated geographic information system.
Nonetheless, in the meantime, FHIS has made effective use of the system for improving poverty
targeting and program evaluation.
37.   Under the project, FHIS signed Cooperation Agreements with several government insti-
tutions, as well as with municipal authorities, and the US Peace Corps. In general, this resulted in
10



better coordination in determining priority investments in the social sectors, as well as in ensuring
that new schools and health centers built by the project were staffed upon completion; however,
as mentioned in para 23, there is still room to improve coordination with sectoral authorities dur-
ing subproject implementation. The Agreement with the Peace Corps was useful for the design
and implementation of small-scale environmental subprojects at the local level, with Peace Corps
volunteers' support.
38.   Another important achievement during the project implementation period has been the
establishment of good working relationships with NGOs. Local NGOs were contracted to pro-
vide basic health training to communities, and to carry out training of beneficiaries for subproject
sustainability. Social assistance subproject proposals were also financed under the project's Ba-
sic Needs component. The Honduran NGO Federation (FOPRIDEH) reported having had a very
good relationship and experience with FIRS, and looks forward to continuing to work together.
In addition, through the "Nuestras Raices Program," FHIS established good working relationships
with various Federations representing ethnic communities.
Project Design
39.   Project preparation began soon after a new administration was in place in early-1994. To
the institution's benefit, the new leadership had the foresight to maintain most of its key staff.
Project preparation was carried out by a multidisciplinary donor team (IDA, IDB and KfW), as
well as by the Regional Unit for Technical Assistance (RUTA Social)' and FHIS. Project design
aimed at restructuring FHIS, and establishing systems and processes that would result in better-
targeted investments that would be carried out in an efficient manner. The design included an
ambitious technical assistance program to improve all phases of the subproject cycle.
40.   Overall, project design was consistent with relevant lessons learned from Social Fund
projects, including: (i) the need to maintain clear and limited objectives; (ii) an emphasis on effi-
cient and simple operating procedures and qualified staff; (iii) an emphasis on participation and
consultation with beneficiaries and other stakeholders; (iv) integration of environmental aspects.
During the design phase, analyses were carried out to determine social infrastructure require-
ments. An environmental subproject review mechanism was developed, and cooperation agree-
ments with line ministries, municipalities and other institutions were reviewed. Agreements were
reached with the Ministry of Finance to ensure the availability of financial resources so that op-
eration and maintenance of completed subprojects would be carried out even in the poorest mu-
nicipalities. During project preparation, considerable emphasis was placed on issues related to
community participation, project sustainability, and the basic needs program for vulnerable
population groups; consequently, technical assistance was included in the project to assist FHIS
in these areas, and a pilot program was developed for community training in subproject
sustainability (financed by KfW).
Major Factors Affecting the Project
41.   Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency. When Hurricane
Mitch struck in October 1998, FHIIS's on-the-ground and participatory approach enabled it to
assume the leading role in responding to communities' urgent needs for assistance in restoring
' Joint technical assistance unit of World Bank, IDB and UJNDP.
11



access to basic infrastructure. While FHIS staff met this challenge outstandingly, the frenetic
pace during the emergency period also took its toll on the institution's orderly management sys-
tem, which had been strengthened under the project. Nonetheless, by mid 2000, FHIS appears to
be recuperating well.
42.   Factors generally subject to government control. Several factors contributed to the suc-
cess of the project. First, there was strong government support for the institution, which, recog-
nizing FIS's importance in helping to carry out the poverty alleviation strategy, extended FHIS'
mandate until the year 2012. Throughout the project implementation period, counterpart funding
was adequate, and generally on time. Second, FHIS's leadership, as well as a well-qualified,
well-paid, and committed group of key staff, transformed FFHS into a modem, responsive, trans-
parent, and participatory institution that is well-respected in the country. Continuity in FHIS's
leadership and key mid-level management throughout most of the implementation period-in-
cluding through a change in Presidential administrations-also contributed to FHIS's ability to
maintain policy directions and see activities through to completion. (Two recent changes in
FHIS's leadership, in July 1999 and again in January 2000, led in each instance to some internal
reorganization.) Finally, it is worth mentioning that the project has had continuous and special-
ized support from the donors, which have shown flexibility in making changes and reassigning
resources when FHIS needed them.
43.   Factors generally subject to FHIS control. FHIS's promotion of municipal involvement
in decision-making concerning investment priorities, as well as its development of clear operating
procedures and tools to target investments to the poor, made FHIS less of a target for political
influence. FHIS's emphasis on targeting also resulted in significant improvements over past per-
formance. On the other hand, FHIS placed insufficient early emphasis on the importance of
community participation in all stages of subproject development and implementation, and as a
result there were inadequate organizational arrangements and a lack of technical capacity for
dealing with social aspects of infrastructure subprojects and activities included under the Basic
Needs program. Likewise, the importance of training for beneficiaries to enhance subproject
sustainability was not given attention early enough in the program, and as a consequence, training
covered a small number of the subprojects rehabilitated and built with FElS financing.
Project Sustainability
44.   Prospects for sustainability of the project's impact are good. While this report makes a
number of recommendations on ways for FHIS to enhance subproject sustainability further in the
future, the 1999 impact assessment confirms that in general, FHIS investments are operating and
well-maintained, and correspond to community priorities; thus the improvements in human de-
velopment and poverty reduction mentioned above are likely to continue well into the future.
The project's development objectives do not depend upon the sustainability of FHIS as an insti-
tution, and it should be recognized that external financing will likely continue to play an impor-
tant role in supporting FHIS. Nonetheless, the institutional strengthening activities provided un-
der the project lay the groundwork for FHIS to continue serving as an effective conduit for fi-
nancing of small-scale social and economic infrastructure to poor communities, in accordance
with local priorities, and for building local capacity through the participatory process.
12



IDA Performance
45.   During the identification and preparation process, including appraisal, IDA, in close co-
operation with IDB and KfW, provided substantial technical expertise to analyze sector and in-
stitutional issues and propose a program to address them and to allow the institution to carry out
its mandate, through the participation of staff and consultants of various disciplines in these proc-
esses. Evidence of this is the adequacy of project design, as well as the institutional improve-
ments that took place during the project implementation period.
46.   The project was supervised as planned, and a mid-term evaluation was carried out ahead
of time to ensure that project objectives and targets were being met. There was continuity in
IDA mission staffing during project implementation. IDA maintained flexibility throughout the
project, as demonstrated by efforts to reorganize the implementation arrangements for the Envi-
ronmental Assistance to Municipalities component, when it became apparent that the compo-
nent's implementation was at risk; and by extra efforts to help FHIS act rapidly and efficiently
following Hurricane Mitch. On the other hand, more supervision and early guidance should per-
haps have been provided in improving FHIS's incorporation of social aspects into the program
(e.g., under the basic needs component, in the planned sustainability training for beneficiaries).
Borrower Performance
47.   FHIS' key staff and management participated actively in project design, acquiring project
ownership early in the process. This resulted in the successful implementation of the project.
They were open to recommendations for improvement, and were keen to participate in study
tours, conferences, and seminars in various countries to learn from their experience. They were
also dedicated counterparts to the technical advisers who worked in the institution under the
technical assistance program. In general, the Borrower was committed to meeting its mandate,
and complied with the obligations in the Credit Agreement and with IDA procedures. Fl-US is
one of the pioneer social sector institutions in Latin America to design and implement a social
sector data base (SIGES) and a fully automated MIS. It also recently met the requirements of
IDA's new financial management system (LACI). It continues to place emphasis on excellence
and efficiency.
48.   During project preparation, FHIS identified three areas that needed improvement in the
Basic Needs program: (i) technical program staff was insufficient, (ii) timely assistance was not
forthcoming from other FIRS units in the promotion, evaluation, and approval of subprojects, and
(iii) there were delays in disbursements. These difficulties persisted during much of the imple-
mentation period. On the positive side, FHIS has put much effort into making a success of the
program for ethnic communities (Nuestras Raices), in collaboration with the Federations that rep-
resent them. This program corresponds to more than two thirds of the number of projects and
financial resources invested in the Basic Needs program, and has been gaining in importance in
recent years.
Assessment of Outcome
49.   The overall project outcome is satisfactory. Project objectives and quantitative targets
were generally met. There are several important achievements related to institutional strength-
ening, targeting of investments, and decentralization of decision-making on priority investments
to the municipal/community level. The program's investments had a positive impact on infra-
13



structure coverage and this fed through into measurable improvements in human development
and poverty reduction, such as improved educational achievement, better take up of primary
health services, better sanitation conditions and reduced diarrhea incidence.
50.   FIRS is a well-respected public sector institution in Honduras that has developed effec-
tive working relationships with public and private non-profit sector institutions, as well as with
the donors. It is effective and efficient in carrying out social sector infrastructure rehabilitation
and construction. FHIS has designed and implemented one of the most modem MIS in the re-
gion and a social sector data base to target investments. Management and staff are dedicated to
their work, and are responsible for the success of the project. They have taken advantage of the
training opportunities and technical assistance provided with external financing. FHIS has shown
institutional flexibility and a capacity to adapt to challenging situations; this capacity was clearly
on display as the institution mobilized to become a key actor in the country's response to the dev-
astation caused by Hurricane Mitch. IDA and the other donors also showed commitment to the
project by being flexible when the situation warranted it, and have provided timely technical as-
sistance to strengthen the institution.
51.   As mentioned above, the Government and IDA placed insufficient emphasis, early in the
project, on community participation and training, and on FHIS's coordination with the eventual
owners of the facilities needing improvement. Nonetheless, FHIS has begun to address these
deficiencies, and plans to consolidate improvements under the proposed SIF 5 project.
Future Operation
52.   Government remains committed to FHIS and, as mentioned before, FHlIS is well-placed
to continue serving as an effective conduit for financing of small-scale social and economic infra-
structure to poor communities, in accordance with local priorities, and for building local capaci-
ties through the participatory process. FLIS remains, however, subject to future external financ-
ing.
53.   A follow-on project (SIF 4, Cr. 3118-HO for US$45 million equivalent) was approved in
July 1998 to continue IDA's support to the FHIS program through 2001, and in particular, to
build on successful experiences under the SIF 1, 2, and 3 projects by adjusting FHIS's method-
ologies and by providing technical assistance to support an increased role for communities and
local governments in the planning, management, and sustainability of local development projects;
the SIF 4 program also provided for special/pilot programs to further strengthen demand-
responsiveness and sectoral coordination in the rural water and the social assistance sectors.
However, in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch, resources under that credit were diverted to fi-
nance clean-up, rehabilitation, and reconstruction efforts in rural areas in response to the priori-
ties identified by the local communities and municipalities. Resources under Cr. 3118-HO were
quickly exhausted; a supplemental credit in the amount of US$22.5 million equivalent was ap-
proved in December 1999 to help with ongoing reconstruction efforts, and those resources are
also expected to be fully committed within a few months. Therefore, to continue support for the
FIRS program, IDA is currently preparing a proposed SIF 5 project, which would pick up where
the SIF 4 project left off, including a deepening of FHIS's efforts to support local institutional
strengthening and community participation, as well as a reinitiation of the SIF 4 pilots.
14



Key Lessons Learned
54.    The most important lessons learned include:
* Strong government commitment and support, and provision of sufficient and timely
counterpart funding, is key to project success.
*  A high degree of autonomy in the management of financial resources (FIRS is ex-
empt from normal government budgeting, procurement, and disbursement proce-
dures) allows FHIS to be efficient. Also, staff can be hired at higher than govern-
ment salaries, which helps in attracting well-qualified professionals.
* Strong leadership is important to maintain the institution's autonomy, and to make
needed changes that will strengthen the institution.
*  Well-qualified, committed, and well-motivated key staff is the most important ingre-
dient for carrying out changes in an institution, and to solve problems as soon as they
appear. Staff turnover should be minimized whenever possible. Providing continu-
ous training of staff and exposing them to new and different ways of operating can be
motivating, as well as promote further changes to improve operations. Adequate
human resource management improves efficiency at lower administrative costs.
*  A well-designed MIS facilitates subproject processing, and allows managers to ob-
tain relevant information for decision-making. The management indicators are an
excellent tool to monitor processes and progress to take corrective measures when
necessary.
e  Well-established institutional systems and an adequate structure permit effective and
efficient operations. Transparent processes for allocation of resources, targeting of
investments, contracting works, goods, and services, financial management, and
auditing makes an institution highly regarded and trusted by outside entities, particu-
larly donors.
*  Encouraging decentralized decision-making at the municipal community levels pro-
motes credibility, interest, and goodwill, and reduces political influence in decision-
making.
X  An institution designed to process infrastructure subprojects is not easily adapted to
deal with the social aspects of the work, or with social assistance projects. Improve-
ments in a social fund's capacities to handle these issues depend on a continuous em-
phasis on them by the Borrower and by donors. Organizational and staffing ar-
rangements should also be assessed in this light, and appropriate technical assistance,
training, and pilot activities should be incorporated into programs of support for so-
cial funds.
*  Notwithstanding FHIS's outstanding performance in responding to communities'
needs following Hurricane Mitch, the institution's rapid reorganization during the
emergency period took a toll on the order and efficiency that had been previously
established. Since natural disasters are always a threat in Honduras, and in light of
the vital role that FHIS (like other social funds) can play during such emergencies,
FHIS (and IDA) should work to be better prepared for emergency situations; this
should include the development of "contingency" procedures for such occasions.
15






PART TWO: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Credit Disbursements
Table 5:      Key Indicators
Table 6:      Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:     Project Costs
Table 7B:     Project Financing
Table 7C:     Amount and Sources of Financing, by Year
Table 8:      Investment Program, 1995-May 1999
Table 9:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:     IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 1:     IDA Resources: Missions
16






REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.               obietivcs            Su mad             P1I             Ne             Notppll
Macro Policies                                                                            X
Sector Policies                                        X
Financial Objectives                                                                      X
Institutional Development             X
Physical Objectives                   X
Poverty Alleviation                   X
Gender Issues                                          X
Other Social Objectives                                X
Environmental Objectives                               X
Public Sector Management                               X
Private Sector Development                             X
Other (specify)                                                                     X
Identification                                           X
Preparation Assistance                X
Appraisal                        X
Supervision                                             X
Boff ower Per(brIamwe  H'MSy Ssfscttoy                            Deficpt>
Preparation                                             X
Implementation                     X
Covenant Compliance                   X
Operation (if applicable)                                     X
,OW ', f 29   ti{4b1
17



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Preceding Operations:
1. Ln. 2804-HO      Administration of Rural Primary Educa-  1986    Completed
tion Management Project
(US$4.4 million)
2. Cr. 2212-HO      First Social Investment Fund Project    1991    Completed
(US$20.0 million)
3. Cr. 2401 -HO     Second Social Investment Fund Project   1992    Completed
(US$ 10.2 million)
4. Cr. 2452-HO      Nutrition and Health Project (US$25.0   1993    Under execution
million)
5. Cr. 2694-HO      Basic Education Project                 1995    Under execution
(US$30.0 million)
6. Cr. 2693-HO      Environmental Development Project       1995    Under execution
Following operations:
1. Cr. 3118-HO       Fourth Social Investment Fund          1998    Under execution
Project5 (US$45.0 million)
2. Cr. 3159-HO       Hurricane Emergency Project (US$58.66    1998    Completed
million)
3. Cr. 2452-1-HO     Nutrition and Health Project (US$7.5   1999    Under execution
million) - Supplemental credit
4. Cr. 3118-1-HO     Fourth Social Investment Fund          2000    Under execution
Project - Supplemental credit (US$22.5
million)
5. (P064895)         Fifth Social Investment Fund Project   2001    Under preparation
18



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                               02/12/94
Preparation                                                              12/04/94
Pre-Appraisal                                                            10/19/94
Appraisal                                                                02/13/95
Negotiations                                                             05/30/95
Negotiations                                                             06/02/95
Board Presentation                                                       07/11/95
Signing                                                                  08/03/95
Effectiveness                                                            11/14/95
Midterm review                                    11/30/97               03/09/97
Project Completion                                06/30/99               06/30/99
Credit Closing                                    12/31/99               12/31/99
19



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 4: Credit Disbursements:   Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$'000)
96          December 31, 1995             5,000                 4,356
June 30, 1996                 7,600                 10,640
97          December 31, 1996            10,300                 20,197
June 30, 1997                13,100                23,422
98          December31, 1997             16,225                 24,326
June 30, 1998                19,350                24,777
99          December31, 1998             23,100                 25,017
June 30, 1999                26,875                25,949
00          December 31, 1999            30,000                27,403
Actual vs. Estimated Cumulative Disbursements (in US$'000)
30,000
15000
95              De __
9  65          -    De         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
9  7698       C-         *muative Estimated
99         MUU
'Cumulative Actual
Final disbursement took place on January 21, 2000. Changes in the exchange rate between SDR and US
dollar explain the decline in the US dollar amount from the initial equivalent of US$30 million to US$27.4
million at loan closing.
20



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 5: Key Performance Indicators, 1997'
F  - . IndI  -                          -  Xd#cas-.  .                                       Unit  -   --  - s   A
-9-3k7  12/ 7   a'
Promotion, Appraisal, Approvals, and Geographic Distribution
I   Total number of subproject        MIS              Measures potential beneficiary      No. of Requests       3,000      2,629   87.6
requests received that are in     (Promotion)      demand
the subproject. menu
2   Total number and amount of         MIS             Determines effective demand and     No. of Subprojects     1,615     2,143  132.7
subproject requests that comply   (Promotion)      FHIS'promotion capacity             Amount in US$ M       33.33     38.24  114.7
with eligibility criteria and
appraisal requirements
3   Total number of promoters and      MIS             Determines promoters actual         No. of Persons            15       20   75.0
productivity by promoter          (Project & Per-   productivity compared to targets   US$ M/ Promoter        2.22       1.91   86.0
sonnel Data Base)
4   Average number of days that        MIS             Determine possible difficulties in  No. of Days              40         11 363.6
elapse from the time a subproject  (Promotion)     complying with Promotion
request is received until it is                    requirements. Includes support
considered adequate for appraisal                 to Preinvestment Unit
5   Amount and percentage of sub-      MIS             Determines the levels of unmet      USS M                    1.5     16.26
projects in the data base without  (Promotion)     demand compared to FHIS             SC %                   20.0       77.4
available financing                                programming                         MC%                    20.0      37.5
Key sectors (SC): education,       AC %                    20.0      66.0
health, water and sanitation
Key municipalities (MC): very
poor, poor
Key area (AC): rural
6   Total number and amount of         MIS             Determines actual capacity          No. of Subprojects     1,780     2,025  113.8
appraised subprojects             (Evaluation)     compared to the annual plan         US$ M                 33.38     33.37  100.0
7   Total number of evaluators and     MIS             Determines promoters actual         No. of Persons            11        16   68.8
productivity by evaluator         (Project and Per-  productivity compared to targets  US$M/Evaluator          3.03      2.09   69.0
sonnel Data Base)
8   Average number of days. elapsed    MIS             Determines average number of        No. of Days              45         73   61.6
from start of evaluation until    (Promotion and   days in the evaluation process
evaluation is completed           Evaluation)      compared to the plan
9   Total number and amount of         MIS             Determines project processing       No. of Subprojects     1,200     1,839  153.3
subprojects approved by the       (Committee)      capacity                            US$ M                 29.02      30.86  106.3
Operations Committee
1997 was the year with the highest level of investment during the project period and the last date for
which these indicators are available. 1998 and 1999 data was rendered meaningless after hurricane Mitch,
and the use of FHIS funds for emergency reconstruction efforts. FHIS is currently revising its information
system in order to reprogram the indicators for post-emergency phase operations.
21



=~~~
10 Percentage of total subprojects  MIS           Determines FMS capacity to meet   % Very Poor              27.4       29.6 108.2l
approved by the Operations  (Targeting)        planned targets                  % Poor                   23.3        28.1 120.8l
Committee in each poverty                                                       % Deficient               22.6      I1S.6 82.5l
targeting category                                                              % Regular                 20.8       18.8 90.6
% Acceptable              5.9        4.8 80.5
Contracting
11 Total number and amount of    MIS             Determines subproject contracting    No. of Subprojects   1,200      1,809 150.8
subprojects contracted      (Procurement)      capacity                         US$ M                    29.00      30.53 105.3
12 Total subproject investment    MIS             Ascertain how close total costs are   % in key sectors     -5.0       -3.9 77.0
contracts over total appraised   (Appraisal and  compared to costs at evaluation
cost base                   Procurement)
13 Total subproject investment    MIS             Ascertain how close total costs are   CDIUS$ M            13.54      24.57 181.5
contracts over total appraised   (Appraisal and  compared to costs at evaluation  Reduction in %            0          0  0.0
cost base, by procurement   Procurement)       by method of procurement         LPr/US$ M                 1.92       0.53 27.6
method                                         CD = Direct Contracting          Reduction in %            -6.0       -4.0 66.2
LPr = Price Quotation            LPu/USS M               13.54       3.89 28.7
LPu = National Competitive Bidding Reduction in %        -12.0       -22.7 188.8
14 Average number of days required MIS            Determines average number of days  CD/Days                  30         14 214.3
for procurement processes, by   (Procurement)  per subproject                   LPr/Days                   45        101 44.6
procurement method                                                              LPu/Days                   65         77 84.4
15 Sectoral distribution of con-    MIS           Determines FHIS' capacity to meet   Education
tracted
subprojects                 (Procurement &     sectoraltargets                  No. of Subprojects        552       1,311 237.5
Sectoral Invest-                                   USS M                    12.76      20.23 158.5
ment Program)                                      Health
No. of Subprojects        408        206 50.5
US$ M                    5.22       3.65 69.9
Water & Sanitation
No. of Subprojects        107        114 106.5
US$ M                    7.25       1.82 25.1
Municipal Infrastruc.
No. of Subprojects         47         91 193.6
US$ M                    1.45       3.19 220.0
Basic Needs
No. of Subprojects         73         86 117.8
US$ M                    2.03       1.61 79.3
Environment
No. of Subprojects         13          1  7.7
US$ M                    0.29       0.04  13.8
16 Per capita distribution of invest- MIS         Determines FHIS' capacity to meet   Very Poor USS          9.12      10.25 112.4
ments by poverty group of the  (Procurement &  poverty targets                  Poor US$                  7.03       8.47 120.5
Municipal Poverty Map       Geographic Invest-                                  Deficient US$             5.08       5.45 107.3
ment Program)                                      Regular US$                3.9       4.86 124.6
Acceptable USS          10.32       4.21  40.8
17 Total number of direct benefici- MIS           Determines FIlS' capacity to meet   No. of Persons       70,000    376,378 537.7
aries
and amount contracted in poor  (Procurement    poverty targets                  US$ M                    11.60       8.35 72.0
urban areas                 and Targeting)
22



N2  - --  t r   it-    r    A  --?0                SS^r'-'            ,                                - 
18  Total number of direct beneficiaries MIS     Determines FHIS' capacity to meet  No. of Persons        490,000  815,192   166.4
and amount contracted in poor    (Procurement  poverty targets                  US$ M                   17.00    21.82   128.4
rural areas                   and Targeting)
19  Percentage of contracted amount  MIS         Determines distribution of contracts    % Individual        60.0    77.4  129.0
by type of contractor         (Procurement  by type of contractor               % Enterprise             25.0    16.6   66.4
and Contractor)                                  % NGO                     10.0     4.2   42.0
% Local Govt.             5.0      1.8   35.8
20  Total number of contracts com-   MIS         Determines the actual distribution of   No. of Contracts     749    1,809  241.5
pared to total number of      (Procurement)  contracts among contractors        No. of Contractors        543      521    95.9
contractors                                  compared to the planned numbers
Supervision and Finance
21  Total number and amount of     MIS           Determines FH1S' subproject        No. of Subprojects        428    1,993   465.7
subprojects that began implemen-  (Supervision)  processing capacity            US$ M                   27.11    34.49   127.2
tation
22  Average response time from     MIS           Determines time elapsed since start    No. of Days           240      139    57.9
evaluation to implementation  (Supervision)  of project evaluation to start of
implementation
23  Total number and amount of     MIS           Determines FHIS' subproject        No. of Subprojects        913    1,098   120.3
projects under implementation  (Supervision)  processing capacity               US$ M                   20.00    20.71   103.6
24  Total number of FHIS' inspectors  MIS        Ensures that the Supervision Unit  No. of Persons             20       19    95.0
(Supervision)  has sufficient staff
25  Total number of supervisors    MIS           Determines the average number of   Average No.                 8        9   112.5
contracted per subproject inspector (Supervision)  supervisors per FHIS inspector and  Maximum No.         12       17  141.7
maximum and minimum numbers        Minimum No.                 3        9    33.3
26  Total number of subprojects under MIS        Determines de average number of    Average No.                 9        8    88.9
implementation, per supervisor    (Supervision)  projects under implementation per  Maximum No.            12       27   225.0
supervisor, and maximum and        Minimum No.                 2        1   50.0
minimum numbers
27  Average number of subprojects    MIS         Determines the average number of   Average No.                64       54    84.4
under implementation, per     (Supervision)  subprojects per inspector
inspector
28  Percentage of total subproject  MIS          Determines potential bottlenecks in  Percentage            < 80.0    93.5
investment in actual execution  (Supervision)  supervision and problem subprojects
with original contracted execution          in the Supervision Directorate
time overdue
29  Percentage of subproject contracts MIS       Determines FIS' ability to estimate    Percentage           < 7.0      3.8
modified because of cost      (Supervision)  subproject costs
overruns
30  Total number and amount of     MIS           Determines efficiency, appraisal   No. of Subprojects         46       47   102.2
subprojects actually suspended due (Supervision)  quality and supervision of subprojects   US$ M         0.87     0.83    95.4
to contractors failure to comply
with contracting requirements
23



31  Total number and amount of    MIS             Determines actual capacity compared  No. of Subprojects  900       1,117 124.1
completed subprojects       (Supervision)     to the target for the year        US$ M                28.00      24.20 86.4
32  Average implementation period MIS             Determines efficiency, appraisal  No. of Days            200        148 135.1
for completed subprojects   (Supervision)     quality and supervision of subprojects
in the project cycle
33  Time elapsed from contract   MIS              Determines potential bottlenecks  No. of Days             10         11 90.9
signature to first disbursement  (Supervision and  in the Supervision and Administration
Administration)    Directorates
34  Total cumulative amount of    MIS             Determines subproject processing  US$ M                 35.50      35.06 98.8
payment requests made       (Supervision)     capacity of the Supervision Dir.
35  Percentage of total disburse-    MIS          Determines how close to the plan  Percentage            60.0       169.3 282.2
ments
in relation to total commitments (Supervision and  is evaluators' projected productivity
Administration)
36  Number of months of work    MIS               Determines months of work         No. of months
generated by subprojects under  (Evaluation)  generated
implementation and completed
37  Percentage of labor component MIS             Determines labor component as     Percentage             20.0        4.3  21.5
of subprojects compared to total (Evaluation)  percentage of total cost
cost
38  Percentage of total projects  MIS             Monitors subproject quality       Percentage            90.0        60.3 66.9
completed with equal or above  (Supervision)
norm quality
39  Percentage of total number of   MIS           Monitors compliance with environ-    Percentage          90.0       58.6 65.2
completed projects where    (Supervision)     mental contract clauses
contractors have complied with
environmental contract clauses
Administration
40  Cumulative disbursements in    MIS            Determines potential bottlenecks  US$ M                 35.00      34.71  99.2
1997                        (Administration)   in the Administration Directorate
41  Percentage of total amount of   MIS           Determines efficiency level in    Percentage             95.0       99.0 104.2
subprojects cost estimates that  (Finance)    processing payments
have been paid
42  Average number of days elapsed MIS            Determines efficiency level in    No. of Days              7          6 116.7
from the time cost estimates are (Finance)    processing payments
completed to check emission
43  Total cumulative amount of    MIS             Determines efficiency level in    US$ M                 34.00       9.98 29.4
advances sent for payment   (Supervision)     processing of advances with
donor funds
44  Percentage of total amount of   MIS           Determines efficiency level in    Percentage             95.0       99.0 104.2
advances that have been paid   (Finance)      processing payments
24



45  Average number of days elapsed MIS             Determines efficiency level in    No. of Days                10         11    90.9
from the day the request for    (Finance)     processing payments
advance is sent until payment
is made
46  Total cumulative amount of    MIS              Determines efficiency in processing  US$ M                  30          30   100.0
reimbursement requests made   (Finance)       reimbursement requests
to funding sources
47  Average number of days elapsed, MIS            Determines efficiency of financing   No. of Days
by funding source, from the day (Finance)     institutions in processing reimburse-  World Bank            45         45   100.0
the reimbursement request is                  ment requests                     IDB                        45         45   100.0
sent until funds are received                                                   KfW                        60         60   100.0
OPEC                      60         60   100.0
WB - Education Pr.        20          20   100.0
WB - SERNA                20          20   100.0
GOH                       20         20   100.0
48  Number of subprojects in the    MIS            Determines efficiency in subproject  No. of Subprojects
Administration Directorate that (Finance)     closing in the Administration      Step 590                           1,270
are ready for closing                         Directorate                        Step 600                           1,086
a/ 100% or above indicates that target has been met or exceeded.
Note: 1997 was the year with the highest level of investment during the project period and the last date for
which these indicators are available.
1998 and 1999 data was rendered, meaningless after hurricane Mitch, and the use of FIRS funds for
emergency reconstruction efforts.
25



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
NO          S    _ _         _    _                             '    Nf jZl Ld 4  0,
1.    Review of the Institutional Strength-  17.   Mid-Term Review
ening Component
2.    Management and Analysis of Infor-  18.   Final Term Report, Credit 2
mation on Social Sector Investment
3.    Basis Needs                      19.   Procedures for Selection and Em-
ployment of Consultants through Public
Bidding
4.    Maintenance and Sustainability of   20.   Socio-Geografic Referencing System
Projects
5.    Personnel Policy                 21.   Definition of a Water & Sanitation
Investment Program
6.    Project Cycle Management:        22.   Environmental Assessment
Promotion
Evaluation
Supervision
7.    Information Management System    23.   Impact Evaluation
8.    Internal Accounting and Auditing    24.   Municipal Development including:
System                                 Participative Planning, Decentraliza-
tion of the Project Cycle and Preven-
tive Maintenance.
9.    Community Participation          25.   Resource Allocation of access and
menu
10.   Computer System                  26.   Productive Projects
11.   Training in Social Management    27.   Need for Social Sector Investments
12.   Sustainability K1W/PNUD          28.   Consultative Workshop (new focus)
13.   Enterprise GOPA-CINSA            29.   LACI
14.   Simultaneous Audit (Auditoria Con-  30.   Development Plan for Indigenous
currente)                              People
15.   Accounting and Financial Audit   31.   Modernization of Poverty Map
16.   Impact Study                     32.   Micro-Planning
26



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 7A: Project Cost Summary 1/
(in US$'000)
Pltlldll Aeitil Actual cii
Local Foreign    Tot,,l         % t,f ToiMl
A.FIS Portfolio
1. -Infastructure subprojects              74,2S0  20,750  95000  89,489           94
2. Basic Needs P                            450       150   5,000:   ,202         16
Subtotal                                 78,500  21,500 100,000  97,691         98
S. Inistitutional Strengthening
1. Basic Needs, Community Participation,       57      43;    100: ..              90
and
cooperation with Peace Corps
2. Personnel and management training,         105-   349    A454       705        375
MIS.
Subproject Cycle, Accounting,
Maintenance
3. Water Supply and Sanitation 2/              30      123     153        0         0
4. Micro Credit(PASI)                          89       0       89      181       203
Subtotal                                   281      515     796    1,976       248
C Project Managemewnt
1. Administration                           9,500       0-                  -001  171
2. Vehicles and Equipment                     230      89.   l929   1,598         174
3. External Auditor                           250       0-    250       180        72
Subtotal                                  9,980     689  10,669   18,069       169
Total FHIS                                 88,761  22,704 111,465 117,736         106
D. Social Sector Data Mapping and Household       96       49     145      145        100
Survey
E. Environmental Assistance to Municipalities 3/  860      30     890       19         2
Grand Total                                 89,717  22,783 112,500 117,900         105
1/ 1995 through December 31, 1999
2/ Grant funding for this component was eventually identified, and is not reported in this table.
3/ Actual costs reported under this component appear low because some expenditures were reported as part of
components A and B.
27



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTM:ENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 7B: Project Financing 1/
(in US$'000)
Subtoltal                               84.6       22.9      107.5      117.9           110
Beneficiaries                               5.0        0.0        5.0        0.0           0.0
Total                                   89.6       22.9      112.5      117.9           105
Table 7C: Amount and Sources of Financing by Year
(in US$'000)
~~~~~.              _
otalF14                                17153.3   3.         26.20211
I/ As of December 31, 1999.
2/ WB Health Project, P4A, COS8DE, WB Enviro.nental Project, OPEC, KfW Education Project, and project
beneficiaries.
28



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 2766-HO)
Table 8: Investment Program, 1995-May 1999
(in UUS$ million)
Education                                             833       14.18        646       12.18       1,312       21.70        270        6.23         676       14.88       3,737      68.16
Preschools constructionlrehab.                        104        1.95         53        117           74        1 84         14        0.22          55        1 09        300        6.27
Primaryschooisconstructionlrehab.                     613       1119         414        898         590        1436         175        318          520        997        2,312      4767
Secondary schools constructionlrehab.                  31        088          35        152           58        218           8        0.15          28        156         160        6.29
Training for subproject sustainability                                                                                                                                        0       0.00
Fumiture and equipment                                  6        0 08        144        0.51        477         2 44         49        019           70        1 87        746        5 08
Other                                                  79        008                                 113        088          24         1.50          3        039         219        285
Heanh                                                 294        4.63        180        3.06        202         3.77         22        0.48          32        0683        700       12.37
Basic health training                                 163        0.76         26        004           89        084           2        001                                 280        164
Latrine construction                                   28        1.11         32        0 78          27        0.74          5        0.08           5        02 7          97       2 77
Fumiture and equipment                                                         3        0 05           I         02                                  10        0 07         14        D 14
Training for subproject sustainability                  4        0 00                                  6        o.o1                                                         10       0 02
Emergency treatment centbrs                                                     1       0 03           2        0 06                                                          3       0.10
Heaithcenters(CESAMO)                                  21        057           18       054           21        0$2           3        009            2        004          85        186
Heanth centers (CESAR)                                 78        2.09         70         1 63         56        1 47         12         0 30         15        0236        2 31       5 85
Water and Sanitation                                   85        3.58        134         8.44        114        1.54        272         1.44                                         22,04
Sevwerage systems construction/rehab.                  3          2'A         32         3 45         13        0 43                    032          21        0.'R         '9        831
Training for subproject sustainability                  6          0 5        5     2     12 2                    1                    no2                                  iu -30
Water supply systems constructionlrehab                47        1 34         50        4f86          39        13           -5.         12         147        , -          526       1491
Municipal projects                                    126        1,71         17         3.49         82        3.61        490         8.15         8         03         1.367      2.4
[raining centers                                        2        207                                                          4        013                                   4        320
Community and cultural services                        18        037          33         1 00         20        1 4           o         150          44         1 177                 812
Waste disposal facilities                                                                                                      A        *Q8                    5 0                    010
Municipal markets                                       I        0 3                                   3        C 49                                  1                              0.7n
Streets and roads                                     101        1 13        136        2.37          57        1.32        34;         629         405        7;                    1382
Drainageworks                                           4        011           5        0 1           12        0236         37          19          34        05            62       241
jan4Eac"s I0 row.
Pf*et lype,   :                                      g6    A81ouJ5           Mo.   AMON*             W.   Amaur             No,   Amou_            go.   Aotm           .         An8wit
Basic Needs                                             1        0.03         38         0.75         82        1.48         99         3.15         54        1,60         274       6.98
Orphanages and elderly care facilities rehab.                                   7        0.15         14        0.31           7        0.27          3        0 13          31       0 85
Childcare centers                                                               1        0.03                                                                                 1       0.03
Food and medicines for orphanages                       1        0.03          10        020          28        0.58           1        003          22        067           62        1.50
and elderly care facilities                                                                                                                                                 0        0.00
Special Projects (Nuestraa Raices)                                             20        0.37         40        057           91        285          29        0.80         180        4.59
Environmental projects                                  9        0.38           3        0.06          1        0.04           6        0.27         20         1.14         39        1.98
Reforestation                                           4        0.05                                                                                                         4       005
Watersource protection and conservation                 5        0.33           3        0.06          1        0.04           4        0.24          19        1.13         32        1.81
Training                                                                                                                       1        0.00                                  1       0.00
Other                                                                                                                          1        0.03          1        0.01           2        0.04
Total                                            1,348       24.40      1,145       27.97       1,803      32.52       1,159       22.76       1,435       32.13       6,890     139 78
29a



Table 8: Investment Program, 1995-May 1999
(continued)
FHIS Investments by Sector, 1995-Mar. 1999 I/
O Education
U Health
OWater and Sanitation
* Municipal Projects
_%           D Basic Needs
* Environmental Projects
1/ The inner circle shows the percentage of total number of projects.
The outer circle shows the percentage of total amount invested.
29b



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
IDA 27660  3.02 (a);    4        C                              Borrower shall furnish to SIF funds,  This requirement was met continuously.
(i)                                                 facilities, and services required for the
Project, including proceeds of the Credit.
3.02 (a);    9        C                             SIF shall review standard regionalized unit  Each November 30 and May 31, complied with.
(ii) (C)                                            prices
3.02 (a);    12       C                             SIF shall arrange with MOE and MOH and  Complied with through agreements.
(ii) (E)                                            selected municipalities the criteria for
cooperation.
3.03         5        C                             SIF shall follow procurement provisions in  Improvements and further plans for correction agreed
schedule 3.                           upon during mid-term review.
3.04 (b)    11        C     03/31/1996              Borrower shall furnish plan for provision of FHIS completed a number of studies and carried out
necessary resources for maintenance of  workshops involving representatives from line
works and goods, such plan to include  ministries, municipalities and beneficiaries. One of
mechanisms and procedures for effective    the important results of this work was the
allocation of resources therefor      development of a strategy, presented during the Mid-
Tern Review, to improve the prospects for
sustainability of investments by focusing more on
participation, capacity-building, and training at the
local level. Discussion and analysis on this complex
issue continues in Honduras, within FHIS and among
various other actors.
30



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCLIL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
(continued)
3.04 (c)      I        C                               FHIS shall furnish quarterly reports, prepared  Due each April 30, July 31, October 31, and January 31;
by a consultant, on the physical and financial  complied with
advance in the carrying out of ongoing and
completed subprojects, including an opinion on
systems for control and supervision.
3.05          5        C      06/30/1990               Borrower shall submit a plan for the future  Complied with as part of SIF 4 preparation.
operation of the Project.
3.06          9        C                               SIF shall submit semi-annual progress reports. Each January and July. Complied with.
3.07          9        C                               SIF shall arrange annual project         Annually. Complied with.
implementation reviews.
3.08 (a)      9        C                               SIF shall monitor and evaluate on the basis of  Continuously. Complied with.
agreed key performance indicators.
3.08(b)       9        C      10/31/1997                SIF shall arrange mid-term review.       March 1997. Compliedwith.
3.09          5        C                                SIF shall maintain senior staff with experience Complied with.
and qualifications acceptable to IDA, and give
IDA the opportunity to comment.
4.01 (b)      I        C                                SIF shall have its records audited and   Complied with.
submitted to IDA by April 30 of each year.
5.01 (d)      4        C      03/31/1996               The IDB and KfW agreements shall have     Complied with.
become effective or SIF shall have made
altemative fnancing arrangements.
31



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant types:                                              8. =  Indigenous people
9. =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
1. =  Accounts/audits                                      10. =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
2.=  Financial performance/revenue generation from          11. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
beneficiaries                                              allocation
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds                 12. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
4. =  Counterpart funding                                            action
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency    13. =  Other
6. = Environmental covenants
7. = Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD   =  complied with after delay
CP   =  complied with partially
NC   =  not complied with
32



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 10: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Weeks                US$
Preparation                        87.2              234,132.00
Appraisal                          13.3              72,846.00
Negotiations                       11.8              26,496.00
Supervision                        61.6              172,664.00
Completion                          0.0               224.00
TOTAL                              174.0             506,362.00
33



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCLi,1 INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 11: IDA Resources: Missions
Pedfomanm RM4
Number                        Specialized          be                  D     opmof j cwi ves
Stage of           Mot            of        Days in           SffSkils                 Sus                                                         Types of
PjS Cycte              Year       PR erSs Field                 Kepmsc                 _ _                         __Pb_es
M3si ConsultantsorT
1. TreoughAppraisal:       10/19/94       9            14       M oo       rdinator              S
1217/194                             CtEangineaer
Identification/Preparation  I       :                           Org. & Mngmt EffSc.
Economista        g
Social Sector Dev.
MacLean
Schmidt
Hlousehold surveys
3 Consultants RUTA
(Sarmiento, Zavala &.
_              .  ~~~~Anderson)__
2.                        11/07/94         1                    Environment Spec.                S 
3 .Pre-Appraisal          12/04/94        9            1 4      Mission Coordinator              S                       S
12/17/94                              Engineer
Water & Supply Spec.
Comnty Partic. Spec.
Mnmgt & StafTing
Sensus Spec.
Household surveys'
Spec
M1S Spec.
Programming & Flow
of consultantts
FHIS policies & proc.
Soc. Sct. Dev.
34



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 11: IDA Resources: Missions
4.                         1/2/5                        2        EnironmntSpc.e                                         s 
| 4.      01n2195                       2       ~~~~~(PRATAM)
5.                       02/05/95        1             7        Economist                         S                       S
6. Appraisal through     02/13/95        12            14       Mission Coordinator               S                       S
Board Approval        02/24/95                               Sr. Oper. Officer
(Appraisal Mission)                                          Nassir Djafari
J. Torres & A. Ganet
IDB
Soc. Sctr. Spec.
MIS Spec.
Household Surveys'
Specialist
Conmm. Part.
Programming
M. Anderson
M. Zavala
Water & Supply Spec.
35



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 11: IDA Resources: Missions
Nwnmba                         Speclalfr*d     -            '                       Ob,s :  .  . 
Stageo Mofl                      Of'         D;aysl            StaffSkills              Stus                                                          TYpOsof
Project Cydce         Year       Peaous         Fikdd           Rep entd                                                                                Prblms
7.                       04/23/95        1             5        Plann. & Targeting                S                       S
8.                       04/23/95        1             5        Economist                         S                       S
9.                       0423/95         7                      Planning  &  Strategy             S
Economist
2  Mission   Leaders
J. Torres & P. Gottnet
-BID
Procurement
Soc. Sctr Spec.
10. Pre-Negotiation      04/23/95        7             6        Beatriz Uribe                     S                       S
Mission               04/29/95                               Sr. Operations Officer
J. Torres & A. Gottnet
IDB
Procurement
Soc. Sctr. Dvlpmt
Spec.
36



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCLAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 11: IDA Resources: Missions
II. Supervision I      08/09/95       I            1       Task Manager                   S                     S
12. Supervision 2      11/24/95       7           4        IDB Co Task Manager            S                     S
IDB Consultant
IDB Consultant
Task Manager
Programming
Procurement
Water Supply/Envir.
13. Supervision 3      04/20/96       6           3        IDB Consultant                 U                     S             Despite a major input of technical assistance over
Programming                                                       the past six months, the "production line" still
Environment                                                       shows serious bottlenecks, which is not helped by
Audit                                                             inadequate management information and poor
Water Supply/Env.                                                 internal auditing. As a result, there is a substantial
Task Manager                                                       gap between commitments and disbursements,
which FHIS now seems to try to overcome by
focusing on quick-disbursing investments, such as
road maintenance. Despite this disappointing
implementation progress, the project is still
making a positive development contribution,
particularly because of the increasing involvement
on NGOs, strengthening of communities,
coordination of investments with line ministries,
and efforts to ensure proper maintenance of
completed subprojects.
14. Supervision 4      06/09/96       6           4        Task Manager                   S                     S
Engineer
Programming/Finance
Procurement
Water Supply/Env.
Operations Officer
37



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 11: IDA Resources: Missions
15. Supervision 5        03tl5/97        9            7        Operations                        S                       S
(Mid-Term Review)                                  7        Programmning/Finance
6        Procurement
12       Water & Sanit/Eng.
7        Procurement
7        Task Manager
3        Environment
7        Cmty Participation
7        Engineer
16. Supervision 6        07/25/97        3            12       Task Manager                     S                       S
5       Impact Evaluation
6        SlFS/Mun. Strngthg.
17. Supervision 7        12/17/97        2            3        Financ. Mngmt                    S                       S
Institutional Analysis
18. Supervision 8        03/07/98       11            5        Inst. Analysis                   S                       S
5        Soc. Assistance
5       Anthropologist
I       Financ. Mngmt.
5       Co-Task Mngr.
14       Task Leader
12       Operations
I       Water Engineer
I       Financial
2        MIS
5       Eng. (Roads)
38



REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
THIRD SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(Credit 2766-HO)
Table 11: IDA Resources: Missions
19. Supervision 9        02/27/99         7             5        Task Manager                      S                        S
5        Soc. Funds Spec.
5        Operations Analyst
5        Inst. Analysis
5        US Geological Survey
5        FEMA Consultant
5        KfW Consultant
20. Supcrvision 10        11/01/99        7             7        Task Manager                       S                        S
Inst. Strengthening
Water & Sanitation
Economist
Monitoring & Fval.
Team Assistant
Indigenous Peoples Sp.
21. Supervision           05/11/99         1            10        Programming                       S                        S
Completion Mission                                 _                                 __   __
39



AYUDA m,E,mbOR1i
TERCER PROYECTO DEL FONDO HONDUREN'O DE INVERSION. SOCIAL -
FHIS.III (CREDITO 2766-HO)                            ,.
MISION' DE EVALUACIONr EX-POST (10 AL 21 DE M.XAYO DE 1999)
1.     Una misi6n de 1a S,2. faria Elena Anderson. consultora del Banco stvluai2al,
visit6 TeaucizalDa del 10 ai 21 de mayvo de 1999 para trabajar con SUS cora-tra:-Tes del
Gobiern'o en la preparaci6n dCi informe de cierre del Tercer Provecto del Fondo
'riondu .n o de i, version So  . FH . IS 11i oara e! cual se Fi-mi6 un crecito e: 3a acosto de
1995. Nle reuni con el Nfiniszro del FHIS v directores v funcionarios de i2 is;.!uciol; asi
conio con funcionarios dc 'os -Ministc,ios dc Fiinanzas. Salud. Educaci6n. Cu!:ura v
Dcportes. rcorcsvntantcs d. 'a Asociaci6n dc Nlunicipios de Honduras (AMN10N), y de
ONGs (CRE'SER. CARE. v FOP RiDEI-t) * con la unidad coordinadora dc  nro-cc-o dc
desarrollo dci am7io ambni... (PRODESANtI). Tlambiln sc visitaron rro.cc:os
linanci2dos por c! Tcrcc- ? c.*Fto aci rWES ZI' los mLuicinios  cc vcracruz ::: Cian
RUlinrs, Dcoarza:it'o d- iC cn   v nLunicipios daz Villanueva v San l'zdro S,t::.
Dcoartamncnto dc Cor- ss. Sc a-radec- mucho ia coopc.acion * colaborac&5 io7sadas
por todos los ;::cionariss z Cobic no , por los r7cnroscntnta1ls c las is; ;::::-cs
visizadas. asi conlo los cvm2-:a-os suuroncias V rccomcndacioncs soborz_:- --n
varicdad dc -acmas r,lacic,a_os con cz provcc:o.
2.     El prro\acto i' Liso:,;.o p,ara conMinuar Coll ci anovo aI u0oicrilo C: SUc
csP.c,,:os dc rci   z,i In l,oW, .: v nx:;.cnc. cohesi6n social Mnic1tras Cstc llcva.  a cabo
una politica dc aiusic fiscal V ios M.n1isterios do iinca Fortaiccian su capacic:'
mIstiIucional. El proVMcto i2S,lbin Ltania los objativos da apoyar las estraicias C
dccQInLralizaciln clcl uobiuc7n. cl desarrollo de la industria d  contraListas locaIcs. la
sos.tcnibblidad da los subprovcctos N La FocalizZci5n dci rccursos limitados Ca las arcas i cI
nmayor pobrcza.
C:ap.cid.ad dc Ejecuci6n
'>.    El programa lotal dcl subconiponclte cde infracstructura del II--IIS par2 Cl, pcriodo
9 '-9S fu cjccutaLCo cn un periodo mcnor al prograniado originalmente. va qu; a
dicicmbre de 1997, los compromisos de la institiciorn alcanzaban un S3%  v los
descnbolsos un 76%. Los rccursos dc cstc subcomponcntc (S4% del costo total dcl
proyccto) provistos por cl B3anco M\lundial Ilifcron utili7.fdos cn un periodo aun mcnor. va
quc a dicicnibre dc 1996. cl SS% de estos rccursos habiani sido compromaietidos. y cl 77%
de la catc-oria de descmbolso corrcspondicntc del crddito habia sido dcscnmbolsado. A la
facha. los comnromisos son dcl 98% v los descmbolsos del credito alcanzan cl 95%. A



continuacion se resuraen. !^    D incipales hal.a zos  l Las conct.usiones  srelirnires de la
milsion.
Componente de Subprovectos de Infraestructura
'4.    Como oricinalmet.ze programado en el periodo 94-9S. las inversio .e, ea
infraestructura del FHIS. cue ftleron hechas a sol[itud de [as municipalidadesz.
orzanizaciones comuniia-ias v ONGs, fueron destinadas principalmente a:
*   Ia construccicd  v rzhabilicaci6n de centros de educaci6n preesco^-.a vorimaria.
instituios de e_uc2cion media, v equipo y mobiliario educattvo. La inversion
-   en educacion a.canz6 el 56% de las inversiones del FH[S (USS50.6 milones),
sobrepasando 'a programacl6n original.
*   la construcc.ic:: v rc>iabilitaci6n dc ccntros dc salud (CESAR   CESAMO). -
la construccic: d-c letrinas. Se invirtieroct USS 10.9 nlilloncs, o   %2. d4cl total
de las invcrsi-cn-s. Cuc corrcspondeic    a un poco Ilas dc dos tcrc:-s--   la
progzrantac:or ; -:nal.
*   Ia construczi"::v . r habiIitaci6n dc Sisltneas dc abastcciniicintc _-_U1
dornicilia to . !:c.atarillado sanitario.  Sc invirticron USS I   - nes. o
1 6% dcl       -    amaao. zquiV.al.Cnc a cios Lcrcios dc la l a   .-con
IIII CI II. F :-i7'~:.    Si (-III  ivtIC os Por pIartc del FHi[S
capaic Lvc.-       -.-  u ntas dc a,zua oara ci manccnlmicnto v Onc  los
sistcnmas . .--:   5 n cic las mnicrocuencas, invir-tionido cc;Ca     C -. Is
dcl [iionto  .  a ado (USS1 70,000).
*   Ia construc^::i  . r nbilitacidn dc inFracstructura   untc:pIai, :a:s cono cal! s
y caiii[os e C-.C_o, pucIEcs, sitios historicos Y arquclC6ccos- : .;v!riCron
USS9.6 rniilcr:cs. c 11% del total d.z las invcrsioncs, rcsullindc n Uo  a
invcrsion dc .'i% dc ia proraniaci6n inicial.
5.      Las invcrsioncs Fc  1 [IS C!l Cstr poriodo dcniucstran Ia capacidad dc
institucicn par procram:`y Vjecutar su pro ramna dz invcrsiones con Ct-c'.icnc      st. Es; s
ci rcsukiado dcl gran csFc:C--zo rcali7.do por las autoriladcs y  ;luncioMMarios Cdi .-{iS por
nijorar y ailihzar sus prccsos cn cl ciclo de pro. ctos y la voluntad de resolver con
prontitud los problomas cuc se prcsontaron.  I ntrc los principalcs logros zn Ci irca de
invcrsiolCis sc pueden in-ncionar: (i) cl cstLicrzo rcalizado para consepuir ura rmayor
participaci6n de las comun-idades y alcaldias cn la tom1a de dccisioncs para la priorizacion
do las obras dc infracstructura. (I t)  LCl cntaci6n dcl programa de preinvcrsiotics
para mcjorar la calidad do las obras de may)omromplejidad. (iii) la imliplantaci6n dcl
sistciia de inlormacion gcr:ncial para nzjorar la eficicncia de la inStti(UCiln. (iv) la



1ncot-po-acidn cl eva!ua:ior,-s. edio a_nbient-!es en el cicto de provectos.;-.-!
fortalecimiento d- las relaciones con los miniscerios de linea, para aseuraur u^- buena
priorizaci6n de las inversiones. y promover el rol normativo de estas institucion!S.
6.     El FHIS ha impulsado un importante proceso para la sostenibilidad d! los
provectos, principalmente en los provectos de aQua * saneamiento, educaci6n.: salud,
pero la instituci6n aun tiene el reto.de concientizar alcaldias y comunidades so;re la
importancia de la capacitaci6n para ia sostenibilidad v sobre el alto costo de no hacerlo.
Al 31 de diciembre de 199S. se habian ejecutado 593 proyectos de capacitaci6n para la
sostenibilidad (incluvendo 145 proyectos para el programa de mujeres en la
construcci6n). con una inversion de casi USS1.0 mill6n, que corresponde a c=tadel 1%
del monto total contratado. Es importante que la instituci6n desarrolle un programa mas
ambicioso de capacitaci6n de las comunidades en la operaci6n y mantenimnien;o de los
proyectaso  El reto incluye la de cisi6n gubernarniental y municipal de incorpo-r-
capatcitaci6n * otras acciones para la sostenibilidad en ei ciclo de proyectos, pa-a asegurar
.ei curnplimiento de las meitas trazadas.
7.     Una acci6n quc c-^rcce especial atCnci6n es la ejecuciCn dc proyectso
construCciln quc incorporaroaa a mujCres cno na mano dc obra no calilficada. _'  ItS
inicio un proyecLO pilato con ri Financiamiento de KfWV. Debido a los buLnCS --sultados
enconcrados cn las cvaluaciorics CIUc se ilcvaron a cabo, sc inici6 un proccso
prouriocn dirittida a cc .rai:s.as para OUtc incorporaran a por to menos dos   s en
cada obra dc construcc;c 7_.   cncmal. la cxpcricncia ha sido bLc;C1, y Sc cs--7: c  cn
tWLuro [cdas 1si ob rs t<-r._?  mujcrcs 7rab,ajadoras.
Coniponcntc lAc Ncccsididcs Baisic:1s
S.     Estc collc onclntc !'u -sct,ac para  ojat:orar [as condiciaons dc  ida    --,os
sociaI~vlus l;rzlblcs. pac: 2:::i7c  caar Las ac&onis dc* Los .viiniStcci s dc S: ..
Lducac,cn. v para apoya: sumoy:occtos dL: asis;crva social dirigiclos a los.
vuhicrab[cs, cjccutados -or ONGs.
9. .   :n ci pcriodo dc i995 a i 99S. el  IIS Financii6 princinalnic:itc los s, . a;s
urunos dc pro-cctos dc n,%ccsicadcs baisicas:
capacitacion en s2aud bisica, en coordinaci6n con cl lvinistcrio dc S.iud. El
-- FI IS flnaatci6 2SO subproycctos por un morL.o total dc US1S  .6 nmii.cris. o
'77% dcl nionto programado originalmente.
*  Subproycctos de apoyo alinicnLario por un miionto toLal dc USSS65.000. o 4 4%
dc la pro rarnacion original
*  sublproycctos cspccialcs por un nionito total dc USS 1 .0 millo i, o 2SS%; dc la
nroaraniacion inicial



*  subproyectos ce .o_aes v alberques oor un monto total de USS62 1.000. o
296% del monto nogram-ado al inicio.
10.    El logro mas imnoortante de este subcomponente esta relacionado con el gran
esfuerzo del FHIS desde 1995 Dara desarrollar * ejecutar el programa "Nueszras Raices"
dirigido a los grupos etnicos de Honduras. Este prograrna ha tenido exito va que se
construveron o mejoraron 7,700 kmn de caminos de acceso rural con la particioac,0n de
456.000 personas en 88? ald-eas. 91 municipios v 14 departamentos a un costo de
aproximadamente USS2.0 miilones. El exito del prosrama reside en la utilizac.on que
hacen los benefici-arios de un-a arte de los recursos recibidos del FHIS. Ellos urilizan los
recursos en inversiones prcduczivas que en algunos casos duplicaron y triplicaron I2
inversion en el primer ano de ooeraciones. Otro logro importante de este prog arna es el
trabajo coordinado con las Federaciones Etnicas para llevarlo a cabo.
11.    Al inicio del prog-^:^. la pro2ramacidn de este tipo de inversiones ifu- r ducido
de USS5.0 millones acorda -os en las negociaciones con las institLIcion,zs firanci-.-as a
USS3.3 millones. Con c! P:cc:ama Nuestras Raices aument6 el monto desilna"o z!
subcornponente. Seria r.-: mondablc quio adonuas de [as accioncs de capacitaci`.r on
Salud Basica y el Prora2-: Nucs;ras Raices cste cormponcntc impulsarn a la-c ^on dz
otras accioncs para atcnde--z ais noccsidades dc los ,ruoos vuilnerablcs de a -o tac on.
Tambicn sc ia r conmcn adk   c c! F Hl-S mcjorc su capacidad dc rcspondzr a v-ic.Ctud Cs
do asis;cncia social p     ara    - - -.o tan oficicnicmlcntC com o lo hacc con las d s   ..sicas
in porcn ntajc si~nilica;K: 1~-.-," dcl monto r-programado dc USS2.7 mim c-:-z
Linan.c        -iont io d scs  c c- -^:  -.te tuc uKiizado nara nro ur:nzas dc arn.
Junta Nacionai de 'c3ioncs:- s-.cal v OPDs quLIC 0rstan atcacion a niroS Os
Estos provccos aticndon. -- z-os ,maL  nC cCsitacos, pero sc sU'io'rF qu_C     -o.''!1 a
acucrdos Conl las insrituck:to ..sponsables de prooramas do alilmntaclon cot .cor.no
a,., cquc csios los dosarr:o:: .n las instirucionics caliFicadas para dar s  CS s0  s, d t.
coordinacidn con P'R-AF- .v-:NFA. Al 31 do dicioniibrc dc I 99S, ci i3anc3 \ n.^dai
Fitlanci6 USS 433, 000 q UL c csrsoondc al 0% dzl on to finlanciado por cl Fl-.:S  asia esa
l,ccha.
Comiponcntc dc Fortilecirniento Institucional
12.    El componnc i cc d  rtva,lcimicnto institucional fud discn-ado princicai.m-cnto para
fovruilocorla ucroncia do la .stit-ci6n, incluvondo la capaciacilon a   ninctriks
claboracion dc matcrialcs dc promoci6n. EnLrc 1 995 y 1996, con la avuda de las
pri;ncipalpzs instituciones tinancicras cxternas. cl FrLIIS calmind con  Nxito ci Prog,rama dz
%,[odorni aci6n y Fortalocimincto Institucional nicjorando sustancialnmcnto enrc otros. Ia
capacidad opcracional y la cloct'vHdad dc los progranias dcl FHLIIS, gcncrando nucvas
politicas. proccdimicnt.os y etapas en cl cicio de provecto y los sistonias de supervisi6n de
subprovectos tucron fortalecidos v racionalizados' Asinrismo sc desarroll6 ol sistema de



aerencia que incluye 46 irdicadores claves de gestion para el monitoreo de Las
operaciones en las diferenEes areas de operaci6n de la instituci6n.
13.    La inversi6n de USS2.0 millones en este componente. sobrepasa la oromramaci6n
original: el area de mayor inversi6n fue la capacitaci6n de directivos y funcionarios de la
instituci6n. Esta inversio6 ha sido. en general, muv bien aprovechada por el FIHiS. El
loQro mas importante fue la implantaci6n del sistema de informaci6n aerencial que
permite a la gerencia del FHIS tener datos oportunos v confiables para la toma de
decisiones. Otro logro impor;ante fue el desarrollo y ejecuci6n de un prograrma para la
elaboracion de Planes de lnversi6n Nfunicipales que se llev6 a cabo a mediados de 199S;
en este proceso. el FHIS tamrbien demostr6 su capacidad para organizar una tare;a de sran
magniaud v llevarla a cabo en un periodo muy corto.
14.    L-a capacidad institucional del FHfS fue puesta a prueba inmedjatamence despues
del efecto devastador del hur2can LvMitch en el pais. El FH[S demosLr6 que tiene una
capacidad de respuesta muy r,pida, que sUs sistemnas y procesos funcionan bien y que la
instituci6n ticne suRiciente 'lexibilidad para adaptar su organizacion para resionder a una
crisis. Por lo tanto, sc ouedz concluir quc cl Fl-itS es una institLuci6n ecicientc. cuc tiene
Unl bLen lidcrazgo Y oIl bu-a t zquipo de proFesionales compronietidos con L ains;i.uci6n V
sL nilsLOn.
Conmponcnrtc de Rccolecczi6n v Andilisis dc D)amtos (le los Scctorcs Soclalcs
I 5.    Lstc comnponenct    ziscfiado para ancy' ar cn la crezaci6n dc ill sis;z-.a --
inCormaci6n  coreferc:-ci  c-i es adismicas sociales (SIGES), cn coordilnaci-.. !? los
mnIMiscrios5 dc linca, pa.^. :c.z- una hc arnicna ciue pcrmia orecnrarmcc.;s
acti. idoacs, Focalizar v -r:.o.z-r mcjor las invcrsioncs sociales cn las con  :ic:oes
nodcr cvaluar los avanc s   ci cLinlpo.
16.   El SiCS Fo, ccsa.,oiio, implantado y ucilizado para i'ocaiizar ils S.O.c5
Cen las arcas con los mais bajos indicadores socialcs. DuranLC cl periodo 94-97. cl  HIS
ha invcrtido cl 26.9% de sus recursos en 101 nunicitpios clasiticados comao "' mm: -al",
23'%  cn 90 municipios ciasiilcados "mal" y cl 21.8% cn los mlonicipios clas.icCdos
como "rccular'' alcanzandco un rcoual dL casi 73% dc los recursos invcrtidos cn cl 65% dce
la poblaci6n dc mayor pobrcza. El 27% restant fuc6 invertido eni areas necsiaclas dc los
niunicipios con nicjorcs indicadorcs. cubriendo un 35% dc la poblaci6n del pais- Desdc
1994, cl--f LLS ha incrcnicneado cn un 10% lainivcrsion cn las areas dc mayor, pooreza dct
pais. Por la tanmo. se puedc concluir quc las acciones del comtipoIlente han icnido cxito cn
doLar a ta instituci6n dc hicrramicnias que fucroii utilizadas para mcjorar la focaliz2cion dc
[as itivcrsiones.
Componcntc dc Apoyn a las N-lunicipalidadcs cn al Aren dcl Nledio Ambicntc
17.    El componcnic fuE dischado para complementar las accioncs dcl Proyccto dc
Desarrollo dcl Mcdiao Ambiente (PRODESAM'vl) nicdiarntc asistencia tccnica v



capacitacion a unidad-s -e_.o am,bientales de algunos municipios no cubie,.os ?o este
provecto. Se llev6 a ca.-o un convenio entre el N4inistro de[ Nfedio Xmbien;-i (SEDA
ahora SERNIA) y el FHI$ a-a: tlevar a cabo este componente.
IS.    Hubieron rnuchos retrasos en el inicio de las acciones acordadas debido
principalmente la Deper.dencia del FHIS de comunicacion y colaboracion entre las
insticuciones. Entre tanto I FrHIS inici6 implemencaci6n del un programa con
voluntarios del Cuerpo de Paz, quienes realizaron proyectos medio arnbientaies con
asistencia tecnica * apoyo del FHIS y otras instituciones. Once pequefios proyectos, por
un monto total de USS5000.f0ueron ejecutados y completados entre 1997 v 1c9S,
tambien se elaboro e imr oni6 un libro con temas sobre la conservacion del medio
ambiente para ser utilizado en las escuelas primarias. Por otro lado, se incor.,craron en et
ciclo de proyectos [as actividacdes relacionadas con evaluaciones medio ambientales en
los proyectos financiados por la institucion. A inicios del 97 el FHIS y SERNA'., con
apovo del Banco Mundia! tleg-aron a un acuerdo sobre una metodologia de trabajo
diferente, que no funcio. v ai presente hay 16 proyectos en ejecucion de los '0 en
cartera. Los prodvectos rcszan.zs no seran Financiados por el convenio, sino cu, una vcz
CLue cl EHIS ten a dispo. i i2d dc recursos.
19.    EstC comvponen;: .o diticultadcs con cl convenio con SCRNA oor uzoncs ucra
dcI aIcancc del  FE-EIS, pc.o ^ ^csar dc esta coC a se ncnciona cn cl parra.fo a^.:i -or.
nubicron logros impor-a.:2cs zi e. drca dci nicdio amnbicitc. Sc pucdc conc!u;.r -uz lC
componentc no Fuc CJCC :z_^ ^or la Dependcncia dcl l-lI-iS d  la cordinac c-
SERN.-\ como sc dis, -c:o-:c ir^aneonic, pcro sc desar, ollaron acciollcs posi .:-V  ar-a la
micjorar la protccco6n ct. .. o ambicn(C.
Coniclusinrcis
20.    En u   llneral, cl     cia crccutado por ei fE-f IS critrc 1 99'- 1 998 ha cum:?icc con
sus objetivos y ha si'o z   c nor divcrsas razon,zs: (i) C,i nuv buL,n Iidctrazu -  a
con.inuidad cn la dirccc:cn Cz zutiva dzl friIS a pcsar dcl cambio dcc gobie,Mc. (ii) el alto
urado d dcdicac i5n del caujino de nroCesionalcs v dc todos los nivcles dc,! c7sonal dc la
inst*ituc dn, (iii) cl apovo   y Financicro dcl gzobicrno, (iv) cl csfucrzo -c- involucrar
a Ias aLtoridadcs munici ,.ics -zn la rorma dc dccisionics. y el proceso participa-vo con las
comunidades dc clabor-cidan dc planes dc inversion municipalcs, (v) cl aprovchnamiento
dc la asistcncia ticnica . c-ac1iLaci6n por parte de los cjecutivos y pcrsonal dc- la
insvitucion, (vi) ci apol'o continuo y nexibilidad dcrnostrada por los Funcionaros dcl
Banico Lviundial v de los otrcs organismos financicros duranitr cl pcriodo dc eiczucion del
proyccto. ) (vii) la innovacion cn proyccbos culiuralcs, rcstauracion nionunicatos
hst6ricos.
2 1.    Un logro adicional del proyccto quc se not6 a travds dc varios cornponentcs cs la
incorporaciOn de OPDs cspccializadas conito  jccutorcs de proyectos de las ircas sociales.
complenicntando al FIALS cn un drca cn la cual la institucion no ticne vcntajas
corlparat[ %-as.



22.    Las acciones aue -,,.!-oS exito rLvieron son las relacionadas con: (i) e! rocrama
de capacitcia6n para la sos.a-,ibilidad de los pro% ectos de infraestruclura. de ,i.o a que el
disefno de este prozrama dependia de la evaluaci6n de un programa piloto fi.nanciado por
Kf',, Ia que se Finaliz6 curdado Ia mayoria de los recursos del crdiao va se ha.ina
campramet'do. (ii) el Droarama de necesidades basicas. debido a la falta de :a objetivo
m-s especifico v mejor defirido. v (iii) el componente de capacitaci6n munic )al en
cuanto al medio ambiente. dcbido a dificultades en la coordinaci6n con SERNA;.
Acuerdos
23.    Se acord6 que et F.HIS elaborard un anexo at informe de cierre de! provecro (ICR)
Io enviarad al Banco Nfundial. con copia a la consultora, a rnis tardar el 22 de jtunio de
1999 para que sea incorpor-ao en la versi6n final del ICR.
2 4'.    Se acord6 que el Ba-.co Mundial enviari al FHIS el borrador del ICR tiadorado
por la consultora a mas ta-ar: e! 15 de jUliO dc 1999 para comentarios. los c a s seran
enviados al E3anco Nf'nundiaI  a la consultora a rnds tardar el 22 de jUlli0 de   9.
Otros Asuntos
2 $.     En la prcparacionuraa nuc.a oncraci6n. se rccomniQnda quo cl dis-.   -.corporc
camlibios cn ia orZanizac!o'   c ia ;nstituci0  para quc todos [os asrcctos soci    Os
prroVctos (participaci6n  c-:c-.-rarla. sostcnibiHidad dc los provcctos.  ca'-.--
'oasicas) scan diriuidos  ^c:   s par un cquipo dC profcsionalcs aspe:.  :          ssos
cmas. I amoicb s' Sc  'rc:an:: a cas accironcs .calizadas para la sostcai b -    'os
proyccios scan incopor2C: :: ci ciclo dic proyoci os V qce scdc! inallnt caas .:-.:czs cuc
ase-urcr qLuC Ia organiCic., cZrnacitacio n so lilcvcn a cabo on los nmomcn-.. c crnunos
dc d,scilo Y  jccucidn (' 's - -rCr.ccs.  Es dc crtica ior cia deta    c !--^scs
ncccsarios V dar C! LicaMCo -.   rsam:c ma Or"aa[z2r a las con0i.nidadCS. Ccn -  a :in a los
orovcctos dc ncccsidadcs b--sicas, SC rcCOnliinda quo Los responsabics dc las  f-rnts
cpipas dc los pro,cutos scan ubicados cn la misrna unidad administrativa M   v   cc d
ucLIaC  ThI sisa a   cvaluaca  n ' sc-uiniicnto dc cstos proyceCLos.
26.    Sc rocomionda a La ocmcnoia del Banco  vltundial que. dada la xpcri,z;.a dcl
FHilS. los lo-ros dc la instir.ccion hasma La la cizi, y las necesidadcs dc la pobizz::n
cnipobrecida aun mnas por los clcctos dcl hurazcin Mitch, la nucv a opCracion z1   Cs;a
sicndo considcrada sca pr=casadza, par cxccpcion, en un pcriodo menaor al habituaL.



27.    Reitero rris airadecirnietos a todos los fLncionarios del FHIS por su' tie.n.o V
esfiuerzo en proveer toda 12 informaci6n solicitada, ofrecer sugerencias para rnejorar
futuras operaciones e inversiores de la insticuci6n y opinar franca v abier -..;- sobre
los tenmas tratados.
Firrmado por:
lara Elena Anderson                                        N l luel Zelava Rosales
Consultora, Banco tMundial                                 l"i istro, FHIS
.c  ci aILoa 2 1 d   z vN  o dc [999



MAP SECTION






I  BELIZE                                           Caribbean  Sea                                                          HONDURAS
j                X                                       ROATAN * ==SLA- -
j         fvtLA BAHIA
-16     |       Gulf of Honduras             :        t :                                                                                                          160
Tolo    LA CEIBA't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ToPeroCoeo
t 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
GUA LS
|(~~~ ~ ~~ ~~                                        ~         ~~             ~         ~~~~~~~~ _M Progre  GRCI    I 0
904                 R2      70PZ                    dn                       0   ,       7=                 SCNDRRAS1
E L S~~~~~~RAL             VDR SU             YOR                                                                                 LEM_s_ tA RAILOD 
N                                               To                                                      T Io  S ,AI  TOWN
MlEXIC'ZS\ jEIZ /7  *e                                                    To MatagoIp0                          (5,000 AND GREATER POPULATION)    \
ATLANTIC~ O       A                           UTCA
XGUATEPMLIO5 HONOUR.    OCEAN                      J                    7_, N ICARAGUA                    3 DEPARTMENT CAPITALS             \The boundorier, roolrs,
4~~~~~O                  Puerto Cobecs~~~~~~~~~~~thrieeooio   hoe
_         "  .,                                       To Ch ieondego                                  *   NAT IONAL CAPITAL                         denomirations ond any
OCOTEPE AUE  LEMPIR   ZA0    25   50   75   100Kilometers                                             DEPARTMENTBOUNDARIES                         iol.v, onthe portof
10  PACIFIC       C RIC A                 C7                                                                 -  NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES EG  EL                 a
PAANDnMi  MPACIFICINUS SUFACE ROAD                                                                                             0     A7
W  OCEANSOC_AN \< (-0 86 840 tboun  v8dories. VA
00     -                                                                                                                                                                    0 85'  AN TOWNS
00  90  00  02'    C  MRIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0         2    5      5       0 iomtrsr~'o                                                                   Pato



