Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2766-HO
                              Development Credit Agreement
                         (Third Social Investment Fund Project)
                                         between
                                  REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                                           and
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                  Dated August 3, 1995
                                                      CREDIT  NUMBER  2776-HO
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated August 3, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS  (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
    (B)    the Borrower intends to contract loans and grants to
assist in the financing of the Project as follows:
    (a)    a loan from Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in
an amount equivalent to $40,000,000 pursuant to an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and IDB (the IDB Loan
Agreement);
    (b)    a loan from Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau (KfW),
the German Credit Institute for Reconstruction, in an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 pursuant to an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and KfW (the KfW Loan
Agreement); and
    (c)    additional loans and grants from bilateral and
multilateral aid and development organizations in an amount
equivalent to $15,600,000 to assist in the financing of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements to
be entered into between the Borrowers and the lenders and
Page  2
donors thereof (the Additional Funding Agreements).
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted.
    (b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
                   "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
           otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on
           account of expenditures in the territories of any
           country which is not a member of the Association or for
           goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
           territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
           persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if
           such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
           Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
           Nations Security Council taken under the Charter of the
           United Nations."
    Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)    "Completed Subprojects Maintenance Plan" means the plan
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
    (b)    "Environmental Development Project" means the project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
(Environmental Development Project) to be entered into by the
Association and the Borrower, and which was approved by the
Association's Board of Directors on March 28, 1995.
    (c)    "FHIS" means Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social, the
Borrower's Social Investment Fund established as a public
entity with juridical personality pursuant to Decree No. 12-90,
whose duration was extended until March 2, 2002, by Decree No.
153-94 of December 24, 1994;
    (d)    "FHIS Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
    (e)    "Household Survey" means the program to be
coordinated by Secretaria de Coordinacion, Planificacion y Presupuesto
(the Borrower's Ministry of Coordination, Planning and Budget), for
the purposes of collecting social data about households in the
Borrower's territory;
    (f)    "NGOs" means non-governmental organizations operating
in the Borrower's territory;
    (g)    "Operational Manual" means the FHIS's manual, dated
August 1992, which provides, inter alia, for: (i)
Page  3
administrative, promotion, appraisal and supervision criteria
for the operations of FHIS; (ii) terms and conditions of the
financing of the Subprojects; and (iii) arrangements under
which NGOs shall assist FHIS in the carrying out of the
Subprojects;
    (h)    "Procurement Plan" means the plan referred to in Part
D.1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
    (i)    "Project Implementation Guidelines" means the
guidelines, dated June 2, 1995, which provide for all the
aspects of the execution of the Project including, inter alia,
procedures and criteria for the allocation of funds for
Subprojects, the Project performance indicators and the
criteria for the carrying out of Subprojects under Part A.1 (c)
of the Project;
    (j)    "Protected Areas" are the areas officially designated
by the Borrower to be under a special management regime for the
primary purpose of ensuring their ecological integrity, such as
national parks, wildlife refuges and natural reserves;
    (k)    "Selected Municipality" means any municipality,
acceptable to the Association,  selected by the Borrower for
the purposes of participating in the carrying out of Part E of
the Project;
    (l)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
    (m)    "Subproject" means a project carried out or to be
carried out under Parts A or B of the Project, financed in
total or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
    Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nineteen million, one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,100,000).
    Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the
Borrower's Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
Page  4
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1
commencing December 1, 2005, and ending June 1, 2035.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1,
2015, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
    (b)    Whenever:
           (i)     the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
                   as determined by the Association, shall have
                   exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
                   consecutive years; and
           (ii)    the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy
                   for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
                   to the review and approval thereof by the
                   Executive Directors of the Association and after
                   due consideration by them of the development of
                   the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
                   repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
                   above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice
                   the amount of each such installment not yet due
                   until the principal amount of the Credit shall
                   have been repaid. If so requested by the
                   Borrower, the Association may revise such
                   modification to include, in lieu of some or all
                   of the increase in the amounts of such
                   installments, the payment of interest at an
                   annual rate agreed with the Association on the
                   principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
                   outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
                   the judgment of the Association, such revision
                   shall not change the grant element obtained under
                   the above-mentioned repayment modification.
    (c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  5
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                         ARTICLE III
                   Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end: (a) shall carry out Parts D and
E of the Project; and (b) shall, under the FHIS Agreement,
cause FHIS to carry out Parts A, B, C and F of the Project, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative, health, educational,
environmental, archeological and managerial practices, and
according to the Project Implementation Guidelines, the
Operational Manual, the Completed Subprojects Maintenance Plan
and the Procurement Plan, and shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to carry
out the Project.
    Section 3.02 (a) For the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) above,
the Borrower shall enter into an agreement with FHIS,
satisfactory to the Association, providing, inter alia, for:
           (i)     the provision to FHIS of the funds, facilities,
                   services and other resources required to enable
                   FHIS to carry out Parts A, B, C and F of the
                   Project, including the transfer of the proceeds
                   of the Credit allocated to such Parts of the
                   Project;
           (ii)    the obligation of FHIS to carry out such Parts of
                   the Project in accordance with the terms and
                   conditions set forth in this Agreement, including
                   the obligation:
                   (A)     to maintain records and separate accounts
                           pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.01
                           of this Agreement;
                   (B)     to carry out the obligations set forth in
                           Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of
                           the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
                           use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
                           records and reports, and maintenance,
                           respectively), in respect of Parts A, B, C
                           and F of the Project;
                   (C)     to review, jointly with the Borrower and
                           the Association, not later than November 30
                           and May 31 of each year, beginning in
                           November 1995, the standard regionalized
                           unit prices for goods and works established
                           by FHIS for the purposes of contracts to be
                           awarded pursuant to the provisions of Parts
                           C.3 (c) and C.4 (c) of Schedule 3 to this
                           Agreement, and to change such prices, in
                           form and substance satisfactory to the
                           Association, if so recommended by each such
                           review;
                   (D)     to prepare the reports referred to in
                           Sections 3.05 (a), 3.06 and 3.08 (b) of
                           this Agreement; and
                   (E)     to enter into arrangements, satisfactory to
                           the Association, with the Borrower's
                           Ministries of Education and Health
Page  6
                           (Secretarias de Estado en los Despachos de
                           Educacion Publica y de Salud Publica y
                           Asistencia Social), and the Selected
                           Municipalities, establishing the criteria
                           for their participation in the carrying out
                           of Subprojects under Parts A and B of the
                           Project.
           (b)     The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply
with its obligations under the FHIS Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Association,
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the FHIS Agreement or
any provision thereof.
    Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower:
    (a)    shall provide the necessary resources for the
maintenance of goods and works under Subprojects to be
completed under Parts A.1 (a) (i) and (ii) of the Project;
    (b)    shall furnish to the Association not later than March
31, 1996, a plan, satisfactory to the Association, according to
which the Borrower shall provide the necessary resources for
the maintenance of the goods and works referred to in paragraph
(a) above until the plan referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement has been furnished to the Association. Such plan
shall include mechanisms and procedures, satisfactory to the
Association, for the effective allocation of the resources
therefor; and
    (c)    shall cause FHIS to furnish to the Association not
later than April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31 of each
year during Project implementation a Report, satisfactory to
the Association, prepared by a consultant, acceptable to the
Association, on the physical and financial advance in the
carrying out of the ongoing and completed Subprojects under the
Project, including each such Report an opinion on the FHIS's
systems for the control and supervision of Subprojects.
    Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
    (b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
    (c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
    Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall, and shall cause FHIS to, furnish to the Association,
during the months of January and July of each year until the
completion of the Project, beginning in January 1996, a report
of such scope and detail as the Association may reasonably
request on the implementation of the Project during the six
Page  7
calendar months preceding the month in which the report shall
be furnished to the Association, each such report to include
integrated results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
carried out in accordance with the Project Implementation
Guidelines. In addition, during the month of October of each
year during the implementation of the Project the Borrower
shall, and shall cause FHIS, to furnish to the Association a
draft of the detailed Project operating plan and budget for the
succeeding calendar year.
    Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause FHIS to, undertake annual reviews of Project
implementation with the Association during the month of
November of each year during Project implementation, beginning
in 1995. Such annual reviews shall focus on the information
provided in the reports referred to in Section 3.06 of this
Agreement.
    Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, and shall cause FHIS to:
    (a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
the indicators set forth in the Project Implementation
Guidelines, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof;
    (b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about
October 31, 1997, or on such other date as the Association
shall agree, a report integrating the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out
of the Project during the period preceding  the date of said
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
and
    (c)    review with the Association, during the month of
November of 1997, or such other date as the Association shall
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures, satisfactory to
the Association, required to ensure the efficient completion of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
    Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause FHIS to:
    (a)    maintain, until the completion of the Project, senior
staff with experience and qualifications acceptable to the
Association; and
    (b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views on the proposed replacement of any of the senior
staff, prior to effecting any such replacement.
    Section 3.10. Without limitation to or restriction upon its
reporting requirements under the General Conditions and this
Agreement, the Borrower shall, and shall cause FHIS to,
promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress of the
Project or the Subprojects, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance of FHIS of its obligations
under the FHIS Agreement.
                          ARTICLE IV
                     Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
Page  8
resources and expenditures of:
           (i)     the departments or agencies of the Borrower
                   responsible for carrying out Parts D and E of the
                   Project with respect to such Parts of the
                   Project; and
           (ii)    FHIS with respect to Parts A, B, C and F of the
                   Project.
    (b)    The Borrower shall and shall cause FHIS to:
           (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                   the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                   in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than four months after
                   the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                   the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                   such scope and in such detail as the Association
                   shall have reasonably requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records,
                   accounts and the audit thereof as the
                   Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
    (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall and shall cause FHIS to:
           (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                   with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                   Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                   of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                               ARTICLE V
                      Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)    Decree No. 12-90 or Decree No. 153-94 or any provision
thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the
Page  9
opinion of the Association, the ability of FHIS to perform any
of its obligations under the FHIS Agreement;
    (b)    FHIS shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the FHIS Agreement;
    (c)    the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of FHIS;
    (d)    the IDB Loan Agreement, the KfW Loan Agreement or any
Additional Funding Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by March 31, 1996, or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement; and
    (e)    (i)     Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
paragraph:
                   (A)     the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                           proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                           Borrower for the financing of the Project
                           shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                           terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                           the terms of the agreement providing
                           therefor; or
                   (B)     any such loan shall have become due and
                           payable prior to the agreed maturity
                           thereof.
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that:
                   (A)     such suspension, cancellation, termination
                           or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                           of the Borrower to perform any of its
                           obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B)     adequate funds for the Project are
                           available to the Borrower from other
                           sources on terms and conditions consistent
                           with the obligations of the Borrower under
                           this Agreement.
    Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)    the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
thirty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
    (b)    any event specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
    (c)    the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
                             ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Page  10
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)    that the FHIS Agreement has been entered into between
the Borrower and FHIS; and
    (b)    that the Operational Manual has been revised, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, including the provision
of appropriate environmental criteria and mechanisms for the
appraisal of Subprojects.
    Section 6.02. The date November 2, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
                           ARTICLE VII
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de
Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
           Secretaria de Estado en el
           Despacho de Hacienda y Credito Publico
           Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
           Honduras
           Cable address:                        Telex:
                   HACIENDA                      1308
                   Tegucigalpa                   HACIENDA HO
    For the Association:
           International Development
            Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                        Telex:
                   INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                   By /s/ Roberto Flores Bermudez
                                                   Authorized Representative
Page  11
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edilberto Segura
                                              Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                               Credit                  % of
                              Allocated            Expenditures
                            (Expressed in              to be
Category                    SDR Equivalent)           Financed
(1)  Works under:
     (a) Parts A.1 and
     B of the Project         14,300,000           96% of amounts
                                                   disbursed by
                                                   FHIS for each
                                                   Subproject
                                                   for which a
                                                   Subproject
                                                   Agreement has
                                                   been signed on
                                                   or before
                                                   March 31, 1999.
     (b) under Part A.2          320,000           96% of amounts
     of the Project                                disbursed by
                                                   FHIS for each
                                                   Subproject
                                                   for which a
                                                   Subproject
                                                   Agreement has
                                                   been signed on
                                                   or before
                                                   March 31, 1999
(2) Goods:
    (a) under Parts A and B    1,590,000           Amounts disbursed
    of the Project                                 by  FHIS for each
                                                   Subproject
                                                   for which a
                                                   Subproject
                                                   Agreement has
                                                   been signed on
                                                   or before
                                                   March 31, 1999,
                                                   as follows:
                                                   100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 93% of
Page  12
                                                   local expenditures
                                                   for other goods
                                                   procured locally
    (b) under Part F of          510,000           100% of foreign
    the Project                                    expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 93% of
                                                   local expenditures
                                                   for other goods
                                                   procured locally
 (3) Consultants'
     services:
     (a) under Part E            40,000            100%
     of the Project
     (b) under Part F.2         160,000            100%
     of the Project
     (c) under the other        260,000            100%
     Parts of the Project
(4)  Training:
     (a) under Part B           700,000            100%
     of the Project
     (b) under Parts C and F     40,000            100%
     of the Project
     (c) under Part E           540,000            100%
     of the Project
(5)  Unallocated                640,000
         TOTAL               19,100,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)    the term "training" includes all the necessary inputs
for the training under Parts B, C, E and F of the Project,
including production of training materials, rental of training
facilities, transportation and subsistence expenses of trainees
to the place where training is provided, scholarships and
fellowships for training courses to be provided in the
Borrowerþs territory or abroad, and study tours.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed SDR 1,910,000 may be made on account of payments
made for Subprojects under Categories 1, 2 (a) and 4 (a) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule before that
date but after January 1, 1995;
    (b)    payments made for Subprojects under Categories (1), 2
Page  13
(a) and 4 (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, unless each Subproject has been approved in
accordance with the provisions set forth in the Operational
Manual;
    (c)    payments made under Categories (3) (a) and (4) (c) of
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless:
           (i)     the Borrower has furnished to the Association a
                   letter from the mayors (alcaldes) of at least
                   half of the Municipalities where a workshop was
                   carried out under Part C.1 (a) (ii) of the
                   Environmental Development Project, or other
                   evidence satisfactory to the Association,
                   certifying that each such workshop was of benefit
                   to the local community thereof; and
           (ii)    the Association has approved the municipal
                   environmental diagnostics and the municipal
                   action plans to be carried out under Part C.1 (a)
                   of the Environmental Development Project;
    (d)    payments made under Category (1) (b) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the investments
to be carried out under Part C.2 (b) of the Environmental
Development Project, have been implemented in a manner
satisfactory to the Association; and
    (e)    payments made under Subprojects included in Part B.1 of
the Project.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods, works and consultants' services
costing less than the equivalent of:
    (a)    $50,000 in the case of vehicles and equipment under
Part F of the Project;
    (b)    $150,000 in the case of goods and works (other than
vehicles and equipment under Part F of the Project, and the
first two contracts for goods and works to be awarded pursuant
to the provisions of Parts C.3 (a) and C.4 (a) of Section I of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement);
    (c)    $50,000 in the case of consulting firms' services; and
    (d)    $25,000 in the case of individual consultants' services.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the
Borrower's priority investments in social sectors; (b) reduce
poverty; and (c) maintain social cohesion in the Borrower's
territory.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Infrastructure
1.  (a)    Rehabilitation, maintenance and expansion of: (i)
public pre-primary, primary and secondary schools, including
the provision of furniture therefor; and (ii) health centers,
including the provision of furniture therefor;
    (b)    construction, maintenance and repair, when necessary,
of: (i) water supply and sewerage facilities; (ii) rural roads;
(iii) drainage and irrigation canals and ditches; (iv) bridges,
Page  14
gutters and sidewalks; and (v) local markets and other
community facilities; and
    (c)    rehabilitation of: (i) archeological sites to preserve
the cultural heritage of ethnic minorities; and (ii) historical
sites and landmarks in the Borrower's territory.
2.         (a)     Construction and rehabilitation of urban and
community parks; (b) collection, processing, disposal and
recycling of urban and small industry solid waste; (c)
construction of septic tanks and oxidation ponds; (d) planting
of windbreaks; (e) construction of erosion prevention drainage
ditches; (f) construction of community and family operated eco-
tourist facilities in and around Protected Areas; (g) posting
of boundaries in demarcated Protected Areas; and (h)
construction of small infrastructure facilities for the
sustainable management and rehabilitation of community and
traditional fishing operations.
Part B:    Basic Needs
1.  Provision of meals in pre-primary and primary schools and
food centers, such as lactant centers (lactarios), centers for
the elderly and centers for the handicapped.
2.  Provision of medical supplies.
3.  Expansion and diversification of food production in family
farm plots.
4.  Training of midwives and other health workers, and of the
beneficiaries of Subprojects.
5.  Provision of child care services.
6.  Production and distribution of teaching materials.
7.  Enhancing of the living conditions and the economic and
social environment of ethnic minorities in the Borrower's
territory.
8.  Provision of services and supplies to respond to emergencies
and natural catastrophes.
Part C:    Institutional Strengthening
1.         Strengthening of: (a) FHIS's: (i) policies and
practices for management of Subproject cycle, including
planning, identification, appraisal, contracting, supervision
and evaluation of Subprojects; (ii) training programs for
management; (iii) management information system; (iv) basic
needs program; (v) community participation activities to be
carried out under Subprojects; (vi) program of cooperation with
volunteers; (vii) systems for recruitment, training, evaluation
and remuneration of personnel; (viii) accounting and internal
auditing practices; (ix) analysis of financing mechanisms for
maintenance of Subprojects; and (x) water supply and sanitation
policies and practices; and
    (b)    the capacity of the Borrower's municipalities and other
beneficiary communities to prepare, manage and sustain
Subprojects under the Project.
2.         Carrying out of workshops to strengthen FHIS's program
to support the informal sector.
Part D:    Social Data Collection and Analysis
1.  Designing and establishing of a social data mapping system.
2.  (a)    Surveying of FHIS's investments and their coverage in
the social sectors; and
Page  15
    (b)     analysis of the information thereof.
3.  Provision of technical assistance to review and enhance the
sampling, the questionnaire and the execution of the Household
Survey.
Part E:    Municipal Environmental Management
    Provision of technical assistance to Selected Municipalities
to: (a) manage their natural resources and their environmental
problems; (b) increase public participation in the solution of
community environmental problems; and (c) develop proposals for
sources of financing for Subprojects.
Part F:    Administration and Coordination of the Project
1.  Provision of technical assistance and goods for theadministration, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project.
2.  Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of
audit activities under the Project.
                            * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      General
    Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section I,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
2.  The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B:
    (a)    to the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent
or more; and
    (b)    the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto (preference for domestically
manufactured goods) shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Vehicles and equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of:
    (a)    $150,000 but $50,000 equivalent or more, per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, which the
Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number
Page  16
of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines (limited international bidding
procedures); and
    (b)    $50,000 but $25,000 equivalent or more, per contract up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.  Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$25,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.  Goods (other than vehicles and equipment) estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of:
    (a)    $150,000 but $25,000 equivalent or more, per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,400,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines
(national competitive bidding procedures);
    (b)    $25,000, per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and
    (c)    $8,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $500,000, and whenever it shall not be possible
to obtain a competitive proposal from suppliers, may be
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of
the Guidelines (direct contracting procedures); such direct
contracting will not be permitted if, after any semi-annual
review referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) (C) of this
Agreement, the Association determines that the standard prices
established by FHIS are unreasonable.
4.  Works estimated to cost:
    (a)    the equivalent of $50,000 or more shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines (national competitive
bidding procedures);
    (b)    less than the equivalent of $50,000, per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $6,700,000, may be
procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation
shall include a detailed description of the works, including
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to
successfully complete the contract; and
    (c)    less than the equivalent of $35,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $13,300,000, and to be
contracted in remote areas where the procedures referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) above are not feasible, may be procured
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines (direct contracting procedures); such direct
contracting will not be permitted if, after any semi-annual
review referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) (C) of this
Agreement, the Association determines that the standard prices
established by FHIS are unreasonable.
Page  17
5.  In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
Parts C.3 (a) and C.4 (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
use standard bidding documents approved by the Association.
Part D:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Procurement Planning
    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.  Prior Review
    With respect to:
    (a)    each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions
of Parts B.1 and C.1 (a) of this Section and all the contracts
for works to be awarded under Part A.1 (c) of the Project;
    (b)    the first two contracts for: (i) goods, irrespectibly
of their amount; and (ii) works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $150,000, to be awarded pursuant to the
provisions of Parts C.3 (a) and C.4 (a) of this Section;
    (c)    all contracts for works estimated to cost $150,000
equivalent or more, awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part
C.4 (a) of this Section; and
    (d)    all amendments to contracts for works awarded pursuant
to the provisions of Part C.4 (b) and (c) of this Section
raising the value of such contracts to $50,0000 and $35,000
equivalent or more, respectively, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.  Post Review
    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part D, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable
to the Association shall be used.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:
    (a)    contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or
    (b)    contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each.  However,
this exception to prior Association review shall not apply to:
Page  18
(i) the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) single
source selection of firms; (iii) assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Association; (iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or more; or
(v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or
more.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following
principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of goods and works referred to in Parts C.3 (a) and
C.4 (a) of Section I of this Schedule:
1.  Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents,
and without taking into account, in the evaluation, the
financial cost of foreign exchange components.
2.  Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting
bids, be required to:
    (a)    be registered in Honduras;
    (b)    have a representative in Honduras;
    (c)    be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors;
and
    (d)    certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran
suppliers or contractors are allowed to participate in
competitive bidding procedures under equal conditions with
other bidders.
3.  Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of
reducing contract amounts.
B.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the
following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II
of this Schedule:
1.  Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the
selection process even if there is availability of Honduran
consultants for the services being procured.
2.  Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered
with Honduran associations or to be associated with Honduran
consulting firms as a condition for participating in any
selection process.
                         SCHEDULE 4
                      Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
Page  19
    (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                   paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                   payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                   by said documents and other evidence to have been
                   paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
Page  20
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
           (i)     was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
                   eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
                   Schedule; or
           (ii)    was not justified by the evidence furnished to
                   the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly
                   upon notice from the Association: (A) provide
                   such additional evidence as the Association may
                   request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
                   (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
                   to the Association) an amount equal to the amount
                   of such payment or the portion thereof not so
                   eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
                   shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
                   Association into the Special Account shall be
                   made until the Borrower has provided such
                   evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
                   case may be.
    (b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
