Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4017-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 31.3 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 11, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution ad may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ftheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation
to a basket of refeience currencies, with the US dollar serving as
intervention currency. On February 25, 1985 the official exchange rate was
set at Tk 26.47 buying and Tk 26.53 selling per US dollar. Unless noted
otherwise, the rates shown below have been used throughout this report:
l Taka           =   US$0.04
26.0 Taka        =   US$1.00
WEIGliTS AND MEASURES
1 inch (in)                     25.4 millimeters (mm)
1 foot (ft)                 =   30.5 centimeters
l mile (mi)                      1.509 kilometers (km)
I square mile (sq mi)           640 acres (ac)
hectares (ha)
I acre (ac)                 =   0.405 hectares (ha)
I bigha                     -   0.333 acres (ac)
=   0.135 hectares (ha)
I bale (cotton)             =   178 kilograms (kg)
I bale (jute)               =   186 kilograms (kg)
1 cubic foot per second   -   0.028 cubic meters per second
(cusec)                          (m3sec)
ABBREVIATIONS USED
ADP           -  Annual Development Program
BWDB          -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
IWTA          -  Inland Water Transport Authority
LGD           -  Local Government Division
LGEB          -  Local Government Engineering Bureau
MTFPP         -  Medium Term Foodgrain Production Program
PPAR          -  Project Performance Audit Report
RHD           -  Roads and Highways Department
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Programme
GLOSSARY
Aman      -  Rice planted before or during the monsoon season and
harvestEl in November-December.
Aus       -  Rice planted during February-March and harvested
during June-July.
Bcro     -  Rice transplanted in December-January and lharvested
in April-May.
District -  Administrative unit comprising a number of upazilas.
Upazila  -  Smallest administrative unit as defined by Local
Government.
FISCAI. YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower         :  The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount           :  SDR 31.3 million (US$30.0 million equivalent)
Terms                Standard
Proiect
Description        The project would comprise priority components of the
Government's program to rehabilitate flood damaged
facilities and would include: (a) rehabilitation of
irrigation, drainage and flood protection works;
(b) rehabilitation work on roads and associated
structures; (c) procurement of road construction
equipment; (d) replacement of navigational aids and water
gauging equipment; (e) repair of river landing jetties;
and (f) provision of technical services by local and
foreign consultants.
Risks              Delay in executing the project might result from con-
straints a'fecting the four implementing agencies.
However, the works to be undertaken are relatively simple
and are well within the capacity of the individual agen-
cies concerned.  Because the project comprises a large
number of individual rehabilitation schemes and because
of their urgent nature the appraisal of the individual
components has not been subject to the usual standard of
scrutiny; however, only those schemes which meet criteria
agreed with IDA will be accepted for financing. Because
rehabilitation works would be scattered throughout the
flood afflfected area, it may prove difficult to supervise
individual schemes closely. However, consultants would
be employed to assist the executing agencies in reviewing
the proposed works against the agreed criteria and in
supervising and implementing these works.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Proiect Costs la
Local Foreign
Cost    Exchange   Total
-US$ Million Equivzlent-
Civil Works
Irrigation, drainage and flood protection
(BWDB)                                       9.14      3.07      12.21
Roads and associated structures (RHD)          10.67      3.56       14.23
River landing jetties (IWTA)                      .09      .03         .12
Roads and associated structures (LGD)           4.50      1.50        6.00
Total Civil Works                        24.40      8.16       32.56
Equipment Purchase                                 1.73     2.34        4.07
Consu ltancies                                      .81      .81        1.62
Engineering and Administration                     3.27      _          3.27
Total Base Cost                          30.21    11.31       41.52
Physical Contingencies                             2.36      .87        3.23
Price Contingencies                                2.69      .81        3.50
Total Project Costs                      35.26    12.99       48.25
/a Including US$1.8 million equivalent in duties and taxes.
Financing Plan
Local   Foreign
Cost    Exchanze   Total
-US$ Million Equival.ent-
Proposed Flood Rehabilitation Project              19.60    10.40       30.00
Credit 864-BD Savings                               5.10     1.70        6.80
Credit 1184-BD Savings                              3.00     1.00        4.00
Government of Bangladesb                            7.43    _            7.43
Total                                     35.13    13.10       48.23
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                  1985      1986      1987
Annual                              5       20         5
Cumulative                          5       25        30



-iii-
Rate of Return        Not Applicable
Map:                  Area flooded in 1984



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON tA PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recoumendation for a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 31.3 million (the
equivalent of US$30 million), on standard IDA terms, to help the Government's
program of rehabilitating infrastructure damaged by the floods in 1984.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "BangLadesh: Economic and Social
Development Prospects" (Report No. 5409-BD, dated April 2, 1985) has been
distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with a very high population density and
widespread poverty (annual income per capita is about US$130). The economy,
dominated by agriculture, remains highly vulnerable to disruption by both
natural and external factors. Although considerable progress has been made
in terms of increased flood control, and extending the availability of
irrigation and other inputs, foodgrain production remains beavily dependent
on weather conditions and falls short of domestic requirements. To meet
minimum needs, the Government has to import foodgrains financed by aid or
from its own resources. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability also
make it necessary to maintain public foodgrain stocks, the financing of which
adds to the problems of fiscal management.
4.      The economy is also characterized by low savings, which reflect the
low level of incomes, and by a large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a negligibLe part of investment (which has
averaged about 16% of CDP in recent years). Export earnings cover less than
30Z of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods accounting for about 60%
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Second Primary Education Project
(Report No. 3976-BD) dated March 7, 1985.



-2-
of merchandise exports. The resource gap of about 15% of GDP is financed by
workers' remittances, which rose rapidly to more than 5% of GDP in FY83
(before declining somewhat during the past two years) and by foreign assis-
tance equi.valent to about 10% of GDP per annum. The capacity to finance
imports can be sharply affected by external factors that are beyond the
control of the Government; the effect of such adverse factors on the economy
is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary revenues on import duties
and sales taxes, which together account for about 60% of tax revenues.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      In the late 1970s, Bangladesh enjoyed a period of political stability
and economic consolidation and was able to plan for longer-term development.
GDP growth of nearly 6Z per annum from FY75 to FY80 was accompanied by rising
public investment, financed by a substantial real increase in aid
disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and external events after
FY80 disruoted the momentum of development. Between FY80 and FY82, the
external terms of trade for Bangladesh fell by 30%, due to declining prices
for jute and jute products, as well as to increases in import prices.
External aid flows, which had been rising steadily up to FY80, declined in
FY81 and in FY82 barely recovered to their FY80 level. Foreign exchange
reserves declined to about US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) by end-FY82. The deterioration in the terms of trade and stagnation
of aid receipts in real terms had an adverse impact on public finances and
forced the Government to impose severe cuts in domestic public investment in
FY81 and FY82. At the same time, the rate of growth in GDP decreased from
about 6% in FY81 to 1.4% in FY82, largely due to a decline in food crop
production following a prolonged drought during FY82.
6.      In response to these adverse developments, the Government took a
series of measures designed to stabilize the economy. In the FY83 Budget,
growth of public expenditure was tightly restrained, new tax measures were
introduced and a series of pricing adjustments were made to reduce subsidies
and improve the financial performance of public sector enterprises and
utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing, and subsidy-reduction measures
amounted to an impressive 2.3% of GDP. In FY83, the Government also
announced its New Industrial Policy designed to improve the efficiency of
public sector enterprises and provide an improved policy environment for the
private sector. More than 100 public sector enterprises were subsequently
denationalized, investment sanctioning procedures were streamlined and many
industries freed from requiring investment sanctions. Imports were liberal-
ized by increasing access to imports through a secondary exchange market and
by eliminating some quanticative restrictions. By the end of FY83, the
balance of payments position had improved considerably, due to a recovery in
the terms of trade, an upsurge in workers' remittances, higher aid inflows,
as welL as increasing exports stimulated by a substantial depreciation in the
exchange rate. However, the reduction in the current account deficit, which
fell from 14.5% to 10.4% of GDP, was also due to the depressed level of
imports resulting from a continued s'low rate of GDP growth, which recovered



-3-
to only about 2.7% in FY83. While more favorable weather conditions and
increased inputs Led to a 3-4% growth in agriculture, most of the non-
agricultural sectors remained depressed; value added in the manufacturing
sector actually declined by 1-2%.
7.      Economic performance remained mixed in FY84, with GDP growing at only
3%, marginally above the previous year's performance. Agricultural produc-
tion was significantly affected by late floods in autumn 1983, followed by
drought and early floods in spring 1984, which continued with exceptional
severity through September 1984. The Losses caused by the floods will also
adversely affect crop prospects for FY85, although a part of the loss may be
compensated for by higher yields in areas less affected. On the other hand,
there has been a sharp recovery in the non-agricultural sectors, beginning in
FY84 and continuing into FY85, partly stimulated by a significant expansion
in domestic credit, but also supported in respect of the manufacturing sector
by the earlier liberalization of import policies and the rationalization of
investment sanctioning procedures.
8.      Following the major domestic revenue effort made in FY83, the
Government has sought to consolidate that effort in its FY84 and FY85
Budgets, rather than to embark on major new initiatives. Further modest tax
and pricing adjustments were made to increase recurrent revenues, but total
revenues for FY84 were well short of the budget target as dutiable imports
and aid disbursements fell considerably below expectation. In FY85, tax
revenues received a significant boost from the resurgence of imports
associated with the recovery of the non-industeial sectors. A substantial
budget deficit was avoided in FY84 by a significant shortfall in development
expenditures compared with the budget estimate; a similar shortfall in the
Annual Development Programme expenditures may occur during FY85. Such short-
falls arise partly from overly ambitious development expenditure targets, but
are also attributable to lower than expected disbursements of project aid as
a result of implementation constraints.
9.      Although domestic prices have remained relatively stable despite the
large increases in domestic liquidity, the rate of inflation is expected to
increase from about 12% in FY84 to about 14-15% in FY85. However, in January
1985, the Covernment took a series of measures to limit the growth of
liquidity. The measures included increases in interest rates and quantita-
tive restrictions on the growth of domestic credit. If these credit policies
are maintained in FY85 and FY86, the acceleration of inflation can be limited
and the pressures on domestic prices gradually reduced.
10.     The balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves position
improved during FY84. Export earnings rose by 20%, due to higher interna-
tional prices for jute, jute products, and tea, as well as a major boost in
non-traditional exports, while imports remained close to the FY83 level since
economic recovery was slower than anticipated and aid-financed imports were
depressed by delays in project implementation. Even though workers' remit-
tances began to decline in the second half of the fiscal year, the current



-4-
account deficit as a whole decLined to 7.4X of GDP in FY84 from 10.4Z in
FY83, while gross foreign exchange reserves in March 1984 reached a peak of
US$558 million, equivalent to about 3 months' imports. However, during FY85
there has been a deterioration in the balance of payments. Part of the
growing pressure on the balance of payments arises from the additional
foodgrain imports necessitated by the severe 1984 floods. Since immediate
additional food aid in response to the crisis was limited, the Government had
to purchase about 1.25 million tons of foodgrains, valued at close to US$250
million, from its own resources. Non-food imports are also projected to
increase significantly as a result of the strong recovery in Lhe manufactur-
ing sector stimulated by the rapid expansion in domestic credit. Workers'
remittances have also declined further and although exports and aid disburse-
ments are expected to increase over FY84 levels, a substantial drawdown of
reserves of over US$150 million is projected for FY85. The decline in reser-
ves would have been even more marked if a substantial portion (about US$190
million) of foodgrain imports had not been purchased on credit. This short-
term borrowing will, however, add to the difficulty of managing the balance
of payments over the next three years when there will also be substantial
obligations for repurchases from the IMF.
External Debt
11.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium- and long-term debts has not been a
major problem. Nonetheless, the burden of servicing this concessional debt
is rising steadily as debts incurred in the first years after independence
are increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on exter-
nal public medium- and long-term debt are expected to rise from about 13% of
export earnings (goods, services, and workers' remittances) in FY84 to 14% in
FY85 and a peak of 18% in FY87, gradually declining thereafter. However,
when obligations to the IMF are included, the debt service ratio for FY85 is
estimated at about 20%, rising to between 20-25% during FY86 and FY87. The
debt service ratio is forecast to decline thereafter, as food debts are
repaid, to about 15-17% by FY90. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt
servicing obligations will remain modest over this period, rising from 8.5%
in FY84 to 8.9Z in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding
and disbursed is projected to increase from about 30% in FY84 to about 35% in
FY86.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
12.     Although the Second Five Year Plan period (FY81-85) is drawing to a
close, the Government's development strategy continues to be largely based on
the priorities outlined in the Plan. The priority development objectives
are: (a) reducing population growth from the present rate of 2.6% per annum;
(b) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency, (c) eliminating mass illiteracy;
and (d) accelerating domestic energy development. IDA has assisted the
Government in preparing the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan that aims
at increasing foodgrain production. With appropriate producer incentive,



-5-
resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and an expanded role for the
private sector in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural imple-
ments and inputs, foodgrain self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of
the decade. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate (74%), the Plan's
emphasis on primary education is well founded; under the Plan the objective
of achieving universal primary education has been adopted. Prospects for
achieving the objectives of educational expansion and improved foodgrain
availability would be improved by success in reducing the population growth
rate; this will require more determined efforts than have been made thus far,
especially with regard to birth control efforts which have suffered from poor
implementation and have had only limited success. The Government has
recently taken steps to coordinate its birth control activities and to
strengthen training programs for field staff.
13.     Early development of the country's energy resources, particularly
natural gas, is very important since imported petroleum at present preempts
about three-quarters of merchandise export earnings. Since the required
investments are likely to be capital-intensive and lumpy, they need to be
properly planned under a phased priority program. The Government is now
endeavoring, with Asian Development Bank (ADB)/United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) assistance, to formulate an appropriate energy sector
investment program. The implementation of appropriate energy conservation
measures and the setting of energy prices at economically efficient levels
will also be critical to the success of the energy development program.
14.     There is an urgent need to address the growing problems of rural
poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural population is function-
ally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly
since the 1970s, with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force finding
gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not suffice to
resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large projected
growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously, therefore,
to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry and non-
foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- especially small-
scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated in one subsector
will generate effective demand for the output of others.
15.     As noted in paragraph 6, the Government's New Industrial Policy has
given a greater role to the private sector in industrial development,
increased the incentives for export industries, and liberalized the import
regime. However, there remains an urgent need to strengthen the development
finance institutions, whose financial structure has been undermined by an
increasing problem of debt arrears, and to rationalize industrial incentives.
The Government is now examining the future role of the development finance
institutions in the light of recent consultants' studies. An ongoing program
of IDA-financed studies is expected to lead to a program of action for the
rationalization of a broad range of trade and industrial policies.



-6-
16.     The Government is now preparing its Third Five Year Plan (FY86-90).
While the development priorities are not likely to change significantly from
those incorporated into the Second Five Year Plan, the size of the future
public investment program will need to be set at a level consistent with a
realistic assessment of prospective external and domestic financial
resources. As external assistance will continue to be severely constrained,
there is a clear need for a sustained and intensive domestic resource mobi-
lization effort to raise tax revenues, increase the level of cost recovery,
reduce subsidies, and improve the financial performance of public
enterprises. In the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to
reduce its present dependence on import duties, thereby improving the elas-
ticity of the tax system.
17.     Realization of the Government's development objectives will also
require significant improvements in development administration. There is a
critical need to strengthen project implementation, streamline administrative
procedures, and improve decision-making processes. Recognizing that local
government bodies can play an effective role in the development effort, the
Government has decided to decentralize a number of planning and administra-
tive functions to the upgraded Upazila (Sub-District) level. The implementa-
tion and impact of this policy will need to be closely monitored.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
18.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$2,977.40
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 and a consolidation loan (US$54.90
million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in 1975 to
cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to independence.  In
addition to these, the Bank has approved eighty new credits since Bangladesh
became a member in 1972. In terms of total commitments, approximately 23.6%
of IDA lending has been for agriculture, irrigation and rural development;
11.9% for industry; 10.6% for energy; 7.2% for transoortation and
telecommunications; 7.7% for education and technical assistance; 2.2Z for
urban infrastructure; 1.6% for population control; and 35.2% for imports
program support. Apart from increased emphasis on energy development, the
composition of IDA lending over the next several years is not expected to
change markedly. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of IFC and
three investments have been approved to date.
19.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Government's priority development objectives set out in the Second Five Year
Plan and summarized in paragraph 12 above. IDA's lending has emphasized
agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing food produc-
tion through augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irrigation
equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds, the development of extension
services, research programs and rural cooperatives, the provision of agricul-



-7-
tural credit, and the promotion of input and output pricing policies that
allow adequate incentives to farmers to increase production. IDA has also
supported the Government's efforts to encourage greater private sector par-
ticipation in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. IDA's
lending program will place increasing emphasis on agricultural diversifica-
tion through increased production of fish, livestock, and forestry products.
20.     An inadequate supply of energy is one of the major constraints to
economic growth in Bangladesh. IDA's lending for power and gas investments
is designed to expand the use of natural gas in substitution for- imported
oil, promote conservation measures and more efficient energy use, and
encourage further gas and oil exploration. IDA is also financing projects to
expand the country's rural electrification system and power generation and
transmission capabilities.
21.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on two
areas -- primary education and skills development. Lending for primary
education supports the national goals of achieving universal primary educa-
tion and reducing illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading
quality. Projects for vocational and technical education promote the train-
ing of craftsmen, technicians, and engineers.
22.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high population density and the continuing popula-
tion increase, IDA, together with other donors, is assisting the Government
in implementing an accelerated family planning program. With Bangladesh's
urban population expected to increase from about 16 to 18 million in 1985 to
between 35 to 40 million by the year 2000, future IDA activities will also
help the Government to address the problem of providing low-cost shelter and
infrastructure services to the urban poor; IDA is already financing water and
sanitation improvements in Chittagong and Dhaka.
23.     To achieve a higher and sustained level of growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve the country's exter-
nal trade and payments position on a sustained basis, industry will need to
play a more pivotal role in the economy. IDA's lending program seeks to
assist the Government in: (a) increasing efficiency in public sector
enterprises; (b) reforming trade, industrial, and financial policies;
(c) strengthening existing financial institutions; (d) establishing export
development programs; and (e) promoting rural and small-scale industries.
In addition to assistance under program credits (see paragraph 25), IDA has
supported projects to increase fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute
and textile industries, strengthen the development finance institutions, and
promote small-scale industries.
24.     Because of the importance of river transport in this deltaic country,
in the transport sector, IDA has focused on the development of the inland
water transport system. The road network in Bangladesh is extensive, but the
roads are in poor condition and are inadequately maintained. IDA's future



-8-
lending program will concentrate primarily on maintaining and upgrading
existing roads.
25.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, the assistance strategy for Bangladesh provides for a
significant proportion of annual lending to be in the form of program
credits. In addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local
counterpart financial support, annual program credits have provided a useful
vehicle for addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic issues.
Due to Bangladesh's savings/investment gap, IDA credits for project financing
continue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a significant portion of
local currency expenditures. Given the severe limits on external concession-
ary assistance, IDA has emphasized the need for Government to mobilize more
domestic financial resources and to utilize these resources more efficiently.
IDA is promoting Covernment policies to set public utility prices at economi-
cally efficient levels, to mobilize domestic financial resources, and to
improve the efficiency of public sector institutions.
26.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in con-
sultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader
institutional reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation; (b) financing projects to train civil ser-
vants and other managerial and technical personnel; and (c) encouraging the
Government to introduce administrative reforms and improve staff salaries and
incentives. Despite progress in implementing reforms, which include
administrative reorganization and improvements in financial planning and
budgetary procedures, adequate institutional capabilities can be achieved
only over the long term. IDA chairs the annual Bangladesh Aid Group meeting
which provides a forum for aid donor consultation and IDA's Resident
Representative chairs regularly scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange
views on policy issues, project implementation, and aid coordination.
PART III - THE FLOOD PROBLEM
27.     Most of Bangladesh is a low-lying alluvial plain subject to heavy
monsoon rainfall. The southern half of the country is the joint delta of
three of the world's largest rivers: the Brahmaputra entering Bangladesh
from the north; the Ganges entering from the west; and the Meghna from the
northeast. This system constitutes a network of rivers, streams and canals
totaling about 15,000 miles in length and receiving runoff from a catchment
area of about 400 million acres of which only about 7.5% lie in Bangladesh.
The Brahmaputra and Ganges have an enormous joint discharge and deposit huge
sediment loads amounting to about 2.4 billion tons annuaLly. A fourth river
system lies in the Southeastern Hill basin with a catchment covering the
limited hilly areas of Bangladesh and extending into neighboring India.
Rivers and streams in this basin are highly susceptible to flash flooding.



-9-
28.     Flows in the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers are derived from snowmelt
in the Himalayas and rainfall in their lower catchment areas. The
Brahmaputra's snowmelt flood peak is in June but the river's heaviest annual
flood, caused by rainfall runoff combined with snowmelt, is usually in July,
August, and early September. Flood peaks of the Ganges follow a similar
pattern. River banks downstream from the juncture of the two rivers overflow
from mid-July until the end of September. It is during this period that
major flooding is most likely to occur.
29.     Annual rainfall in Bangladesh ranges from 50 inches in the southwest
and west to more than 200 inches in the northeast. About 80Z of the rainfall
occurs during the five-month monsoon season, May through September. There
are very large variations in rainfall from year to year. Periods of highly
intensive rainfall result in flash flooding of the smaller rivers and general
flooding due to the inability of natural drainage systems to cope with the
excess water. High ocean tides and cyclones are also major causes of floods
in southerni coastal areas and can result in heavy property damage and loss of
life. About one-sixth of the country is flooded every year to depths of 3-12
feet and about one-half of the country is vulnerable to annual flooding in
excess of one foot.
30.     Routine flooding during normal years yields benefits, including the
recharge of aquifers and improvement of soil fertility through silt
deposition. Systems of farming that take advantage of and are dependent upon
annual flooding have evolved in routinely flooded areas. However, in years
of heavy flooding, major crop losses and substantial damage to agricultural
infrastructure occur.
31.     Flood Protection.  The World Bank conducted a "Land and Water
Resources Sector Study of Bangladesh" in 1972 which concluded that embank-
ments and channel improvements were the only practical methods of preventing
flooding by the major rivers. The report noted that, while storage reser-
voirs upstream could be effective, they would have to be very large and that
the only suitable sites for them were outsids Bangladesh. Such a solution
will become practical only after an agreement has been reached between the
riparians of these rivers.
32.     Most flood protection works in Bangladesh, other than those protect-
ing towns and specific structures, are components of multi-purpose agricul-
tural development projects that entail the empoldering of the area to be
protected and the installation of drains, sluices and pumping plants for
drainage and dry season irrigation. The first Bank-financed projects of this
type, initiated in the 1960s, were located on or close to the major rivers
where flooding was greatest in terms of depth and velocity. An example is
the Chandpur Irrigation Project (Cr.340-BD). These projects were relatively
expensive, costing approximately US$l,000 per acre protected (1978 prices),
and generally took a long time to prepare, design and complete.
Subsequently, the Government and the Bank examined, in the context of a



-10-
"Joint Review of the Bangladesh Water Development Board," existing flood
protection policy and possible alternatives. The report published in 1979,
concluded that, while projects of the Chandpur type were successful and
returns on investment were satisfactory, the cost of providing protective
embankments and other infrastructure in areas susceptible to strong river
attack and deep flooding was not the most cost effective approach to flood
control. The review report recommended that priority should be given instead
to the protection of areas flooded to shallower depths. In such areas, costs
per acre protected were appreciably less, about US$200, because embankments
were lower, pumped drainage was often not required, and the project could be
completed more quickly, thereby benefiting more land and more people per unit
of investment. This recommendation was accepted by the Government. The Bank
has financed four such projects and a fifth is scheduled for Board considera-
tion in the near future.l/
33.     Flood protection is again being reviewed under a National Water
Master Plan Project, financed by the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) and executed by the Bank, which is examining all aspects of water
demand, supply and control in Bangladesh. A water Master Planning
Organization has been established in the Ministry of Irrigation, Water
Development, and Flood Control which is developing mathematical models to
assist in the planning, design and operation of the major flood protection
projects to be included in the Water Master Plan which is scheduled for
completion in mid-1985.
34.     Flood Warning System.  UNDP and the World Meteorological Organization
are providing assistance to Bangladesh through the Development of Flood
Forecasting and Warning System Project (BCD/76/7006), under which a Flood
Forecasting and Warning Center has been established to monitor rainfall and
water levels using radioed reports from a network of 35 (shortly to be
increased to 45) stations. During the flood season, the Center issues daily
bulletins, accompanied by forecasts for the Brahmaputra and Ganges rivers and
flash flood-prone rivers in the southeast, that provide key data for the
organization of the Government's response to flood disasters.
35.     Flood Disaster Response.  In the event of a fluod disaster all agen-
cies of the Government, including the armed services, are mobilized. The
Ministry of Relief is the key agency and its Minister chairs a Central
Coordination Committee on Flood Relief and Rehabilitation made up of the
secretaries of other appropriate ministries. The committee decides on the
response and relief policies to be followed and allocates responsibilities.
Monitoring the implementation of these policies is usually undertaken by an
1/ The four projects are Drainage and Flood Control I and II (Credits
864-BD and 1184-BD), Small-Scale Drainage and Flood Control (Credit
955-BD), and Water Development Board (WDB) Small Schemes (Credit 1467-BD)
Projects; the proposed project is Flood Control and Drainage III.



-11-
operations center located in Dhaka and supported with communications equip-
ment and personnel provided by the armed forces. First priority is given to
essential evacuation, followed by food distribution, restoration of
communications, provision of shelter and clothing, cash assistance, and
finally, as floods recede, programs of preventive medicine and agricultural
rehabilitation.
36.     The response system works generally well, but lacks an effective
mechanism to strengthen threatened embankments and other flood protection
structures. Most rural communities can provide abundant labor, but lack basic
materials, such as sand bags, that are needed for defensive works.
Therefore, significant flooding results from the breaching of embankments and
failure of structures whose integrity might have been maintained had the
Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), or the local administration, had
the facility to respond promptly with direction and essential materials.
Under the proposed project, a flood preparedness study would investigate
possible mechanisms for a more rapid response to flooding (paragraph 62).
37.     The 1984 Floods.  Nineteen eighty-four was the worst flood year in
Bangladesh since 1974 when the economy was devastated by floods covering an
estimated 20,277 square miles. The floods of 1984 were caused by a combina-
tion of repeated flash floods and the blockage of drainage systems by record
high rainfall in the central, southern, southeastern and northern parts of
the country. The situation was exacerbated by the rise of all major rivers
to above danger level by the end of July and the breaching of flood protec-
tion embankments at a number of points, especially along the right bank of
the Brahmaputra. The duration of the floods was particularly long, continu-
ing from May through September.
38.     Extensive flooding was experienced in three phases.  In May, record
high rainfall caused widespread flash flooding in the Meghna Basin, in
particular, in the Comilla, Brahmanbaria, Sylhet, Moulvi Bazar, Habiganj, and
Feni districts.  Embankments of the Gumti, Khowai, and other smaller rivers
were breached. The embankment protecting Moulvi Bazar town was overtopped on
Kay 15 and the town was inundated. The second phase of flooding began in the
first half of June, when exceptionally heavy rainfall caused widespread
floods through the center of the country. Heavy rainfall later in June
caused flooding in the Rangpur, Sylhet, and Comilla districts. Continuing
heavy rainfall in July, coupled with high flood levels in the Brahmaputra and
Ganges, caused extensive floods and crop and infrastructure damage in a
number of additional areas of the country. A third phase of serious river
flooding, a consequence of high flows reinforced by heavy rainfall in the
Brahmaputra, Ganges, and Meghna basins, occurred in mid-September in the
Pabna, Sirajganj, Kurigram, Cailbandha, Tangail, Jamalpur, Netroknoa,
Sunamganj, and Sylhet districts. Many districts were hit by two, if not by
all of the three distinct phases of flooding. In some areas this prevented
any sort of agricultural production during the 1984 monsoon season.



-12-
39.     The Flood Forecasting and Warning Center estimated that about 10,890
sq. miles (seven million acres) were affected by the fLoods in addition to
the some 6 million acres that are routinely flooded each year. Of 35 rain
gauging stations, total rainfall was above normal at 32 stations in the
Hay-July period and at 21 stations for the August-September period. Record
rainfalls were recorded at 11 stations in May and at 9 stations in June.
More than 300 people drowned during the floods and losses of livestock,
mostly due to lack of fodder in the flooded areas, were high. The major
economic losses resulted from crop and infrastructural damage.
40.     Crop Damage.  Crops on nearly three million acres were reported as
destroyed, damaged severely or not planted because of flood water. The
cotton crop was severely affected, with only 21,000 bales harvested as com-
pared to 60,000 bales in 1983. Sugarcane losses of an estimated 1.2 miLlion
metric tons (MT) of cane, equivalent to about 67,000 tons of sugar, neces-
sitated imports to meet domestic demand. Considerable, but still
unquantified, damage was done to the tobacco crop. Most significant,
however, were losses in jute and rice production. Because of high jute
prices in 1982 and 1983 there was a major expansion in jute plantings and
jute planting intentions in 1984. Presupposing a "normal" growing year, a
crop of 5.4 million bales was predicted by the Ministry of Agriculture.
However, only some 4.5 million bales are estimated to have been produced
indicating a loss of about 17%. Substantial losses occurred in all three
principal rice crops -- boro, aus and aman. In the case of boro, the almost-
mature crop was washed away on an estimated 227,000 acres, with a loss calcu-
lated at the equivalent of 331,000 MT of clean rice.1/ Aus, planted in
April-Hay, was destroyed on about 840,000 acres, with a loss of 308,000 MT.
Aus Losses would have been higher had it not been possible to replant some of
the area destroyed by flash flooding in the eastern areas. About 1.66 mil-
lion acres of aman (broadcast and transplanted), the main monsoon season
crop, were washed out or flooded too deeply to plant, with a loss of some
875,000 MT of clean rice. Total rice lost as a consequence of the 1984
floods is estimated at 1.51 million MT. Based on production trends in recent
years (an annual growth of 2.8% since 1979) and assuming a normal growing
season, the crop in 1984 probably would have been about 14.9 million MT. By
deducting from this figure the 14.1 million MT actually produced, a net loss
800,000 MT of rice is obtained. In evaluating the financial losses caused by
the floods this latter figure is emplo;ed.
41.     Infrastructure Damage.  Following recession of the floods in late
September, the Roads and Highways Derartment (RHD), BWDB, the Inland Water
Transport Authority (IWTA), and the hioistry of Local Government, Rural
1/ All foodgrain loss estimates in this report are based on field surveys
conducted by the United States Agency for International Development.
Very similar conclusions have been reached by the Ministry of AgricuLture
and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.



-13-
Development and Cooperatives' Local Government Division (LGD), which is
responsible for infrastructure managed by local government authorities,
prepared estimates of infrastructural damage. A summary of the physical
damage reported by RHD, BWDB, IWTA and LGD is set out below.
Roads and Highways Department
Eimbankments washed away (mi)        2.78   Bridges and culverts collapsed (no.)    93
Embankments badly damaged (mi)   152.75   Bridges and culverts affected by
Pavement severely damaged (mi)   127.52        failure of wing walls, etc. (no.)    111
Pavement partially damaged (mi)  275.30   Ferry service approaches damaged (no.)  13
Water Development Board
Embankment washed away (mi)        100.88   Flap gates lost (no.)                      30
Structures to be replaced (no.)       218   Town protection works damaged (sites)   15
Inland Water Transport Authority
Pontoons lost or badly damaged (no.) 28   Work boats lost (no.)                         3
Buoys and beacons lost (no.)           30   Gauges lost (no.)                          19
Jetties lost or badly damaged (no.)  25   Dredger pipe lost (ft)                    1,000
Local Government Division
District Councils                           Municipalities
Pavement damaged (mi)                 100   Pavement damaged (mi)                     500
Bridges and culverts collapsed              Bridges or culverts collapsed
or badly damaged (ft)             1,250     or badly damaged (ft)                 6,250
42.     The extensive damage to roads and highways and their appurtenant
structures reflects not only the problems of constructing and maintaining a
road network in a deltaic area but also with standards of construction and
maintenance. The road network is developed and managed by two agencies, RHD
and LGD. The former is responsible for the planning, design, construction
and maintenance of the national road network which consists of 1,724 miles of
national highways (18 feet-22 feet wide pavement) of which 1,569 miles are
paved, 99 miles partially paved and the remainder earth or gravel; 758 miles
of regional highways (12 feet-18 feet pavement) of which 615 miles are paved,
107 miles partially paved and the remaining 36 miles earthen; and 1,687 miles
of feeder roads (12 feet pavement) of which 643 miles are fully paved.
Feeder roads connect upazila headquarters and commercial centers with
regional and national highways. Local district and municipal governments,
with the guidance and assistance of LGD are entrusted with similar respon-
sibilities for other tertiary and municipality roads. The LCD system extends
to 16,216 miles, of which onLy 3,983 are paved.



-14-
43.    Bangladesh has under 11 miles of all-weather roads per 100 square
miles (compared to close to 25 miles in India) and of these nearly 30% are
urban roads. The low proportion of paved all-weather roads and the high
proportion of unpaved roads is a consequence of the high costs of road con-
struction and maintenance in Bangladesh. This results from the poor
engineering characteristics of soils; the flat nature of the terrain which,
with periodic flooding, makes high embankments necessary; the need for many
bridges and culverts; and the scarcity and high cost of construction
materials. In some cases these problems are compounded by less than satis-
factory design, construction and quality control. A major issue in the road
sub-sector is the overall scarcity of financial resources and a bias in favor
of new road construction rather than much needed maintenance. Following a
review by consultants financed under the Fourth Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 622-BD), IDA is in the process of assisting the Government in prepar-
ing a road maintenance and rehabilitation project which would finance both
remedial works and the establishment of appropriate maintenance programs for
the RHD network; the Asian Development Bank is considering a similar
operation. A feeder road and markets project which has been proposed with
similar objectives is currently under preparation for possible financing by
IDA.
44.     The heavy damage to IWTA installations in 1984 also reflects the
problems of establishing and maintaining infrastructure in a difficult physi-
cal environment. IWTA is responsible for developing and controlling
navigable waterways which extend to 5,200 miles in the monsoon, and to 3,200
miles in the dry season. Siltation, highly variable water volumes, the
shifting of river courses, and bank erosion make the maintenance of landing
stages, navigational aids and ferry crossings a consistent problem. During
heavy flooding, as in 1984, the protection of facilities is extremely
difficult. This situation will not be corrected until the major rivers are
controlled by barrages and embankments, an objective that will be reached
only in the longer term.
45.     BWDB infrastructure such as flood embankments, town protection works,
drains, and irrigation canals are naturally highly susceptible to damage in
high flood years. As in the case of RHD and LCD, BWDB suffers severe finan-
cial constraints and expenditures on the maintenance of its infrastructure
are inadequate. A project designed to improve BWDB's maintenance programs is
being prepared.
46.     Costs of the 1984 Floods.  Based on crop losses, equipment and
infrastructural damage, and the relief and rehabilitation activities under-
taken by the Government, a broad estimate of the cost of the floods to the
economy has been established at roughly US$378 million. About US$109 million
has been absorbed by the Government budget and about US$207 million by
farmers and others as net losses. Some US$62 million of public infrastruc-
tural repairs remain to be financed.



-15-
Table 3.1: ECONOMIC COSTS OF 1984 FLOODS
US$ MiLlion
Equivalent
Crop Losses (net)
Rice                                                                  208
Jute                                                                   73
Cotton                                                                 11
Sugar                                                                  24
Sub-total                                                      316
Infrastructure and Equipment
National roads                                                         20
Irrigation, drainage and flood control                                 25
Water Transport Authority equipment                                     2
Local government infrastructure                                        15
Sub-total                                                       62
TOTAL                                                          378
Table 3.2: BUDGETARY COSTS OF 1984 FLDODS
US$ Million
Equivalent
Relief Operations
Foodgrains                                                            82
Cash                                                                    4
Sub-total                                                       86
Agriculture Rehabilitation Program /a
Interest payments forgiven /b                                         17
Farm inputs Ic                                                         6
Sub-total                                                       23
TOTAL                                                          109
/a Share of production inputs for transplanted aman that is included
in total rice production of 14.1 million MT (see paragraphs 49 & 50).
lb See paragraph 50 for details.
/c See paragraph 49 for details.



-16-
47.     Government Response to the 1984 Flood Disaster.   Since the dis-
astrous floods of 1974, in which approximately 2,000 people drowned and
untold thousands perished as a result of the ensuing famine, the national
infrastructure has been expanded and improved, much experience in mounting
and monitoring relief activities has been gained, flood and weather monitor-
ing and forecasting have been developed to satisfactory standards, and
agricultural productivity has increased significantly. As a result, and due
to the prompt Government response described below, the very serious flooding
of 1984 resulted in far fewer deaths from drowning (approximately 300) and
in few, if any, deaths from starvation.
48.     Immediately after the first abnormally heavy rains in May the
Government established a flood operations center in Dhaka. Donors were
contacted in late May when it became clear that boro and aus Losses would be
heavy and that foodgrain stocks and donor-financed foodgrain import commit-
ments would be inadequate to meet demand. Without waiting for what proved to
be a modest donor response, the Government committed itself to the commercial
purchase of 1.2 million MT of foodgrains in FY85 at a cost of about US$242
million equivalent, compared to Government-financed annual average foodgrain
imports of 0.57 million MT, costing about US$94 million, during each of the
three previous years. Distribution of foodgrains to flood-affected areas was
carefully monitored and managed, and there were few reports of foodgrain
supply problems. While grain prices increased as a consequence of the
floods, the increases more or less followed the normal seasonal pattern and,
in fact, began to decline much earlier than usuaL, reflecting a good supply
situation. Relief provided to flood-affected areas included food, clothing,
medicines, and cash. With the recession of the floods the Government mounted
a program of preventive medicine and agricultural rehabilitation to provide
farmers with assistance to replant their land.
49.     The agricultural rehabilitation program was conducted in two phases:
the first in the period May 15-August 31, covering areas damaged in the first
two cycles of flooding, and the second between September 10 and 29 following
the final flooding of the year. Government assistance to individual farmers
was limited to a grant of the seed and half the fertilizer required for 1
bigha (0.33 acre) of HYV aman, boro, wheat or oilseeds; or the seed alone
needed for a 0.5 bigha of vegetables. Farmers were required to provide all
other inputs from their own resources although special credit programs were
introduced to assist them (see paragraph 50). It is reported that some
935,000 farmers benefited from grants and that 321,000 acres, or about 10% of
the acreage seriously damaged or destroyed, were replanted with crops with a
potential value of about US$50 million equivalent. Government grants of seed
and fertilizer totaled Tk 164 million (US$6.3 million).
50.     Special credit programs were provided to farmers in flood-affected
areas. The final repayment date for seasonal loans made for the aman crop,
which were due in 1984, were rescheduled to January 31, 1985; repayment of
loans made for 1984 boro, aus, broadcast aman and jute crops was rescheduled



-17-
to 12 months from the normal repayment date. Interest and penalty charges
were forgiven for this period. Similar arrangements were made for cattle and
pond fisheries. Interest forgiven through these concessions is estimated to
amount to about Tk 440 miLlion or (US$17 million equivalent). An unfortunate
feature of this interest relief and rescheduling program is that it was
extended to the whole country and, in areas unaffected by flood, may adver-
sely affect efforts to develop efficient agricultural credit programs. The
1984 flood coincided with the introduction by the Government of a system of
land mortgage loans. Under this system, farmers with less than 5 bigha of
land (1.66 acre), excluding the homestead, are eligible for mortgages at the
rate of Tk 1,500 per bigha with a maximum loan of Tk 3,500 per farmer, The
purpose of these loans is to prevent the distress sale of land that, in
previous times of disaster, was for many the only means of survival. About
Tk 1,006 million were allotted for this purpose. Currently, banks par-
ticipating in the scheme have disbursed Tk 316 million (US$12.2 million
equivalent).
51.     Previous Bank-Financed Disaster Relief Projects in Bangladesh.  On
November 12 and 13, 1970 a cyclone struck coastal districts of what was then
the Eastern Province of Pakistan. Some 170,000 people were reported killed,
although unofficial estimates put the figure as high as 500,000. About 5,400
sq. miles were affected with an estimated 400,000 houses, 3,500 educational
institutions, and 20,000 fishing boats destroyed. Thousands of livestock
were killed and more than 0.5 million tons of crops, mainly foodgrains, were
estimated as lost. IDA Credit 228-PAK assisted in the financing of a
recovery program. However, due to the war of liberation, the reconstruction
program made little progress and there were no disbursements under the
original credit. Following independence, the Government of Bangladesh
requested reactivation of the credit and the project was re-appraised in July
1972. The resulting Credit 339-BD (US$25.0 million), the Coastal Area
Rehabilitation and Cyclone Protection Project, was signed on
October 18, 1972. Under the Credit eight categories of investments in the
devastated area were financed: telecommunications, primary roads, feeder
roads, inland water transport, coastal fisheries, cyclone shelters, early
warning system for cyclones, and technical assistance. All components were
to be completed by July 1975.
52.     A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on Credit 339-BD, dated
May 15, 1984, stated that project objectives were only partly achieved due
to cost escalations, slow procurement, inadequate supervision, and extremely
difficult access to the area. However, the PPAR concluded that, even though
fewer facilities were provided than initially foreseen, project facilities,
i f well utilized and maintained, would ensure access to the coastal areas and
provide security to the people living there in case of future destructive
cyclones. The project took seven and a half years to complete instead of the
three years foreseen at appraisal. The complex organization of the project
is identified in the PPAR as a principal reason for slow implementation.
While the PPAR recognizes the unavoidable weaknesses of the individual
implementing agencies that had newly emerged after the trauma of the war of



-18-
liberation, it points out that problems were compounded by assignment of
overall responsibility for the coordination of project activities to a
Reconstruction Board that had no real authority over the agencies implement-
ing sub-projects. The PPAR concluded that the monitoring and implementation
of the project would have been facilitated by the execution of separate
sub-credit agreements with the agencies responsible for individual
components. Alternatively, the PPAR suggested that Reconstruction Board or
another Project Management Unit could have been made directly responsible
for all aspects of project implementation. Since signature of Credit 339-BD,
the departments and agencies of the Government of Bangladesh have gained
experience and competence and the general infrastructure of the country has
substantially improved. Therefore, implementation of the proposed project
would be carried out individually by the four directly concerned agencies of
the Government (paragraphs 63-67). There would be no central coordinating
mechanism, because there would be no overriding technical or economic reason
to integrate the repair and rehabilitation works which would be undertaken
under the proposed project.
53.     The PPAR also drew attention to problems of operation and maintenance
(OEM) of investments financed under Credit 339-BD. IDA has drawn the
Government's attention to the O&M problem; the need for more adequate
budgetary allocations for O&M in a number of major sectors has been the
subject of an ongoing dialogue with the Government, most recently in the
context of a proposed Imports Program Credit under which IDA is seeking to
reach specific understandings with Government with respect to required
budgetary allocation for O&M. Two projects now under preparation, a Road
Rehabilitation Project and a Water Development Board Systems Rehabilitation
Project, would address the O&M problem as it concerns the highways, irriga-
tion and drainage and flood control programs. More than 75Z of investments
under the proposed Flood Rehabilitation Project would be executed and managed
by agencies whose future O&M performance would be subject to conditions
attached to the two above-mentioned projects being prepared. The Government,
however, would ensure that adequate funds would be allocated for the opera-
tion and maintenance of rehabilitation works under the proposed project
(Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.     The proposed project was appraised by the staff of the Bank's
Resident Mission in Bangladesh and headquarters staff in the period December
1984-February 1985. Given the nature of the project, a staff appraisal
report has not been prepared. Negotiations were held in Washington March 27
through April 2, 1985. The Government delegation was led by Mr. Mohammed Ali,
Secretary, Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control.



-19-
Project Components
55.     The project would comprise priority components of the Government's
program to rehabilitate fLood damaged infrastructure and would include:
(a) rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and flood protection
works;
(b) rehabilitation of roads and associated structures;
(c) procurement of road construction equipment;
td) replacement of navigational aids and water-gauging equipment;
(e) repair of river landing jetties; and
(f) provision of technical services by local and foreign
consultants.
56.     While some critical works, such as flood protection embankments,
would be completed before the onset of the next flood season, a large propor-
tion of reconstruction activity would take place in the 1985/86 dry season.
The project would be implemented by four agencies: the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB), the Roads and Highways Department (RHD), the Inland
Water Transport Authority (IWTA) and the Local Government Division (LGD) of
the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives. The
four implementing agencies would ensure that rehabilitation works financed
under the Project are executed in accordance with design standards and con-
struction specifications satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.04 of the draft
DeveLopment Credit Agreement). A more detailed description of project com-
ponents follows.
57.     Rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage, and flood protection works
(BWDB), (Annex 4, Table 1). Restoration works carried out by BWDB would
include compacted filling of embankment breaches; the resectioning,
strengthening and protecting of damaged embankments; and the retirement of
embankments where the existing location is no longer tenable. Damaged or
destroyed water control structures would be repaired and replaced.
Particular attention would be paid to retaining walls and other protective
works, and damaged or lost flap gates would be replaced. Town protection
works maintained by BWDB would be eligible for reconstruction under the
project (Annex 4, Table 2). Such protective works would include groynes,
sheet piling, brick mattressing, boulder and cement block revetments, and
flood walls.
58.     Restoration work on roads and associated structures (RHD and LGD),
(Annex 4, Tables 3 and 4). Road works financed under the project and carried
out by RHD and LGD would include compacted filling of embankment breaches;



-20-
the resectioning, strengthening, and protecting of eroded embankments; and
reconstruction of damaged culverts, bridges, and retaining walls. Road
surface works would include the restoration of road shoulders and the repair
and strengthening of damaged pavement. Additional drainage and culverts
would be provided in reconstructed and strengthened embankments and where
otherwise appropriate.
59.     Procurement of road construction equipment (RHD), (Annex 4, Table 5).
RHD would require additional equipment to carry out its rehabilitation
program. In order to provide for the satisfactory compacting of embankments
for road construction self-propelled compactors would be procured under the
project. Rollers would be procured for pavement work. This equipment would
be leased to contractors by RHD. Portable steel bridging is used extensively
in Bangladesh, both as semi-permanent bridging and for temporary detours
required in the course of bridge reconstruction and repairs; approximately
2,630 ft. of such portable bridging would be procured by RHD for these
purposes.
60.     Replacement of naviRational aids and other equipment (IWTA),
(Annex 4, Table 6). River flooding washed away a number of IWTA navigational
aids and destroyed or severely damaged critical water gauging equipment.
Under the project, IWTA would procure and replace steel lantern buoys, shore
beacons, markers, mooring gear, dredger pipe, gauges, and recorders as well
as two work boats and a 47-foot tug boat lost in the floods.
61.     Reconstruction of ietties (IWTA), (Annex 4, Table 6).  In addition
to being responsible for the maintenance of inland waterways, IWTA maintains
a large number of jetties and landing stages. Eight new steel replacement
pontoons of varying sizes would be procured under the project and another 20
steel pontoons damaged in the flood would be repaired. 26 jetties would be
repaired or reconstructed under the project; all but two of these jetties are
of wooden construction.
62.     Provision of technical services (BWDB. RHD. LGD), (Annex 5,
Appendices 1-4). Technical services financed under the project would
include:
(i) Consultants employed in checking the Government's cost estimates
of damage and reconstruction and whose findings have contributed
to the preparation of the project. Consultants' work started in
December 1984 and an estimated 40 man months of local consulting
services and 4 man months of foreign consulting services have
been or would be provided and financed, partly retroactively,
for these purposes.
(ii)  Consultant services required by RHD, BWDB and LGD to assist the
supervision of project activities. Consultants' respon-
sibilities would include: (a) checking that all sub-projects
selected for financing under the credit are consistent with the



-21-
criteria agreed between the Government and IDA, (b) approval of
the design of project structures, preparation of detailed design
where necessary, and preparation of plans and estimates and of a
program for implementation, (c) monitoring the quality and
progress of project works, Cd) preparing progress and completion
reports on the basis of which reimbursement would be made by
IDA, and (e) contributing to the production of the Project
Completion Report that the Government would prepare for the
project. Levels of consultants' responsibility for different
project activities would range from checking of engineering
surveys and subsequent detailed design to periodic supervision
during construction. It is estimated that RHD, BWDB, and LGD
would require 47 man-months of foreign consultant services (15,
16, and 16 respectively) and 1046 man-months of local consultant
services (416, 414, and 216 respectively). Some 20% of man-
months required would be the services of mid-level engineers and
above.
(iii) Consultant services to conduct a Flood Preparedness Study which
would assess the Government's capability to respond effectively
to flood attack and to prepare recommendations for appropriate
arrangements to improve flood response procedures. Some 18
man-months of foreign and 36 man-months of local consultant
services would be required for this work. The findings of this
study would be furnished to IDA by December 31, 1986 and there-
after the agreed recommendations implemented (Section 3.05 of
the Development Credit Agreement).
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of
consultants under the project would be satisfactory to IDA (Schedule 3,
Section II of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Management
63.     The project would be implemented by the four agencies, BWDB, RHD, LGD
and IWTA. There would be no need for coordination at a higher level
(paragraph 52). Each agency's basic programs have been reviewed and approved
by the Central Coordination Committee on Flood Relief and Rehabilitation, by
the departmental project evaluation committees of the ministries to which the
agencies report, and by the Planning CommIssion.
64.     BWDB would be responsible for reconstruction work under the project-s
irrigation, drainage and flood control and protection component. BWDB is
under the administrative control of the Ministry of Irrigation, Water
Development and Flood Control and is managed by a Chairman and five board
members responsible, respectively, for planning, implementation, operation
and maintenance, finance, and administration. In the field, BWDB is
organized under a geographic system of zones supervised by Chief Engineers,
circles under Superintending Engineers and divisions under Executive



-22-
Engineers who handle both new construction and the operation and maintenance
of completed structures. Reconstruction of works would be the responsibility
of Executive Engineers under the supervision of their circle Renior Engineer
and zonal Chief Engineer. The responsibilities of Executive Engineers would
include preparation of tender documents; selection of contractors and award
of contracts; supply of construction equipment; construction supervision and
quality control; implementation of works under force account; and accounting
and detailed financial ccntrol. Design assistance, when required, would be
provided by BWDB's central Design Directorate. The Member, Planning of BWDB
would act as the principal contact of IDA for project matters.
65.     Administration of the principal road network is the responsibility
of RHD, a department of the Roads and Road Transport Division of the Ministry
of Communications. RHD is responsible for road design, construction and
maintenance and for the installation and operation of truck, car and pas-
senger ferries. Its Chief Engineer is the chief executive. The field
organization of RHD is similar to that of BWDB and under the project the
Department s Executive Engineers would have primary day-to-day responsibility
for reconstruction work. The Additional Chief Engineer at RED headquarters
has been designated as the principal contact with IDA for project-funded
activities. Procurement of road construction equipment and portable bridging
would be undertaken by the RHD's Central Tender Committee.
66.     IWTA is an agency of the Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport
Division of the Ministry of Communications, and is responsible for the
development and control of inland water transport and waterways. Its func-
tions include waterways and river conservancy, navigational regulations and
aids, improvement of inland ports, and the preparation of regulations govern-
ing inland water traffic. IWTA has a Board headed by a Chairman who serves
as chief executive, with staff appointments, promotions, salaries and budget
controlled by the Government. Project activities to be undertaken by IWTA
have been specified and agreed with IDA. Procurement of equipment and
materials, including pontoons would be handled centrally by IWTA's Purchase
and Storage Department. Repair and replacement of pontoons would be imple-
mented by the Conservancy and Pilotage Department, replacement of buoys and
pontoons by the Mechanical and Marine Engineering Department and jetty repair
by the Engineering Department. IWTA's Director of Planning would serve as
liaison officer and principal contact with IDA for the execution of project-
funded activities.
67.     The restoration of flood damaged feeder and urban roads, whose main-
tenance is the responsibility of district councils (zila parishads) and
municipalities (pourashavas), would be executed by the Local Government
Engineering Bureau (LGEB) of LGD which is headed by a Secretary. The
country's 22 district councils and 78 municipalities have their own engineer-
ing departments which are funded by locally generated taxes and Government
grants. Most districts have an Executive Engineer in charge of their
engineering departments, but municipal engineers are usually of the lower
sub-divisional engineer or more junior grades. Most districts and



-23-
municipalities have received very limited funds and their physical
infrastructures are generally in poor condition. LGEB, which is in the
course of reorganization, would require consultant assistance in the prepara-
tion of project works and its project supervision. The implementation of LGD
work would be the responsibility of the engineers in charge of the districts
or the municipalities concerned and would include tendering and awarding of
contracts, supervision, payments to contractors and maintenance of accounts.
Supervision would be by LGEB whose chief executive is the Engineering
Adviser, who is supported by four superintending engineers, a number of more
junior engineers, a design cell, and other support staff. One of LGEB's
superintending engineers would be appointed for IDA liaison.
Selection of Works for Reconstruction
68.     Initial selection of BWDB and RHD works to be carried out under the
project has been made by the agencies themselves. In the case of BWDB,
consultants have spot checked the proposals and found them generally sound.
Consultants have been employed by RHD to assist it in conducting a similar
exercise. The RHD consultants are inspecting all sites included in the RHD
proposed program, assessing the costs and feasibility of each, and then
listing the sub-projects in an order of priority that takes into account the
need of ensuring a balanced distribution of work through the five zones of
RHD. Proposals for works to be financed under the project have been sub-
mitted to LGD by the districts and municipalities and a final list of
priority projects is being prepared.
69.     In the selection of project works the implementing agencies and their
consultants would ensure that, inter alia, the works selected are consistent
with criteria satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.02 and Schedule 5 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement), as follows:
(a) damage to be repaired is:
(i) a consequence of the 1984 floods, or
(ii) damage which, if not repaired, will vitiate or seriously
diminish the effectiveness of other flood damages being
repaired under the project;
(b) reconstruction work undertaken would restore structures to their
original specifications or to sucb higher specifications as may
now be warranted to ensure its integrity over a reasonable life;
and
(c) other external sources of finance are not available.
Proposals for works involving expenditures of over US$500,000 and for all
town protection works would be submitted to IDA for prior review and
approval. IDA approvals for these proposals would be handled by the Bank's



-24-
Resident Mission to Bangladesh with reference to headquarters as necessary.
IDA has considered the international aspects of the project and is satisfied
that the project would not be harmful to the interests of other riparians.
Proiect Costs
70.     Total project costs are estimated at US$48.2 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$13.0 million or 27% of total costs. Base costs of
civil works to be carried out under the BWDB, RHD and IWTA components are
based on October 1984 contract rates. In the case of RHD it has been assumed
that approximately 72% (in terms of costs) of its proposed program of works
(Annex 4, Table 3) would qualify for financing under the project. This
assumption is made because RHD has already carried out a considerable amount
of rehabilitation work that is temporary in nature or connected with non-
flood induced damage and consequently would not qualify for financing under
the Project. For BWDB it is assumed that its full program of rehabilitation
works (Annex 4 Table 1) would qualify for project finance. The cost of civil
works to be undertaken by LGD is treated as a lump sum item and a basic
provision of US$6 million would be made. A similar arrangement has been made
for town protection works (Annex 4, Table 2) to be carried out by BWDB and
US$3 million would be provided for this purpose. For equipment and
consultants, current prices and rates are used. Costs include a provision
for price contingencies equivalent to 8.4% of the total base cost 1/ and a
10% physical contingency for all but the LGD civil works program and the town
protection program. Project costs include taxes and duties estimated at
about US$1.76 million, and the costs incurred by the four implementing atgen-
cies in engineering and administration activities directly related to the
project are estimated as 10% of base costs for project civil works.
1/ Assumes annual escalation of 10% for local costs of FY85 and FY86 and
5.7% and 8.5% for FY85 and FY86 in the case of foreign costs.



-25-
Project Cost Estimates
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign
-----Tk million      -   -----US$ million-----   Exchange
Civil Works
BWDB                    238      80       318    9.14    3.07   12.21         25Z
RHD                     277      93       370   10.67    3.56   14.23         25Z
IWTA                      2       1         3      .09      .03     .12        -
LGD                     117      39       156    4.50    1.50    6.00         25%
Total Civil Works         634    213        847   24.40    8.16   32.56         25%
Road Construction
Equipment                25      31        56      .96    1.19    2.15        56%
IWTA Equipment             20      30        50      .77    1.15    1.92        60%
Total Equipment            45      61       106    1.73    2.34    4.07         57%
Consultants' Services
Project Selection         2       1         3      .07     .05      .12       452
Project Supervision      18      14        32      .69      .54    1.23       45%
Flood Preparedness
Study                   1      6          7      .05     .22      .27      81%
Total Consultants          21      21        42      .81      .81    1.62       502
Engineering and
Administration           85      -         85    3.27        -    3.27
Total Base Cost           785    295      1,080   30.21   11.31   41.52         27X
Physical Contingencies    62       22        84    2.36       .87    3.23       27%
Price Contingencies        70      21        91    2.69      .81    3.50        23%
Total Costs               917    338      1,255   35.26   12.99   48.25         27%
Project Financing
71.     The proposed IDA credit of US$30 million would cover about 65% of
project costs, excluding duties and taxes estimated at US$1.8 million
equivalent. The remaining US$18.23 million of project costs, including aLl
taxes and duties, would be met by the Government and from two existing IDA
credits, the First and Second Drainage and Flood Control Projects (864-BD and
1184-BD). Savings available under these two credits are US$6.8 million and
US$4.0 million, respectively, and in each case BWDB is the project implement-



-26-
ing agency. A brief summary of the status of the execution of these two
projects is given in Annex 6. The Credit Agreements for these two projects
would be modified to permit the use of these savings for flood rehabilitation
purposes. Total IDA financing under the proposed Credit as well as savings
from the on-going operations would amount to about 88Z of project costs net
of duties and taxes. The proceeds of the IDA credits and the Government's
contribution of about US$7.4 million equivalent would be passed on to the
four implementing agencies through direct budgetary allocations.
72.     Bangladesh operates a complex and formal allocation process for its
Annual Development Program (ADP). Two features of the process are par-
ticularly important: (a) approval by the Economic Committee of the National
Executive Council of a Project Proforma for each new project to be included
in the ADP (without this approval, no expenditures can be made on the
project); and (b) allocation within each ADP of funds for each year of
implementation for specific projects. In the case of the proposed project,
the Government has decided that the Project Proforma process will be waived
and a block allocation adequate to cover all project costs will be provided
under the revised FY85 ADP and the ADP for FY86.
Procurement
73.     International competitive bidding (ICB) would be inappropriate for
civil works contracts because (i) the project would involve work at a large
number of sites (probably in excess of 1,600) scattered throughout
Bangladesh; (ii) most contracts would be of a relatively low cost value;
(iii) the dispersal of sites would make the packaging of works into single
contracts of sufficient value to attract foreign bidders very difficult;
(iv) most of the work would be labor-intensive, involving a minimum of
equipment, and easily and cheaply organized by small local contractors; and
(v) the time involved in letting contracts through ICB would delay the start
of works. Civil works contracts would be let through the existing arrange-
ments of the four implementing agencies for local competitive bidding (LCB)
among pre-qualified contractors. These arrangements have been reviewed by
IDA and found satisfactory. There would be a limited amount on force account
work.
74.     Rollers, compaction equipment, and portable steel bridging required
by RHD would be procured through ICB, as would be instruments, gauges, and
the tugboat to be procured by IWTA. Pontoons, buoys, and workboats required
by IWTA and costing about US$0.9 million equivalent would be procured through
LCB.



-27-
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES (US$ Millions)
Proiect Element                       Procurement Method
ICB     LCB     Force Account   Other   Total Cost
Civil Works                       36.54       1.07           0.13      37.74
(34.62)    (1.01)         (0.12)    (35.75)
Equipment                3.87      0.90                                 4.77
(2.51)  ( 0.59)                              ( 3.10)
Consultants                                                  1.85       1.85
(1.78)    ( 1.78)
Administrative Costs                                         3.87       3.87
(0)       (  0)
TOTAL            3.87    37.44       1.07           5.85       48.23
(2. 51)  (35.21)    (1.01)         (1.90)    (40.63)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
75.     The standard civil works tender documents used by each of the
implementing agencies have been reviewed by IDA and found suitable for
project procurement. For equipment, the standard documents used by RED and
IWTA for ICB and LCB procurement are satisfactory. Review and approval by
the Bank prior to award would be required for all contracts for civil works
or equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000 or more (Schedule
3, Part D, paragraph 2(a) of the draft Development Agreement Credit). For
other contracts, the bid evaluation report would be submitted for IDA's
review and approval before submission of the first disbursement application
in respect of that contract (Schedule 3, Part D, paragraph 2(b) of the draft
Development Agreement Credit).
Disbursements
76.     Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would cover:
(a)  95% of the expenditure on civil works, including construction
materials and any work done on force account such as fabrication
of sluice gates;
(b)  100% of the foreign expenditure on directly imported bridging,
construction, hydrological and miscellaneous equipment;
(c)  100% of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured within
Bangladesh, or 70% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally; and



-28-
(d) 100% of foreign and local expenditures incurred for consultant
services.
On the basis of the above, it is expected that the credit would be employed
approximately as follows: BWDB - US$3.6 million (plus US$10.8 million from
Credits 864-BD and 1184-BD), RHD - US$18.2 million; IWTA - US$1.6 million;
and LGD - US$6.6 million. Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support
of withdrawal applications in respect of equipment, consultants and civil
works contracts, except for small civil works contracts of less than
US$20,000 equivalent and for force account operations which would be reim-
bursed against statements of expenditure accompanied by a listing of the
contracts or works included in the application and the total expenditure on
each. The actual documentation would be retained by the implementing agen-
cies and be made available for review to IDA representatives on request.
Schedules of estimated expenditures and disbursements are given in Annex 5,
Table 1. To ensure the uninterrupted flow of funds for approved project
activities, a Special Account would be opened in Bangladesh Bank with sub-
categories for each implementing agency (Section 2.02(b)) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). IDA would pay an initial amount into the
Special Account following receipt of a withdrawal request to do so.
Thereafter, payments would be made from the account to meet expenditures
incurred under the project, and these sums would be replaced by IDA disburse-
ments being paid into the account. The sub-categories of the Special Account
would have ceilings of US$0.7 million, US$1.9 million, US$0.5 million and
US$0.9 million, respectively, for BWDB, RHD, IWTA and LGD. Initial deposits
to, withdrawals from and subsequent replenishment of the Special Account
would be according to the provisions of Schedule 4 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement.
77.     Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive financing in aggregate not
exceeding US$6.0 million, or up to 20% of the proposed credit amount, would
be permitted for works started by the project implementing agencies, or goods
and services procured by the agencies for use under the project after
October 1, 1984, provided that works undertaken were selected on the basis of
criteria set out in paragraph 69 and the procurement procedures applied were
consistent with procedures set out in paragraphs 73-75 (Schedule 1,
paragraph 3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
78.     Each implementing agency would maintain records of expenditures
incurred on civil works, on equipment purchases, and on consultant services.
The agencies would not be required to account for administrative overheads
incurred by the agencies in carrying out the project. Records of project
expenditures would be maintained by the Executive Engineers responsible for
sub-projects implemented by RHD, BWDB, and LGD, and by RED and IWTA head-
quarters in the case of equipment purchases. The accounts of all four
implementing agencies are audited by their own internal audit systems and by



-29-
the Government Accountant General's Department which has recently established
a cell to handle the financial audit of rDA-financed projects. These audit
arrangements currently work well and would be employed for the project.
Audited project accounts consolidated for each implementing agency together
with auditors' comments would be sent to IDA within nine months of the close
of each fiscal year in which the IDA credit is effective (Section 4.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost Recovery
79.     There would be no special arrangements to recover project costs
either by the Government from the implementing agencies, or by the latter
from the ultimate beneficiaries (farmers and road and waterway users). Under
agreements reached between the Government and IDA under ongoing projects,
partial cost recovery has been introduced for BWDB managed irrigation
schemes. The adequacy of these is to be reviewed periodically. A feature of
the Road Rehabilitation Project now under preparation will be an examination
of the adequacy of road user charges.
Project Justification
80.     Without restoration, the efficiency of road and waterway systems will
be permanently impaired and fLood protection and irrigation and drainage
schemes would be in jeopardy. There would be substantial and continuing
economic losses. Given these circumstances, the restoration of flood damaged
infrastructure has one of the highest priorities for expenditures in
Bangladesh at this time. As discussed in paragraphs 37-46, the 1984 floods
caused substantial foreign exchange losses and brought heavy and unexpected
pressure on the Government budget. The proposed credit would only partly
meet the cost of these unforeseen developments and the required restoration
work will have to be carried out at the expense of other development
activities.
81.     The susceptibility of Bangladesh to flooding must bring into question
whether enough is being done to improve flood warning and protection and thus
to minimize the risk of future economic losses and the need for the
Government to be faced with mounting subsequent restoration and rehabilita-
tion costs. As described in paragraphs 31 through 36, the Government, with
donor assistance, is implementing flood protection projects, actively review-
ing its flood warning and protection programs, and planning future projects
so as to significantly reduce the risk of floods. The Flood Preparedness
Study (paragraph 62) to be funded under the project, activities currently
underway by the Master Planning Organization (water) and the Flood Warning
Center should ensure that the risk of serious flood damage in Bangladesh will
be progressively reduced.



-30-
Risks
82.     Delay in executing the project might result from institutional con-
straints affecting the four implementing agencies. However, the works to be
undertaken are relatively simple and are vell within the capacity of the
individual agencies concerned. Because the project comprises a large number
of individual rehabilitation schemes and because of their urgent nature the
appraisal of the individual components has not been subject to the usual
standard of scrutiny; however, only those schemes which meet criteria agreed
with IDA (paragraph 69) will bp accepted for financing. Because rehabilita-
tion works under this project would be scattered throughout the flood
affected area, it may prove difficult to supervise individual schemes
closely. However, consultants would be employed to assist the executing
agencies in reviewing the proposed works against the agreed criteria and in
supervising and implementing these works.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed separately.
84.     Special Conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
85.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 11, 1985



-31-
ANNEX I
TABLR  3A                                         PACE I
NCLADCShh              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEIET
ANCIADESH                          REERENMCE PSI (WEsIGI    AVERAES) 7
HOST            (HOST RECENT ESTD RATE) lb
RECENT      LOW INC0IE            HIDDLI INCOME
1960Ib    I7iOLk    ESTDIATUIk   ASIA & PActrIc          ASIA 4 PACIFIC
A     (TW rND SQ. U)
TOTAL                                144.0     144.0        144.0
ACRICULTURAL                         94.6       97.0         97.4
CG  PM CArIrT (US5)                     40.0       60.0        140.0            278.6                1091.2
gmaT cSWm_P r CAPrTA
(KILOGRAMS OP OIL EqUIVALENT)           ..      20.0         35.0            272.0                 567.3
POPULATION AN rV.AL TATISTICS
POPULATIONMID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    53491.0   68117.0       92859.0
URAN POPULATION (2 OP TOTAL)          5.2        7.6         11.5            2117                   34.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN WAR 2000 (MILL)                             156.7
STArIoARY POPULATION (HILL)                               454.1
POPULATION NKMENTIrJ                                        1.9
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                        371.5     473.0        629.6            166.6                 261.9
PEE SQ. KM. ACR. LAND              365.3     702.5        931.0            345.5                1735.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YnS                           44.3      46.3         42.8             3s.e                  39.0
35-64 UrS                          52.5       51.1         54.9            59.8                   57.6
o5 AND ABOVE                         3.2       2.7          2.7             4.3                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                1.9       2.4          2.6              1.9                   2.3
URAN                                 3.7       6.2          6.3             4.3                    4.3
CHUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          46.8      48.0         46.8             27.7                  30.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOOS)          22.4      20.9         16.9             10.1                   9.5
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4       3.4          3.1              1.8                   2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNAL (TNUS)               ..     373.0       1607.0
USERS C2 OF HARRIED WCREN)            ..        ..         19.0 /c           ..                   52.7
FOOD ALD  NmIROU
INDEX UF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(3969-71-100)                        106.0     101.0         94.0            112.8                 123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 Or REQUIREMENTS)       87.0       85.0         84.0            97.7                  114.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           44.0       43.0         42.0            56.8                   57.0
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0        9.0          7.0 Id          14.9                  14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          24.9       23.0         19.4             9.8                    7.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YF.ARS)       43.5       44.9         48.2            60.0                   60.4
INFANT HORr. RATE (PER THOUS)       159.0      150.3        133.3            83.8                   66.3
ACCESS TO SAFP WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                 *-      45.0         53.0 /e          32.9                  37.0
URBAN                                ..       13.0         15.0 7;         70.9                   54.8
RURAL                                 .       47.0         55.07;          22.1                   26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATroN)
TOTAL                                 .        6.0          5.0 If          18.1                  41.3
URBAN                                 *         *-         40.0 7F'        72.8                   47.4
RURAL                                                                       4.6                   33.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..    8430.0       10940.0 J        3484.2                 7749.4
POP. PER HORSINC PFRSOH                 .    76810.0      24450.0 7        4793.1                 2460.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 .      7020.0 /h   4240.0 /1        1066.5                1044.2
URJAN                                 .      810.0 7W     600.0o 7        296.0                  651.2
RURAL                                ..         ..      23470.0 /d       5993.4                 2594.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             .         .-                                                27.0
NOOISIIIG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..       5.9 J        5. 
URBAN                                          6.1 1        6.1
RURAL                                ..        5.9fl        5.8
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/RODO
TOTAL                                 ..        ..
URBAN                                ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (: UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 * *.                  3.5
URBM                                 ..         ..
RURAL                                                    ..               ..



-32-
ANNEX I
TABLE  3A                                             PACE 2
3ANOLADESH               - SOCIAL INYTCATORS DATA SHEET
DMALADESH                             IEFtRENCE gRoUPS (WrICIItED AVERACES) 7r
HOST              (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) Lb
RECENS       LOW INCOME             MIDDLE IMCOCE
196, k     1i,r0L      ESTnIATBrk    ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PKRIMAYt   TOTAL                      47.0        52.0          62.0             97.4                    102.0
MALE                       66.0       o8.0          76.0             110.5                   105.9
FEMALE                     26.0       34.0          47.0              83.7                    95.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       8.0        19.0          15.0             35.9                    46.0
KALE                       14.0       29.0          24.0              44.b                    48.7
FEKALE                      1.0        F.0           6.0              26.8                    43.1
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)               1.0        0.3          14.3               2.2                    17.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                  ..       45.0          44.0             38.5                     31.5
SECONDARY                                ..       26.0          21.0              18.1                    23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (:)                 21.6        23.0 LI       26.0 Id           53.4                    72.9
CON UIPnON
PASSENCER CARS/THOUSAND POP                ..        0.4           0.4              0.9                     In.1
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               ..         ..           8.0             112.1                   113.6
TV RECEIVCRStTHOUSAND POP                  ..         ..           0.9              15.7                    50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERESr") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..          *-           4.7 J            16.2                    53.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA            ..         ..            ..               3.6                     3.4
ULA5 FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            19252.0    23611.0        33221.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      15.2        16.6          17.8             33.3                     33.5
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 87.0        86.0          74.0             69.$,                    52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      3.0        3.0          11.0              15.8                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  36.0       34.7          35.5              42.6                    38.7
MALE                                  58.7        55.9          57.1              54.7                    50.9
FEKALE                                 11.4       11.9          13.1             29.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.3        1.4           1.3               1.0                     1.1
INCOME DIBTIXUIUTO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 o7 HOUSEHOLDS               18.3 I       .. /1         ..               ..                     22.2
HIGHEST Z0Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             44.5 7V    44.1 71          ..               ..                     48.0
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS                6.9 It     8.7 7          ..               ..6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              17.9 -Fk    19.6 71         ..               ..                     15.5
POVZtRTY TARGLT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    .          ..         139.0 Id         133.9                    188.6
RURAL                                   ..          ..         111.0 7W         111.6                    152.0
ESTDATED KELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URN                                     ..          ..            ..                ..                   177.9
RURAL                                          .           ..                       ..                   164.6
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVErTY INCOME LEVEL (1)
URBAN                                                           86.0 /d          43.8                     23.4
RURAL                                   ..          ..          86.0 /d          51.:                     37.7
NUT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICASLP
N O T E S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted artthmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Oato for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 197O' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Mst Recent Estimte" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic   1983-84 data;  Id 1977;  /e 1976;  If 1975;  7l 1979;  Ih 1972; Lt 1978;  /I 1973;  7k 1963;  /1 1967.
JUNE 1984



-331.
ANNEX I
mrsI"WUIFJZSSLI*EfPage  3
bi.-    Al.b..t bs da.. -a. i....  Ins sal.   nIt,1451.sn   sains    n   o                                               ta    . shald  .1.. ts a.l1"   h..l gb.n     1  say              .-al  .o  RsnlsaIF
tssi,at . k        .a    It. IISa  P.4  i-d.rdlW .S   slsi.s. ad    - Pa.si   asS  by dlflsrsa   y-StIlil. I. i.il..lls     lbs  At..  vi.a.. d ., .s.stis maSm
A.=oih   n... a  s.sld              .P151.m. 'ld..S SPP  Pk9 a....... I.. anylais salai iirelonspaW     hi... astaidrt..
mars..sa   grate  a..  lb lbs   a-  -aI"y  g.ao .1 lbs   a                        SPIsan  as  ill . a...., aI.s.ss vIli s.-a., hEal.., .sams  ino  INS.s  Its   ans-y   raw  .  to.M
sal.sol   lan.  4~.-.PiI.-.11.b.l ba..  b   Pnntsi   iaws                -.  'ddie  ltp.s   bitt APi             1 o   1111I. M..-  a0  W-isa  he.s.a.   .r .,s jr.i l
alllsiil.sb. Is lb.  alsrs A -Woels.I.              ns a...spsal-.    lIasId .,tmh-.b    a..1.. se.  ladlaalglan  s...-  ..sI,  b.slfi    t  *   ..its
As. .  1.s  4 1. a-  "..tolbtt.ss. ls.    ls.                                        WPP,,,. a.srsa*   lb. &-i-t.ss  dopasi. .4 lbs  -nslIsb1 11., .1  lila  Wa   ssi    st.,o.l    aSb
s     AMl.   I    ssn  -,n.   i*        llrle1    .ss.   b......  i.e iou --. -Itb   I. aandalls1 Iho  saIls  al0                            eldo, --.Ilint a.....  lbs rIIaslgi   sa
L     - iino.1 ao  -nbsil   ri  saII.p.li  -  PatsPPol IT                                            .desS .oiiiisin                    . .ass... .       tISsas.... pisail-s  ta-.  as
:M p74.ai.,s              -1h.   sI  ttbg..,  ars. 1- - PIs lS   ma. tins   1*.                      sibdasb.1
flla .51St data.                                                                 No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.%1U.Mdba r   p!pill hM  b- 64jgf4-jatl-Ppbl   SPA.lal
CUE'Ma  I                   GMiA!j  -i  .   sin    sb.a P.,  -I..al-f.. pita,                                       aI Still. It P.abltPIa paba*  gnsa   a   os,alid tapOISa  and
-.ann.ps.  at.a                                     14iI   IoS  *11.  ilIiDl- b Iss.li                             r.sll .lbsoas.                   ipi .a.  PssiyoIl   esasi    tts
iq*o, ne,, as  vial Asa..                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by is  Is...   a   pb,.t.iv..  S.sttaL    p414. 'aolsabpally - osmdbol
.7 Al ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ d-                                IsobsAo_d.   ..in    W'..psl. ff..    ifad hdtbad
aWISsstsoo lgo        o.h,  I   ls.               9   l   jlssl    psisaps.  110Istas,d         aldlasIisdiIllit
W   -, bal  i*  ill.,  IS)l.. and 1414                     11411
dtsaa    *s II5.tS-!  f!p.a                                         aba.ajlar
~ ,fisi-am.l-t.iIs .1  'tos  15 .111  ealIial In.                                  - AIa..        . osasals 5      to..p5   isdaldaa   aA*m  top.  bstq  qslitr
db                        tals . -o alf-              -watbrn I   i.sd,oina.n..        oIo                                                         I- 141   a W         n-            nisSI
snl4s.sis..  AnI  It.,a,tI~   At.                                                t   tans..d  n   sa  i.bl-ipap.
p11.5.1 Pilo.ibns                                                                                  asat sat.s.Iva                    ~    qP1.44.   Tr.n.a mias.                        ..
r~~~iijjp.j51paryiI-                                                                                                                            Am101ppiln    115  I.   i    ass  1  lis.  a    a 9   i    i.. .   alnls   .snI
sPlb.t,          Isssi. sad   gas         Its s.or.onsI Silgn    am PIA                                      C..tanitsilea It   lo.    e   s    59    a.ns   s*v.55
sasisd  dsoltan  In tonlhi I.  :sod ;-I.. IlsIn 1."  I'll ean    ails
P Pi...o... Las:,..         SasI,sssiois  ll. aslasd.aai  tonIn. I!!f4In
s-nntin.Iba  ai anliallgp  ant sortllltw  tread. Sag pinisrlbso  plltpnnas  MJTIIdd tag.siivas. tail...                           P 1
ltsI.si  p.osbi-i   .    nau -                                                                                                 PadRs.slI   nllliij1i.-.a      lsa. nb   ol-i.s  a   b   ag    ,tls
rats   has 151 oang-   -Iaia    otd    ils  g-psb                         smls                              sala.   d.las   IIoploml.n    tgtrit.a    optts
aI1   .at   IisatAs-Is  .lPsli Iygas  .  siaw                  -s5      ssl                             do5         -.   -. royalist  al1  tina.i.   o.prsa-,i rsI.orI lslgr.lI=al
Paaa bg-        .ona       s  t   .-ds.to   .-IIl. l.    lI    snl                                                 51-I5   drlso.-l1011   gtoss sVas    ns  aIn-.5I
I-nd  b            bs   itsnyt,snsisi   ss ll   1.Ia-   slla.Sa                                           npI..10 s-II   si  aII;1ss .                           ns.dnsosr_
I.. isa  stIl  Ito  not r.rsdll,Iba  p55 has  r.ae..d  asils.   In            asossatl   0*s lS.bVd
slsIsolsbssbsss g..s.sss..alI                                                            s-glaisila-ios.a.saas11                                   lsI.sPi.ttl.s
.ltabttlssr  niia.   .  h  p,ts   nstbbnlsI  .50                             aloaI ssIaI.ldns5a1Iilt. Pa$alblS                                   Isrt
lbs  ssatgo  l~'l Islilna    ainSt  saisss...  ssniIi.   bal       tdsilsdol I  55  s  dll.ta.nal   aoada.,inllI. P                    a
-i-4Vb        pW.-1b   das
ttos5tditls    thnl   odaa  I-Pliloatnlsr                                                                     an....l-la   I,s..n   ..gil..i...islllsplS 51a
O..alli ,      P.5       r5-l51 -asa   a1-il    -Is I.. Psg   nlI-as  1mm asll0-
_______________________                                                                                                                                 'anpas .119~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~""     IPT  1
ins   pt.satns;1l19   al,.aolbll  aIs                                                           'sna  pns  ho  11.-  I aasIta
11.-aa snal. sss (ny Iba..s I -    donaa    -rs.l  pS-  StsaaIa    l -.a                            itnsa.      p    t-7lsde.allai-T   ssni   s    ..atllg
Pin.151   41.  sl   n i,         55                                                                   onl    .1'p'*.nsdppigas   lld.sii..dT    ssal
0.a  tss-dl-io  so  asdaa...    d.ls.  -.n-nsllbati                             I    antls         51    sr.n-nrattI-t-7                   V   -s
tsi.nnn  ipf.ds-gsap5inditlb  assrsss5=            -.aI. IP,--norl.-                         t.gol(r.,lioiI*btsafsllais        h.    b    al
SosIitila    sal    isia    ata.19a5    ll~It.   0                                                    tp1lls    tiie4s.lIlsa    nnpPP                                 aia    s5proln
na. l    Raiolns.o.sdp  s                                                                                                                            .       i-_aaoa    as.I   sen.ts
psliPiass   I- PPa'--staS. b.9 I.saa   in.at.        1.a    dtIo   .o-.psit                                          tby I   i*lsla   sn    ..
-tbiI'tlmI        las.odr    n''         t  a  ..s   li i   IJIi-aCls.  nt.tIIIsa-0s-   ais  prisa-   an-o   a                                                                 sa    .



-344-N     I
Page 4
uouuc IDICATs
Populetiomz 95.9 million (Janeary 193)
cGP Per Capita:  ISSUe  (1933)
Amout
(million US              Average Anual Iscream  (2)                      Sbhre of CDP at Market PrIces (2)
in current price.)             (i coastant pricem)                                 (in current oriree)
Indicator                     FY33            fhtf-7l   n70-75   fI75-kW    USLI&            .n60    n709       75    n80A   .ni    UR
MA71ONAL ACCOUWES
Gros. domestic product L            10,640              4.0       -0.6        5.5       3.3        ID0.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0
Agriculture Li                     5.139               3.1      -1.3        3.3      2.8          59.9    56.9    62.5    53.4    44.7   46.9
Industry IA                        1.463              7.9       -3.2        6.4      2.7           7.7      9.6    11.3    12.7    13.5   13.1
Servicea a                         *4033              4.9        3.3        3.1      4.2          30.1    30.0    26.2    34.0    39.6   40.0
Consumption                         10.438              4.4       -0.7        6.0      2.5          92.4    92.8    99.2    98.0   103.9   93.1
Gross domeatic iDvestmet             1768             10.9      -10.9        2.0      0.1            6.9    11.3      S.1    16.7    13.3   16.6
Experte of good. & Dfa                 899              0.8    -11.7          3.4     30.6          30.0      3.3     3.0      7.8      7.7    8.4
Importa of good. & naf               2,465              8.8    -12.0         6.1      -0.4           9.3    12.5    10.3    22.5    25.3   23.2
Gross national savings                 691             26.5      -17.1       22.1     20.0            0.9     6.1      1.0     4.0    -1.0    6.5
Amount
(million US3                      Coapoaltion of Merchandise Trade (S)
in current prices)                            (in current urice.)
ns'a                                    n   nun   auX un   aYsIIs
RlflZJ(Dlh8E TADE
Merchandise exports                    822                          100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0    :oo    100.0
Primary fL                           263                           40.4      31.5    29.6      30.9      33.2     32.0
Namufjtures                          559                           59.6      63s    10.4       69.3      66.3     68.0
Nerchondise imports                  2.353                          100.0    100.0   100.0    100.D    100.0    100.0
Food                                 398                           44.1      42.2    30.2      13.9      19.5     16.9
Petroleum                            355                            3.2      31.1    16.2      21.7      39.7     15.1
Machinery A equipment                608                           13.8      11.5    23.0      26.1      79.5     25.8
Other                                992                           3e.9      35.2    32.0      38.2      31.3     42.2
cm                 r76   "77 a        Y78   n79   an oOt   arw 2                       n
PRICZ AND TERNS OF TRADE INDICCS (1972/73-100)
QIP Deflator                                        140.6    240.7    183.1    177.2    203.6    216.8    252.7         267.3    295.9    331.4
xgcbange rate (I,U058)                                7.9661   L8.759  14.8521  15.4667  15.1215  15.2223  15.4777   16.3447  20.0400  23.7600
Export price index                                  104.5    119.0    103.4    108.9    126.5    160.9    198.9         375.7    147.7    154.5
Iport price index                                   144.9    187.8    180.2    178.2    168.7    20a.9    234.9         263.9    259.9    237.4
rerus of trade index                                 72.1     63.4      57.4      61.1     75.0      77.0      34.7      66.6      56.8     65.1
As I of CDP
(at current prices)
FY75     FY77      F8so       FY82      FY83
PUBLIC FnAlE!
Current revenue                                         5.4       9.5       30.5       11.6      10.7
Current expenditure                                     4.5       7.8        7.7        8.4       8.5
Current  urplus C.) or deficit C-)                     .0.9       1. 7    . 2.3       * 3.2      12.2
Capital expenditure                                     3.1       9.5      13.3        12.4      11.8
Foreign financing                                       2.4       6.0       8.2         8.0      11.4
FT60-70      7170-75        fl75-w      n 8O3
OlTER INDICATORS
COP growth rate (1)                                    4.2          -0.6            6.5         4.0
GN? per capita growtb rate th)                         1.5          -3.0            4.0         1.6
- not available
- not applicable
L& At narket prices.
Lk Raw jute. tea, and fisheries.
ASADA
Feb. 27. 1985



-35-
Pegn S
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pg 
pAu 4N  OFP [M NTI. 14TENUAL CAPtTAL AND DUT
(million 116. in current prices)
BALANCE OF PATHsA
Actuel                                           tIgf~    Luai ctd.
au5         an7    rr7     rre      rr7                    Enil  YU re        FY14 tG     5
Not exports of goods                             -1,059    -903    -470    -859    -946  -1,650  -1,622  -1.946  -1.623   -1.531   -2,100
Exports of goods                                  344      372     405     490      610      722     711      626     686       822       900
Imports of goods                              -1,403  -1,275    -875  -1.349  -1.556  -2,372  -2.533  -2,577  -2.309   -2.353   -3.000
Not exports of services                              21      - 7     -29      -32     -20        4       15     -70    -112       -33       -90
Workers' remittances                                 35       29      60      113     143      210      379     424      626      552       435
Current account belance                          -I.003           4     3      4 - 77 8 .I    J=   -1-435   1.2 29 -1.592  .1J107   -1.012   -1.755
Direct private investment                            ..       ..      ..       ..       ..      ..       ..
HLT loans (net)                                     4981    497      238      398     420      560      513     508      476      563       575
Grante A grant-like ftown                           382      245     265      394     551      592      584     667      709      697       840
Otber capital flows (net)                           274       87      17      -39     -16      144      307     255      164      -82        49
Change in reserves (- - increase)                  -151       53     -81       25    -124      119       24     142    -242      -166       291
rnternational reserves (end of period)              266     213      294      269     393      271     249      108      350      516       225
Reserves as months of imports of next year          2.5      2.9     2.6      2.1     2.0      1.3     1.2      0.6      1.8      2.1       1.0
Actual
n75      Fn7b    FT77       U78    n79    FT 80    FT8I    Ft82    Fll
GROSS DISPTJRSINENTS
Total gross disbursements                      519       563     266      435     477      630     562      548      549
Concessional                                 458      533      244     401      456     600      541      468     463
Bilateral                                  343      390      144     262      213     273      287      232     213
IDA                                        112      128       86      88      153     152      170      158     190
Other multilateral                           3       15       14      51       91     176       64       78      80
Non-concessional                              60       30       24       35      20       30      21       81      67
Dilaterial                                  45       16        6       2        3       17       2        7      28
IDRD                                        -         -        _       _        _       _        _       _        _
Other ustieteral                            -        I        -       -        -       -        1       31      12
Private                                     15       13       18      32       17       13      19       42      26
Nl!T DISSUNSEN!WTS                                 498      497      238      398     420      580     513      508     476
DEBT OUTSTANDGIR
Total outstanding and disbursed              1,355    1.797   2,053    2.571  2.951   3.216   3.615   3.979   4,470
Official                                   1.233    1,689   1,940    2.436  2.808   3.067   3,491   3.934   4.317
IJRD                                        55       55       55       55      55      55       55      55       55
IDA                                       255       380      466      554    707      859   1.027   1.161   1. 366
Other                                     923    1.254   1.419    1.627  2.047   2.154   2.409   2.599   2.896
Private                                      122      108      113      135    142      149      124      145     153
Undisbursed debt                             1,019      948   1,016    1,335  1.659   1,719   2,104   2,619   2,773
DEST SERVICE
Total debt service                              31       88       59        69     95       94      91       87     123
Amortization                                  21       66       30        37     57       50      50       40      74
Interest                                     10        22      28        32      38      43       42      47       49
IlRD debt service                                0        2        3         3      4       4        4       4        3
IDA debt service                                 1        2        3        4       4       6        7        8       8
Average interest rate
Official                                    1.8       1.2      1.3      1.2    1.3      1.2      1.6     1.8      1.0
Private                                     2.3       8.9      7.2      6.2    6.1      6.9    :0.8       8.6     8.6
Average maturity
Official                                   35.1      42.9    38.6      38.5   36.2    34.2   '5.1    35.5    39.5
Yrivate                                     15.3     11.3    11.0       9.5   14.8    19.2        .7    11.7    12.9
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (I)
IBID DOD/total DOD                               4        3        3         2      2       2        2        1       1
IBID disbursements/total disbursement.           0        0        0         0      0        C       0        0       0
ISRD debt service/totel debt service             D        2        6        5       4       4        4       4        ;
IDA DOD/total DOD                              19        21       23       22      24      27       28       30      31
IDA disbursemente/total disbursemnts           22        23       32       20      32      24       30      29       35
DA debt service/total debt service               3        3        5        5       5       6        7       9        6
TERM STRUCTURE                                         At June  1983       i16D/IDA LENDING (At June 1983)   eIRD    IDA
Mlturity structure of debt                                                Outstanding A Disbursed               54.9  1,365.8
Maturities due within 5 yeers                           15.1            Undisbursed                             -   1,005.0
Nsturities due within 10 years                          29.4            Outstandiag. incl. Undisbureed        54.9  2,370.8
Interest structure of debt
Interest due within 1 year                               1.4
c not *vailable
ASADA
February 21. 1985



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH /a.
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (aS of September 30. 1984)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                USS Million lb
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 31 credits fully disbursed                        54.90 1,079.15         -
527       1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                 -      62.00        1.07
542       1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                  -      21.00        3.27
605       1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation                -      22.37        5.66
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                   -      16.00        5.54
725       1977  Bangladesh  Huhuri Irrigation                   -      21.00        8.83
735       1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II           -       5.00        0.60
787       1978 Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II                 -      25.00        9.56
825       1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II             -       7.00        2.29
828       1978 Bangladesh  Agricultural Research                -       6.00        0.45
864       1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control            -      19.00       11.36
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00        2.74
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                 -      25.00       13.23
921       1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II    -         32.00       17.12
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Pover
Distribution                    -       28.00       9.87
941       1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply & Sewerage II -         22.00        2.83
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                   -       25.00      16.80
964       1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                         -      10.00        6.29
990       1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                      -      37.00       20.31
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply It          -      20.00       11.56
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       29.00      17.85
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation        -      20.00       12.39
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation              -      11.00        6.25
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -         40.00       24.79
1065/c     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III            -      35.00       19.20
1091/c     1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development           -      85.00        9.43
1096|c     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport                -      25.00       11.83
1117/c     1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II           -      50.00       23.82
1124kc    1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV              -      16.00        6.09
1140/c     1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubevells                      -      18.00       10.11
1147/c     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                 -      40.00       17.50
1184jc     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II         -      27.00       21.92
1204Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer          -      15.00       12.79



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Baniladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               -US$ Million /b
Number    YYear   Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1205/c     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -         30.00       26.07
1215/c     1982  Bangladesh  Extension 6 Research II             -      27.00       19.99
1247/c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                     -       60.00      53.37
1254Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Pover              -      92.00       79.44
1262Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification               -      40.00       30.78
1287/c     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubevells II                   -      68.00       51.55
1300Lc     1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                  -     110.00        9.78
1301Lc     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                  -        6.00       4.12
1318Lc     1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training            -        7.80       6.99
1321/c     1983  Bangladesh  Telecomuanications III              -      35.00       32.27
1349/c     1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                     -       12.00      10.37
1357Lc     1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation         -       28.50      26.07
1384/c     1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -     100.00       89.00
1396Lc     1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II            -        8.10       7.37
1399Lc |d  1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                 -        20.00     18.15
1402lc /e  1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -           23.00     21.38
<440/c /d  1984  Banglade3h  Fifth Technical Assistance          -        25.00     23.78
14553l  /f  1984  Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research       -       24.50      24.50
1467Lc lg  1984  Bangladesh  Water Development Board             -       41.50      41.50
1471/c.. Ld  1984  Bangladesh  Import Program XII                -      140.00      88.37
1477L/c       1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II       -        23.00     23.00
FO22Ls L&  1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II           -        22.00     22.00
149OLc /e  1984  Bangladesh  Technical Education                 -        36.00     36.00



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bantladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1504-0L1c/f 1984  Bangladesh  SAP - 725 BD                       -        10.00     10.00
1504-1Lc/f 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1023 BD                         -         5.00      5.00
1504-2LcLf 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                         -         7.00      7.00
1504-3LcLf 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                         -         8.00      8.00
Total                                                      54.90  2,908.92  1,119.20
of which repaid                                            -         4.13     -
Total noW outstandina                                      54.90  2.904.62
Amount sold                                               0.00       0.00
Total now held by Banu  and IDA                            54.90  2,904.62
Total undisbursed                                                  1.119.20  1,119.20
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
!b  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
Lc Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs. Amounts
of principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in
effect on September 30, 1984, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits
funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange
in effect on the dates of disbursement.
Ld Became effective on June 19, 1984.
Le Effective December 20, 1984.
ILf Effective October 25, 1984.
L& Not yet effective.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of SeDtember 30. 1984) /a
Fiscal                                                                Amounts in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                TVDe of Business              Loan   Equity    Total
1969    Karnaphuli Paper Mills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products           5.60    0.63      6.23
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                    1.20     0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of          Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.                Finance Company                         1.05     1.05
Total gross commitments                                               6.80      2.04      8.84
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales              5.60      0.63     6.23
Total now held by IFC                                                 1.20      1.41      2.61
Total undisbursed                                                     0.65       -        0.65
/   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1982    Bata Shoe Co.                   Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.              and Tannery                    2.7       .5       3.2



-40-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Two months
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
Bangladesh Water Development Board, Inland Water Transport
Authority, Local Government Division, Roads and Highways
Department.
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and date of
first mission to consider the project:
December 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
December 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 2, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
60 days following credit signing although it is anticipated
that credit can be declared effective immediately.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action:
None



-41-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions:
Conditions of Effectiveness:
None
Other Conditions:
The Government, with assistance of consultants to be
financed under this project, would carry out a study to assess
its capability to respond effectively to flood emergencies and
would furnish the findings of this study to IDA by December 31,
1986 for comments and would implement thereafter its agreed
recommendations (paragraph 62).



-42-                       ANNEX 4
Table I
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FLOOD RExABrLITATION PROJECT
BWDB:  Location of Rehabilitation Works and Preliminary Cost EsSimates
BWDB Operational Unit/                   Number of            Estimated Cost
Nature of Reconstruction                  Locations             of Repairs
(Tk million)
Karnafuli Irriastion Proiect
Embankment rehabilitation                   1                    0.500
Regulator, repairs                          9                    2.000
Bridge, repairs                             1                    0.100
Sub-total                                                   2.600
Rhulna 06M Circle La
Xhulna District
Embankment rehabilitation                  17                   29.022
Embankment breaches closures                1                    0.838
Sluice repairs                             13             Cost included in
embankment repairs
Baferhat District
Embankment rehabilitation                   5                    5.620
Satkhira District
Embankment rehabilitation                  10                   53.881
Sluice repairs                             57                   3.900
Jessore District
Embankment rehabilitation                   4                    3.814
Regulator repairs                           1                    0.350
Sluice repairs                             12                   2.350
Narail District
Embankment rehabilitation                   1                    1.933
Sluice repairs                              9                    0.850
Jhenaidah District
Sluice repairs                              1                    0.350
Sub-total                                                 102.908
L/ Operation and Maintenance Circle.



3ANNEX 4
Table I
Page 2
BANGLADESH
FLOOD REBABILITATION PROJECT
AWDB: Location.of Rehabilitation Works and Preliminary Cost Estimates
BWDB Operational Unit/                   Number of           Estimated Cost
Nature of Reconstruction                  Locations             of Repairs
(Tk million)
Comilla WD Circle La
Comilla WD Division
Embankment rehabilitation                  23                    2.159
Bridge repairs                               1                   0.100
Sluice repairs                                             Cost included in
embankment repairs
Noakhali-WD Division and
Lakshampur WD Division
Embankment rehabilitation                   4                    6.364
Sluice repairs                             23              Cost included in
embankment repairs
Regulator protection                         1                   0.510
Sub-total                                                    9.133
Noulvi Bazar WD Circle
Manu River Proiect
Embankment breach closure                  12                    4.437
Syphen repairs                              6                    1.582
Irrigation canal repairs                    4                    5.900
Building repairs                             9                   0.600
Sub-total                                                   12.519
Mvmensin2h WD Circle
Embankment rehabilitation                    7                  28.780
Sub-total                                                   28.780
Dbaka WD Circle
Embankment rehabilitation                   5                    8.099
Sub-total                                                    8.099
Sylbet WD Circle
Embankment breach closures              about 60                 5.068
Embankment rehabilitation                   3                    0.800
Sub-total                                                    5.868
La Water Development Circle.



-44-                              4
Table 1
Page 3
BANCWADESE
FLOOD REBUlILITATION PROJECT
BWDB: Location of Rehabilitation Works and Preliminary Cost Estimates
BWDB Operational Unit/                    Number of           Estimated Cost
Nature of Reconstruction                   Locaoions             gf Revairs
(Tk million)
Chandpur Irrigation Project
Embankment rehabilitation                   1                     0.223
Sub-total                                                     0.223
FaridDur O&M Circle
Embankment breach closures                  1                     0.756
Embankment rehabilitation                   4                     3.152
Regulator repairs                           5                     1.043
Sub-total                                                     4.951
Gan_es Kobadak Rehabilitation
Project
Embankment rehabilitation                   7                     1.012
Regulator repairs                           1                     0.200
Embankment breach closures                  3                     0.028
Sub-total                                                     1.240
Teesta Barrage Scheme
Regulator repairs                           9                     2.233
Embankment breach closures                  4                     3.745
Embankment rehabilitation                   1                     0.038
Pump house repairs                          2                     0.325
Sub-total                                                     6.341
Barisal WD Circle
Embankment breach closures                  4                     2.040
Embankment rehabilitation                  20                    57.860
Sluice repairs                              1                     0.050
Sub-total                                                    59.950
Thakurtaon Tubevell Project
Circle
Dinainur WD Division
Regulator repairs                          13                     5.618
Thakurgaon WD Division (w)
Regulator repairs                           3                     1.043
Sub-total                                                     6.661



-45-                      ANN    4
Table I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
UWDB: Location of Rehabilitation Works and Preliminary Cost Estimates
BWDB Operational Unit/                   Number of          Estimated Cost
Nature of Reconstruction                  Locations             of ReDairs
(Tk million)
Raishahi Irri2atiou Circle
Chalan Beel Proiect Division
Embankment breach closures                12                     1.460
Embankment rehabilitation                  2                     5.331
Raishahi WD Division I
Embankment rehabilitation                  3                     1.576
Raishahi Irrigation Division II
Embankment rehabilitation                  5                     1.487
Sub-total                                                   9.854
Borra WD Circle
Embankment rehabilitation                  4                    12.460
Embankment breach closures                 2                     8.300
Regulator repairs                          1                     1.200
Cross bar repairs                          5                     0.800
Sub-total                                                  22.760
Pabna Inte2rated Rural Development
Proiect Circle
Pabna ID Division I
Embankment breach closures                 2                     0.201
Embankment rehabilitation                  3                     2.267
Cross dam repairs                          1                     0.032
Pabna UID Division II
Embankment rehabilitation                  3                     0.967
Sub-total                                                   3.467
ChittanonIt WD Circle
Embankment breach closures                 5                     3.465
Embankment rehabilitation                 18                    18.774
Sluice repairs                          about 30                7.420
Regulator repairs                          1                     0.025
Embankment protection                      2                     7.277
Sub-total                                                  36.961



-46-
ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 5
BANGLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
BWDB: Location of Rehabilitation Works and Preliminary Cost Estimates
BWDB Operational Unit/                    Number of           Estimated Cost
Nature of Reconstruction                   Locations             of Repairs
(Tk million)
Bhola Irritation Proiect
Embankment breach closures                  8                    13.886
Embankment rehabilitation                   7                     9.484
Sluice repairs                              1                     0.200
Sub-total                                                    23.570
Total Base Cost:                                                  345.885
US$ million: 13.30
Note:  The table indicates the BWDB unit responsible for the restoration
works. Location refers varyingly to the embankment on vhich
repairs will be carried out and to the upazila or polder where
the damage has occurred. Consequently, for each location there
may be several damage sites.
Embankment rehabilitation generally encompasses resectioning and
basic protection works. Closure may mean single refilling and
carpeting but also retirement. Repairs to sluices, regulators
and bridges may mean complete reconstruction but usually the
restoration of upstream and downstream protection works.
Embankment protection usually implies the provision of special
protective features for an embankment subject to river and wave
attack.
Cost estimates are preliminary; as set out in the main text
designs and thus costs will be reviewed in the course of project
implementation.



-47-
ANNEX 4
Table 2
BANGWA_ESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
BWDB:  List of Town Protection Schemes Damafted in Course of 1984 Floods
1.  Kushtia on Gorai River
2. Rbulna on Bhairab-Rupoa River
3. Chandpur on Meghna River
4. Bandarban on Sangu River
5.  Haragacha, Bakultala and Sarai on Teesta River
6. Badarganj on Jamuneshwari River
7. Rajshahi on Padma River
8. Sirajganj on Jamuna River
9.  Madaripur on Arial Khan River
10.  Moulvi Bazar on Manu River
11.  Bhairab Bazar on Neghna River
12. Sylhet on Surma River (Right Bank)
13. Jhalokati on Sugandhya River
14. Balia on Bangshi River
15. Movaghat-Bhagyakul on Padma River
16. Nizkalikapur on Muhuri River
17. Kutubdia Embankment
18. Faridpur on Kumar River
19. Mahendiganj on Hizla River
20. Morrelganj on Daratana River
21. Gorai intake
22. Kumarkhali on Gorai-Madhumati River
23. Devanganj on Old Brabmaputra River



-48-
ANNEX 4
Table 3
BANGLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
RHD:  Location and Nature of Restoration Works and Preliminary Cost Estinatel (Tk million)
RHD Operational                Ear             Paveent      P.S. BridginR       Bridges        Culverts        Total
Zone                           No.   Cost    No.   Cost       No.   Cost       No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost
NATIONAL ROADS
Dhaka                           4    2.50       9   31.55      3    2.40        7   29.00      -    -         23   65.45
Chittagong                      9    3.00      30   80.75      -    -           6   10.10      3    2.85      48   96.70
Ehulna                          3    4.00      11   50.29      1     .20        -    -         1     .30      16   54.79
Rajshahi                        5    3.08       5    6.21      1     .05        3    9.10      1    1.20      15   19.64
Sub-total                   21   12.58       55  168.80      5    2.65       16   48.20      5    4.35    102  236.8
REGIONAL ROADS
Dhaka                           1     .30       4    6.65      1     .05        1    5.00      -    -          7   12.00
Chittagong                      2     .55      10   13.82      -    -           -    -         2    1.20      14   15.57
Ihulna                          2     .55       3    9.80      -    -           -    -         -    -          5   10.35
Rajshahi                        6    8.70       7   17.15      1    2.30        -    -         1    1.60      15   29.75
Sub-total                   11   10.10       24   47.42     2    2.35         1    5.00      3    2.80      41   67.67
FEEDER ROADS
Dhaka                          30   10.23      13    5.89    14    5.57         3     .65      2     .15      62   22.49
Chittagong                      9    3.65      21   41.12      5    5.00        -    -         4    2.45      39   52.22
Khulna                         10    4.80      13   44.53      1    1.50        2   17.00      1     .02      27   67.85
Rajahahi                       17    4.27      11   27.23      6   28.90        3    2.80      9    6.43      46   69.63
Sub-total                   66   22.95       58  118.77    26   40.97         8   20.45    16    9.05    174  212.19
Total                        98   45.63    137  334.99    33   45.97         25   73.65    24   16.20    317  516.44
US$19.86 million equivalent
Notes:  1.  Source - RHD Flood Damage Repair Program, 1984-85, October 1984.
RHD Additional Flood Damage Repair Program, 1984-85, January 1985.
2. Costs are net of purchase price of portable steel bridging.
3. P.S. Bridging: Portable Steel Bridging.



-49-
ANNEX 4
Table 4
Page 1
FLOO0 RENAS;1IL?TATNXM PROJECT
LCD:  List of Prrlortv Proiectn Pronosed for Financing Under Prolect
%Tk 1l1l1ionl iby Zila Parlhadl3
oad Work2         Bridges       Culverg s    Retainins Wallc        Drains        Other Works   Tet.Dl 5c hemL:.
District                        No.   Cost    No.   CoAL    No.   Coat           No.   Coot        No.   Cost    No.   Cost        No.   Cost
1. Dhaka                       11   1. 825      3   0600        1   0. 075       -      -                                         15   2.500
2  Mymensingh                   2   1.400       1   0.92D       -      -         -      -          -               -     -          3   2.320
3. Jlasipur                     1   0.900       -      -                                                           -     -         1   0.900
4. Tangail                      I   0.400       2   1.304          -        -       -        -        -            -     -          3   1.704
5. Faridpur                     1   0.500       --                                      -                                           1   0.500
6. Chittagong                   4   0.500       3   1.513       7   1.153        -      -          -      -        -     -        14   3.166
7  Xhagrachari                  -      -        -      -        -      -         2   0.255         -      -        _     _         2   0.255
8. Noakhali                     5   1.449       3   0. B77      6   1.397        -     -           -     -        -      -        14   3.723
9. Coamilla                     3   0.850       4   1.248       -      -         -      -          -     -         -     -         7   2.098
10. Sylhet                       -      -        -      -       11   0.727        -      -          -      -        -     -        11   0.727
11. Rajchahi                     4   0.650       -      -        -      -         -      -          -      -        -     -         4   0.650
12. Rangpur                      3   1.500       1   0.500       -      -         -      -          -      -        -     -         4   2.000
13. Dinsjpur                     3   1.530       -      -        -      -         -      -          -      -        -     -          3   1.530
14. Bogra                        3   1.005       -      -        1   0.095        -                                                 4   1.100
15. Pabna                        4   1.860       1   0.180       -      -         -      -          -      -        -     -          5   2.040
16. Khulna                       8   1.657       -      -        1   0.043               -          -      -        -     -          9   1.700
17. Jescore                      4   0.650       -      -        -      -         -      -          -      -        -     -         4   0. 650
18. Kuabtia                      3   1.200       -      -        -      -         -      -          -      -        -     -          3   1.200
19. Barisal                      3   1.549       1   0.251       -      -         -      -          -     -         -     -         4   1.80o
20. Patuakhali                   5   0.161    20   1.108         3   0.131        -      -          -      -        -     -        28   1.400
21. Bandarban                   Program to be determined
22. Rengamati                   Program to be determined
Total                           68  19.586    39   8.501        30   3.621        2   0.255            -            -      -       139   31.963
US$ equivalent                        0.753           0.327           0.139            0. 010              -              -               1.229
Notes:  1.  Total of USS5.70 n (1.23 by Zilla Parisheds and 4.470 by Municipalities) compares with allocation under the proposed
project of USSb.00 M.  LCD is reviewing further proposals from the districts and municipalities and the final figure
will amount to US$6.00 N equivalent.
2.  Source:  a) List of Flood Damged Roads and Structures Schemes in 22 Zille Parishads (1984-1985).
b) List of Flood Damaged Roads and Structures Schemes in 78 Pourasbavas (1984-85).
Both issued February 1985.



-SO-
Tableo 4
Page 2
(Tk million)Cby Municipality)
Netsaining                                                    Total
Hun icipa lit y/        PRntY-9fli.             URII           S~LLYMLUL-WAUL .YdI                     ..ranflt           QLhkaL.Szhs          Jshmin
District              NE).   Cost         Nis.   Coat        No.   Cast          Nu.   Cast         No.   Cont           No.   Costt         No.   Coat
Naryaysgonj             37    3.113          -      -            -      -           -       --                 --                              37    3.113
Haniligonj                I   1.100          -      -            -      -                               I     0.5514         -      -                3.984
Hunnibigonj              22  0, 367          -      -            -      -           -                   -         -       -                     2   0. 367
Tangi                     8   3.206          -      -            -      -           -                        0.092           -      -9   3.296
NorHhtingdi             Programi to be determined
Subtotal ror
DIIMCA                48    7.786          -                  -       --                 -2   0.976                                          SD 5    6.762
Nymetnaingh             17    0.969          -                   6    0. 074        3   0.074           6    0.333           -                 32   1.450
fia ra ib                 1,   0.761                 -           -      -           2   0.338                     -       -                     8   1. 099
Bajitpur                  7    0.R03         -      -I   0. 122                     -       -           1   0.025            -      -9   0.950
Netrokonar              14    0.985          -      -6   0.200                      -       -1   0.032                       -                 21    1.217
KuktaRacha                1   0.300          -      --                  --                  --  -                 -       -                     1   0.300
Kisthoru'gonj             1   0.051          2   2.150           -      -           -                   -      --                   -3   2.201
Hohungonj                4    0.586          3   0.087           6   0.227          -                   -      --                   -13   0.900
Gouripur                 4    0.272          1   0.065           -      -           I   0.111           -      -             1   0.252fj        7   0.700
Subtotal for
HYl4ENSInGII          54    4.727          6   2.302         19    0.623          6   0. 52 3         8   0.390           1   0.252          94    8.817
Jamuolpur                4    2.400          -      --                                      --                               -      -4   2.400
Sherpur                  2   1.975           -      --                  --                 --                  --                   -2   1.975
Subtotal for
JANALPUR               6   4.375           -      --                  --                 -                   --                  -6   4.375
Tangail                  4    3.341          -       --                 -                   --                 --                               4   3.341
Gopalpur                 2    1.154          -       --                 --                  --                 -                    -2   1.154
Subtotal for
TANGAIL                6   4.525           -      --                  --                 --                  --                  -6   4.525
Faridpur                19   2.251           -      -                   --                 --                  --                   -19   2.251
Rajbari                  7   1.650           -      --                  --                 --                  --                   -7   1.650
M'adaripur                7   1.344          -      --                              -       --                 -                    -7   1. 34
Gopalgonj               Program to be determined
Subtotal for
PARIOPUR              33   5.245           -      -                   --                 --                  --                  -33   5.245



Table 4
P.8g0 3
FL2OP UiIIAIITLITAIJOK PI3OJK.T
lGDa List of 1'rier1tiy Prgigcts P'ronos.d [or FJInancina UndftL_Pro[nJg
(Tk million)(by Mlunicipality)
Retai ning                                                  Totsal
Municipal ity/         PW2ei1Wkv           ilXAOiu.t         AX1IuJUL.          .Y6Ij.L-            1xAiJlL-          20MfRLhJLs             hJ11L1.
District             No.   cost         Nu.   Cost         No.   Caist        No.   Cost         No.   Cost          No.   Cost         No.   Coat
2   D.372        -        --                 --                 --                                                2   0.372
Subtotal for
CHITTAGONG            2   D.37?2                                                                                                         2   0. 372
Noskhiali                3   3.1 86         -                         --                 --                 --                  -3   1.186
Foni                     1   0.648          -                  -      --                 --                 --1   0.648
Chaumunhani              4   1. 52J                                                                                                         4   1.521
Lakshmip%r              10   0.950          1   0l. 600        -                                            --                  -I    1.550
Subtotal for
NOAIIALI             IN   4.305          1   0.600          -                  -      -                               -      -19   4.905
Comilla                 12   2.453          -      --                 --                                    --                  -12   2.453
Chandpuc                 4   D.643          -                  -      -1   0.421                     -      -            -      -5   1.0D64
Brahmanbaria            10   1.237          -      --                 -2   0.230                     2   0.235           -      -14   1.702
Lsksham                Program to be determined
Subtotal for
COMILLA              26   6.333          -      --                 -3   0.651                     2   0.235           -      -31   5.219
Sylhet                   5   1.323          -      --                             -      --                 --                              5   1.323
Sreemangol               1   0.549          -      --                 ---1   01 549
Kaulvibazar             23   1.451          1   0.349          -      -1   0.063                     -      -                   -25   1.863
Sunamgonj                6   0.453          -      -           -      --                 --                  -  -                          6   0.453
llabigonj                2   D.263          -      -           -      --                 -           I   0. 073          -      -3   0.336
Subtotal for
SYLHET               37   4.039          1   0.349          -      -1   0.063                     1   0. 073          -                 40   4.524
Rtajahahi               10   4.391          -      -           3   0.218        11   2.002           3   0.736           -27   7.347
Notorei                  2   1. 084         -      --                 --                                    -                   -2   1. 084
N4awabgonj               7   3.869                             I     0.1 81      -       -          -       -            -      -8   4.050
Naogaon                Program to be determined
Subtotal for
RAJSNAHI             19   9.344          -      -4   0.399                    11   2.002          3   0.736           -      -37  12.481



-52-
Table 4
P?ge 4
FLOOD  ISHABIALITATION PROJ6CT
LWD: Llt of Prloritv Proisct 1ronoued fgr Finpiicinrt Under Proiect
(Tk million) (by municipality)
Retaining                                               Total
Municipality/         Rooid Works         .B.idL           Culvertl         .Jll                Dr.inIL         Other.Works         Schem2s
District            No.   Coat        No.   Cost        No.   Coet        No.   Cost        No.   Cost         No.   Coot       No.   Coat
Rangpuir              28   1.858         1   0.078        29   0.414         -      _          _      _           _      _         58   2.350
Gaibandha               a   1.008         -     -          -                                   3   0.242          -      -         11   1.250
ICurigram              4   1.045         -      -          -      -          -      -          1   0.135           1   0. I OLk     6   1.350
Nllphammri             4   1.1 04        -      -          1   0.024         1   0.059         1   0.068          -      -          7   1.255
Lalmonirhat            8   1.300         -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -          8   1.300
Saidpur                3   1.342         -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -          3   1.342
Subtotal for
RANCPUR             55   7.657         1   0.07S        30   0.438         1   0.059         5   0.445          1   0.170       93   8.847
Dinajpur              13   1.518         2   0.072         1   0.039         -      -          6   0.623          -      -         22   2.252
Thakurgaon             7   1.050         -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -          7   1.050
Fulbari                6   0.348         -      -         11   0. 387        -      -         10   0.302          -      -         27   1.037
Parbatipur             6   0. 824        -      -          2   0. 01         -      -          I   0. 007         -      -          9   0.849
Subtotal for
DINAJPUR            32   3.740         2   0.072        14   0.444         -      -         17   0.932          -      -         65   5.188
Bogra                 10   0.981         -      -         19   0.164        15   1.357         2   0.173          -      -         46   2.675
Joypurhat              7   0.568         -      -          6   0.131         -      -          1   0.006          -      -         14   0.705
Sherpur                2   0.160         -      -          1   0.024         1   0.057         -      -           -      -          4   0.241
Subtotal for
BOGRA               19   1.709         -      -         26   0.319        16   1.414         3   0.179          -      -         64   3.621
Pabun                 51   2. 805        -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -         51   2.805
Serajgonj              2   0.284         -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           3   1.816,        5   2.1DO
lthurdi                4   2.900         -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -          4   2.900
Subtotal for
PABNA               57   5.989         -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           3   1.816        60   7.805
Satkhira              34   4.200         -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -         34   4.200
Mongla                 4   1.450         -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -          4   1.450
Bagerhat              Program to be determined
Subtotal for
KIHULA              38   5.650         -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -         38   5.650



-53-
Table 4
Page 5
DANCIADCSH
FLOOD NRIAILITATION PROJECT
LD:  List of PrioritX Projact. Proposed fog Financina Under Protect
(Tk million)(by Municipality)
Retaining                                                Total
Municipality/         Road Works          Bridges          CuLvertc           Walls             Draing          Other W;rksu         schem
District            No.   Cost        No.   Cost        No.   Cost        No.   Cost        No.   Cost         No.   Cost        No.   Cost
Jemsors               28    2.072        -      -          2   0.06n         -      -          -      -           I   0.02114.    31    2.161
Nagura                 4    0.300        -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -          4    0.300
Nrail                  7    1.876        -      -          4   0.224         -      -          -      -           -      -         11    2.100
Jhenaidah             20    1. 825       -      -          -      -          -      -          1   0.025          -      -         21    1. 50
0otcbandpur            5    0.750        -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -          5    0.730
Hoheshpur              3    0.700        -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -          3    0.700
Kahli                  5    1.248        -      -           7   0.253        -      -          I   0.100                           13    1. 601
Bubtotal Eor
.3385031            72    B.771        -      -         13   0.545         -      -          2   0.125          1   0.021        88      9.462
Euuhtis                8    3.086        -      -          -      -                            -      -           -      -          a    3. 086
Rumarkhbli             3    1.28         -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -          3    1. 281
:oherpur               1    0.684        -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -          I    0. 664
Nheramara              8    1.043        -      -          3   0.068         -                 -      -           -      -         11    1.111
Chaudauga             Program to be determined
Subtotal for
KUSUTIA             20    6.094        -      -          3   0.068         -      -          -      -           -      -         23    6.162
Barisal               33    3.338        -      -          1   0.055         -      -          -      -           -      -         34    3.393
Jhalakati              I    0. 820       -                 -      -                                                      -          1    0. 820
Bhola                  6    0.650        -      -          2   0.100         -      -          -      -                             a _  8    0.750
Pirojpur               2    0.252        1   0.167         1   0.028         1   0.214         -      -           I   0.289L&       6    0.950
Subtotal for
BARISAL             42    5. 060       1   0.167         4   0.183         1   0.214         -     -            1   0.289        49    5.913
Patualchali           20    1.599        1   0.030         1   0.021         -      -          -      -           -      -         22    1.650
Barguna                8    0.975        5   0.191         2   0.142         -      -          -      -           -      -         15    1. 308
Subtotal for
PATUAREALI          28    2.574        6   0.221         3   0.163                                                     -         37    2.958
Bandarba,             13    1.447        -      -          -      -          -      -          -      -           -      -         13    1. 447
Subtotal for
BANDARBAN           13    1.447        -      -          -      -          -     -           -     -            -      -         13    1.447
Ranga8  ti            Program to be determined
Total                 625  97.742       18   3.789       116   3.182        39   4.926        43   4.091          7   2.548       848  116. 278
USS equivalent               3.759            0.146             0.122            0.189             0.157               0.098             4.472
/   Tin shed houses for aweepera  quarters at Couripur Pourashava.
Lk  Recoostruction of turigram  Poureahava Bazar.
/c  Construction of Ebuterdiar bazar, Memuabazar market and Behirgola bazar in Birajgonj Pourashava.
1d Earthwork for slaughter house in Jeseore Pourashava.
/e  Construction of a platform over the retaining wall at Dauder Khal in Pirojpur Pouranhava.



-54-
ANNEX 5
Table i
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Expenditures Eligible for Reimbursement and Estimated Disbursements
Eligible Expenditures                     Estimated Disbursements
Purpose/Agency                   US$ M   Tk. M         US$ M    Tk. H
1. BWDB
El[il Works (General)
Base 1/                                345.87
Less value of WFP Wheat 2/            (106.52)
Adjusted Base                          239.35
Physical Contingencies 3/               23.94
Price Contingency 4!                    20.34
Sub-total                  10.91   283.63         10.36    269.45
Town Protection Works
Base 5/                                 78.00
Price Contingency                        6.54
Sub-total                    3.25    84.54           3.09     80.31
Consultants 6/
Works Selection 7/               .02      .49           .02        .46
1/  From BiDB Flood Damage Repair Estimate (FDRE) 1984-85.  Total cost Tk. 388.7 million;
less Tk. 42.8 milliorn for town protection works included in estimate.
2/  World Food Program (WFP) has provided 12,049.6 metric tons of wheat in FY85 to
partially meet cost of BWDB program. A similar contribution is assumed for FY86,
i.e. a total of 24,100 tons. Total wheat requirement estimated by FDRE is 32,574 tons
and valued at US$170 per ton (Tk. 4,420), the cut.ent official issue price. The balance
of 8,474 tons will have to be replaced by cash provided under proposed IDA credit.
Consequently, base cost has been adjusted downwards by value of wheat already provided
or assumed to be provided in FY86 by WFP.
3/  10 percent.
4/ Averages out at foreign costs 7 percent; local costs 9 percent.
5/ Base program limited to Tk. 78 million.
6/ Less duties and taxes.
7/ Completed.



-55-                            ANNEX 5
55                     ~~~~~~Table I
Page 2
Eligible Expenditures                       Estimated Disbursements
Purpose/Agency                     US$ M   Tk.          US$ M    Tk. N
1. BWDB
Works Supervision
Base                                      11.57
Physical Contingency                       1.16
Price Contingency                           .93
Sub-total                      .53    13.66          .51      13.28
Preparedness Study
Base                                       6.89
Physical Contingency                        .70
Price Contingency                           .51
Sub-total                      .31     8.10          .31       8.02
Total 3WDB                      15.02   390.42        14.29    371.52
2. RHD
Civil Works
Base                                     369.55
Physical Contingency                      36.95
Price Contingency                         31.41
Sub-total                     16.84   437.91        16.00    416.01
Consultants 6/
Works Selection 7/                .05      1.38          .05      1I 4
Works Supervision
Base                                      11.57
Physical Contingencies                     1.16
Price Contingencies                         .93
Sub-total                       .53    13.66          .51      13.28
Equipment
Base                                      55.70
Physical Contingency                       5.57
Price Contingency                          4.39
Sub-total                      2.52    65.66         1.64      42.68
Total RHD                       19.94   518.61        18.20    473.31
3. LGD
Civil Works
Base 8/                                 156.00
Price Contingency                         13.26
Sub-total                     6.51   169.26          6.18    160.79
6/ Less duties and taxes.
7/ Completed.
8/ Base program limited to Tk. 156 million.



ANNEX 5
-56-                              Table 1
Page 3
Eligible Expenditures                      Estimated Disbursements
Purpose/Agency                 US$ M     Tk. N        US$ M    Tk. M
1. Consultants 6/
Works Selection                          .70
Works Supervision
Base                                    8.46
Physical Contingency                      .85
Price Contingency                         .76
Sub-total                  .41      10.77          .38       9.79
Total LCD                    6.92     180.03         6.56    170.58
2. IWTA
Civil Works
Base                                    2.85
Physical Contingency                      .29
Price Contingency                         .24
Sub-total                   .13       3.38          .12       3.21
Equipment
Base                                   49.60
Physical Contingencies                  4.96
Price Contingencies                     3.87
Sub-total                 2.25       58.43         1.46      37.98
Total IWTA                  2.38       61.81         1.58      41.19
All Agencies
Engineering and Administration
Base                                   84.60
Physical Contingency                    8.46
Price Contingency                       7.61
Total Engineering &
Administration            3.87      100.67          -          -
PROJECT TOTAL                 48.13 8/ 1251.54 8/    40.64    1056.60
6/ Less duties and taxes.
against which disbursements would not be made.
8/ Compares with US$48.23 million and Tk. 1,254 million shown in summary cost table in
text. Differences due to rounding in summary table.



-57-
ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 1
BANCLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Drainage, Flood Control, Irrigation and Town Protection Schemes
Scope of Engineering Consultancy
1.      Consultants would be required to work with BWDB and with approval of
BIDB's designated officer(s) to assist in the implementation of the IDA
financed Flood Rehabilitation Project. Specifically, the consultants would
be responsible for:
(i) checking designs, plans and estimates for the restoration work
on irrigation, drainage, flood control and town protection
structures prepared by the field divisions after October 1984.
This will include conducting field checks; and depending on the
complexity of the restoration work in question (see paragraphs 4
and 5 below) the consultants will be responsible for redesign,
preparation of plans and cost estimating;
ii)  establishing with BWDB a list of works -- completed, underway or
planned - that met the criteria agreed between the Government
and IDA for financing under the project and preparing a plan
for the completion of these works before end-June 1986;
(iii) preparing specifications and tender documents for listed works
and assisting in the subsequent evaluation of bids, and ensuring
that tendering and other procurement procedures are consistent
with the Project Development Credit Agreement and the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and Credits";
(iv)  assisting in construction supervision and quality control and
monitoring and reporting physical and financial progress;
(v) checking progress bills of contractors when required;
(vi) monitoring the preparation of claims for reimbursement by IDA,
estimating backlogs and assisting in clearing backlogs; and
(vii) preparing a project completion report in accordance with
guidelines provided by IDA.



-58-
ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
2.      The consultant's degree of responsibility for items (i) through tv)
will be based on the compLexity of each individual sub-project and the
estimated cost of restoration. Details are given in paragraph 4 below.
3.      The consultancy will be provided preferably by a local consultancy
firm with extensive experience in the construction of drainage, flood
control, irrigation and town protection works. It is expected, however, that
the position of associate team leader would be filLed by an enginer provided
by a similarly 4u:alified foreign consulting firm.  TLe consultants will
provide the following specialist and sub-professional staff:
(i) one senior civil engineer speciaLized in the construction of
hydraulic works associated with drainage, flood control, irriga-
tion and town protection works who will lead the team;
(ii) one senior civil engineer qualified similarly as in (i) who
would act as associate team leader;
(iii) five mid-level construction engineers similarly qualified as the
team leader but with about ten years experience. These
engineers will be stationed to direct operations as follows:
(a) for the South Eastern Zone, one at Comilla and one aE
Dhaka,
(b) for the Southern Zone, one at KhuLna and one at Barisal,
and
(c) for the Northern Zone, one at Rajshahi.
With the assistance of junior engineers and sub-assistance
engineers (see below), the mid-level engineers would be respon-
sible for the activities described in paragraph 1 items (i)
through (v);
(iv) ten junior construction engineers with degrees in civil
engineering and a minimum of five years experience in the con-
struction of hydraulic structures;
(v) thirty sub-assistant engineers with a diploma of civil engineer-
ing and a minimum of ten years experience in the construction of
hydraulic structures; and
(vi) four draughtsmen and appropriate administrative and accounting
support staff at the office of the team leader and the five
field offices.
4.      To determine the degree of responsibility of the consultants, project
works would be classified as follows:
(i) works costing less than Tk 1.25 million (US$50,000);



-59-                          ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 3
(ii)  works costing Tk 1.25 million (US$50,000), and up to Tk 7.5
million (US$300,000);
(iii)  worka costing over Tk 7.5 million (US$300,000); and
(iv)  works of a complex nature such as major regulators, major
protective measures at hydraulic structures, construction of
groynes, spurs, closures, and revetments to protect against
erosion of river or ocean-side banks, and all other town protec-
tion works.
5.      For works in category (i) the consultant will be responsible for
limited supervision during construction, but will be responsible for the
preparation of a simple completion report containing appropriate data and
costs and for the physical inspection and certification as satisfactory of
the completed works. For works in categories (ii) and (iv) he will be
responsible for the field checking of engineering surveys, assessing the
adequacy of engineering proposals, reviewing the detailed designs, estimates
and tender documents, supervision and preparation of a completion report.
For works in category (iii) the consultant will additionally be responsible
for the design of the works, preparation of plans and estimates and of a
program for implementation. In the case of works costing over Tk 13 million
and all town protection works, the consultants will be responsible for
preparing the description of the works (supported by appropriate data and
plans) that would support a request to IDA by BWDB for financing approval.
6.      The consultants will pay particular attention to:
Hydraulic Structure
(a) excavation of foundations;
(b) piling or sinking of caissons;
(c) fixing of forms and reinforcements; and
(d) quality control in concreting.
Retirements, Closures and Repairs to Breaches
(a) selection of borrow areas;
(b) stripping of borrow areas and embankment base; and
(c) compaction.
7.      For construction supervision the consultant will assure that suitable
construction procedures and inspection standards are established and
followed.
8.      Rehabilitation work commenced in October 1984 and a major portion
will be completed before June 30, 1985. Some works such as the construction
of new regulators, revetments and protection works may have to be carried
over to FY86. Consequently, the consultants will commence work in March 1985
with the team specified in paragraph 3, and work for a period of four months



-60-
ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 4
up to June 30,1985. Thereafter, and until December 31, 1985, the team will
be reduced to the team leader, associate team leader, and one mid-level
engineer with appropriate support staff. The full team will be fielded
subsequently from January 1, 1986, to April 30, 1986. Total man-months to be
provided by the consultants are listed below:
Category                                          Man-months
ti)  Team Leader (local specialist)                 16
(ii)  Associate Team Leader (expatriate)             16
(iii)  Mid-Level Engineers (5)                        46
(iv)  Junior Engineers (10)                          80
(v)  Sub-Assistant Engineers (30)                  240
(vi)  Draughtsmen (4)                                32
Total:             430
9.      BWDB will provide the consuLtants with the following support:
(i) office accommodation at Dhaka for the team leader and his staff
and for the five construction field units;
(ii) all records and reports on the damage to BWDB infrastructure
during the 1984 floods;
(iii) details of existing procedures for construction supervision,
design manuals, standard specifications and proforma tender
documents.
10.     The consultant will be responsible for:
(i) transport of consultant personnel in Dhaka and at the field
units;
(ii) office and drawing equipment;
(iii) operation and maintenance of vehicles; and
(iv)   stationery, printing, etc.
11.     The consultant will be responsible for the submission of:
(i) a concise monthly report that, inter alia, will update the list
of "approved" works;



-61-                          ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 5
(ii) a quarterly report on physical and financial progress;
(iii) completion reports for each sub-project; and
(iv) a Project Completion Report prepared in association with BWDB
in accordance with IDA guidelines.



-62-
ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
BANCLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Schemes
Scope of Engineering Consultancy
1.      ConsuLtants will be engaged to assist RHD in implementation of the
IDA-financed Flood Rehabilitation Project. Specifically, the consultants
will be responsible for:
(i) checking designs, plans and estimates for the restoration work
on roads and associated structures prepared by the field divi-
sions after October 1984. This work will include conducting
physical checks in the field;
(ii) establishing with RHD a list of works -- completed, underway or
planned -- that meet the criteria agreed between the Government
and IDA for financing under the project and preparing a plan for
the completion of these listed works before end-June 1986;
(iii)  assisting field divisions in preparing specifications and tender
documents for listed works and in the subsequent evaluation of
bids, and ensuring that tendering and other procurement proce-
dures are consistent with the Project Development Credit
Agreement and the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and Credits";
(iv)  assisting in construction supervision and quality control,
monitoring and reporting physical and financial progress;
(v) checking progress bills of contractors when required;
(vi) monitoring the preparation of claims for reimbursement by IDA,
estimating backlogs and assisting in clearing backlogs;
(vii) preparing a project completion report in accordance with
guidelines provided by IDA; and
(viii) advising RHD on the selection of road construction equipment,
assisting in the preparation of tender documents and in the
evaluation of bids.



-63-
ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
2.      The consultancy will be provided preferably by a local consultancy
firm with extensive experience in road works in Bangladesh, in particular
the compacted filling of embankment breaches, the resectioning, strengthening
and protecting of eroded embankments; reconstruction of damaged culverts,
bridges and retaining walls; and the general construction and surfacing of
roads, both HBB and bitumen surfaced. It is expected, however, that the
position of associate team leader would be filled by an enginer provided by a
similarly qualified foreign consulting firm. The consultants will provide
the following specialist and sub-professional staff:
(i) one senior civil engineer specialized in the construction of
road works in Bangladesh;
(ii) one senior civil engineer specialized in the construction of
road works in Bangladesh or in an environment with similar soil
and drainage characteristics who would act as associate team
leader;
(iii) four mid-level construction engineers similarly qualified as the
team leader but with about ten years experience. These
engineers would be stationed to direct operations in each of
RHD's operational zones. With the assistance of junior
engineers and sub-assistant engineers (see below) the mid-level
engineers would be responsible for the activities described in
paragraph 1 items (i) through (v);
(iv) five junior construction engineers with degrees in civil
engineering and a minimum of five years experience in the con-
struction of road works;
(v) twelve sub-assistant engineers with a diploma of civil engineer-
ing and a minimum of ten years experience in the construction of
road works; and
(vi) four draughtsmen and appropriate administrative and accounting
support staff at the office of the team leader and the four
field offices.
3.      To determine the degree of responsibility of the consultants, project
works would be classified as follows:
(i) works costing less than Tk 1.25 million (US$50,000);
(ii) works costing over Tk 1.25 million (US$50,000), and up to Tk 13
million (US$500,000); and
(iii) works costing over Tk 13 million (US$500,000).
4.      For works in category (i) the consultant will be responsible for
limited supervision during construction, but will be responsible for the



-64-
ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
preparation of a simple completion report containing appropriate data and
costs and for the physical inspection and certification as satisfactory of
the completed works. For works in categories (ii) and (iii) he will be
responsible for the field checking of the proposals and estimates, assessing
their adequacy, redesign where appropriate, preparation of the tender
documenLt, supervision of implementation and preparation of a completion
report. In the case of works in category (iii) the consuLtant will be
responsible for preparing the description of the works (supported by
appropriate data and plans) that wouLd support a request to IDA by RHD for
financing approval. The consultants will pay particular attention to:
a)  compaction of reconstructed and resectionef' embankments;
b) adequacy of redesign and quality of construction of protective
works in particular retaining walls and palisading;
c) quality of road surfacing works; and
d) suitability of bridging solutions, in particular proposals for
use of portable steel bridging.
5.      For construction supervision the consultant will assure that suitable
construction procedures and inspection standards are established and
followed.
6.      Rehabilitation work started in October 1984 and a substantial portion
will be compLeted before June 30, 1985. The remaining works will be under-
taken in the 1985/86 dry season to be carried over to FY86. Consequently,
the consultant wiLl comence work in April 1985 with the team specified in
paragraph 2 above, and work fo- a period of 15 months up to July 1986. The
team leader, the four mid-level engineers and appropriate support staff will
provide services for one additional month to complete the Project Completion
Report.
Category                                         Man-months
(i)  Team Leader (local specialist)                 16
(ii)  Associate Team Leader (expatriate)             15
(iii)  Mid-Level Engineers (4)                        64
(iv)  Junior Engineer (5)                            75
(v)  Sub-Assistant Engineers (12)                 200
(vi)  Draughtsmen (4)                                61
Total:             431



-65-                            ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 4
7.      RHD will provide the consultants with the following support:
(i)  all records and reports on the damage to BWDB infrastructure
during the 1984 floods; and
(ii)  details of existing procedures for construction supervision,
design manuals, standard specifications and proforma tender
documents.
8.      The consultants will be responsible for:
(i)  transport of consultants personnel in Dhaka and at the field
units; RHD will own the transports after completion of the work;
(ii)  office accommodations at Dhaka for the team leader and his staff
and for the four construction fieLd units;
(iii) office and drawing equipment;
(iv)  operation and maintenance of vehicles; and
(v)  stationery, printing, etc.
9.      The consultant will be responsible for the submission of:
(i) a concise monthly report that, inter alia, would update the list
of "approved" works;
(ii)  a quarterly report on physical and financial progress;
(iii) completion reports for each completed works; and
(iv)  a Project Completion Report prepared in association with RHD and
in accordance with IDA guidelines.



-66-
ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
LCD Schemes
Scope of Engineering Consultancy
1.      Consultants will be engaged to assist LGD/LGEB in implementation of
the IDA-financed Flood Rehabilitation Project. Specifically, the consultants
will be responsible for:
vi) checking designs, plans and estimates for the restoration work
on roads and other structures contained in the list of priority
restoration activities prepared by LGEB from the submissions
made by the Districts and Municipalities in January/February.
This work will include conducting physical checks in the field;
(ii) establishing with LGD/LGEB a list of works (completed, underway
or planned) that meet the criteria agreed between the Government
and IDA for financing under the project and preparing a plan for
the completion of these listed works before end-June 1986;
(iii) assisting district and municipal engineering staff and LGEB in
preparing specifications and tender documents for listed works
and in the subsequent evaluation of bids, and ensuring that
tendering and other procurement procedures are consistent with
the Project Development Credit Agreement and the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and Credits";
(iv) assisting in construction supervision and quality control and
monitoring and reporting physical and financial progress;
(v) checking contractors' progress bills and making recommendations
for settlement of bills;
(vi) monitoring the preparation of claims for reimbursement by IDA,
estimating backlogs and assisting in clearing backlogs; and
(vii) preparing a project completion report in accordance with
guidelines provided by IDA.



-67-                      ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 2
2.      The consultancy will be provided preferably by a local consultancy
firm with extensive experience in road works in Bangladesh, in particular
the compacted infilling of embankment breaches, the resectioning, strengthen-
ing and protecting of eroded embankments; reconstruction of damaged culverts,
bridges and retaining wall.; and the general construction and surfacing of
roads, both HBB and bitumen surfaced. It is expected, however, that the
position of associate team leader will be filled by an enginer provided by a
similarly qualified foreign consulting firm. The consultants will provide
the following specialist and sub-professional staff:
(i) one senior civil engineer specialized in the construction of
road works in Bangladesh or in an environment with similar soil
and drainage characteristics;
(ii) one senior civil engineer qualified similarly as in (i) who
would act as associate team leader;
(iii) two mid-level construction engineers similarly qualified as the
team leader but with about ten years experience. These
engineers will be stationed to direct operations in each of
LCD/LCEB's operational zones. With the assistance of junior
engineers and sub-assistant engineers (see below), the mid-level
engineers will be responsible for the activities described in
paragraph 1 items (i) through tv);
(iv) three junior construction engineers with degrees in civil
engineering and a minimum of five years experience in the con-
struction of road works;
(v) ten sub-assistant engineers with a diploma of civil engineering
and a minimum of ten years experience in the construction of
road works; and
(vi) one draughtsman and appropriate administrative and accounting
support staff at the office of the team leader and the four
field offices.
3.      To determine the degree of responsibility of the consultants, project
works would be classified as follows:
(i) works costing less than Tk 1.25 million (US$50,000);
(ii) works costing over Tk 1.25 million (US$50,000), and up to Tk
12 million (US$500,000); and
(iii) works costing over Tk 12 million (US$500,000).
4.      For works in category (i) the consultants will be responsible for
Limited supervision during construction, but will be responsible for the
preparation of a simple completion report containing appropriate data and
costs and for the physical inspection and certification as satisfactory of



-68-                         ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 3
the completed works. For works in categories (ii) and (iii) he will be
responsible for the field checking of proposals and estimates, assessing
their adeqtuacy, redesign where appropriate, preparation of the tender
documents, supervision of implementation and preparation of a completion
report. In the case of works in category (iii) the consultanta will be
responsible for preparing the description of the works (supported by
appropriate data and plans) that would support a request to IDA by RHD for
financing approval. The consultants will pay particular attention to:
(a) compacting of reconstructed and resectioned embankments;
(b) adequacy of design and quality of construction of protective
works in particular retaining walls and palisading;
(c) quality of road surfacing works; and
(d) suitability of bridging solutions, in particular proposals for
use of portable steel bridging.
5.      For construction supervision the consultant will assure that suitable
construction procedures and inspection standards are established and
followed.
6.      Rehabilitation works began in October 1984; however, a large portion
of works will be undertaken in the 1985/86 dry season. The consuLtant will
commence work in April 1985 with the team specified in paragraph 2, and work
for a period of 16 months up to August 1986. The two mid-level and two of
the three junior engineers would provide only 12 months each in this period
concentrating their time at the peak of construction activity.
Category                                         Man-months
(i)  Team Leader (local specialist)                16
(ii)  Associate Team Leader (expatriate)            16
(iii)  Mid-Level Engineers (2)                       24
(iv)  Junior Engineers (3)                          40
(v)  Sub-Assistant Engineers (10)                 120
(vi)  Draughtsmen                                  16
Total:             232



-69-                       ANNEX 5
ipdpeldxx 3
Page 4
7.      LGD/LGEB will provide the consultant with the following support:
(i)  office accommodation at Dhaka for the team leader and his staff
and for the four construction field units;
(ii)  all records and reports relating to the priority list of
projects;
(iii)  detaiLs of existing procedures for construction supervision,
design manuals, standard specifications and proforma tender
documents.
8.      The consultant will be responsible fox:
(i) transport of consultant personnel in Dhaka and at the field
units;
(ii)  office and drawing equipment;
(iii)  operation and maintenance of vehicles; and
(iv)   stationery, printing, etc.
9.      The consultants will be responsible for the submission of:
(i) a concise monthly report that, inter alia, would update the list
of "approved" works;
(ii)  a quarterly report on physical and financial progress;
(iii)  completion reports for each completed works; and
(iv)  a Project CompLetion Report prepared in associated with LGD/LGEB
and in accordance with IDA guidelines.



-70-
ANNEX 5
Appendix 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Flood Preparedness Study
Scope of Consultancy
Background
1.      Bangladesh has an extensive flood control system that undoubtedly
generates considerable benefits. This system consists mainly of permanent
civil works which may be termed a "passive" flood control system. However,
there is scope for further development of the "active" system of maintenance
of the physical works, continuous monitoring of the passive system in times
of flood danger, rapid response to prevent imminent failures of the passive
system, and once failures have occurred, to channel flood water so as to
minimize damage. An effective "active" system would depend on good
communications, ability to mobilize large work forces at short notice,
transport, and strategically located stockpiles of materials and equipment.
Above all, it would require good management, in particular an ability to
analyze available information and make on-the-spot decisions.
Objectives
2.      A study would be undertaken to identify means of improving the exist-
ing "active" system in Bangladesh. The study would be financed under the
Flood Rehabilitation Project.
Counterpart Agency
3.      The proposed study would, by its nature, involve several Ministries
and agencies. Therefore, it would be appropriate that the study be
administered by a central agency which would be a link to the concerned
ministries and agencies. A small task force, consisting of representatives
of all key relevant ministries and agencies, would be established for about
six months to undertake, with the assistance of consultants, a study of the
feasibility of developing a more effective "active" system. The task force
would be headed by a senior civil servant nominated by the Government, and
would work with the consulting team in the production of a joint report.



-71-
ANNEX 5
Appendix 4
Page 2
Terms of Reference - Feasibility Study
4.      The consultants and the task force, working as a team, would carry
out the following tasks:
I. Review of Existing Situation
a) based on existing data sources, such as MPO and the inventory
of BWDB projects in the pre-feasibility study for the
proposed BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project, prepare a
summary of existing flood control works and indicate on maps
the extent of areas afforded some kind of protection from
flooding and evaluate the quality of that protection;
b) identify the Government agencies at the national and local
level with responsibilities for flood protection, alleviation
of flood damage or the relief of flood affected populations
and define their assigned roles; and
c) describe and evaluate existing systems for the operation of
flood control works, monitoring of flood events, and mobi-
lization of efforts to reduce damage.
II. Proposal f or Strengthening the Flood Preparedness System
A. Identify and describe the possible elements of a system to improve flood
preparedness and to reduce flood damage. To this end, the following aspects
of the existing flood preparedness system might be considered:
a) flood forecasting and warning systems at the national and
local levels;
b) monitoring of water levels at critical locations;
c) patrolling of embankments, especially at night;
d) operability of water control structures, and availability of
staff, especially at night;
e) operating rules for water control structures under normal
and emergency conditions;
f) provisions for mobilizing labor at short notice to prevent
imminent failures of embankments or structures;
g) stockpiling and mobilization of materials for (f);
h) procedures and logistics for evacuation of population;
i) improvements in communications (roads, telephones, radio)
needed to implement the system; and



-72-                           ANNE 5
Appendix 4
Page 3
j)  inter-agency coordination and command structure.
B. Prepare an order of magnitude cost eocimate for a national system of the
kind described in A, or alternative costs for alternative levels of
sophistication.
C. Determine order of magnitude benefits that would be derived from the
implementation or che proposed system.
III. Feasibility of the Proposal
Identify constraints to the introduction of the proposal, including:
- social;
- governmental procedures (to be treated in some detail);
- managerial;
- staffing;
- financial; and
- physical (e.g., comparison of response time of proposed system
to rise time of fLood).
Describe steps that have to be taken to overcome each of these con-
straints and prepare reommendations for bringing about the desired improve-
ments in the system.



-73-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
Drainamo and Flood Control I Proiect
(Cred it 864-BD)
The First Drainage and Flood Control Project became eff ective in
October 1979; the original closing date was June 30, 1984 and hat been
extended for onc year to June 30, 1985.  The credit amount is IIS$19.0
million. Of the three subprojects included in the project, one of the bub-
projects (Kolabashukhali) was completed in June 1983.  For the other two
subprojects (Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) and Chenchuri Beel) project
works will have to be carried over into FY86 and it is therefore proposed
to postpone the credit closing date until June 20, 1986.  Completion of BRE
was delayed because of a major change in the course of the river Teesta, two
years ago. Delays in execution of the Chenchuri Beel subproject was
primarily because of land acquisition problems.  The minimum of land ineeded
has now been acquired and alternative solutions were identified in some
locations. Construction ib proceeding satisfactorily.
Estimates of the total credit amount required have been decreased
from the estimate at the time of appraisal of US$19.0 million to US$ 11.0
million. The main reasons for the US$8.0 million savings are the changes in
exchange rate and a decrease in the cost of civil works from about US$18
million to US$14 million.
Drainage and Fllod Control II
Credit 1184-BD)
The Second Drainage and Flood Control Project became effective in
July 1982; the closing date is June 30, 1987.  The credit amount is SDR 24.0
million. Construction of project facilities in all three subprojects (Chalan
Beel, Satla Bagda and Hail Haor) has been seriously delayed due mainly to
delays in land acquisition and to uncertainties over the size of the road
component and the participation of the Food-For-Work (FFW) Program in the
execution of the roads and drainage components. In addition, work has been
temporarily halted on Hail Haor due to lack of reliable technical data which
hampered detailed design work. Good progress has recently been made on the
acquisition of land in Satla Bagda. Steps have also been taken to speed up
land acquisition in Chalan Beel, allowing project construction to proceed.
Additional land remains to be acquired and this problem will require con-
tinued monitoring. The problems over the size of the road component and the



-74-
ANNEX 6
Page 2
participation of FFW have now been resolved after discussions between IWDB,
the Ministry, Planning Commission and ERD. The project proformas have been
revised to provide sufficient funds to complete all project components and
agreement has been reached to reduce the participation of the FFW contribu-
tion to a manageable size. For the Hail Haor component, additional
hydrological and topogaphical surveys will be carried out and changes in the
project design will be made accordingly. Due to changes in the exchange
rate, it is expected that there will be savings in the credit of about
SDR 6.0 million. A likely reduction in the civil works component of the Hail
Haor subproject could result in some further savings.



-75-
ANNEX 7
BANGLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Data and Documents Available in Project File
1.   Analysis of rainfall in Brahmaputra, Ganges, Meghna and South
Eastern Hill basins.
2.   Consultancy during implementation - Cost Estimates



91,                                 9?
INDIA                                                         BANGLADESH
FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
*  Water Level Statkons
f S / / | - ) ()~.l                                                                                              Rainfoal Stations
Flool Affected Area
Primary Roads
- - - -ete Pr  Roods
P.yOtlf Roods
'    District Heodquarters        -        District Bourdries
it Division Headquarters                   Division Boaies
@ <   1  Notional Capitol           k-ternatial Boundaries
NVMOKOKA~  .\    L
-'N  NAQ      N    .AGA4t
GRA'
(N dW A 6"S A t'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-N 
S~~~~~~~~~~S G



JHENA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II 0
N
C2P3. r  is     '   IND IA{sZ)s          *                                                                                                                                                           2' 1 j 
iff 31 AIVU i~~~~~~~~~~~                                       RA 
ns tr.s ,rf     It|                                                                                                                                                                             r
C,w 1 -5IW.1 1  Tl 1 
*^t  4A1'4" IYI 3r dr. 11a SP.ELl                                                           .                 .                                                                 f>   
II^>.J,Y^ _I 'a I3f 31 E                                                                                                                                                       , r  
'Pe      eIIi   *.v   a m     NV                                                                                                                                             If
BANGADIS;, 7
INDIA                I    '8 8uRMABoy                                                        of      Bengal                                                si
.,~~~~~~~~ O                       10    20    30    40    50 AIUS                                                                        8 \          BURMA
-j2                                        1'                                                                                                            21'
-21        ~~0   20         40       CsO     So KILOMETERS                                                                                           21
SRI LANKA                                                                  ,,                                         91m
r3



