CREDIT NUMBER /5 7BD
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Flood Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER /   7 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                      , 1985,
between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF    B   LADESH   (the  Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATN (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitionn
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "BWDB" means the Bangladesh Water Development Board
established and operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and
Power Development Board Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 59 of 1972);
(b) "RHD" means the Roads and Highways Department of the
Ministry of Communications of the Borrower;
(c) "IWTA" means the Inland Water Transport Authority
established under the Inland Water Transport Authority Ordinance,
1958 (EP Ordinance No. LXXV of 1958);
(d) "LGD" means the Local Government Division within the
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives
of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(e) "Implementing Agencies" means BWDB, RHD, IWTA and LGD
collectively;
(f) "Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh
established under Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order
No. 127, 1972);
(g) "Rehabilitation Works" means any program of reconstruc-
tion or repair, including the provision of equipment and techni-
cal assistance therefor, selected or proposed to be selected by
the Borrower under the Project pursuant to Section 3.02 of this
Agreement; and
(h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01, The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-one million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 31,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   the Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Bangladesh
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1995 and ending April 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2005, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
the Implementing Agencies with due diligence and efficiency and


﻿-4-
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b)   Without any limitation to the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall ensure that adequate funds will be
allocated for the operation and maintenance of the Rehabilitation
Works.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction on the Bor-
rower's obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, or shall cause the Implementing Agencies to,
select Rehabilitation Works to be carried out under the Project
in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association
including those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the Implementing
Agencies to construct and improve all works included in the
Project in accordance with design standards and construction
specifications satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) carry out a study, under terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Association, for the purpose of strengthening the
existing flood preparedness system;
(b) by December 31, 1986, furnish to the Association for
its comments the findings and recommendations of such study; and
(c) thereafter implement such recommendations as the Bor-
rower and the Association shall have agreed upon.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance


﻿-5-
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and ex-
penditures, in respect of the Project, of the Implementing Agen-
cies.
(b) The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Implementing
Agencies to:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Asso-
ciation;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall, or shall cause the Implement-
ing Agencies to:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, re-
ceipts and other documents) evidencing such expen-
ditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to exam-
ine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of


﻿-6-
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date 60 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the
External Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                         642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /5/
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Fi-nanced
(1) BWDB
(a) Civil works         2,100,000          95%
(including
construction
materials)
(b) Consultants'          525,000          100%
services
(2) RHD
(a) Civil works        12,570,000          95%
(including
construction
materials)
(b) Equipment           2,000,000          100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
70% of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(c) Consultants'          325,000          100%
services


﻿9-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3) IWTA
(a) Civil works           195,000          95%
(including
construction
materials)
(b) Equipment           1,400,000          100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
70% of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4) LGD
(a) Civil works         5,630,000          95%
(including
construction
materials)
(b) Consultants'          325,000          100%
services
(5) Special Account                             Amounts to be de-
posited pursuant
(a) BWDB                  750,000          to paragraph 3(a)
of Schedule 4 to
(b) RHD                 2,000,000          this Agreement
(c) IWTA                  530,000
(d) LGD                   950,000
(6) Unallocated              2,000,000
TOTAL             31,300,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 6,300,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3) and
(4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after October 1, 1984.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectivea of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the financing of a high priority program to restore flood damaged
facilities in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Restoration, by BWDB, of irrigation, drainage and flood pro-
tection works comprising, inter alia: the compacted filling of
embankment breaches; the resectioning, strengthening and protect-
ing of damaged embankments; the retirement of embankments where
the existing location is no longer tenable; and the repair or
replacement of damaged or destroyed water control structures.
Part B:
Restoration, by RHD and LGD, of roads and associated
structures comprising, inter alia: the compacted filling of
embankment   breaches;   the   resectioning,   strengthening   and
protecting  of  eroded embankments; reconstruction    of damaged
culverts, bridges   and  retaining  walls; restoration   of  road
shoulders; and the repair and strengthening of damaged pavement.
Part C:
Provision to RHD of additional equipment and material to
enable RHD to carry out its construction programs under Part B of
the Project.
Part D:
Provision to IWTA of navigational aids and other equipment
to replace the flood damaged equipment, including, inter alia,
the provision of steel lantern buoys, mooring gear, dredger pipe,
steel pontoons, shore beacons, markers, gauges and recorders as
well as two work boats and a tug boat.


﻿- 12 -
Part E:
Repair, by IWTA, of jetties and landing stages damaged by
the floods.
Part F:
Provision of technical assistance to BWDB, RHD and LGD.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described   in  Part A   hereof, goods manufactured     in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, provided, however, that installation of sluice gates may be
carried out through force account.
2.   Contracts for pontoons, buoys and workboats may be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished


﻿- 14 -
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
(the Special-Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such con-
sultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "sub-category" means any of the four sub-
categories of Category (5);
(c) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4)
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment; and
(d) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to the aggregate amount allocated to all
sub-categories which is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusive-
ly for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower,
in respect of one or more sub-categories, for a deposit or
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation but which do not exceed the respective amounts
allocated to each sub-category, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in
the Special Account such amount or amounts in respect of such
sub-category or sub-categories as the Borrower shall have
requested.


﻿- 16 -
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1), (2), (3) and
(4) and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Asso-
ciation and of any outstanding special commitment
entered  into  by   the  Association  pursuant  to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.


﻿- 17 -
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1), (2), (3) and (4) for the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Criteria for the Selection of
Rehabilitation Works
1.   Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, all town
protection works, and other Rehabilitation Works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, may be undertaken only
after prior review and approval by the Association of the scope
of such works and of the expenditures involved.
2.   Rehabilitation Works not covered under the preceding para-
graph do not need prior approval by the Association but must be
selected in accordance with the following criteria:
(a) damages to be repaired are:
(i) a consequence of the 1984 floods, or
(ii) damages which, if not repaired, will vitiate or
seriously diminish the effectiveness of other
flood damages being repaired under the Project;
(b) reconstruction    would  restore   structures  to  their
original specifications or to such higher specifica-
tions as may now be warranted to ensure its integrity
over a reasonable life; and
(c) other external sources of finance are not available.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198F                           C
FOR SECRETARY


