Documenat Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCU USE ONLY
Rept No.  12354
PROJECT CO1%LEIION REPORT
I NDIAK
WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1383-IN/LOAN 2308-IN)
SEPTRIDER 28, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12354
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Derartment II
South Asia Regional Office
Thi document has a resicted distribution and may be wed by rnpients only in tk performnce of
their offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ban]k autorization.



PROJEC COMPLETION REPORT
MAHARASHTRA WATR UTILIZATION PROJECF
(Credit 1383-IN and Loan 2308-IN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
At Appraisal (May 1983) US$1.00 = Rupees (Rs. 9.50)
(For exchange rates during implementatont see Attachment 1, Table 1)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of IndialGovernment of Maharashtra - April I-Mach 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CADA               Command Area Development Authority
DOA                Department of Agricuture
ERR                Economic Rate of Retum
GOI                Government India
GOM                Govenmment of Maharashtra
IBRD               Iteratonal Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                lnerational Development Association
MW II              Mahamashtra Irigation Project II (Credit 954-IN)
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
PCR                Project Completion Report
SAR                Staff Appaisal Report
SDR                Special Drwing Right
WALMI              Water and Land Management lsitute. Aurangabad
GLOSSARY
Chak               Irrigation service area below the outlet from the minor
Cusec              Cubic foot per second
Distributary       Irrigation canal with capacity greater than 700 Vs
Feld Chamel        Irrigation Channel from the oudet from the minor to the
farm inthechak
Hot Season         March to June
Kharif             West Season (June to October)
Minor              Irrigation canal with capacity less than 700 Y/ and
serving chaks
Rabi               Winter season (November to March)
Shejpali           Traditional system of operation of irrigation schemes
in Maharashtra whereby farmers submit applications for
irrigation for areas of crops. Ifrigation supplies to
&amers are sanctioned after considering water avail-
ability and other factors.



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washigon. D.C. 20438
U.SA
Off. of DmreodwGenew
Operaon Evaluatfn
September 28, 1993
M RX0AMP-4 TO THE EXECUTiE DIRECGMRS AND THE PRDENT
SUBJECT:   Ptoject Completion Report on India
aharashtra Wat,er Utilization Projet (Credit 1383-INLan 2308IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India - Maharashtra Water Utilization Project
(Credit 1383-IN/Loan 2308-IN) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part II was prepared
by the Borrower.
the project was implemented in accordance with the original design. Savings were achieved
because eiicles and equipment became available from non-prcject sources; drainage criteria were
aiodified, demand for land shaping was lws than anticipated, and the value of the Rupee depreciated.
These savings permitted expansion of the area benefitted by the project by 20 percent, and
canceDlation of the unused Bank loan.
Anticipated benefits failed to materalize, however. In spite of lower costs and a larger
rehabilitated area, the project's internal rate of return is eesmated at 3 percent, and likely to be
as low as zero (Government reestimate is higher, at 9.9 percent). ThI raises doubts on whether the
problems the project attempted to address were acually technical in nature, and whether the project-
supported techna desin was the appropriate solution to the real problem   Accodigly, the
outcome of the project i8 rated as unsatisfcoy, sustainability as uncertai, and istitutional
development as partial
The PCR is genally acceptable. No audit is planned.
Attachment
iTis dome has a restcd dsbutIon and may b3 used by cIplets onry In the pufonao of
their offic dute  kt cont  may not othe  be diosed who Wold Bank Ahorzao.



I* OR  MCUAL US ONLY
PROJECT COMPtLEION REPORr
INDU
MAUARASHTRA WATER UTnLIZATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 138341N AND LOAN 2308-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE        .       ....                   ......***#@***a.   ...............  i
EVALUATION SUMIMARY   .... ..........                 ....... ........ i
PARTL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S.ERSPE IVB........... 1 
3. Project bentivty ..........................    ..... ... ........ 1
2.oBackground ...............................*. ........... 1
7.ProjecSustaiObi t n  o    n .    ......... ..................... 2
4.Pro      jecdvesan    "tiron     ................ 2
5.  x2nhnnon......... .... 3
7.     stustaiaiibty ............................. 6
8. Bank'sPerformance   . .................................... 6
9.LessonsLeamed ................................... 7
10.Borrower's Performance ....................................... 7
;IojectRe....n.ps         ..  7
12.Consdting Serices .                      - .i                            7
13. Project   nentionandl)at  ......................... ...... 8
PART U PROJECr REVIEW FROM BORROWR'S PERSPC                     .......... 9
PART M STATISTCAL TABLES
1.RelatedBankCredits .......        ................................. 67
2. Projectduinetable    .........................                 ....... . 68
3.Creditloanlsbu ennt  . ................. .... ... ... .... ...  . 68
4.PrQojectnplnlenon ..... ..................  *..........69
5. Projec Cos iandinacing ................................... . 70
6.ProjectResults ...............*.............**e**......... 71
7. Status ofCovents.       .......................................... 73
8. Use of Bank Resourcs ................                     ....... ..... 74
A1TACllMErl: ADD1MIONAL DATA  . .......................... . 75
Tables:
1.Actual PoectCosts ......... ......................... ...... . 75
2. Jayakwa  - Irigated C    ing Intiity ........................... 76
3.Purna- rdgatedCrppisnglntenidty ............. ........  ..... 77
This docwument has a utrl   dlsu*buls   oWa    y be      by  yt Pfoanm.
of thei  al dutk& Its cntet my an othws be boe btd4sth                     Ms



4. Gima - Irigatd Cropping Itensity . ...................       ..... 78
S.Mula- ITigatedCroppmi Inteity . ............................. 79
6. hadakwala - IrrigtedCropping Intensity ............................. 80
ATFACHMDENr 2: ECONOIC AND FINANCALL ANALYSIS ........              .... 81
Tables
l(a)PiemofAgriculturProducts(costantl991piikes) ... .............. 84
lWDeriatonofEconomicPicsfor 1991            .......................... 85
1(c)Derivation ofEconomic Pcofor2000 .      .......................... 86
2.  hflation Factand Exchange Rates ............................ 87
3. EstimaFd Y8elds ..................................  88
4.  Cropping Ptens ..................... .. 89
S.  C.rop Budgets at Fancial Pris ............................. 90
6(a) Economic (1991) Crop Budgets for the Whole Project (With and Without
tie Proect) .        ... .............. 91
6(b) Ecnomic (2000) Cop Budges for the Whole Project (With and Without
the Projeat) (1991 Rs) ..   ..........   .................. . ...   92
6(c) Economic(1991) Crop Budgets for Khadakwasla(With and Without the Project) 93
-d) 2conomic (2000) Crop Budgets for   dawala(With and Without
the Project) (1991 Rs) .         .... .            ...  94
7(a) Economic Analysisuthe WholPject (isBased on' Canals .Iigation
lntitis) ....................... ,  .... 95
7(b) Economic Analysis/the Whole Ptoject (Based on Canals and Wels
igaionItensit.es).................... 96
8.  Economi Aysis/ayawai (Based on Canals and Welsb Irrigation
Intesities) ...........                               . ....... 97
9.  Economic AnalysiPuma (BasedonCanl snd WellsIrrgation
10. Ecnomic AnaysisnDKhakwasa (Basedon Canalsand WellsIrigation
la  aie)  ....................... 99
1i(a) Cro     t Iensities in       (AnAiaOutside MWUP- With
thel'rQject) .................. 100
11(b) Croppin   ensities in hadawasa(An Aea nside MWUP- With
thePoet  ...  ..........0..0......                  .     .      101
12.            3 H-Budget 3 FHi-nancial Prices (Without the Project) .......... ... 102
13. Fam Budget 3 Ha - Fancal Prices (With the Prqect)    ............... 103
14. Farm Budget 3 Ha - Financial Pries (With the Project - Cropping Pattem
Unchanged)  .............................. ..... ..... 104
15. ImpactonFannBudget - SummaryBudget ....................... 105
MAPS
IBRD 16997
IBRD 17058



i
PRO 1 COMPLTION REPORT
INOIA
M AHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZAT1ON PROJECT
(Credit 1383-IILoan 2308 IN)
PREFACE
Ibis is the Prject Completion Report (PCR) for the MaharaAtra Water Uiization
Prot forwhih an IDA cradt of SDR29.6 million (Credit 1383-iN) and an IBRD Loan of
US$22.7 million (Loan 2308-IN) were approved on June 9, 1983. At Government's request,
the unutiliztd loan balance of US$22.6 million was cancelled on August 25,1989. The credit
closed on August 31, 1991, two years behind schedule. The final disbursement from the credit
was made on January 21, 1992. The undisbursed balance of SDRO.57 million was cancelled.
Parts I (rject Review from the Bank's Perspective) and m (Statistical Information)
were prpard by an FAOICP project completion mission which visited India in September 1991.
Pat roject Review rom the Borroweres Perspective) was prepared by the Government of
Maharashuo
The prepaation of this PCR wa based inter alia on the Staff Apprs Report, the Legd
documents, supervion reports, corresponence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal
Bank memoranda, relevant Bank reports on the sector, and discussions with the Borrower's
project staff and the Bank's project staff at Headquarters and in New Delhi.



m
PROJBCT COMPLFION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTPA WATER UT1ATION PROJECT
(Credit i383-N/an= 2308-IN)
EVALUATION SiMMARY
1.   The main objective of the prject was to incas the ffciwve use of avaable iton
watersuplies, in order to iase ic produc nand tam incomes   and promoteru
development. This was to be achieved by ugan the irgaton disibuon networks of
seletd areas on 94,450 ha, in five esig irgatio schemes, t ensue a reliable water supply
at the farm leveL The pwject was also to improve face drainage  d provide roads along
canals,improve systm operaion, promote land shaping, identi suitable on-fm irrigaton
practices and viable cropping systems through adaptive research, and train farmers, caal
mspetr, anld lanud development assistants.
2.   The project was mplemented generally in accordance with th proposas in the Staff
Apprsl Report (SAR). There wre savings in vehicles and ei  ent, w ic w    rgely
obtaind from other project, and in the cost of adaptive ree -ompared with a  l
estimats There were also savgs in the costs of drains following revised d e critera
g steeperslopes and few  tuctums. Memse savings were pary ofetby increased
wOrk on disruaries and mior and increased ovetead coss; overheads amouted to about
37% of other costs. The total project cost was about US$60,190,000 (JS$520 per ha
upgraded).
3.   Due to deprecatim in the value of the rupee in terms of the US dollar and SDR,
expenditures in rupees corresponded to less in dollars and SDR otn estmated in the SAR. In
order to use some of these savings, the scope of the project was cnaged to incase the amea to
be upgrded from 94,450 ha to about 115,200 ha. Prject compleon and the crdit closing date
were delayed by two years to enable the project works, including the additional wotk, to be
com;leted and further use of the credi to be made. The loan was not used and was canceed in
1980 foHowing aors request
4.   rTe project achieved its objective of upgading the irtiOn distibution nw   and
reducing the sines of chaks.                                 estimed in the SAR
ITh intesity of irrigationt from   s  increased from 30% to about 37% at prest (SAR
estimated 86% at fldevelopment). Iigtion intnsit has oftn been gater outside e project
V Itrigadon Intenity = Area of crop irfigafionlcultvable command area
Crops grown over more than one season are only counted once.



iv
area th  within the project area (see Atachment 1). This is pardy due to growing more crops
with heavy water demand in the project area and may also be affected by the way water Is
alocaed and some disruption due to project works, but it casts doubts on the usefulness of the
irigation intsty as a means of measurng poject results Te economic rate of return (ERR)
was estmated on the busis of data provided by the Command Area Development Authotity
(CADA) and found to be between about 3% and 13%, depending on assumptions made (see
Atachment 2).
S.   Annual producdon of crops in the project are has been estimated to have increased by
about 160,000 tons of sugarcane (SAR 301,300 tons), 16,000 tons of food grmis (44,100 tons)
and about 4,600 tons of groundnuts (14,000 tons). These amounts are much lower than SAR
estimates due to lower irrigation intensity and generally lower yields for food grains and
proundnuts. Farm incomes are estimated to have increased by about 61% due to the project This
IS much less thn the 228% incrase, esdmated in the SAR, due to lower incremental cropping
intensity and reduction in avage farm size (3 ha instead of 4 ha - see Part I, para 17).
6.   In general the responsibility for operation and maintenance (OM) froom headworks to
the oudet into the field channels remains with the irgation Delpand the Command Aea
Development Authority (CADA). The amount allocated for maintece is inadeqte to avoid
deterioraion of the system. It is therefore likely that gradual progssirve deterioration of the
sem wil continue (see Part I, pam 21). Maintance of field chanwls and drains is generAy
left to farmers, which is reasonably successful. However, repairs to gates, concrete and
masony stctu  and cand lning are often left undone and gradual prosve deterioration of
these is likely. Nevertheless, it is expected that famers will generally enswue dua the field
chaes         operative, but the quality of the irgation network is likely to decrease with time
(see Part I, pam 22).
Fndions and Lessons Leaxed
7. . Fmdings Improvements to system operation were disappoinrtin, partly because local
Staff have incentives to leave subsantial scope for farmers to buy favours m an imperfect system
(see Part I, paras 12 to 15). The policy for systm operation is not clear. The restriction on
conjunctive use of canal water and groundwater should be removed (see Part IL para 15).
Traning of farmers (ncluding those from outside the project area) and staff of CADA and the
Department of Agriculture (DOA) at the training centres constructed in the subproject areas
should continue.
8.   Lessons &anad. The piot projects on which this project was based gave valuable
:fln (swe Part L parm 7). It IS diffit to influence the Depam of Agriculture (DO-A) on
Erigation project in which they have no component. In a project c ng almost entirely of
local costs, devaluation of the local cunency is lbely to resut in underisbursement When
available water is spread over too large an area, few benefits will be obained by improving
teiy  v           Shpali isdiffultto ad i y,pariuly in areas whwater is
scaice. Mo rg of projectbenefits should be supplemented by evaluaon of results.



1
PROJECT CONM=ON REPOR'T
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTEILZATION PROJBCT
(Credit 1383-IN/L0n 2308-IN)
PART L PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPE(±UVE
ProjectName             MaharWhra WaterUtlizationProject
Credit NoJ        :     Credit 1383-WJ
Loan No.                Loan 2308-IN
RVP Unit:               Asia Region
Cotry             :     India
SubsectrlTgto
1.    Ilii's development objectives at the time of project fomulion included the
development of  igy and                      Of par  impornce was invesent
in irriga  extension and on-farm devent designed to incase a     tul productvy
and to improve the iaablity of agiutrlinputs thoughcredit, f ,ma         soe
and seed project. Support to irigation gave emphasis to improved efficiency i war
conveance systms to ensure reliable delivery to fields. In addition, major in  to
develop large river basins. were considered vital to India's efforts to incse a
production.
2.   liTigaton projects, built in the 1960s and lat, t invlved a stoag or divein
dam and only the main conveyance system, leavizg the farmer to constuct the distribution
ystem from cnl   outets to Indvidual fieldsd  As some of these oudets served 100 ha or more,
conveyance of war -to Xt  fm gate required construction of canal netwods that were ofn
seval k1oet  long. Farmem wer ofim  kubl to aile or oganiz co dastruct  of these
cals without assistancei which was raely available Ths retd in coniderabledelays in
using the Irigato    enbtl   had bad n cdeate
3.   Tle concept of a Command AaDeveopment Autrity (CADA)evolved in theearly
1970s. lemainbjves of CADA owere tcoorduate t        viiesofte -Stat g    and
Agriculture D)eparnts in order to assist fWaers in obainig  institutional cdit for the
channels and for land develom   Achievements were below e a
cordination was not enirely effective, and to batmpt to fice on-faim dVpt thugh
insitutonal credit was generaly not succef  because famers had no confdence in the
reliabilW  of waer suply and wets wterefore reluctant to underte loan repayment obgatons.
Also, no acilitr or frinework for ective grup action had been developed in the iig
sector to implement such project  This expience indicated that: (a) more emphasis was
required on improving the efficiency and relabilit of the conveyance stem fom the w



2
source to the iigatdon oudets; (b) overment should assume greater responsbility for
coneying water to an ouflet closer to the fam gte to facie construction of watercoures
coying war to each field and (c) Government should promote the development of effdecve
fa rmer involvment  by providing the necessary m anism, fmework and support for emcient
group action and coopeOn amog Irrgatos Th   were  ar indicadons that when farmers
are confidet  gat they w   eceive a reliable water suppl, they will take steps to make ful us of
the wat supplied,    conepts wee used in the   i  f the, pjet.
4..   Th main objctidve of the pect was to increase the effctdve use of available inigation
watrsupplies,  reby to increase aictural producdon and fam incomes and promote rura
development. This was to be achieved over a five-year period by upgradng the ingation
distributonne k of selected areas on 94,450 ha, in five exsting irigation schemes2, to
ene a reliable water supply at the farm leveL To remove other exising constraints, the project
was dso to improve surface drainage and provide access along canals, improve system
operation promote land sha ing, identify suitable on-farm irrigation practices and viable
croppng systems through aative reach and trin fames canal mspectors and land
deaopment assustt
5.    The main comnents of the project wee to be (a) upading the existing gadonand
dra4nage systems (with emphasis on minors and field channels) and constrcion of caservice
roads; (b) consnuction of buidngs for engieeing staff and traing centers; (c) p n  of
quipment for costructon operation and maintnance, survey, land shaping taining and
rsearch; (4) improving the operation of the irrigadon distribution systems; (e) an adaptive
esearch program; () training farmers, canal inspectors and land development assistants, and
study tous for   or staff; (g) reseatch in water management and small smues; and (h)
montoi and evluion, incluing  me        rs' at titude survey
6.       e a poject o  were et.maed to be Rs741 million, equivat to US$78 million.
An IlDA credit of SDR29.6 million (US$32 mimon equivalent) and a Bank loan of US$22.7
million were to fine about 70% of the project cost including all the foreign exchange
com     , estmated at US$10.6 millon. Overa reonsiblit for proect implwas
under the Cos aner  d Secrtay, Command Area Development, in the Govemment of
Mahaasu(QOM).
7.     he project was based on a pilot component for water maementin the Mahaashtra
rigion Prject IIP II) to ident  appropiate conveyancetechnologies fore minor water
distribution systm. Pilot sche       in 1979, proviminorsa  fied
chanls to individual fam. As this was expensive (Rs.4,000 per ha), anothertype of pilot
effort was initiated in 1980, which became kmown as the Tarmers Proect. Canal ling was
reduced to 10-15% of total legth, and the costs to about Rs.2,000 per ha By the end of
December 1982, about 6,000 ha had been completed under the Farmers Projec, mostly in the
Jayakwadi Scheme, where water was comparatively plentiful. In tbese areas, the use of
Irigation water had boteenqe low mainly due to lack of proper teminal irigadon facilities. The
2   Jayakwadi 42,350 ha, Purna 10,500 ha, Mula 21,970 ha, Gima 11,030 ha and
Khadakwasla 8,600 ha.



3
works canied out consisted of teshaping and, whero necessay extending existing minors and
field channels; redwing the size of tity units (chak), somemes commading more ohan 100
ha, to more manageable 20-25 ha units; consrucdng a measurin device at thead of each chak;
selectve lining of field channels and minors; constructing additonal control strucues such as
dops, turnouts, etc.; consructing sewrvice roads along minors; and introducmg better system
operaon and irrigation schedulig. The impact of the Pilot and Farmers Project on the
agdiicua production was reported to be quite iemarkable
8.   The concept for the project was not altogether satisfactoy. WWile upgaing the irrigadon
netvork can permit more equitable distbution when there is adequate water, where water is
scmae, as it is in most of the project ara, it has lieeffect onirrigatione benefits
due to the project were therefore overestimated. The instutional responslbihti were clealy
defined and understood and generally worked weLL
9.    The physcal and training componets of the pject were well implemented, genervy in
accordance    theproposals in the Staff Aprasl Report (SAR). The main vadances esited
in savings in the cost of vehicles and equipment, which were largely obtained from other
projects, and substantial reduction in the cost of adaptive research compared with apr
estmates (see Attachment 1, Table 1). There were also savings in the costs of DS, following
vised drainage crteria permittg steeper slopes and fewer sucu. Bildings were generly
cheaper than assumed in the SAR but the quantity increased. These savings were offset by
increased work on distributaries and minors and increased overead costs of CADA and
Directorate of Irdgation Research and Development compared with appraisal estimates. The
impact of the promotion of land shaping was genealy reported to be disappoinig, other than in
Khadakwasla.
10.  Due to depciaton in the value of the rupee in tems of the US doLar and SDR,
exenditures in rupees coesponded to less in US dolars and SDR than matd in the SAR.
In order to use some of these savings, the scope of the proiect was changed to incwrease the aea to
be upgraded from 94,450 ha to about 115,200 ha. Project completion and creit closing date
were delayed by two years to enable the project works, including the additional work, to be
completed and furdher use of the credit to be made. ITe loan was not used and was therefore
canceled at GOrs request in 1989.
Pro3e Resuhts
11.  The project achieved its objective of upgrading the irrigation distibution network and
reducing the sizes of chals. The area upgaded was a    20% more than planned m the SAR
12.  A main objece was to increase the effective use of water. Ihe SAR measured this by
the intensity of imga,on from canals which it estmated would increase from 30% in 1982183 to
86% at full development; at present It has only reached about 37%. For Puma, Gima and
Kbadakwasla (though not for Jayakwadi), in every year since 1984185, the irrigaton intnsity
3   SAR, Annex 1, Table T-10 shows projcted with project fute irrigation intensities
in rabi and hot season to vary between 36% (Gima) and 81% (Jayakwadi). Only
Jayakwadi was projected to have a total annual irrigation intensity grater than
100%.



4
recorded was Breater outside the prwject aea than within the project area (see Attachment 1).
Ibis is pardyiue togrowing more crops with heavy water -emand in the project ara and may
also be due to te way watr Is saocated and some disrupdon due to project works, but it casts
doubts on the usefuness of the Iriiption intnsity as a means of me     project results. It is
hard to imagine that with i ionwnts  as low as in Girna (maum  4%  n frequendy
O - see Attachment 1. Table 4) much water would be wasted even without the project Even in
other subprojects, iigon iities have not much exceeded 50% (spread over two or more
seasons) so that extLonding the network of field channels has not resulted in a larger arc . being
iigated: it has    tted different areas to be irrigated. The project lined up to 20% of the length
of field channel but it also increased the density of field channels fom about 45 m/ha to about
60 miha,so theunlined lengthincreased from 45 m to more hn 48 m per ha. Given the diffuse
nature of the benefits and the lack of accurate monitoring of cropped aas and yields, particulary
for the situation without the pro)ect, any re-esimation of the economic rate of return (ERR) is
boumd to be speculadve. What is quite evident, however, is that benefits fai far short of those
rquired to sustain the ERR of 35.6% estimated in the SAR. The mission's estimates
(Attachment 2) pla3e the acta ERR between about 3% and 13%, depending on the assumptions
made on prices and project life
13.  Me SAR considerd tat an Important aspect of improving the effective use of avaiable
irrigation water supplies was to improve system operation. Although operation plans and
opeation and maintenance (O&M) manuals have been prepared and discussed, the Bank's
approach concerng syswem operation has changed with time and differs in some resects from
that of GOMA  Rotational water supply within the chaks has been introduced, but predetn
water flow durations are not adhered to and itis not possible to keep a constant 281/s 4dischage
at the outlet (SAR 3.13) with variable water levels in the minor or distibutry. Irigation
inurvals in the hot season have not always been reduced to less than 14 days as was enisaged in
the SAR. The SAR proposed that reference fields would be set up in each subproject area on
wpical soils to monitor soil moist conditions but this has not been done because ft is felt that
ere is so much variation in soil conditions that it would be impcable to use the results.
14.  The project has experimented with pilot proportional distdbutaries and with delivery of
water in bulk to the head of minors for sale to famers' societic3, but the Sheipali systm still
predominatesS. Shajpali is reported to have problems Crops grown differ from those apved
andwater use is ofte higher than planed. A canal inspeco is often unble to operate as many
as 25 chak outlets and related minors satsfaorily. Consequendy, tail-end minors and tail-end
field channels in he3d-end minors often do not get relabl supplies of water. The efforts to
change the system were beset by problems. Broken and tamperd with minor headgates and
absent gauges on chak oudets were reported. These difficult  combined with substl scope
for buig favors in an imperfect system, ped toresult in afreefor-all won by the strong,
with substantial inefficiencies and inequities in water distibution. It was considered that
Goveriment was unlikely to    to admin  effectively any system without much better
checks in the          and much more farmer          The proet has made a start on
improved farmer partcipation with more than4,500 ooletc e  ownd (almost 75% of
the number of oudets), but there is no record of how many of these opeae effectively. There arm
now sixte  registered farmers' iTigation societies, of which nine are said to have assumed
4   1 cusec.
5   For definition of Shejpali, see Glossary.



S
rponsibility for O&M of minoi but assistance from CADA is still required. Anodher 21 are in
the prss of orgadon and registration.
15.  Water maagement is made difficult by the large number of crops being grown at one
time and dte fact that the system is designed for a few heavy gations rather than more frquet
lighter irrigation& Tis discourages fanmers from shifting to higher value crops requiring more
frequent irrigaton  ls augmentation from puaped sources, such as wells, drains or rivers, is
possible. Conunctve use of canal water and pumped water is discouraged by a Government
eulaton foridding the use of two sources of watr in the same canal6. Nevertless, pumped
irrigation is increasing, partclary using subsidized electricity; enhanced aquifer recharge from
field and ca  prcolaton contributes to is.
16.  Annual producdon of crops in the project area has ben estmated (see Attcuhment 2) to
increase by about 160,000 tons of sugarcane (SAR 301,300 tons), 16,000 tons of food grain
(44,100 tons) and about 4,600 tons of groundnuts (14,000 tons). These amounts are much
lower than SAR estmates due to lower cropping intensity and generly lower yields for food
grains and groundnuts.
17.   The effects of the project on farm micomes are summaized below:
SAR (1982 Rs.)      SAR (1991 Rs.)           PCR (1991 Rs.)
With/                  With/
Without With   Without With   Without Without With   Without
project project project project  %     project project %
Average Farm Income
- RsJha             1510   4960   2848   9354    328   2701   4350    161
- RsJfarm          6040  19840  11391  37418    328   8102  13051    161
The irea  in farm income due to the project is now esdmed to be less than the SAR because
of the lesser in crea  in  g inm      and eduction in aveage farm size from 4 ha to 3 ha to
reflect the present situation.
18.  The taning carried out (Part m  Section 4) in Water and Land Management ilte
(WALMI)7 and in the five training centers in the project area contibuted to human resource
development in the area and the increased agticulural production helped to improve rual incomes
and standards of living. The impact of the projet on the physical environment was not grat: the
improved dnage reduced the risks of waterlogging and salint.
19.   Several useful technical results were obtained from the adaptve resehach program (see
par 28). The ptoject was eeasively monitored but very little  was done. M    daft
are available, from which more detailed rests could be obtained than was prcbcable m te
6     Ibis is apparently to avoid disputes over payment for can water.
7   Water and Lnd Managemet lnstitute set up under Cedit 954-IN to tn CADA
staff and farmers.



6
limited time avaie to the PCR mission. Thse could be used in formulating future igation
policy in Maharashtra
20.  Supeviion missions reported some poor finishes, lack cf curing of conctete structures
and some poor quality precast concrete field channels, but overall the quality of construction
appearsto be normal for istype of work caied out by smal contwtom
21. The sustainability of benefits generated by the project depends largely on the project
works and the upstream parts of the system, which were not included in the project, being
properly maintained and operated. Although in a few cases water users' societes have  n
responsibility for minors, in almost all the project areas, the responsibility for O&M down to the
ouet into the field channels remains with the Ipigaton Depament (for headworks) and CADA.
CAIA are allocated Rs.87 per ha per year in addition to regular establishment costs8 for
marintenance between the head of the distributary and the outlet to the field channel; this is
inadequate to avoid deterioraton of the system. It is thrfore likely that gradual progressive
deterioration of the system will continue.
22.   Maintenance of field channels and drains rmais the esponsibility of outet committees,
where these operate, and the fanners involvedR. The PCR mision formed the impression that
although outlet committees existed they frequently did not function. Maintenane was left to
fermers to look after their own interests, which is rasonably successfuL However, repairs to
gates, concrete and masonry structures and canal lining are often left unmade and gradual
progressive deterioration of these is also likely. Nevertheless, it is expected that farmers will
pneraily ensure that the field channels remain operadve, but the quality of the irrgation network
s lkely to decrease with time and the condition of field chaels will tend to retum to what it was
befor the project Receipts from water charges do not cover O&M costs (see Part fl6.c.).
23.   The lessons leamed in the earlierplot project were incorpoated into this project and the
se    of the project was adjusted to suit the constraints, mainly te availability of trained staff 1.
However, the economic reuns from improving teriazy development in water-short areas appear
to have been overstimatedc Frequent supervision missions and several additional missions for
spefic topics gave useful advice and assistance to CADA staff in project implementation.
Nevertheless, the policy for operation of the irrigadon system remains unclear (see paras 13 to
15).
8   Regular estabent and O&M of headworks, colonies and other facilities bring
the total annual cost of O&M to about Rs.500irzigable hect.
: 9 The O&M of some short minor canals has also been handed over to farmers'
organiains.
1 0 At appraisal the scope of the project was expanded pardy in order to provide
employment for the large numbers of WALMI gaduts who wiould become
available. Even so staff availabilit was a constraint early in the project



7
24.  In order to acceerae disbement, the Bank agreed to acce  applicato  for iberim
completion of works and increased disburement peren    The project did not include a
component for agricultal exteasion and, despite frequent requests, e Bank was unable to
persuade GOM to provide more extnsion workers and subjetmatte spelists for izigatd
agr:itu
25.     ns           Pilot projects gave valuable dance for the main project parly
regarding identificadon of problems requiring rehabii n and definiton of design csoit   It is
dificlt to influence the Deparment of Agture (DOA) on iigation projec in W"ich they
have no component (see para 23). In a project consisting almost entirely of local cos,
devaluaion of the local currency is                   e     When availablewa
is spread over too large an area)t, few benefits will be obtained by improvn tertiay
development Sbejpali is diffcu to admsterfay,     y in ars  whete water s scarce.
Monitoring of project benefits should be supplemented by evuation of results. Sup
missions s-hould ensure tt dat are presentd in a form that can be used for  mting be.efis.
A good oppor6tui for such a recommendation arose when the credit and the spe of the project
were extendedm in1989 and a condition was to be that the project bepriseL How, this
reappraisal was not caried out, possibly because data were not avaiabe i a sue fom.
26.  In general, the Borrower performed well in the physica and tining compone. Funds
were made available when required; after initial difficues, a   staff was provided, but
GOM was rther slow in disbandin construcdon divisions when thesewere no h    needed,
contribting to a high proportion of overhead costs. The project was woell  and COM
appointed a project coordinator, which was not enisaged in the SARL  In eneral, GOM
complied with covenants in the Pject Agreement, though some   late. Notae eepons
concen the establising and applying of imnprovedpln for water distrbuio and the allocatio
and use of soil moistue data from reference fields to mprove irrigato scheduling. A good
procedure for halding over completed works from the conson divisions to O&M divisios
was established.
27.  Good relations were mained between the Borrower and the Bank through feq
missions with reasonable continuity of Bank and CADA staff. Althoughconsideable efforts
were made to improve coordination between CADA and DOA thogh meen  of canal advisory
commitees andie training of extsion workers, Bank supevision miio laly  pt
that extension seres remained weak due to inadequt Staff.
28.  There were no consulting services prvided by the project but the adapdve research
component was entrused to two State Agculual UDive es wi a iew to deveopig and
demonstrating: (a) i on    *  suitable for fields before land shaping; (b) cropping and
fanning sysems     u* for  tenvrnent and sil and risk-taing abAilit of th famr ad
SAR, Annex 1, Table T-1O shows bt maidmum rabi and hot season canal
irrigation inensity vaies from 36% to 81%.



IF
--~ E-ltl  LW
.. a.u*. La
'              t0gii~~~~~
000-,~11



e                              9
PART IIL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



10
Ocmats on Part I of POR p"paed by  onid Sauk.
P*ojoot Identity   I             No  omments
Boakground         I             No comments
Project Objectives ind Dbeoription *    No Oaments
Projeot Dasigo and Organisation
Para 7              no Comments
Pare 8
It ib not proper to say that the concept of the project was not
altogether.s atisfaotory.  Prior to taklng up to Naharaehtra Water
Utilisati6a Project, it was observed that main constraint in full
utilisatiGo of water was defioincies in the irrigation dietribution
system,, eecially  the mindor  and field channels* This made good
system operation virtually impossible ahd resulted in an inadequate
and unoe lible water supply at the farm level. Other constraints
were a(l .I;Nc of farmers ezp*rienoe in an irrigoted agriculture#
(2) absence of or inadequate land shaping and (3) kt fact that no
suitable reommendation on irrigation practioes have be.n developed
for the B*.Q.oils*
The iabarashtra Water Utilisation Projeot 'was aimed to attempt
at removal of these deficiencies and increaso water utilisation.
'It was clearly defined in 8AR that the main objeetives would be ,o
inoreas the offective utilisation of available irrigation water,
thereby t@ increase agricultre production and farm income and
;romote. ru1ml developmeat.
At    tie of projeat formulation, areas oni sub.rprojeeta
U*06 ja^oz, Purma, lula, Gia and Madskwasla) were identified
where irrittin distribution netwo*k needed urgent lmprovesmat. The
fatmers i  tse identified areas did not get any/adequate water due
to defioinsooeq in the system and -a such they were doprived of
project. b*flts.  Removal of thse deficiencies was th& main oconept
of Naharaihtra Water Utilisation ProjOet. This was preubrequisito for
following othw objectives of Maharashtra Water Utillsation Proje6t.
Now the wtrks undor Mabarashtra Water Utilisatlon Projeot are over
and these areas are receiving irrigatiom water easily 'ad equitably'
As such the aim of equitable distribution of water i1 fulfilled
Parmers iu the oommand are trained under taharashtra Water Utilisation
Projioct ad are now well conversant with irrigated agrioulture
theioque, Use of fertilise"r and now variety of seeds etc. Parers
aro usng this knowledge on farom  and iproving farm production.
It s stated in the PB POR that the water is scarce no meet of
the projeet areas. This ts not truo. The projeot hydroloy bo been
Bonceptual sed at 75% dependability.  Thus it auoms that 3 year out
of 12 ye a project winl not receive designed storage s Pollowing
table show  inflow in 5 for all eubeprojects from 1984.85 to l90S^9l.
Year                               1gs
Jer akwa    Pas       Hula   Gu rna    Kbhgakiasla
198S5             81.      62       100       63           100
1985-66           31      *         44        47           100
198647            14       39       53        27            99
198I.T6           22       64                .25            n
1989              94      100       10       79             a
1989090           91      100       86        41        .  86
1§90_91          2D00     9          X                      83



ii
From thdo tabt It wil be seen that water is not soarce to
thsbkwa8sl ProjeOt. In othor proSjetes barring three consecutive
drought year starting from 1985486, the inflow to the projest ts
satistactorys
Contention WMlOR that amt  wbile upgrading the irrigation
network can pormit more equitable distribution, it hso littls effoet
on irrigatton intonsity; is generally agreed.. Inoreaos  to Irrigation
intensity may not be oonsidered am a measure to assess success of the
project. Irrigatioo Intenosit is a variable affected by factors esuh
as adequato rainfall in the command, availability of well watert
sowing of cash oropo requiring more water, non-availability of proper
soeds at the time of sowing oto.
Whoo rains are adqquate and well spread to the oommand, farmers
normally do not apply for water. Similsrly If farmers go for cash
crops, te area sanotioned for suoh oroos has to be restrioted to
percentage in project crop pattern which io about 4 to 5%. Due to this
although all available water is utilised, intensity of Irrigation does
not inOrease. Thus It will not be proper to gauge success of projeot
alone on inerease in irrigation intensity. A better approash would
be to find out trrigation intensity based oan Rabi equivalent.
The benefits due to the projeot were not over estimated. Due
to compoltion of works under Xsharashtra Water Utilisation Project,
wlater is now reaching all oornere of the command and farmers aro
confident of getting canal water. It may be noted that in the area
where projeot works are completed, farmwe woro not receiving adequate
water at all as such they were not irrigation minded. Now Du, to tim
training imparted to them under farmers7 training and due to farmeors
confidence of getting timely and adequate water, more and more farmers
are applying for water.
Proj oat Implemontation
Para 9:
Origtnally the project was to be oompleted in a tine slice of
5 years. Subsequently, to utilise eavings tn the project costs,
additional worke of distributaries/uinors/field channels vere taken.
This additional work required extension of estabilisbaent for 3 pm
more rears. This hae inoreased the coet of overheade. The rercentwe
of ovorbead cost to other cost is about 33% and not 37% as stated in
Evaluation summay.
One of the cowenant in the BAR was to promote lad sbaping in
the command areAos. The command areas ID Jakyakwadi, Purnaj, Kula and
Girna comand are having flat topography with moderate slopo groupe
and did not require much lad lovelling   More ovor most of the lands
in these comands were already levelled by Agriculture Department.
In isolated cases, where farmers felt neessty of some land levelling,
fameris puzftm  preferred to do it on their own. There was little
neoessity of land levelling in these project commands. so there ws
no response to land shaping in tbese projects.
Case of Khgfakwaela to different. The I aids in the ommand are
undulating and bhving steep Slopes* It iS diftioult to receive
irrigation water without proper land levelling Thus It was possible
to promote lend shaping In this projeot.



12
Pga   1I,           Jo Comemnts
I Project Results
As per BAR total area of 949450 Ha was to bo uptraded. Durtng
eoeutio   of project  some saviang  were anticipated.   O to utilise
full credit mount, the scope of the project was extended. It was
planned to upgraded total area of 1,15.203 ha. Tm project period was
over by Apuet 91 and total area upgrd Was 1,12#827. This ts about
20% more tbau was planned in BSA.
Para 12
A insin objective was to increaeo effective use of water. This
to now possible due to improved distribution system. It is seen that
area Irritated per MOjCof water is now incrdased as will be seen from
statement obown below a
Now of          Area irrigated in IL      Area irrigated io EL
Projeot         mor lIft bo               Par   ft sfttr II
EtharlS    R     grtz   thr ab1                 a w 
Jayskwadi        -        2.00    0.96   6.64         2.38      1.77
Nula            4.90      2.16    1.46   8.84         3.44    . 2.36
Btroa -                   2.96            _           3.96
=., . .  *          *.-,-.-.-.-           * *  * * *e ** *.*    ** * * *.e   ... *. *  
thus it will be seen that main objeotive of effective use of.
water i. fulfilled.
General tendendy of farmers is to depend o' the rals for
seasonal crops and appl for water only for asAh crops. Forone  ave
now leanibg more for cash crops which oonsme high water. Tho area
under nobh crop are to be restricted to the percentage proscribed t1
the approved cropping pattern. This percentage in usually low# so that
more seah8bal crops can be irrigat4. Also, it ts necessar to
restrict area under high water consuming crops so that attendant
problm _mob as water logging, salinity eto* can be oin imis o. this
leads to  esser area under irrigatioc and consequently lower
irrigatiob Intensity.
A better wy to assesa project results woild be to bring al1
crops on ame tooting with the concept of Rabi equivalent and theo
measure irigLation intensity., Irrigation Intensity for some pro eotc
with tWi concept work out as belows
oawe of Project    Year       Irrigation intensity   Irrigati fflaten-
on canal               aty on Canal witb
Rabi  auulvalen
Jayak4si4         1988-89           34                       53
1989.90           42                      76
1990e91           30                       71
Puma              1968-89           44                      119
198990"           44                      11
1999091           3%                       99
Ilild Jank has worked out MMl fortbe who,  projest to be 3%,
Thie is bied partly an the data oupplied by fteld officers eda sowe



13
asumptions made by the World Bank. The data ts now re-veritfed and
revised ealculations of ERR are nw worked out. The EIR for the
whole project now works out to 9.9% agaimt 3% worked out by Wotld
Doak. Detailed note on ERR to enclood as attaobuent 2 to tble report.
*Para 13:
Por Improving system operations, operation plan for oeah sub.
projeot to prepared. The aim of preparing operatlon plan was to
incorporato all detalsa of the system and Its operation it  one manial.
__;      This was, thercoeroe  to be used as system manual by system engineer.
These oporatio3irplane are approved by World Za            areorts are being
made to oporate the system aacordivlyo.
Rotational water supply systeto i being Implemented oo tho jpo,ct
area. Efforts are being made to keep discharge of outlet to 28 jVa.
Reference fields could not be set up in each projest areoas it
was telt that thore to so suoh variation in soil conditions that it
would be iupraotioabb to use the results,
Para 14:
The work of one distributary on Kula Projeot(OCA 1237 Ha) bas
been oampleted with the concept of Proportional Pilot distributton.
The irrigation oO this distributary has also started from Rabi 91.
The concept is new one arA it ill take some time to knoa results of
this experiment. Fiel1 officers are oconfident that this new oonoept
will be welcomed by the farmors. Constant monitoring of this system
ti being done.
The contention of World Bank that crops grown differ from those
approved and water use is often higher than planned may be vlowed
tn fofloulng contexts
At the start of soason proliminary IrTigation   ogram is
prepared. Thls prgram splls out the strategy of the oZesa
engineer rogarding use of water and crops to be grown. The outcom
of this prcgram is not oeactly as spelled as the farmers tend to
grow crops which may toteb more maztet value. These orops mar be
different tha planned and may also be consuming more water. eThus
there io difference in orops planned/water use plansee and crops
actu a    grown/water actually used. This offies feols that tie
flezibility is necessery in %te systm*m The system ts built for
fanore and fazrers arebetter judge of orope to be grown and may
ttierefooe be allowed to grow croVs as desired.
Canal inspectoro aroinoMarge of 500 ha of command. Itrrigatlon
in about 25 cmes is looked after by him. Under each canal inopotor
one assistant is given. All canal Inspector* in the comand ar
traineVdiD the training contre and-are In know of proper operation of
system. Inspito of this  some dWOOt in operation osytems Lelkly to -
errupt.
tt is truo that outlet emmittees formed do not funotion
propsu*j. llP re in the outlet ommittess are from the "am illsage/
area a   trefowet hesitate to take over the operation of outlet for
not riskng displeasure of other elnlow villogrs



14
Wth this viewo, it is Pro;ed to estab'lih Water Users' Soctety
under esih Section4 Offoerse. Toc ety *h  establised,. win
take ovea the operation of the system and thereby  canal     otor can
hadle his rduced J*at juridition VoX  eftlo1ent.y.   pIl-son
about l.dsh socitites are formed. and. oanded'6vei Zwth the r-eponubi-
lity of taintenance.
Para, 15
T!  spread of all projects Li quite big. For examp,te comand
undor Ji;t BaSk Canal of Jayakwad. is 1,41,640 ha andftep oanal le ngth
io 208.kI. This canal oovers 3 districts and 6 talukas. Crop pattern
adopted afarmers In esah taluka ts differont, It is, therefore*
natUral tnat 0ge number of orops are grown at dne time
It it also ncooesary to provide few heavy irrigationsa rather
than mor frequent lighter irrigation due to the ospad of the
project., If frequent lighter irrigations ar givent  due to 3 ngth ot
canal, the canal will alwayp be flowing and no mainonenace poriod wil
be posib2e. Uoreover the conveyance losses way also increase.
The Uorld Bank's contention that few heavy Irrigations discourage
the fasbts from shiting to higher value crops requin  frequeot
lightor it*igation is not oorreot  Such farmers are augmenting onal
supply,with their own wells . 7armors are taling more wells in the
command *6 take advantage of ground water reohoge due to timely and
adequate availability of water in the oommand.
This offioe a      with tho World Bank's opinion that roestricti
on oonsuajtiYe use of can al water and ground wtar should be removed.
to faostjt ti4cw removed in the Water Users* Societies*
Para 16i
Annual production of food crops in the project Irea as estimated
io BAR aid as actually obtaioed io summarised in belo tables
(*rs. in tooqtyoar)
Name of Project      Annual Production   Annual Production
as per OAR              Obtained
Joakwadi                4977,500             2 77,885
Purna                     91.600            -1902t352
Mou3                      94,500               62,147
Kbidakwasla               47*700               42,569
A.:stated earlior, the system is reeontly completed and it wil
be some time before production boost can bes seen.
Pram  12              No  oments
Para 1.               Up  oments
14qa  :                o  Do'"ate
Para ?     Projeet SustaiVnabLUty.
!Kb quality of woks was seen                     t the speio     wision ftom
tims to.timo-during their field visits. Baring one or two tray
spots t    s     ion uisi0aad the quality of works.



.15
TM makntenaho grats allooated to the projeot tre at tih
rate of RBI87/ba as p r  ovt. oiruar dated 2410.65s This grant ts
szolusiwe of oetabiebmeot oharge  Ustablshmnt grants are
sanOtioned as pw eatual reouirOmeat6 Although, tbm grant of Rse87/ha
is inadequate o maintain the work in proper codtiatont omtantlom
of WB thit there wUl.be gradual deterioration of the system to Dot
oornot.
Atthe start of itrLgatton year, field ofileer. oarvey the
damages tO the system and priority f c repais is allocated t
.following  equenoe
1.   Repars to masonry works on main oanal.
2.      eairs to gates on main osnal.
3.   Rosapi.n  of earthwork of distribution eystem.
4..    PAIrs o                         daso   structurso  of  istribution system.
5.   Bektr to gaes On distrbution    tem
6.   Repars to oanel lining on mi oaal.
7.   Rpairs to lining of distribtion   tem.
The         works are carried out *rr the priority list and
availabilty of budgt. It ie true thtt  dlatmaes can oot be
rectified      the ae3ble budget but it is seen   at  pots requiring
iu.edtate attention are repaired first.  Tbreforo, tins ystem
genorallyremains in satisfaotory condition.
wo keep the system in good shape, this grant -is  quird to be
nolbamtoeo This io undar consideration.
Pgra 224
Thi maintenance of field obsanels is to be done by farmerso It
ti seen that this Li tone by farurs prior towooeiving of water.
Para 23: Ju*k9 pearomance 'a       No Comments.
Para 26i  rrower's Perfor"0o6
twe construction divisions wored isbdd no sooner the wo
Were over oxcept to  l     akml lprojeet. Beoto6 disbanding the dtviotouf
Got. bas to pun aooanuodating t        plu  staff elsew1here So *8
thre wa blight do2ay in disbd1   contrUOtion Organisation of
Khladakwag  projeot. In cas  of Jkw     ProJest, although works were
oompleted by Aug,&91  the construoton oran          vasston  s required to be
oontinued upto Dec.9i to claim rimbureont
* oilowing table shows the dates on which =woJeot wo** were
completed end the dates On which the onstruotion orgat.satiot was
di abandedi
ProJect         Date on witoh weors        Date on which construoo
were Oompleted.           tion ornisation
gbe91                       b.91
Puma.              teb.92.             :     Web. 91
gi6                    juno 91'                   Junq 91,
KhAakW"wla             Nat. 90                    8ep. 90g
m.m.  m *             .   *m*    me    m..., .m .i  *r*** ..



16
.Para 27:      * pojoot Belattongbip           so e00100t5
Para 28:      a Ooslting 8.erio..             ii.0Amite
Para 29:       a irjeot Doumsentsti6o and Paft.
. f   "ithout Pro$"t   Jat tot  yakait Puna and
Kbad*ula ?rojoeueot WMT                          during thei
visit. tm6 on this data# be PCb .iidofi hem worked out the
RBo0~m. lat R of Retun. DtatS for  ul=a  Girna ftojeote to
-ooglleotodRevised lt R   have boom wotked out with tbe belp
of tti data.
tlow aoitoring of the propiotso suitable toSati were
paik ldo coutltation wi          W ote World llik. fbA uont*dring
ot   pro eto swa done accordinglyw  jimiUrly, duraing misson
nIidata as 80quied by the mission Was furnished.
0 !TB 43 PAt III 0r .WlrD BDM   R
Credits i         No oomento
&r -- 2*
Wrojeet
TinItables         so Gommnts
~.i/
&@d: dig.
btzeumfsos        No Caoments
pari 44    f!raling taro*- her gives iii SARL But at the start
of the projeot  eomissioning formts wore iPe         I
oongultatlon with World Basnk  la these ec.uuussii
f    t ta       wore revise I.     I iupusntation wao to
be done  0on   to tbe revi4 ..t    .*iseu to th
Coumteooiftg tato. fh  tre      u  targtoas  per 8a1
as    oorC idt oUiD* fomts and actual obiovemeats is
81!    Poruats          AoI4tu.n
b.ig.                .10               9           6
as;tnr.               39 g2                      43
12
Iai-eu.              9616          24500       25225
a.sb.                1120            292         506
.DJ~.                        .150   2S.5        .601
*.s .4r.   e__, _ __. ._  ini ._ ._, ._ *mgm .m.............................. _._._ .i.i.m.m. .m.m.. _  ,_. ._ ._ *m_qq   _ *, _
' 2h eroest tso VGMt3y  cUtos4   It to tcr*1  to
atter'som  ptero&  It is-hoped thit direst benefit   21
leash the IOvJl urnatimme 1. S .



17
Pi 6:
D4eonoulo
urn BURN of the projso t are  now retluateG and we
detailed to encosed .. ehe-ElR a  er AR, -
per PORC -A  as now wornd out  man *   ol 
_....   ._n  ,_ ._ ._.     ._ ._.   ._n~  ._  ._ ,_.   ._.   ,__.   ._.   ._mC
MMA  m"it toei
fhole proje.t           6           3           o9.90
Jqakwadi               47           7        7.50
Puree                  36         WI G3.80
Nula                   24          -        18*20
Gtrna                  23          -         6.15
Kbadekwaala            19           5       21.10
Cinmanoal IMLoot
Th 1982 estivate (as shown to ParW      Va
Var  6.n1  sh.old be 'liSt.



18
A Noe on eotmation of Economic Rate of Retrn of
M"Nhhti  W_e Uliisation Projeos.
U* im  Prut bae en Oe madalable da of te poets La. Jay            pw.
aW KadwdL. NWo data kwal proeb Is lcmed n dat ake    supptld to th
PA* studs Is velet Based con ths damaw the rvtud Esenmlo Rate of ratminIs wothe
Leetmipdom  made in We PMR In "INdat" tVW WM haVe been btatod as summaised
beb": -i
I. E   RMIabhd II g Septe20mber91 MsoNta pine overa p14ect period of
3.h9awe
2. S.auomb Fries ofteadededrnmo*es have ben derivd fm prkiy pices
haSm donti WON Ba"t smmodily -  forecst
No     t are IuIdud I Ctime   swam.
2.0  tptss Iteeily
to VAPWe EmRR Es.5fo lt. amprolaes, worked Got assumin  Irrgaton
- rsetvuue _            ithoti. F_Sf
'I          2             3           4
Jay.mm       31           42         112
Pum          61            N4
.te          26            3     a     61
. bi -26                   30          49
Ehah.mask   IS             30          6
aewABguge.eSsuimedhwA SM   kum   w6Prmbauemires IUpUu SumfsUe a
aally Obthd _   ida poje  asem. Thu tw  Oft nod &  in PCR am not be
VWi W    INR sed doAR.                   *



*1%
The ERs ar a     mohed &at assmin bllgatan ntensIes wtu priet as
gIve n Si AR. I Is asumned tha fth lugatlmn intesitie on the preotM of die stafn of
MWUP protes would be as shawe In co I abave and would reahdt level In ao 2 eate
prolo campletn ted theate 1 w  rim    oonsta.
lnagaln h sity wih pot tipo 1990-91 afe aetuaL Threafter, i Is assumed
that maximum  ripgtion bwensly tt would be  aheUd whh poeat wOud be ll WEl aD
prmints oxtmpt SIm for whb Ist ad te 40W.
30  Cropping Paten:
Croppig pauem Ina yakvad pojt wh pro aW withouA  pret   diffren
mn assumed In PCR. The sanect sroppng patun (wbh and wftout proJ  Is now take
Revised ecomml crop bdWt or thb prot s wod out an cloe as Taboe 14. N(a)
and G(b)
Fa orlwm profets. cropp    patt, m assumed hi PCR gneroly tl  an   i
teeor, not ohangad Economic crop budet for these proet maIn same as wod oud
In I?.t
4.0 Cost:
In WS PCR cost Wo September 1M1 are taken. Sone expndk   was iva urbrd even
afte ta. Now upodate costs of the pr M awa tL.
5.0 Re-EsimatedERR,:
ated on Om above assumptons, Xt        bave been e-esdmated for whoe pr o and
at prts individually. Th  are uhn fm Table 7 to Table 12.
The EFft toe whol rde pjtr and  idlid proe  as per SAP, WS PCR ad as
wod  or now ate sown below
Project        ERR as wa"orkd t
InlR   hIPCR.FWo bW       t   asolll
WhaPOr        36            3            V."
Jaakwa          47           7           7.60
PuM             36        -16           -3.0
Nut             24          -           1120
Son       '     22         -             C616
adawasa         1           6           11.10
13o  th whale pjl s 9.9w *   fto Idi l r ts n        nw adefro  -2.
t(M"MPeuqo1.  (harja l ssm  htpaets  ds Is gn
good soonewa rae of relate



20
ERR .Puma pmoject Is neative. In  A, pesent  iawn  tm y ( Le. as
e#xt   atheO st  of UWUP projWtIn 1983b 3fakenss61 O. Based on ths, WS
teroxted Out this would be S6  for fut wUho t poect eWd wih pM*c k would
be 86 S   Migatlon Intleits as obtained osidde MWUP aea for lkt few yeas are gen
belw:
Yawt        §~fnldnonsl   y htWw' S UP
1983-84               39
1984-8C               39
t98?-0                28
1981-89               66
tns -so               w9
1990-91               66
It will be seen tht brIgatdon intenst  the nitil ped of prolect was less
than S1 Vh and satteed ga     up in kter yos as foreated In SAR,. Ths rrgt
tensy of St O at the st  of pet needs necmietltn.
6.0 lkng*aton on wels:
Ot  tocope   d project wods. ftrmen am assurd of tim  ad  adequa    r
'7ly. Gtund water lvel In th command Is com    up. Fannen have eas this and
hae slaned a"ig wea  In case d Mule p ct, the numbOrnw wellsd si the proj
command hve bee doubled. Shile Irase In weft i  ao see In oth  projeot aas.
Ths well woud rato have coate up the poec woks we not taken It, Oeo
flw th  the benwft from wel Irrgton ma also be Inuded In estmaton of ERRt-
ERsfor Payawad adumprojects have  nwokdt dulyo_bnsiderighulpon w
weR and th rests ae as shown beow:
ERR based an Infqatlo inwtesits on
*rolect          Canal     Cral + Well
Jayakwadl      7.50         11.60
Puna         -23.0            T.90
WAIh weIr bigation incude  ERR for iuall prs and for the wob  projt
wimpve.



giC |0t ) Aok   8    qs Jya Ad Pjetwith aod vho*M  the QEroWl
_                                                   v~~~~~~~~~w
P*IdNABM    UrA~ ~ ~ ~~P.                                             4
_*pag             Ub                 no                                             .I swo  m  =ee
Vidd                   14*   fb      o       1.70     I1.0      1.15      1.40  1200          1.60
P."         406     is60      142?    1l0         1i6      211       620.
room                     2641      2700      2426    1150       222       202    I"
.    2262       370      24       1160       222      322      to0o
Si  25160    291        2an      12650      "a4       4214    11029
P.66197     K~~~~~~~      1 ~      10        2         2        10      100       I00
Ib0i                    Si        1600        10        1       164        12        64        16
U eRi     1600       120        3       460        50       50       50
0.661117                Kg         110 SO       0 at     0       20         1160     ff0      16
QM-Co                              0         625 U             1410        626       6        60
OUtCmt                  Kg          60t    t           IS*               6I          54   t6
S dt-Col                           250G      2          20      5 020     25         704       16
_       _O               P          so        so    o       so     o 1oo s       o  64         i
no12            250      26 o                20       24        190
Sb -C a274                                  2249      22664    466       24i6      2262     6612
Cgp.o          0F            1C          t          O         O0        10    *        45       100
X_.as                Ni           Is                  a         0         40     26         45      4o6
C.upphmgpbm.             00          25         0         0        0        19        25        21      100
______________          Pb         44           5        O    ,6O              ,   23         69       676
-   - -   -   -     -        -         -         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



5*            1        si          o                            n        A  
CO           et        at     Jo         0         1         991        gm            mm
COt      La       St       639       0        0                  St           b                _
0 W2   b>0tt      0IS       0        0        0        t0        001W                               o n
9S1      gm       s9       06        Om       gm        99         gU
*6        0ct     096      0OL       Os       03t      0003         u 
"61               0        091                 9  9  9             9 W        _ wo
Om       "t       on       Oer       as       as   e""ooo           Su
i9       96       90       96        Pt      39        09           ' U      
. L    01  3      0        009      0as       as 89    S0t         p-'U             UUAN
0o       s9e      go       01        Cy                on           'so
1        9U       0n       on        on       on       Om           Os
's       's       O's      Os        WI       O'       o's          V
St       09S      0W       "0        01       Os       o1           Gm
11       1w       w1       091       as       Wo       O09          so              003-4
009     o0n       01t       e        St       O        on1          so
0St      69      9at        at1      00L      966       W16         so'U
009      009      Osl      t         1        16        09A 'U
@9l ttsg     ane       "gt    mice       "9ti      ul&St       IV
ows eo        ut      '9ss      on          :      Sete        V             _
atn      Omo      tug      ons¢t    wt        to        ons         my_             _
On       0019     091      01        061&    0eL        00309      *UL 
-  -                 -        -    -oo  -s "W
_' ___                             _i9                          .       _ _ _ _
- -                                  -e                          - 3Iva
9   319V.L



-                                         -      -    -      -     -     -      -     ---                            -
mAgo  Isemi Ors=   mm  sacr Amon ursgs  msm  es-se  mms two  aria  Iu            mis    ot. gum- Wm   wt.   n    alo
- -                 -   _-      -  -        w   -w_                         ---                          -aBwt___
. ri    lt              an sWt us          n sr   _ us
sees. .isorn awn        NMe m 0 8I"    am" ms"
MMS=U                   W     11:   AWS    t 9 SleW$   tfu  UM   WM   OO   Writ uS             UV   I=    =J   aBn rut-
VI*                     ne   P"a "SU  ons OV3,9 VW" n m$  1,*%# M    ib| 1111 Sor    in   OWNat   A" on                          an   am _
N~~~~~g             Ws   we  an   on   Om   lot  Zgm   *g o"   OWn omn    n   an   an   an   an   an   IM   a
It  a  a  as                         es    It    a      ermwie.Use  trs  rmm.  n-    rsm
mWsat mm  9ta  .5asu-s   CIns  ga. ins. w     ma cBOrme m e MM S    mu  mmas, esm  amue   we, earv s.mc   am-  em
anw  eM   t  MO    an   mew. WI,  MIt  m-            t Me, e,. swe,t sweet si  ss  Pus  ass W        u ns-s _s   "WV
o"  O   am  am  am  m                 o    W n                 i  as to         ne      m  am               a   Om                 _
.~~~~~~o a
Ims  am$s mens  sam$ere  esls am enags &te eec us es esns tsW5  nutsg ami   am3   NMe.  me v             aumc  ang mito
sum   susam    sm   assg,g                 ease  rtes  sue   asw  sut  em    ee   sea   sits   met  ma   sam   t  e nF__
a            W . "    n-4 s    cv W."       W"a,  . 4               a     s     a -*         a     n       -         a s_
-   -     -s.     OU-
asses. aceaae.   msae.  ci.ast   cngesaesaueam.  em    ieossa. sua.ssse    s                                       sei
_ .          -     -_           _           -   ,_ ..
s-se  u-s   mm   mm   en-   a-a  as-s  s-e   a-u  's-e   mm   _ue   am   mm a                uua-e   -e
~~~~~~~~ 
..~                        -    -            -     -.     -_-_.
~~~~~~~~~85!U5. MO elDJ!I5U~U  tUF~W'I~'                                    I F- _ UWa  #1OW  ,-sq



I
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m~ T hEEl E    wEl  EEl    awn  .o1T UW  mis &~W   ET arns  M    PEo- ewre- U,     .IS   s   Brw Mrs"~ met. -__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
term  ownu ti t ui-o   Wug  leu  to aer a
WI   or& letS  131   D   I        erg51    W Si   ma
Wu 'u   mW'  mu  m,strop  PM   "M                    -
*gm  o  a    I'N41  o"  U    10,    su M    A. uvw mu    "Ss awl. am. 9ma   mens.
"n~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mo                                            ;a "Ws   MP  *F   oo  t o?$tOrwo    M,$tt ot "V  os   *r   "t |  U 
r   _ -r  _#                0nln: srn n      go,  grag *wn   4           as                a  _    _    ,         is
as*  wrou  ruv         M    an   M",         wn      s  gm eus&W                wn o  uss-  WI  WI  "a _
I                      Wm  am           am   am   Mo   wit  tos  wOits  ."'   am         nP.* t   SM   a" .   w
I   U    3                        *,  a  a    a    it   gp                                        w    et   pi.
am# fr.$        'm    Ots  au     4  cuts  am%  mt         n  ou"   Mo  on            c   *"a to  anW u        l.    r     r Zn It "_
.         1504 W  45              Ulut  14          O3C  e    U*i ols -1l  a,"  v"*S  a4                    1 _-
5wJ!4ufUQJWVJJ! JW2UVU  5 pSuwqj PIlOIa !PUM4WA  - UIAIUV DWW0U9Ot GMuju



teis a"^   Sar   Ut'4  It  lit   Mr- uur  urr 1wr It   wri wF 1                        I       orW-l     Usn t       tag
'                                                                  IX   1.1   ft    ill  IrS             tS tUg WI NI 5(
am* WWI WWI an" I"=  orewe wtvi "Fe  Gm*,  Ws  a|" ric  tw*- U. am   Om                        _
SuItS&O6   Og    r   sa    cl                   $m   ntw         "t *Art  Sf51s  WIt  LOM   SW?s  niN   OmP   an
as  wI   in    wt   sit   wt   in   sig   on    mt   mg    re   wrt  we   wt  ti               wot g              mg 5uVl
*lNt:lF 'sewS Sean  sONS  WS*t#tSlN   WV. WoOl t_WS Pi@# wcit. ae   Sf-  Ile  eero- Sre- e.a-t  is,
la I  013ses   ith;  ~gt leset tS 'U seu5  St'il 61511 65(3 tOPWGl l  ZWSI IS   SO   Oti   sr   WO   U
s     Us    twa  we   "go  we   in    in           o     in         see   tlt ow        o r   W    g we   an    Om   gmsqm
WV   ii    If    Wi    a       us    us     M    ur    W s          us w    s    Av    a's    a s Art        as I       e_
o n    na"    tW Om    an                  an   St    OM   gm    W        gm    cm            Ms  an    to    a tt  gU_
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;_
f t   t   a               t   as   a      VI    St iSt  if    I1t                           or ailt  Uts  Is    *    0s        _ _ *
stl  slo   no   "W   es    Ent  tS    et  in"  26   "m   nm   $0   tm   ou   it    eta   Is  tt                        t_
-006a VI-W t                                t1- -It- SO1 Wu
*15  38-1 U  64 _    6 _    _  SS   a-   us if        ti-   13 _    #.tj 16       w   _- _4 _i 58  5-_
- _                                               - I .       -   -        --4   n    -       -      1-4
C5IN5UtiU  "PM.l~JJ 1UU53 U pMtwq  MM7a N'"nd -           OT 21wUimU      t t PJ



'                                                                                                                      *b g-m
L~~~_   *m   r-__iW   all   UZl  usc~  IFIT                            SW BU 1             W    ?wn.                             ______
I  S  rs    WS       Sr     tr     Wsr Ws    Wss
Mf   we   M       Wi MNS"  tWFs_
I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~                ~gstrs  uris  ICSFt   wa-u  swig  si1,1. 112M   MT             e
own -Pe   gm W     mu      a MO  urn  Or   pin -          ' M r wz   MI SS "            tIts   wi t$M t   twa. v
twin  Mu g$       tSr.  marp  sria    #mr    as t swar  tw        t   a    tws R*n  uris wns  s a ri  mWst an rs  Mt    we
Wstns  we  wt  mg   W8   Wu   mg   va   Ws   we   twi  we   v-    is   _t  mg   WC   Ws    tt  us
r ua        a     0              t "te a          Or    t          s t a    iO   an     art    w    art   tot   an    ar t u $AP-SIu_"
sues uris  arm  usaris  sris  sa   urn  urn   ar    wit sraw   wit  Strew  res  ta m   mas  urn   wsv   sr
urt   usru    ur s   ass   sri we    we     sI  WI            in    In       st   at   otn  an    ons   st   en    Ws
(%5                          iS                                                iS                                    is Ut i9 t    m    wt           t     sou_
mic  mso"          m       a             t   ats n  n         t        itt   U5s  Ua   t       " I t   tst   ta"
L                               -!1 -_ Hn ____-_". _"                     .       .    a-m                I_    ms- 
_i-it _s _t- _i-as _                 wi-is_  tpars us-st  wit u- S    to-as  _t-s_    iswi gm
I5wjl!5u!  U95U4JUWal  wa wUff - esfiuy  9al uo,3 - z; eqquj



t;§a$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sit                                                                                g      V;Ps 1i.l lut q.m
~    ir ~          IIF w~   wi iMOii                          lots   Ms-  list   fags- 194  08,9           W- sml  ig.~  on  - out- I_______
LGPG V        et   Ws ew r.  u          et   s   $S           a" U no
.0                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ur  We tw   m  tt gs two arn                            too
ma    first  e       irts   Srt *ne         S       it Is " a n
wrc  t"u   to              at ewgs  1160114  os ts M s$  $Mt  Awe   OW           gg S          nt- egm        c-  Cars-  mv-  0 e
off    tart    at    to                      we     at     Ws     we     we      we    Sri    carts    ga  eMg    We tu         e  gmot    Wste  n         S_
-t     W  -  no    -   W -     -               -                                                                      - o    $- ef   e   gm   e   gm    ou   ,  CON    ou  m  m  a _
et:    s        a     at   asat ;            t      a s           a      at st          ewe    o-  e         as e- t         t    e       e               _e
ginr   me,a  uret  gte.   mrc   "KU   meg   mus   AAe"   useisewet  stwe   as,   am-s   art   amn   mgi                     wr   eOm    mg
*;    teg    tmt      it:    v et           itt      t     vet    auv    v- et    vet          us    its    en e* it        ve Ssi. t    an              _~qseb
tSL;;  625w    Usw    51    gStr 66,   iSrP    6wu gg5    685?   555W   wrFGOP   SI            56     oSS    eNe   it       55     6 _
us    as      us          Ws          we    we "s           WS    o      W      on as enat                   St      on     ws    we   an
"a   n5   m1e# s  ur"s   a"    asr"  gm             an  fas A       St  an    Om               ont    Gm        e   U       a       W        o
4                  ow     o      w o     e      or      ow          w  uo      N     a             ec      u tSri    ur    sruwe    e   e                      t u           _-
- -I --                                                              -                                              - - -  -  -
USP   KIi  ss ap tapt  55,5   SLt"    SIts  6515   Gill  655,   12W Glw Sell,              l   mSKI   titS    "a    "VI    ml   S         C
::I          -*         -    se.S  UW."             *55 go,"      uS, -SO 58    0ts-     WNC  00-61  a."o  00-11  Ws." -i   911-0   M."u-So
fU5IIe'ui    uM il uijj      tlJO peuwqj l J  5U 5!  - U2V W                     3   51 -  q.E



TaMe 14- =cowiomic An*Wx  Khadakwn Pro   aked tn canal iroipation inten2tll
68       -16   1643   43-25        0~~~~~~1 31.10 R-13  5"-34   34145I-          Wu1   9f- 13  2-8            -    0      1. 3-
.~~~~~~~~~ u^"                                                                   As *4t  so* #3 u.n Si   Ss   n    Is   Ss   so   Sst
_-                                                                                          -  -  -  -_                                             -  -_-_
a     in     16      26      34    42         4513    418     41      43      S132    1m      an      no    845            SW s6 s    814      an      2148                    Do
in~aS2ea            281u    3       s        2 ' 32     an   2A      to       to                       a    2.8      3*3 n  i.t       .       to.  ssn  s       n     S.       on
bs.dw               083O   2818n    6n ts*62 un   *"o        143   ITS"   ilia    mSmS n. "11   "On   211   2SIM    "S"   2#5   a2u1 2"
ba--                  te      to      t4      t                n2      n       so                      so      so      so      n Je            sot to           so      so      so
16 t 2          Ia      I     t13       25    n    3 0 t                20      10      16      30      10 W     2       2o3m  S       son      20 
hI .685.8         t       _  211   U 3           65    tanl    *AS    .366    S1         209       3    3a2    S23    to         23    s         2023    20 3             a2      20s
uu3-Hada.              0*0O    OJ3X                        2 e    1334    *2 t.1J1 s3n sa2  u3   6        20o  6.28    ca6n20   632     6320             $.I"    6'ft   115      6js5
0 JAM        12   &5    I1t.=    12*41   12m    tt"    14$   1234  1t.t44  it"    $1,10 1J             2   1111    14   2. 101                26.10*    .1  .10
. ~~  -,*                            -  - -_    __                                                                                             _
_"_ *~~~~~~44   mm                     fIM aatt teot  is.t  2."
_ am                4.4  14.242  20.216  20.024  31.235  12.104   5.1      2 t3 1. 1
_4<_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VI "t sttX         .n4  is"   J
m         2.2K  ~~~11414                 a"84    4.1     s116 1.1  04  .32
_W    -"       -13         E  -4Jf fl       l    1.113 t # f I   21  Wits 32jJ 12 I 4s  141    s.13             IS*0   tm  X .tOt 2WIN I6lt                 to  I
___I_ tA %                                                                                                                                                     t



29
Part II. Proiect Review from Borrower's Perspective
BEaorground
BrIdghi  pp betwen cration of Irrigalion ptenltial and lbs ullbstlen teures ar Intgrutdst,
ntodlspnmy, area development approach. n was with ths view tht, since 1974. comma  wig
de_etopment authies wore formed an oer o ndia. Tlis was also the reason for tnclusl, of on fam
dtveloprmrn waiks. consttuction of toad netwotks, and pilot ptojects, h Itw e tiler wotid bank olded
proeCts like MCIPI and MCIPII.
The Pffol proje:ls and Farmers' projects taken up wider MCIP-1 and MCIP-lf cler   iced
that with phWsial hiprovements to the convoyance system , introductlon of new  techniqs on
ikgptIn though adaptive agricuiltnal research and trining of farmets and grass root level
funconarios. level t utiisation can bo stepped up considerably.
,Fom Ihe exp'rlenee of above projects, it wan seen Ihat whilo OFO wAks got under way on
these prjepcts, the soohl and organisation llnkages lagged behind. It was realsed that unless these
linketes 'ro streigthened, utiiisatlon of Irrigation polential can nd pick up. 11 wes also smen that
haft ingmvio the system and having thus ensured adequte and tinely supply of water, ther was
a nmrked improvment in cultivators involvement and ultimately, In Ute utiisation of waler.
In gh meanwhile. t wae also realised thal howvsoever much we inprove the system. Ia wi not
last long unless thee Is a very active paiticipation of the farmer, the utirmate user of the syplem.
Unless Vie fanmer feels deeply involved, unless he Is properly educated In nnlV We sysem and
feels iike doing so, tm system wil degonerate very quickly.
I I tnre that such an imolvement can not be hwped for In a defectIve syslem. Improvement of
the system  especily [he neglected lip areas Is thefore very Important. Howeer, it Is equt
Important titthe Imrmer Is properly educated In managing the system and usling ghe ItIgtin
supplis aalablo to him.
This Is the aermsisof Malharashtra Water t4irlisation Project.
Maharashtra Water Utillsstlon Plojoct
The Mahsorastro Woter Ulilisnllon Projecl hOs boon taken up from ltu fnncial old of WO
ank* to the tun of 32.00 M. US$ I 29.60 M. SOR as credt eind 22.70 M. USS as oan. The toa
asince works out to 54.70 M. USS.
Works In 5 sub-projects are kIcluded In Moawrashire Water Ul)sell n Prdect. OrIkly
cotemplated sub- project msc orea end cost, aro gIvem bolow:
Sr. Nnme cI Project        Area in              Cost
No                         Hectares             (RS in lalths)
I. Jaywd Projct            42.350               3,077.30
2. Purm Project             10.500                030.90
3.    l Prrject            21.970                1,487.00
4. Gno PRoject               1t.030               702.00
S. Khadahkwas PtoJect       8,60                 1.000.38
6. &E.& 01rectr,lRD                               193.32
Total:               94.450                7,350.90
A    tng to p*3te oremenet, 1l ptlCt was pland to bo compled In a duton d l
y* rs Lo.fom Ocobr 983 to Novemnbet 1988. The cred cosIng dolo of the project was Augus
i9m.



30
During oxecullhn. fl ms seen that tho scope of somo of Oho itomscomponnt woo requi red to
be mottloctd as por agt          tiinsos. f  has, UteIOtow, treulcITd hi likolg savigs i Die project cost.
To uWise savins of Om project. and also to avail marinium uli3alion cl aedit, additonal area and
Nteo= wero included in the scope of the prcject.
The Inal picture or scope of each sub-project and tUeir coot Is as given below:
St.  aname of Ptolect   Atea In              Cost
No                      flectates            IRS In Inkhi).
1. Jayokwncfi Pr"t       52.062               3,430.40
2. Purtia Projet         10,735                780.88
3. Mula Project          26.W07               1.670.14
4. Gima Project          15,336                855.6?
5. Khadnkwasta Project    10.263              1,i4t.84
6. S.E.& Diroctoi,iRD'                         227.21
7. onitoring Colt
CADYAwtangabsd         -                     37.00
Total:                 1,1503            8,143.14
Duo to micrase in scopo of tHie prc'ecl. World Bank hIs extendet1 credit closing d.7e to
31.8-91.'
ef Innd cost of the projecS b r  ; Q K# 3  ) Inkhs . Th i5 total expenluro4e7hl 'L
l.*rthr credit component of the ptoject. Ifence the loan componeit of the pioject was surendered
In Diomeber 19!3.
ObLoctlvos of tito proloct
Mlharoshira Water Ut1l1sationu Project las two fold objectives:
1. Physical Improvwmont In hoe tip area of tho system
2. Devefopment of hulman resources required for functioning of tlie system to utilse the crested
potWnmial This incrldes
a) Education of farmors In the fofntquos of Iigatoct faoming and Cortrrnlly action rdlOqud to
erm thoir oranisd tik ption In tmman g the system.
b) Traing of grass-root  Ol functionnnfos dealing with tho dovoiopment and managemnt of tip
mn.
ProjectComponents
In pursuance of the brood obJve  mntined abov, tho folloig prtincipal actiiles are
inlded In Mahsira Wattr Utiuon ProJeof.
7hhvLl  Wovgnt: lo Atrdi
TlbwrdnConsscof:



31
i. Upgradatlion of dist-ibutarles wherevor necossawy, to ensure proper avellablyliy of water to tho
MIWUP roa:
2. UHrmdallon t construction of minors, iold chbrnnols and varlous structures whorever neoed In
MWUP orea.
3. Upgradatlon I constructlion of proper lralnago arrar.gomonls.
Humma resources develooment
1. Eslablshmont snd rtmning of tralning contors for trolaning of gross-rot (vl funct'rls Gm
fernmors. This Includod estobishtmnont el tiinl.cum-demnstfstion faf ml for rfied halniwg.
2. Developing water users' orgrnisollon at vatious lovels.
Adantive Anriculture Resenrch
A teserch progm "it bo evolved (or eporpmntatton in solected chake to deveop crppin
sequens and fanring systems sutable to tho envronment, the farmers skilis and heir resoures.
In addRlon, the folowing supporting actikles are atso hncluded In MWLP.
Famnors' Attitude SurveM
These wete peridc exercises to measuro the tarmers' responso to varous moasures tken
nd to idkntify woaknesses In tho errangmnts onvisaged.
ioniforin and Eveltiaion
This consistod of:
1. Mont     cr4s tot evey sub-poject
2. T   evltin ells, one for on-farm structures and one mor wtr W nfagem    practices. The
clls are under StWpntondn Engineer and Dlroc,or, Irrialin research diIsion, Pune. Apart trom
ovaluatbig lho rosuls o MVVUP they would aloo evoloe now end botter designs basd an Oe eboe
fVecbtnorv and Eauxlment
Machinoty and o edpmont trqilred for followng purposes Is to bo procured. 
1. Phy*scal Iprovernn of the systom
2. Proper trtning of. mrs, and
3. Improd oporation.
Estiastmnt _nd Buikifris
1. trJni Urbl.lwJutwitilrtd frt crl',yh,g etwi nit nt nlovo workt dringn MWUP ponlhs.
2. ResIdential and nen-resrdenila( bulgding for the esabldmron end tainlng centres.



32
Exnt of work Involved
Fe sub-prject  re Induded hi Mobaroslitra Walet UilIsalion Project. These we Jsyakwadl.
Puni, Mutb, Gtima and Khadaicwas. Total area to be improd under those projects was 94.450
ha. Subsequen  this awea has mw  incteased to 1,15,203 ha. Exlenlt ofwok wnvoed hI each of
thse sub-prods b ghien In Tablo 4 of MWUP.
Implementation
The wwk on MWUP statiod in lale 1983. As stated eaorfor tho woik was to be completod In
August 89. But snco the swope of the prqoect ws incronsed, World Bank has grntded sunsi hr
cafl cosing date upto 318911.
Year wlso wotk of Improving area dono on oach sub-ptoject Is as betow: (Cmuative area In
ih),
Project      8304  84-r!3 85 16  8G-87  87-88  88.89  89.90  -91  9t-92
J.yahwed     181   4789 1290    19134 2 2 31r.0 3070 470 61330.
Pura-                     1240   2510  4317  7167 10082  1085  10055
mm           -      3172  9087  15334 21300 23832 25570  25030 25930
Gins         -      -     1465   1465  8884  93t4  115  13732 4629
Khdk a -  1087  3252   5551 7818  9341  10263  10263 10283
Tea:        151   8998 27950   43994 67897 8200  96140 IC=  112807
'B.orowers Perfomrance
t. Tho prnng and design of distibutares. minors and chaks was dono accordin to the gutde
Ies gben bybank. Ihos wore dosgne:i wlh tho conept of 7 days on and 7 dys off.
2. Thehaksiz wms resiltedto 2F' ha w1th following roquromons rme sr musaneousy:
a) The nubr of fnrmrfs In s chak wore not mre Hin 25
b) The lMn of fold channol In a chak did not esceed  t 1m.
3. To meot abovo citlerion of dia size, If needed, tho existlng chaks we.. teduced In size and
new chskwero etbiswd.
4. Unlng was ptwIdd b 20 % brlgth o1ndd 1chnnnol. Eariler , Ohi lnWi was done with ptscas
Irapozol   concde secfon. out IUoer World Bank Mission Instucted to ueo hao round cocrwco
pipes. LIbn  wilh half round concete pipes was tfolowed.
5. Tin to eni       n staff was Impated In WALMI. This has . ieasod aaens and
adpablily of Sa to new system The staff trained In WALMI Is as unor:



33
Catngoqy            Nun*es tralned
ExecutIv@ u.ypnc@rs          7
Ieputy englneers             43
Jurior Enlneor5             175
6. TraInng to farmrs woes Ipared an each sub-projecl. The forget of each proloet and cos
datoachivemn Is as below:
Trcaning Targets and Achievements
Project           Target      Achfevemer
Jayukwa           1360           7027
Punm               2700          2888
Mula               6400          4439
G,a                4000          4111
_hadakwasta      2700          2700
Tot:              29400          21105
7.  $AR provides that ona  m6wor srVg an aras of about 1000 ha should be dvelped a
ppaflowiat pilot dlibutary. Accordingly, tlis work was takon on distriby No 1 of Patlcdl
brneh cmau of ) la rlg bank canal c  tul an aroa of t237 ha. ltbafon   tMIs dsbAry hac
slatd on PPOs conccpt from rat' 199.
Adaptive Rtsearch
Tho man objcctve of aapve research In tnrgated areas under MWUP InchAd adopton of
hiped IrWon  gt  m gmen d mproed agrtuilur  production  tecnod o   fr
prores     po n  pomoo  This Itru   evolving uvpreplt methods of Iln,
d*ft  echormilwr Viable cropping pafermn, demonstrat igo effect Of h ion frequci
and deckding a resstic InptpA pka. The prgrmUm tu Includd conducting  m rescbh a
adeative research btl  an fuma fid unter eIfe cwodtn to b_er t  teholg. The
protram was kplmenWd noIt g 10 to 25 ftrmers on 4 to 6 ouets from each commend  m
Actled in ropect of fulme ofthe omjcivo  fs tobulted bdow:



34
Object                      Mte.wtsjcwu"()                                
Gum           Khadak.       Mule          Jay.kwadi    Pumn
waste
Evolve appro iAte
meltod of Iulton
to VA clmti
ad topogrphIa
condiion Ini that
area                55            80            57               60        65
Devmelop ecnmial
viIablo cropping
pan VndW crop
to suit nmers
MWUK
rosouces            93            84            52               90        87
Docide cop lcalndar
bsed on crop ow mnw    In I adoptin hecresod substiwdmk*j, ptriotable cfop sequewces
frm budg"n and          wero nroduced.
avalnbe                                                   ..n
3_0trt effect of                                                 was not possible
diferente lr'Iguvtlon                                 to elease anal
frequencis on difretd                                         water at such
crop and sob end decided                                      intervwas. So ho
oprftm rtatoln perod                                          trials wee dropped.
for tmrximn,bg
yields                            44            44
Occdoed upon a realistic
k    packge lobe tused
by lU  frmes ho can rnt
invst n Im optinmu
package             94            73            70            100        100
The p m  as mado grea Impact on  cemasig protWdc   mad monetary benefts to the
awmne   og wih svh  hi rgtin wster.
The dotas of adoptive re lch conducted and petcentag2 adopion Is gn below:



35
Aspect            Okina Khadakwaeal  Mult  Jayakhwad  Putna
byou"             55           80     68      65      8o
FetWlser
nueagmert         04           74    70       1W     1oo
Sowng tle         98           82  1i          90      90
Use of Impro-
vedvarleties      93           84    79        80      90
EXnt of adoption of knprowed technology In nom-doplive research area k is below:
Aspect                  MPKYV, Rhuui        MAU.Parbhoni
trtroductlon of Improved
t high ylddkg
varieties                      42          5      66
Sowing                         63                90
Proper  gaon lyouts            48                24
Fortlllsot nmangemnt           40                90
Pro-sowIng ftation             35           .    15
ConjCtlWvo use d canal
asdwolwalor                    73                 15
Plant protecin                53
Bank's Portomienae
Owin  roc period, Uw World Ban Mibi  made semal vd s to th pnjed wors ad
offeed th1  vskwble gidancer belr Impemta    of tw poct  oe dpf Uon  stbucton
gien by the WoCd arnk Mson em gi  beow.
1. The Would Bank hMission Itcted to prmr opeaMion plon for each prtjd . Acorig
operan plan for ath    b ect was pepawed. This is a self conained docume  gng
In*mtn about em aped of stgem wid b   nmemeqt oe of hw to  covd une 1h
docurnud wre:
t. Pr*t dtolls
'3, f1.OidofcoedW            of wiater   CuRk4  fur acPtin  Of Itelu   U_n



36
4. Managemrd of system.
5. Desgn aflerion for dishrlbutailke.minors and chak
6. Enotrgncy opotalon of system
7. Allocating ptrlkiies for water quota
8. Fomallon of conuntti's atnd tliri tole in ystenitt nrnCgmemot
9. Sample delivary schedules
10. Other intotmation of use to system manager
This document was prepared with a view that any new system manager shwld understand the
working and other details of system management after reading this documnen.
Z The World Bank MIsslon also rtstructed to carry simulation studin oi the prjets. These
studies have been carried out for an sub-proects. Tho purpoe of Uwe  stuies was
a) To verify whetlhor cropping poltem as adopted for tho pr*ct ean be suppoted "Rh the
avalable infw and available rinfall
b) To verify adequdcy of canal capacity for the adopted crop pattern.
These studles were carried out on computer by developinp spaclal software. The results of
thse studies indicated that all sub-project satisfy abovo two cuiteritt.
3. For actie participation of fatmers in krigation management, the World Bank Mission Insisted
on formation of water users' societies. Enrier thete erie no such societies formed. So propogtang
thi new concept mel with cold  sponse in initl ptpriod but vigoraos eflos of he Ofmied ofcers
made formation of such socieiies p6ssible. Now farme sre coming forward to form suh soietes.
Up til now 16 such societies have been registered and management i handed over 9 socies.
4. As p6r the guide linso issued by the World iatt Mission, an cpnmalon and maintenance
manual for each sub-project Is  prepared. Tns manual Is being use  as guide lino by the
manegeli staff for safe and efricient qoertion and mairnenance of the system. The manual gives
in det  th maintenno procedure to bo adopted and rectfiicaton measures to be Itken. This
nres that te system Is aNays In good shape thereby deibering acequate water to al weas .This
resulecd in Inceasing overaD efficiency of the project.
5. Other useful guidance given by Wottd Bank Mission wms as under:
a) Al engineering staff should be trained In WALMI
b) More trials silotdd be lald out on crop seqences, Irrigation Intervils, Aswing Ume and conjuctlv
use oi gtlon water nnd lirin
c) Adqubte and timely supply Of inputs such as forliTsers , seeds . pesticides and cedit be
ensured to fatmers.
d) Monitor area unirIgaled but cropped and areas remaining flalow In each Irrtiaon season
e) Ha round cemnt concreto pIpes shoul be used to lie fietd channes b  pe of present
preast concete secthns.
Project Impact
1. Duoelo IrOwVInM s to ftp areas wider MWUP, It k seen thot waer h machIng easi to al
dk  This hNs  tcad th confidee of the farmers In Ot sytoem peifoame. The demnd for
wowr  , therore, Increa. Year wie area red In MWUP area Is dmm  I staten
enlosed vwh PCR of adc sub-poJect wAich slam inceasing trend.



37
2. Thero 1s also improvement In area Irflg.itcd ptr MCt of vwater In post MWU  ptrilod compated
to pto MWUP perfed. itts Is shown In PCR's o; hlivtiditl ttopocts.
3. MWUP prov,dos for selictive lning. Thin lino minimlsed ww.toge In Ihe systlm.
4.  Duo to tlaining to gro39ta oot funtcliomini, lth systom Is btIng mninialoiod properly and run
offlccntfy.
5.  Tiaoing to farmers havo exposed thicm to uitulntion techniques and biproved ogtkcuitwol
prclices. Ftarmers ano followving toso ptactices. Thin us of Icitilsers ,posticidos nd Improved
varliey of seed Is now being done. This has Incrared the ylcldi of al crops. Thto yields of major
crops prior to MWUP amd as of now oro givon in Anneniros enclosed ,i, 0  i "JsAv l Pr.Q*,
6.  Invoin rnmrs In sytom managemont has Itcreased farmnrs conficnco in tle system.
Farmers are now considering the systom as thelr own. This has resulted In minimum mninienance to
the system.
7.  Duo to improvewmnt in earrying capaciy o? disibutao)' and minors. adequalo supply Is
ensuIed. also duo to teduction In chak skze, entlro atea can be irrljatod In scheduled period. Sinc
the fatrmes aro also traoined In RWS . tho farmers aro abiding by the tipio altotod to them.
Lessons Leamt
1. For undertaking an Improviwnt to the existing system, I in necessry to involve farmers from
tho beging. ids wil brtll conriulnco In Itin about the system. MmoditkaUons sggestled for tto
syftem should be discussed  hI, farmer. t Is also necessary to have a detailed at  scurato svey of
tho vysten . Based on this survey vnd delait inspections of th0 system, tequired improvements can
be koitAd.
.  FonmeI ti utlimote user cf the system. Twining to the farmers is therefote, necessary.
Traing has Improved  (arnnes concept of irrialed farm practices and Improved agricultural
practices. Farmers have dopted these mettiods. Tis resul1te In Ineased yields. Tmrin to
farmetrs should thoroeore, be a continutig activity.
3. As far as possible, management of system shiould be entrusted lo .mecr users' societies. For
this punpoe, 1 is necessary to etpose farmers to procedure of forming and registering such
socielies. AN necessary help and encouragement should be given to form such societies. Trahinng to
the ottice bearers of such soceties shod atso be given 50 as to matnag nftfIRS Of the societis.
Field ofrier should victively partitckoale wilh farmers from concept of forming of societies to banding
over arnd mangg the society affnirs. Ouldance to the socioty sitould be gin by tho field olffcer  s
and when necosary.
4. Adequmte number f ctross regulators hi tllo system ate neces. ary so as to etficiently nmnage
and control flw of wvter.
5.  A debitid operaf for pint of Ith each prct Is necessary. Thi plin swl elucidate vmoik
eatures of tH system with spcibl stress on eflfiie  management and rinning of sptem.



38
I N D I A
ltaharasihtra Waler Utilisation Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
TABLE 4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Name of Project:                   M.W.U.P.
Appmisl  Iditial      Revised    Aotual     Full
. .   . Nov  Indlcator  Unit  Estimate   Detailed    Estmate   AcilveO-   InIgatlon
Estitmate             nents      Potential
1  Land A&uistsion     .la      23S.00     235.00      57.79      25.67      25.67
2  Distribulafies      Km       316.27     316.27     371.73     367.23     367.23
3  Minor .           '00 1a    739.00      739.00     914.94     892.51     892.S1
4  Chak IStey  .   'OO4a        945.00     945.00    1152.03    1148.11    1148.11
5  Field Cliannesls   '00 Ma    545.00     941.00    1152.03 . 112.07    1128.07
6  Liik /Main Drain'   Km      2432.88    24'22.88    1602.38    1498.36    1438.36
7  Trg.Conlre          Y        100.00     100.00     1 00.00    100.00     100.00
.,       . a~~luiklns5           _       _                 



I N J I A 39
Maharashtra Water Utilisation Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
IAILE 5A
PROJ)ECt COSTS (IN MRs.)
Name of Project: M.W.U.P.
Sr.           ,      Appraisal  Ititial   1teIsisd    Fihl
No.        loem       Esftiate   Detailed   fistimate   Estimate
Estimate
.__  (SAn)        (Jan I4    (Apr 91)   (Aug 91)
1  Land AcqulWslion      11.400     4.660     0.750      0.2CM
2  Olsttibtnadies       33.500    4S.658     V 79.383    82.607
3  Minors               64.S00    08. I98    129.730   136.000
4  Field Ctannels?     13i.900    190.39S    1911.922    109.649
Orains
*    Llnk Maki ODrin    24.300     33.130    24.079     24.674
6  GuPigs               li8.300    69.111     7S.191  .".947
7  V1i*1es A            49.900     66.069    26.4111    27.360
Equipments
8  Establishmenlt      117.300    134.224    1 9.084    206.570
9 Tralninq Cent,.
a) Capital          2X.300     39.001     24.960     2S.681
b) Flecurrng                   25.793     16.980    19.665
10 Engg.Reseaml
a) Capiol            15.700     9.022      9.753     10.706
b) Fleurwlg                    14.061     21805      25.516
11 Adaptive Iesetb
a) Capal            t6.000      6.199      &062       4.5"
b) Rho"                         6.971      1.924      7.719
TOTAL     .      I  741.000    731.090    814.314   _038.77
*  IncdnContinoy & Establshment                 Ru.   19t.,00



40
INDIA
MalIarashitra Waler Utilisation Project
(Credit No. 1303 IN)
TAB L EL
PROJECT FINANCINGJ
Name of Project : M.W.U.P.             (IN M.Rs.)
Sr.                                Planned In              FInal Actua
N4o.          Source                  Credit
_____ _____ _____ ____Aff eement
I CMI Works
a) For Completed Work(s               104.500            .        123.S4T
under Pan a) of
thePr4ot.
b) Frw oher Pats of                   150.100                     344.423
the Projet
2  Equrment.Velfiles A                    38.000                      25.736
Materials
3  Salaries & Aflowances                   10.450                     31.011
for Incremental Staff
4  Oversess Stucy Tours                     0.9S0                      0.000
S  Fee                                      0.000                      0.000
6  UVIntuied                                0.000                      0.00C
TOtAL_                                304.000                     524.71?



41
I N D I A
Maliarasittr a Waler Utilisition Project
(Crepit No. 1383 IN)
t-ABLAE GA
DIRECT BENEFITS
Name of Project: M.W.U.P.    PK ,ft1W4)
ffi Sr. ___Applsal                                         Estimate           Full
No.          Indicator        Unh          Estinates      Closing Date    Oovelopqmen
Achivement       Estimate
t Inremase In Itrigated     Fb                  46S96           4603?           79984
Area
2  In¢rease In Food Gmin    tonlyear            37742           29750           67239
Prodution                       .
3  lncrease In Food Gain    t1s.Mlyear            138             121             24?
Production Value
4  Value Added to Local     1ts.Mlyear           3347            2964            4S9
E6onamy
S  Increase h Cash Crop     flh.Mlyear           9260           22716           90423
. Prorkiction Value
6  DIrecty oetwfittlng      1*0s.               27100           4339?           51510
Farm amflies.
7  Increase in On-farm      fAan yeat          161S82          1260S0          327186
Emploment'
8  Increasei INon-faun    ,   Man year          63112           7 330          180248
Empoyment
9  Inase In Avge tn              eat             6691           14742           2100
_Farm  ncmes                 -                                                     I



42
I N D I A
Maharat;htra Water Ulilisation Pioject
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
TAB{ 
ESTIMATED COST OF MWUP (i FULL DEVELOPMENT
Name of Project :                   M.W.U.P.
Sr.                                Estiatmaled Toti Co cas ( ,_)
No.   ,   Prpt        _
Gross       lni ial      nevised      Cunent
Appraisal    (Jar'84)     (Apr9l)      (Aug 9t)
1  Jayakwadi.             309.400      3)7.730      343.040      352.800
2  Pumna                   12.000       133.090     7MO.0        02.649
3  Mula                   148.600      118.700      167.014      171.271
4  Ginna  .7.801                        t0.200       85.567       98.099
S  Khadakwasua            107.900     1t 6.038      114.104      115.263
6  S.E.;,IRO
22.100       19.332       22.721       2S.09S
7  Montoming Cell
I  Otilers (Adaptive      1.000         0.000        3.700        3.700
nlsensu:%, Attudw
Survey)
_Total                 7S2.800      73S.090      914.314      839.87?



43
I N D I A
Malharashtira Water Utilisation Project
(Credit No.1383 IN)
TABLE 10
1M%1t   COMPLETION DATES
Name of Proiect:   M W U P
Sr. No.      Name Of Project                Date Of Completion
1    Jayaknadl                               31-8-91
2    Vlt,a                                   31-3-91
3    Mula                                    31-3-91
4    Gina                                    30-6-91
S    Kohadahteasla                           31-3-90



44
I N D I A
Maharasiltra Water Utilisation Project
(Credit No.1383 IN)
TABLE 4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTAUQU
Name of Project:                  Jayakwadi Project
8r.           .             Apprmisal  Iftiial   Revised    Actual     run
No.      Indicator    Unit  Estimate   Oeaiiled    Estimate   Acfitve-  lnrWgtIon
Estimate              rients    Potenial
1  Land Acqsuition    Ha        34.00     34.00      14.19       4.00       4.00
2  Dlstdbutrles       Km       169.00    169.00    1gl.62      1 S8.00    189.80
3  Mintus            .00 Hb    424.00    4124.00    393.30     397.90     387.90
4  Chak I 6wv.y.    '00 lot    424.00    4124.00    620.62     919.00    919.00
Defle"
5  Field Channels/   '00 Ha    424.00    4124,00    520.62    913.99     S13.50
Drains    I
6  Link Main Drain    Km      t 77.00   t1277.00    89ZOO      808.00     9otoo
7  rg0.c.n*t                  '100.00    100.00     100.00     100.00    100.00
Auildings



45
1 NJ D I A
i4aharasthtr Water Utilisalion Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
TABLE SA
LA9I9iA
PRCOJECT COSTS (in ~MAIs)
14ame of Project: Jmyakwatdi
Sr.          _       Appraisal  Initial    Revised    Final
No.       Itom        Et£imate   Detailed    Estilrat.   Esialte
Estimate
I  Land Acquisition      0.696      0.650      0.350      0.013
2  Distributaries        21.087    21.000     34.050     39.919
3  Minors                44.510    44.670     52.848    N5A.86
4  Field Clannelst      81.001     07.000     96.035     91.410
Drains
S  Link IMain Dain       10.690    10.870     13,576     13.003
6  Buildings             20.833    19.490     22.760     25.296
7  Vehicles &           23.843     22.980      9.440     11.625
Equpments
8  Establisiment         73.B92    63.050     97.230    104.098
9  TminIg Centre
a) Capital            6.374     17.090      7.019      7.673
b) nectuning          6.065     12.560      3.928      4.072
10 Engg.Reseafih
a) Capital                       0.120      0.362      0.362
b) Recurring                     2.460      2.394      2.410
11 Adaplh*e Researmh
a) Capital                       2.320      2.060      2.060
b) Remmg                         2.680      0.988      1.107
_                                 -  --      ,
TOTAL               295.791    307.730    343.040    36.640
_           _   -                           -
*  Inluin 12.49 wb CornhIerI  & 24 'A Escalaion



46
I N D I A
Maharashtra Water Utilisation Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
TABLE 58
PRQJECT FINANCING
Name of Project: Jayakwadi    (IN M.Rs.)
Sr.                               Prmnned In     |    Finl Actual
No.          Soume                   Credit
Agreement
1  Civil Works
a) For Completed Works                48.200               60.940
under Pan a801) of
th Projoc'
b) For other Parts of                5.80N               134.600
the Project
2  Equipment,Vehicles &                  13.200                 9.980
Materials
3  !.laIrles A Allowamnes                 4.640                 4.990
for Inctemental Staff
4  Overeas Study Tows                     0.000                0.000
S  Fee                                    0.000                0.000
6  Unalocated                             0.000                0.000
TOTAL                                124U480              210.600



47
I NDI A
Maharasitra Water UtiliGatiori Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
TIAB LE 6 A
DIRECT BENEFITS
Name of Project: Jayakwadi            tMMOW
* Sr.                     _ _             Appmisal        Estimate          Fun
No.          Indicator       Unit         Estimates      Closing Date   Development
Achivement       Ertimate
I  Incrase in Inrgated      1lia           13565.000       15042.000       35900.000
Area
2  hsl..ase In Food Grain  tonlyear         98S3.000        8235.000       21042.000
Producton
3  inrrease in Food 3rain  fls.Mlyear         22.941          29.929          90.101
Production Value
4  Value Added to Local     Rs.Mlyear         59.215         179.314         466.255
Economy
S  lnor.ase In Cash Crop    Rs.Mlear          36.274         149.386         376.164
Production Value
6  Directly i3enetkfit    ' Nos.           1 06C1.000      22967.000       30000.000
Farm familos
7  Increase In On-tfm      Man year        21200.000       4S934.000       60000.000
Emplyment
S  Increase in Non-fam      Man year       10600.000       2296r.000       30000.000
Employment
9  ncrease In Averge net    RsJ4ear           60.900         110.200         144.000
arm Iwomes 



48
I N D I A
MaIharashitra Water Utili3atioIt Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
TABLE 4
EROJEC;T IMIE!LEMENTAT101N
Name of Project                   Purna Project
8r.                       iAppialsal  Initial    Revised    Actual    Ful
Indkictor   UInh   Estinate   Detailed    Estimate   Acheve-   lipation
Estimate             ments     Potentil
I  Land Acquiston     H         1.00       1.00       9.00      6.30       5.30
2  DIstuteld.         Km       95.00      95.00      9.00      94.00      94.00
3  MInors           '00 Ha    105.00     10S.00    107.35     107.35    101.35
4  ChalU I   tey *   00 Ha    10S.00     105.00     107.35    107.35     10o.3s
Desn
S  Field Channels    '00 Ha    105.00    105.00     107.35    106.59     106.55
. Oins
6  Link /Main lmin    Km      151.00     191.00    220.00     200.96    208.56
7  Trg.Cet            CI      100.00     100.00    100.00     100.00    100.00
9.dI ,' .       ___.                                               -



*   I N   491 
IND'IA
-Maharashira Water Ulilisation Project
(Credit No.1383 IN)
TABLE 5A
PROJECT COSTS
Naine of Project: Putna                 (IN  l.ns.)
. .  Sr.            j ~ |Appaisal  inftltl  ntvised  r1klal
No.        Item      Estinate   Detailed   Esimate   Estimate
__.          E..           Estimate           _ I
1  Land A6quishion       0.010     0.010      0.200     0.265
2  Olsttlbezirles        2.620     2.600      9.090     9.6S6
3  M1Inors              12.1i1    t2000      14.507.   15.S6tl
4  Field ChanneWs!      16.480    16.300    1.6899     15.202
Drins
S  Lnk /Main Drain       S.445     5.400      2.700     3.204
6  Buildins              9.263     7.810      0.13      9.387
7  Vehicles &            9.980    1S.910      4.316     5.103
Eqtipments
8  Establishument       16.804    13.010    15.045    16.146
9  Traig Centre
a) Caphal             3.187     6.990     3.61S      3.719
b) Rehuyrng           3.030  -  3.400     2.227     L.433
10 E ggReseawh
a) CapIal.                      0.300     0.201      0.201
b) RecunIn                      0.090     0.870      0.U46
11 Adaptive neseawuh
a) Capital                      0.7011    0.621      0.61S
bJ Fleeirfong                   0.260     0.94       0.904
___ TOTAL           07.000    83.090    78.088    82.61
Inmudes 12.4A S_



50
I N D I A
Maharashtra Water Utilisation Project
(Cr.dit.No. 1383 IN)
IALE -5B
Pt.)IECT FINANCING
Name of Project: Purna             (IN M.1ls.)
Sr.                                Pbanned In           Final Ac.ual
:4o.         Slorice                 Credi
Agreemnent
1 C1I Works
a} For Completed Worts                  8.900                 9.697
I  ndr Putt ai of
bJ For other Pans of                   17.600                36.694
the Projt
2  Equipmenr.Velilbles &                   Q700                  1.174
lUate,lasb
2  Salades & Allowanres                    0.960                 2.641
for lnormena Stff
4  Overseas tudy Tours                     0.000                 0.000
S  Fee                                     0.000                 0.000
6  Unallocated                             0.000                 0.000
TOTAL                                  36.160                50.596



51
IN  t) IA
Maharashtra Water Utilisation Project
(Credit No.1383 IN)
T A B5 L f
DI RECT BENEFiTS
Name of Project: Purna
Appmlsal        1stimant          FuR
No.          Indicator       Unit.        Estimates      Clotanq Oate    Owetpmene
Achivement       Estirate
1 Intrease Ininigated       hia             7121.000        7816.000        8944.000
Ar.a
2  Inarease in Food Grmin   tlear           9217.000        4904.000        7022.000
Production
3 Inctease In Food Gain     hFI¢.Mear         19.109          14.7 1          25.819
Prodctlon VaIlue
4  Value Added to Local     Rs.Miyear         60.063         20G.805 tGQ.tS
Economy
5  Increase In Cash Crop    rfs.MIyear        30.954         192.089         134.9S6
Production Value'
6   otectly leneflting     NHs.             442C&000        642Q.000        6w09.000
Farm families
7 inrease In On-fanm        Man year         8962.000      12801.000       13000.000
Employmwn.
8  Increase In Non-farm     Man year        4426.000        6420.000        6500.000
Employmentl
9  Itcrease In Av.sge net he.iea             221.000         417.060         455.0"
-Farm iwomer                             .



52
I N D I A
Maharaslitra Water Utilisation Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
TAB LE 4.
PRzOJEC-T 1MPL1;_,AEHTATION
Name of Project:                  Mula Project
9.Sr.                .    . Apptaisal  Inhtial   Ilevised    Actual    Full
No.      Indicator    Unh   Estimate   Detafed    Estimate   Achieve-  Inrigtfon
Estimate             ments      Potentil
I  Land Acquishion    Ht       200.00     200.00     16.37      16.37      16.37
2  Ollbuafes          Km        17.60      17 .60    38.17      37.49      37.49
3  Minom             '00 lta   .124.00    124.00    186.0S     106.9S     186.95
4  Chnk I Survey    '00.1-1a    21 9.70   21 9.70   269.07     267.S2     267.s2
Oesin _
5  Fleld Channdst   '00 tHa    219.70    .219.70    269.0T     259.30     259.30
6  LInk IMain OaIn    Km       659.00    G59.00     261.48     261.48     261.48
7  Trg. Cente         %        '100.00   100.00     100.00     100.00    100.00
Building_



I N LD5 A
Maharaslitra Water Utilisation Project
(Credit No.1383 IN)
t-ABLE S
PflOJEgT CQSTfi
NameofProject: hlula
*     .___   . (IN  m.fs.)
Sr.                -Apprisal  Inibtal     nevised    Final
No.        htem       Esibnate   Detailed   Estimate   Estimate
Eslininte .
1  Land Aerulsshidn      0.013     4.000      0.200
2  Olstitarftins         2.300     2.%Ob      0.S46      9.052
3  Minors               1S.SO      16.700    27.172    28.990
4  reMld Channelst      42.230    45.100     43.3to    40J.49
Orains
;   Link IMain, Drain    9.810     9.800      4.000      4.860
S  Buildings            24.020    17.900     23.309    23.466
7  Vehicles &           12.260    13.000      4.840      2.765
Eqtdpments
8  Estabfilshment       34.280    29.000     41.S41     49.S49
9 Traindng Centre
A) Capital            3.190     4.200      3.630     3.437
b) lleuwineg          3.050     3.300      3.SSS     4.476
10 Engiriesarch
a) Captal                       0.400      0.513     O.SlI
b) FRcIng                       0.400      0.698     0.147
11 dt  Reupuh
a CaPItW                       1.100      0.000     0.362
R)                              1.300      4.200     2.907
. _TOTL             146.733   148.700   2.014         71
AInIUdes l245 aontnetes and 4 % EsCalation



54
I N D l Af
Maharashitra Water Utilisation Project
(C redit No.1333 IN)
TABLE 5B1
PROJECT FINANCINQ
Name ol Project: Mula             (IN M.Rs.)
Sr.,                               Plannel In           Final Actual
INO.          SoXum                   Credit
A7reement
I  CIA works'.
a) For Completed Works                 24.800                30.222
usnder Pt e"up of
.   t, he Proet              ..
b) For other Parts of                  28.600                67.741
th Projt
2  Equipment,Vehiohs &                      7.50                3.41S
Materials-
3  Salaries & Aaoiw#wes.                    1.950                4.184
for Incremental Stall
4  Overfs?as Study Tours                    0.000                0.000
S  Fee                                      0.000                0.000
6  Unaloated                                0.000                O.o0o
TOTAL                                  62.350               105.562



55
I N D I A
Mahiat ashitra Water UtiIisUation pi ;j>.wt:
(Credit No.1383 IN)
T A B LE, ,6A
DIRECT BENEFITS
Name of Project: Mula             aR04
Sr.     . -  . _                         Appraisal       Estimati          FuN
Nlo.         Indiat:nor     Unh           lEstimates    Cloging Date    Devektrpnent
Acthivement     Estimate
I  increate In Inigated     I4              5265.000       4462.000       14830.000
Area
2  Increase In Food Grain  tonly ear        5472.000       5S40.000       14899.000
Production
3  Inerease In Food Grain  fls.MIyear         11.490         16.080          4t.210
Production Vakle
4  ValUe Addedto l ocal    fs.Wyeav            7.360         1S.410 |        29.330 |
Economy                                                2300070  .0
S  1crease in Cash Crop    Fis.94/year     8164.000       22300.000       79312.000 |
Production Value
6  Oirectly Benersttng     No$.             3000.000       4S00.000 |      5500.000
Fann fmilies
7  Increase In On-fahn     Man year       115000.000      46000.000 |    230000.000
Employment
S  Inwease in Non-tarm     Manyear        46000.000       46000.000      138000.000
Employment
9  Inrease In Average ne   Ns.4year        2000.000        S000.000        W00.000
Farm incomes           .___



56
I N D IA
Maharashtra Water Utilisation Project
-('redit No. 1383 IN)
TABLE 4
PBOJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Name of Project:                   Girna Project
Sr. .  . .                   Appraisal   titial   nevised    Actual     Full
N~5o.  -  Iniatr     JUntt  Estimate   Oestlled    Estimate   Achieve-   Iitin
Esftmate             ments       Potuial
1  Land AcqAislion  J              . . _              22.23
2  Olubarles           Km       _          _          _ 
3  Minos             'OO Ha     _        .           153.36     136.43     136.43
4  ChkISurvey        '00 Fa    110.30     110.30     153.36     149.42     149.42
5 Fleld Channel      '00 Ha     110.30    110.30     153.36     146.29     148.29
6         IMan Drain   Km      '330.00    330.00     213.00     204.92     204.92
7  TrCentfa            %        100.00    100.00    1t00.00  . 100.00      100.00
Euluig       '..                             



57
Maharashtra Water Utilisation Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
I ABLE 5A
PBRJQCT COSTS
Name of Project: Girna
-                                       (i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti M.RS.)
Sr.      .IAppraisal  initial             Revised    6inal
N4o.       liem       Esthnate   petailed   Esdimate   Estimate
Fsilmate
1  Land Acqtdsition      0.013
2 Dislribularles
3  Mhiors                                    114.352    16.000
4  Field Channelu/      20.160     19.600    29 720     29.362
DOins
S  Llnk lMain Drain      5.740      S.G00     2 651      2.308
6  Buildings            12.740     11.900     6.551      6.111
7  VehIcles 1            5.420      6.700     3.126      3.836
Equipments
8  Estabishment         16.000     13.600    17.329     17.936
9  TraiWng Centre
a) Capital            3.190      6.100     5.000      5.163
b) Recurring          3.050      3.300     3.215      3.687
10 Engg.Reseaeuh
.) CaphIal                      0'500      0.487      0.475
b) Recurring                    0.500      0.954      0.984
11 Adaptive Reseawil
a) Capital                       1.000     0.650      0.630
b) flecusring                    1.400     1.936      1.S27
TOTAL            1   66.393     70.Z00 -89.967    88.099
Includes 12.45 Vo contingencies and 24 'Vo escalation



58
1 N D I A
Maharashtra Water Utiliiation Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
PRpOJECT FINANCING
Name of Project: Girna            (IN M.Rs.)
Sr.                       M~~~~~~~~Panned In   Fbina Actual
Souroc                 Cvedi;
Agreement
1  Civl Wars
a) For Completed Works                 10.800                14.596.
under Part a(iI of
the PrQoct
b) For other Parts of                  12.100               34.Ot1
the Prnoct
2  Equlpment.Vehlicles &                   3.900                 4.037
Materials
3  Salaries & Allowances                   1.080                6.024
for Incremental Staff
4  Overseas Study Tours                    0.000                0.000
5  Fee                                     0.000                 0.000
6  Unallocated                             0.000                 0.000
TO-tAL                                G2A460                S8.668



59
I N D I A
Mahra2shira Watpr tJtilisation Project
(Credit No.1383 IN)
DiRECT BENEFITS
Name of Project: Girna             * &Rr)
Apprmisul       Estimnte          r.un
No.          Indicator       Unik         Estimates      Closing Date    Oevelopment
Achivement       EstiTate
I  Increase In Irrigated    Ha             15330.000       15330.000       1S330.000
Area
2  increase In Food Graln  tonlyear         5700.000        4779.000        S700.000
Production
3  Inease in Food Ofain;    Rs.Mlyear         11.400           9.800          16.210
Production Value
4  Value Added to Loal      ns.Mlyear          7.610           8.900 1        10.2S 
.Economy
S  Increase In Cash Crop    Rs.MIyroar         7.600           6.530           7.630
Prorluctlion Valuee
6  Diiteotly Genefitting    Nos.            7200.000        7200.000 |      7200.000|
ratn tamAles
7  Increase In On-farmt     Man year       14400.000       14000.000 |     t4000.000
Emrnplymient
8  Increase In Non-farm     Man year        1500.000        2000.000        3000.000 |
Employment
9  Inctease In Average net  ns./year        2000.000        2500.000        3000.000
Farm Inomes



60
I N  D  I A
Maharashira Water U tilisation Project
(Credit No.1383 IN)
TABLE  *1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTIATION
Name of Project * .               Khadakwasla Project
Sr.                        Aprriisatl  Initial   Revised    Actual     Fuli
No.      Indicator    Ur   Esti"wate  Detaited    Estimate   Achieve-  tndgatlon
Esfimate             menus      Potential
I  Land Aculsiion     I4a      -          -          -          _
2  Distributades      Km        34.67      341.67    46.94      46.94      46.94
3  Minors           '00 Ila    tl6.00     8G.O0      74.08      74.08      74.00
4  Chlk I Survey     00 1-t     86.00     86.00     102.63     103.20     103.20
eosign
6  Field Channelst   '0o Ha     86.00     8L.00     102.63     102.63     102.63
Drains
6  Link Maln Draln    Km        1t.88     1 5.88     1S.90      16.90     15.90
7  t    ng.tenIr      9        100.00    100.00     100.00    1100.00     100.00
Stildgs



61
I 14 D I A
Maharashira Water Utilisation Project
(Credit No.1383 IN)
TABLtE 5A
PRBJECT COSTS
Name of Project : Khadakwasta
_____________  _______ ~   ~         (IN  M.flsj
Sr.             .    iAppraisal  Iniial   Revised    Final
No.        heem      Estimate   Detailed    Estimate   Estimale
Estimate
1  Land Acquisition      0.013
2  Distrlbutarles       19.633    1 9.558    27.697    28.147
3  MInos                15.742    15.828     20.1351   20.169
4  Fleld Channelst      21.520    2t.85S     14.168    13.814
S  Link lMain Drain      1.460     1.468      1.IS2     1.1S2
6  Buildings            13.780    11.981     14.819    15.S13
7  Vehicles &            9.470     8.209      4.689     3.544
Equipmentg
8  Estabilsinment       19.010    15.564     17.943    19.416
9  TrainIg Centfe
a) Caphal            3.190      S.621      5.696     S.696
b) nlecuing          3.050      3.233      4.055     4.65?
10 EngAleseafth
a) Capiata
b) Recuring                     0.581      0.838     0T87
11 Adaptve Researh
a) Capital                      1.079      0.931     0.93t
b) fteaunng                     1.331      1.346     1.346
_  TOTAL   _ * _t101.668    106.038    114.184  * 115.263
.   nocldeas 12.45 Sb coningbies and 24 '4 escalation



62
I11 D I A
Maharashtra Water Utilisationi Project
(Credit No. 1303 IN)
TABLE 5B
PROJE:CT FINANCING
Name of Project : Khadakw:nla  (IN M.Rs.)
Sr.                               Planned in           Final Actual
No.          Source                  Credi
Agreement
1 Civil Works
a) For Completed Works                 11.800                6.103
under Pail a(ii) of
the Project  ,'
b) For other Parts of                  28100                62.831
the Project
2  Equlpment,Velicles &                    4.700                4.369
Materials
3  Salaties & Alloviarmes                  1.190                3.466
for Incremental Staff
4  Overseas Study Tous                     0.000                0.000
S  Fee                                     0.000                0.000
6  Unallocated                             0.000                0.000
_TOTAL                                415.790               78.769



63
I N DIA
Maharaehtra W3ater Utilisation Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
TA13LE DA
DI2RE1    3ENEFITS
NameofProject: Khiadakwasta             M
Sr.                       . .      . - .   Appraisal      Esinmate          Full
Nt.         indleator        UEutknant.s                 Cloing Oate     Oovelpm.nt
Acldvement      Estkmate
I  Inorase In Irrigated   I l              4605.000        2387.000        4980.000
Area
2  ltonase in Food Grin    sonlyesr         7500.000        5292.000        t7t1.000
Production
S3 ctw ese In r-ood Grain  fli.MIyear         71.250          50.270          73.920
_9_ euiat._.u.   m.
4  Value Added to Local    ns.mifear        321&.000        2454.000        3913.000
Economy
Inorease in Cash Cwajp    Rs.Mhyear          12.960          68.230          92.520
Prodtion Value
6  Otrly Senefdting        lYos.            1954.000        2310Q000        23t0.000
Pan" famies
I  lmmese InOn-tan         Man year         2130.000        7276.000       101t 6.000
Employmend
0  Incease In Non-fawn     Man year          5G6.000        1963.000        2140.000
Employment
9  Increas In Averge no    Rxs.ear          i419.000        6715.000        9401.000
_Fawm Ibomes            I



64
I N D l A
Mnhsrashtre Watet Utilisaticn Project
(Citd No.1303 1N)
TABLE S-A
PRINQECT COST.
14=mq of Project: DIRD                   (IN M.,Re.)
9i.                   Appraisal  bnitial   nevised    Fil
N.         Item       Estimate   Detailed    Estimate   Etdimate
Estinate
I   Land Acq.tion
2  fDsitibutaaIes
3 MInors
4  Field Caamels
Diaing
5  Link iMaln rin
6   uins
7  VelIl*es &
Equljitents
8 Esabislhment
9 Traiing Centre
.a) Capital
b) neuIng
10 Ea"gg.eseatch
a) Caphal            10.380      8.602      8.190      6.330
b) Recuing            9.320     10.930     14.631     16.763
11 Adopdve leserh
A) Capil
b) Reawrn
TOTAL                19.700     19.372     22.721    2S.093
mbydes 12.41 qt 0         i      W rudi 24 a i 1-



65
I 14 D I A
Maharasittra Water Utilisation Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
T~LE 5
PFIOJECT FINANCING
Name of Projoct: DinD             (IN M.Rls.)
Sr.                               Planned In           Fin Actual
No.          Soumse                  Credt
Agreement
I CMI Wotku
a) For Completed Woks
under Past an   at
the Project                          0.000                 0.000
b) For other Parts of                   4.300                0.649
theProwet
2  Equtpment,Vehbies &                     0.000                2.162
Matedals
3  SalUetns & AUow$aioes                   0.630                7.089
for Irorernental staff
4  Oversees Study tous                     0.000                0.000
5  FQe                                     0.000                0.000)
6  Unallocated                             0.000                0.000
TOTAL                                  4.930               1t.900



66
I N D I A
Maharashtta Waler Utilization Project
(Credit No. 1383 IN)
IABLE SA
PROJECT COSTS
Nanto of Project X Mon; Coll              (IN M.RK .)
I;r. ,     _           ppralsal  Inhial    nRwsed    Final
No.        Itmw        Estinate   Detailed    Est"iate  estmate
I  Land Acquitn
2 Olstrilbutnes
3 MInos
4 FIld Clunnelsl
6*    Main Oran
7 VOWe &
Eqipaets
S  Esmbstmnet
9  tanb  Centr
a) Captial
b) Pmu
10 Enggulanh
a) Caial
b) mln                            0.000      3.00          co
11 Adaptive fueawi
a) Capita
b) Uiewung
_  TOfAL                              0.000      MM         3M00



67
PART mI  STATITICAL INORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
LoaJ/Credt                Purpose             Year of        Ssw         Commn_
Title                                     Approv
Credit 23-IN            Roservoirs & cana  for   July V62      Cpleted
Pura Irraio Procat   6000 ha.
Credit 7364IN            ration inastructure    October 1977   Completed
Mr shta Irration    for 95,O0 ha in
Projet I                Jayaa  Sdeme and
rehabilitatio in Puma.
credi 954-IN            Priorit work in Mula    October        Comleed       PCR 1987
Maashtm Urgao          and Gina Scheme._ Pot
Prject I                Fames Pjcct,
WALU4I
credi 1235-IN          Agriultuiraletenion.    April I91       Cmpee
MahmS hr Agrcl
n  Eewnion PrecJt
Cred it  2-IN           IrgtonInrstructure   June 196          Rformulated
Maahtm Compost    in Jayakwadi Scem.                           1987
0rv  m
Crdi 1770-IN            Imn of                  Feuy 1987  In propose
Nadonal Water              a    und syUem
Mangment Proect         operat  in Insvera
Stsem (ut otyetin
Mauata.



68
2. Project Timetable
item            Planned Date       Rvsed Date             Actual Date
Identification (Executive                                  )
Project Summary)                                           )June 19  (Furst
) Proet Brief
Preparaion                                                 ) 9 Aug  18)
Appraial Mission      June 1982                            November/December 1962
Loan/Cre  Neptiatios 25 Apri 198                           May 1983
Board Approval        14 June L983                         9 June 1983
Loan/Credit Signatu                                        30 June 1983
Loan/Credit Effectiveness                                  27 Sepember 183
Loan/Credit Cksing    31 August 1989    31 August 1990,    31 Augut 1991
31 August 1991
Prqect Completion     30 November L988                     December 1991
(SAR 3.22 & DCA
Schedule 2)
30 September 198
(SAR Annex 1,
Chan C)
Comments: The June 1982 mission proposed a 3-year 'time.slice" but on disussion in
Washington this was increased to five years. Project folaton took care to avoid
overlap with related projects, particularly Credits 954 and 1621. Closing date was
etnded by two years to enable extended scope of project works to be completed and
to use funds available in the credit,
3. Credit/Loan Disbursements
m   mS "a  n7 i 1up 19 1m   "a
AppaliEaimsm        6,00    I20    600  36100  46X0  S70M
Acei                 1200   5,    100   13   19=   200  304    36    3,01
Amta n %of Baluw     17     38    41    42    43    45    56         62      a
DamdlmiDhbausm    29Jan.92
I/ W53,04,00 fain cm"i and usSSO fan lom.
Cnmeats: The rate of exchange between the rupee and the US doLar changed from
Rs9SO per doUlar at appraisal to about Rs24M S per dolUar at the tm  of the PCR missioL
Although there was a slight (about 9%) incr      in cos expressd in mpees, the amount
required in US doLars and SDR decrased c          a.  The loan of US$22.7 miion
was ceed (eept for US$56,608 firont-end fee). Tbe scope of work was extended
in an attempt to use all the credit, about 98%  (SDR29.03 million) of wh  was



69
4. Project Implementation
Indiators           Appraisal   Aeal   Actual as
Wstimate            % of SAR
Area Upgraded (Ha):
- Jayakwadi                     42,350     52,062     121
* Puma                          10,500     10,735      101
Gima                          11,030     15,336      133
-Mula                           21,970     26,87       118
- Khadakwasla                    8QO       10,263      119
Tobd                            94,450    115,203      119
WALMI Trining (No.):
- Exctive Enneers                  11          7       64
* Assistat Engineers               38         43       113
- Junior Engineers                174        175       101
- Arclt   Officrs                  12          0        0
Trining Centrs (No.)                S          S       100
Tralnng (No.):
* Agicutu  Assistns               234         68       29
- Conact Farmers                 5,616     22,58      402
Canal Inspects                  Im20        S79       52
* Land Develpmet Assisant        1,130       639        57
- Oudet Committee Chaimen        4,000      1,S43      38
Study Tour for 6 People             1          0        0
Commenlts: lhe SAR did not give quantities for the various items of works other than
the area to be upgradedwhich was inaeased by about 19% in order to use the credit
available. The density of field channels increased from about 45 m to 60 m per ha. The
number of executive engineers trined was Iess than envisaged in the SAR but this was
made up for by an increase in the number of assistant engineer   Only about half the
number of canal inspector proposed in the SAR were tained. No agricultural officers
were reported to be trind   at WALMI and only about 30* of the number of
agricultural assistants and less than 60% of the number of and d lP        asta
plaimed in the SAR were rained at the trining cen#s  Howvr, four tim    the
nmber of farmes were trined as envisaged in the SAR. Study tours were proposed
but not approved by Central Govenment.



70
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Apprasa
Esmae         Actua
(US$ mollos) (US$ milion)
1/           2/
Land Acquisition                                 020          0.00
Distributauies                                   48           5.93
Minors                                           9.26         9.72
Field Channels                                  19.79        13.37
Link and Main Drains                             3,49         170
Buldings                                         838          562
Voeicles and Equipment                           7.17         .21
Traiing                                          3.63         3.17
Adaptive Rescarcb                                2.16         0.79
ineering Research                                2.25         250
Esubgshme                                       16.8         14.09
Estmted Further Costs to Completion                           Li1
Tota                                            180          60
1/ Rs9.5 per US$ in SAR. Incud  coningence.
2/ Rst3.94 per USS, as weighted awerage rate over the project period.
B Project Flnancing
Piaed                     Actua
Crdit    L_an    Total      Crdt        USSOOO
SDR    USS$0             SDR *mlon   equgaln
rn-oil
IBRD/IDA
L Cil Work                           24.8   16,900                26.00
2 Equipment, Vedles and Meras        3.7    2,500                  137
. Salaie eat for Ilncmesta ff         10       600                 16S
4 Oerse  Std Tours                   0.1       100                 0.
5. From EadFee                                  57                              S7
6u allopated U,54
Sob4otal                             29A    22,700                29. 1/
US Eqvalet of SDR Credt                    32,000                            35,040
Toal Dak Grop                                         52700                   35,97
D    _Imile                                             25,00                  2m        2/
Total P*ct Cost                                         78,000                   WO.  2/
. U
1/ SDR 566,107.2 was cancl  on 21 Jamey 1992
I/ 3usd an weigted avra  exch    ra  of RI394 s USS1
OIments: Loan was canced   acept for th. fnt-end fee of US$56,608



71
6. Project Results
A. Diect Benefits
Indicators                     Appraisal    PCR Es_at
Estimte
Potentially benefitting farm fmies (no.)            30,000          37,600 W
Incresed food gn production (tons/year)             44,100          15800
Increased banana producdon (tons/year)              32900         neglgb4
Increased groundnut production (tons/year)          14,100           4,600
Increased sugarcane production (tons/year)         301,300         159,900
Generated farm employment (man-days/year)        3,30,000         1,60Q000
Generated non-farm employment (man-years             9,000          24,000
during constuedon)
' Based on average landholding of 3 ba.
. Economic Impact
-u    EsUmut   MCR Eilmab
Cao A Can D
Ecmnk Rasb of Retun                        3S.6%       3%       3% V
UnderltAug sumptIon
Sunk msm                                  Igored      igored  Ignord
pFojctEfl                                 20yam       20 y.   30geam
Rei" valu                                   si          Do      an
Fam gts price of agrc  (1991 R/t)           354        288
Far pte pice of weat (91 aft)                S         2179    4
Badis or Pat  pr    r food gra           sncea        k*t  Imat
Beue&a frm tudud INvestmet in baud        Ignre       Ignre  Ignoed
Beeft  om indued nvestmn in               Ignored    ISod I-dudud
'ERllshwbp   eaudmted                    yamud  afor urnyamdSher
o£_eoti_~~~~mbto y  0=MRM w3
EY ba  s bc For madn a  % Gr        dak a 8%  the wimru aroject
skuedoum    Ma b    h=tBIcnSm  wdoww  *
sbW we. abbbA&~



72
C. Finanial Impact
Appraisal Estimate     PCR Esdmate
Net farm income V
- Rs/ba With Project                      9,354                4,370
- Rs/ba Without Project                   2,848                2,700
I Expressed in 1991 Rs. Appial estimate, made for Jayakwadi, was Rs4,960 in
192/83 rupees with the project and RsIl,510 without the project.
Cammeaft  Cost Recory. The budpet allocated for O&M of the irgion network is based on Rs87 per
ha of comand area. In addition to this, the establishmlnt coat and O&M casts of head k, ole,
houss and related roads br    the total to about RsSO0 per ba (1990/91). Water charges in Mahaxrashtra
are being progressiy ineased fom 1990/91 to 1994/95, and by I4/95 the charges wM be betwen
R300 and RXs60 per irrigated ha depending on the cropping pattem  If the intensity of irigton from
cal is, say, 50%, the aveage charge in 1994/95 might be Rs225 per ha of command area, some way short
of the O&M  cost which is now about RsSOO per ha. Historical experience indicates that actua receipts
would be ss than th assesed charge.
D. Studies
Studies        Purpose as Defined at Apprisal    Staus        lmpact of Stud
Farmers' Atttude Survey  To find reaso  why farms do  Only one sudy Farmers' ris  were
(1V8  196S, 1987)      not make moem use of available  completed.    idendfied. 1/
water.
Organiation of Water    See 2/ below.                Completd      Remen
Use Soceties for O&M                                 1990         made 16 Soctie
fred. 2/
Adaptive Research      Develop irrigadon practices and  Compeed    Pactis and sstems
faming sysms                               wre identified. 3/
1/ The SAR (but not the Prject Agreement) requicd a Farmed Attitude Survey to be stted in Augt
193 and repet  at twoyear intvals until at least al project works were completed. Only oe sur
was caried out in about M97.
2/ Pa  2.17 of the Project Agreement requied, by 31 Deember 198C, a  e oic study of the
impact farmersoanais on O0L Th main thwt of the study that was caried out wa to
cmmend steps to be taken to form Wae Uses Asociations and the mles and proc     r tdese
societies.
3/ The main resus were to demonsta  the advastags of irigadog befre swing the khif crop and
teeby avoiing late plantig due to bte aal of rains, contour gWaded layoub on doping land with
bdaow soi, impved culva        paczte  nd       adopting a moe apprprat sowing time, u  of
improved vareties of seeds, sowing methods, seed at and row spac   the use af baaced   tus
and mor profitable crpping patts  It was found tat thore was at big dlrame between acta Ins
mdf qaaf  emn Wddby DJA  Rawd  maenIfcas  enpparcdfo                     c sam
conAlwiog the finacial and odcr constrn which fcd the farm  in the prod et Cre op
hrrIgatInnedswere studied ad waterngshedueswereproposed wh&ichetdat incrsd produti
by Gld.kithe usaof tder nputsto do euof eavailablewatwr.



73
7. Status of Covenants
-MC                          Subjet                        Deadlin for                 Swt"=
Section
2.01       Carry out the proect with due diligence and efciency.           Complied.
2.02       Maintain CAD with pows, funds and stf.                          Generaly complied
203(a)     Catty out the prject in aceordnce with ageed           .        Gnerally complied.
standards and cnitena.
2.03(b)    Operate and maintain distnburie minors drains and       -       Generally complied.
service foods.
2.03(c)    Train CADA staff in WALMI                                       Generally complied
Scc Part l, Sectiont 4.
2.04       Procuwt In accotdance with Schedule of Prwjet*                  Generally complied
Apeement
2U05       Insure imported goods. Goods and  nsemc  finced to              Comp
be used esclly for the prOject
2.06(a)    Establish and maintain monitonng cell                   -
206(b)     Monitoring plan                                 31 Dec. 193     Compl
2.07(a)    Maintain Water Management Reseat DiWisin anu            -        GCompied.
On-Farn Development Structures Divisin.
2.07(b)    Submit wok plan for these divisions              31 Dee. 2983    Complied Jan. 1984.
7 Apply such work plan.                         eacb  1 Apl     Complied (saotime l)
2.8        After ainy season surny and repair irrigation systm    each year 1984   Genealy copl.
2          Establish suitable farme  orgitos                       -       Complied See parx 7.2 and 73
2.10       Ensr quaity cntrL                                                Genay complied.
2.11(a)    (I)  Etablh an apply improved p     for wat                     Not compl     Old system matae
distribution and allocai  for distsib otrle4
minors and chalts                                           Not ull comp
(iH) Rotonal water suppv within each chal, b_d
on predetermined durations for eacwh am.                    Not compled.
(iii) Data from refece fields to improe schedulig
2.11(b)    FurniAh revisd O&M prdues                       I Je 1964       Complied Nov. 19.
Develop and introduce OJM oanuals               1 Dec 1987      Complied
212        Pmte land shaping.                                      -       Paily ompid
2.23(a)    Tet and ertify in waiting that chaks bh   bee                   Generally Co   D.
X1(b)      Eunnes organiaons opeate and maita                              Fame  opte but matsam
fi   hannelsmods.                                               could be I ved
I3(e)    If no& rpi and maintai at farmec                         -        Not done so fA
2.14       WIthi 2 yam of m        _   impmro  and Modif          -        Not done so ft.
n stem
23 5    FuPnI  propamm  for adaptive a5ricultur   seach   I March94    Complied.
onwar
2.16       Train                                                           Generally complid See Paut  ,
Seo_io 4.
L17  sod4cosomi stuoy n imponof hmmw31 Elm 1966             Complied See Par RU Setion SD
atpnkedon on OAK~~~~~~~~Copled
2.19       FPrish elar eport                               30 Jne 19       Compl   thoug some dety,  as
me              19 rpo  no yet redovet
220        xha    vies                                             -       Compl"d.
221        Acluire land                                                    Complied.
2 Maintai buildin, weides and eqpmt                             CMPL
223        Mmise ris of malae                                              Complied
102, 3AW    Maintai pn recrds                                              COMpl"d
3*3        Audih tcounas                                                   ComPid
3m         Apply appropriat wate dhaaL.                                    A revised stRucur whih Wil doabe
316        ReviwadImprov podr  for calamdne of wae                        AtrAte produe We be o
saReps.                                                         eoed.



8. Use of Bank Resoures7
A. Staff Inputs (staff-weeks)
FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86 : YF7 FY88  FY89 M        Y90  FYF1  FY     F93  Toal
Stag Of 1'tojsc
Paepmln              1.7          11.8                                                                     133
Apaisa                           463                                                                       46.8
Negtaio                             4                                                                        4
Spervion                                262   16.7  14.7  175   20.9  18.6   9.7   1"          48         145.7
Poject Compei                                                                                 13.7   3.   173
Total                 1.7     0   62.6  262   16.7  14.7  173   209   186   9.7  16.   18             3.  2275
B. Mlssions
stas ni Ps        Mot  Noof Dap spodatli                    Pu anm Raft d2
You  P        in  Rpmse                                                 h 
SaW=     Tmd
Thogw Appiuim   June 82   4   48 4/    MA
Nov4     6            IEA.T
DeA
Basal -W4
Doswd Appwmo
SWUpeb l         Jan.84    7     S    1(33A(3)
SuzvWoa 2        Nov. 84   3     3      I(A         2        2                                86
SuperisOD        ?dSa      4     4     tAW)         2        2                                8
C-
SuqmvWs4         Jan86    3      S      I(,A        1        2        1      1
SupwlsS          June 86   2    10       115        1        3        1     2
Sqpts 6          Jan87                              1        2        1    25/
Supuvwos7        Nov.87   4    12       AM2)        1        2        1     2
Sueviua8         JUl88    S      4   IW),WMPP)    1          1        1     2
MV sbt           Dec.8     2    4       IA
Supnviso9        Aprl89   4      5    I().R,W       I        1        2     2
Svibso 10        Nov. 89   2    11       1(2)       1        1        2      1       2
Supwviull        July90    2   104/    1(           1        1        2     a        1
Supvhl 12        Jan 91    S   1 4/  IMAM           1        1        2      1       1
Supewuoal3       Ju*91    1      4        1         1        2        1     i        I
PCR              Sept.91   3    17       MD
I/1 -Ir  lda gmom% a          -        IA pkfi   OokT   T      S  S        -   1  -
R * Agdwtuud R_eau  Spedmh, W - Wate MaG$Ven SpeeM  t Pu .        AM  SpeddIt 3- 1Amn.
2/ I a phsipiItpaoI  ms 2 * Mdodumwps;m   S * trpm
3/ M    _M=agL
4/ bddoidepuaje
5/ No  oam so WU fouafr ths s n R         ta_*V   fom Fo  S90 fo   g abd



INIDIA: Habansahtra Vater Utilization Project
AttachMent 1: Additial Data
Tdbe 1. Actual Project Costs
Unit - R   -                                         ------------               -  ------
8184   8485   8188  86187   87188  88/89  89/90   90/91  91/92   Total
Lard Acqusiton                                                 0.01                            0.01
Dlutaual                  &19    9.12  14.88   11.07   13.76   10.29   9.65   7.48   328    8Z71
Mno                       1.55   9.07   19.60   15.37   22.67   29.68  17.66   13.92   6.01   135.53
FedChaers                 282    9.06   32.46   29.86   33.14  28.59   24.94  21.07   4.38   186.32
Ur* & Mah Drains                 1.47    8.56   4.52   4.89   2.57    0.73   0.80    0.10    23.64
Bugidng                  10.92  26.66   15.58   6.47    4.08    5.55   3.86   3.97    1.02    78.11
Trairdng                  1.69   8.56   6.15   6.24    6.43    5.57   4.89   4.03    0.58    44.14
Vehtddes& EquIpmert       5.75    4.08    7.19    273    3.60   0.66   4.20    1.96   0.64    30.81
Adaveflesewch             0.50   2.37    1.75   1.35    2.23    1.52   1.34   0.03   0.00    11.09
Enineen Reseach           2.40   2.13   3.76   4.66    4.23   4.84   5.20   SAS    2.23    34.90
Etaihment                 2.13    8.20   16.26   22.90   26.72   32.38  39.61   37.83   10.33   196.36
AdJstrment 1/                                                                        15.27    15.27
TotaV RsmiAon           30.95  80.72  126.19  105.17  121.74  121.65  112.08  96.54   43.84   838.88
Exchne Raze               9.50   11.80   12.30   12.80   13.00   14.50  16.70  18.00  24.50    13.94
Total USS milion          3.26    6.84   10.26   8.22    9.36    8.39   6.71   5.36    1.79    60.19
1/ the final pOect Cot was estimated at Rs 838.88 million;
Rs4b.T6ntiUbn to be repotted and tenmised.
Sowce: CADA.



INDIA: Naharsra Uster Utilization Project
Attadwmnt 1: Additiomnl Data
Table 2.  Jayshmadi - Irrigated Cropping Intensty
3M  I                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual
19064  I 1984/86    1965/86   i198687         1967I/8   1   198l 9   I  198900    1       /9901
_P    _ F'iO    N V               V           V          V          V   .    O      V     NO      V     NO    V      11     V  
-garcuw                      3          4         11                      3          3                 2             4      S     6      9      S    It
* Banans 
Subtol                       3          S          13                     3          3                 2             4      S     6      9      S    11
atf
-Ii..e                       1          1          t
- SoVthLU                   4           S         11                                                                              1
N tjIllt                  0          1           1                     2          2                        1
C oCtto                      6          7         iS
.vegtdale                    1          2          4
Otbm                                                                      t                            1      1
mbto.ta                     12         I7         32                      3          2                 1 I
i1
lt                      a7          8          23                     4          3           1     1             6      5      7     7      6     S
-SoeVaua                    3                     l a8                    2          3          4      2     0       6    10      6    10       2     3
-armt                                   1          2                      1          2          1                           1     1      1      t     1
- Vegtabes                   1          1          2
OtheS                                                                                               1             1      5     2      6      1     2
Suls-toltal                 12         1S         45                      7          a          6      4     0      13' 21    16    24         10    11
Ibt san
-O ranCht"                  3           4         17                      1          1                 1            10     8      7      6      9     7
CottIn                                            4                                                                                     3
* Veetables                  1                     2
Others                                                                                         tI      1             3
Sub.tow                      4          5         23                      1                     1      2            1       S     9      9     10     8
Tot"- 31                               42         113                    14         14          7      9      2     30    34    32    42        S    30
MotoP P  Preset (19218).  F uutuwe at Full Dev.leppn.  VD  VitboAu iect.  V  Vith Project. Actl                        an a CCA of 35,100 hbe Irrigated
by saul WAY.



INDIm   aharsbtr. water Utilitation Project
Attsdcnt 1: AMdditfnl Oata
Tble 3.  Pwn - irristhd cioppins Inteafty
, . , .~~88                        I                        'Ac'u   -I
_ 1984/5   1     956  193/ 87    1987/88     i      19D8JW            1989/90            1990/91
P        Pi ND  I   N  1   1i                                               I s   I   uw    i      1          is
ft..,tgX) 
7       4        7         5         4        2         8        4        10       5        14        7       17        7
-Sawus                             2        4         1        2                   1        5         2       5         S        6        3      .5
- Orchard                          1        1
frtetal                    7       7       12         6         6        2         9        9        12       1O       19       13       20       12
_1if
-tce                   6       6        6        13         8        S         2        2                           2        1
-Cotton                   C1)     (1)      (2)        1         2        6
-$Sro.                     2                S 5       2        2         3         1        0                                                                -
*  Veget.e                 I       1        2
-Others                                               1         2        1         1        1                                    1
_ 1rtus                    9       9       n         17        14        1S        4        2                 0         2        2                 0
-  eet                    20      21       29        25         3        1         8        6        14      10        13       13       12        8
-Segu.                     1       2        3         2         4                  0        1         1       1         1        1        1        1
M                          1       2        4         1         4        2                  0         1       0                  0
* VeNDtble                 1       1        2
- Others                                                                           0        1         0       1         1                 1        0
3-total                   25      26       38        28        Is        3         a        a        16       12       15       14       14        9
llot _eo
- Oraisats                10       11      18         1                           33       I8        35      20        21       12       21       12
- Cotton                   I       1        1                                      3        2         1       0         2
- Vgettbl                  1       1        2
-Others                                                                  5         1        2         2       2         2        3        3        2
sb-total                  12       13      21         1                  5        37       22        38      22        25       15       24       14
TotWl                     51       56      a         52        31       25        58       41        666     441                 4 *S             35
son  p* Preent 1902/"). F  Fture at Full Oevel eI t.  ID a Uithout Project.  is* With Project.



INDIAls Naarahtra Water Utiltfation Project
Attacent Is Additioalt Data
T*lb 4.  sinu - irrimsted CroWlg intensity
Wt                        -Actuit
_31384        "9MM5         1985/8        1966187    197/8         13w889          1 989/90   1 1990nt1
P    f      v      V              w  IVwUgo I  w              w   Ii  wswe Is     u      us  I         usD    w     us wo I 
..................._......._               ..........       ...' - tX)
Sum.-                2     2      3
B Mi_             1     2      2
-Ordwd                     0      1
Sb-total             3     4      6      1       0      1      0      1      0      1     0      0      0      1      0      0      0     0      0
owf
- RIce               1     1      1
-Soe am              S     6      9
* mUlat              0     0      1
Cotten               1     1      1
*Veetal e                         1                                                                                                                     -
b-total,             a     9      13     0       0      1      0      4      2      0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     0
*tu
-Wamt             4      4     r
-soeWum              3     4      6
-Gram                2     3      5
-Vegetges            1     0      1
mb-total             tO    11    19      12      1?     11     7      4      2      0      0     0      0      12     9      5      3      6     6
Set tesene
-Cotton              1            1
-Oresa*ute          4     5     a
Sub-tofta            5     6     11      6       7      I      I      0      0      0     0      0      0      5      4      0      0     4      2
Toetal1 26   30    49                    19      21      14     8      9     4      1      0      0      0     18    13      5      3      10    a
ote:s p a Present 4198V8).   F * Futue St Full D lobet. I      V. Without Project (Entire Z9,283 he less U).  V a 1lth Project. Irrigted from cmts
11,220 he 1963-19, 15,336 he 198-199).



IIDIAt Nlrashtra Water Utitization Project
Attachment It Aditiwnat Dta
Tule S. made - lrrigatud Croppirg Int.mity
8*3   I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actuel
_     __   1984/U 1// 86          1986r 8     1987/88   19g8889  !t98990          199/9
P                     AU i       V_         v N    -  T                                     I-       -         I    W -
*Bsarcmw                  2          2          4           0          0          1           1           1            1           1
. Orchard                 I          I           I
mb-total                  2          2           S          0          0          1            1           1           1           1
- Sroee.                  4          4          10          2          3          2           S            I           I           0
Bilttlt                              1           1          2          4          4           9           4           2            1
- Rice                                           1
v egetables                          1           1
-Othe.e                                                     1          3          6           4           4           3            1
J-totl                    S          6          13          5         t0          12          18          9           6            2
- SOr*t                   6          7          IS          5          7          14          12          tO          4            5
-U st                     S          5          10          9          9                                              5           8
-ars e                               1          1                                 S           6           3           2           2
Vgete                               1           1          2          4          1           S           4           3           3
mrtotad                   12         14         27          S         20          20          23          17          14          la
m.t _e
-SroXwca                  S          6          13          3          6                                              5           4
- Cotton                  1          1          2                                                                     2           2
Vegetes                             I           I
-Othe0                                                      4          4          0           0           0           4           3
Stm-total                 7          a          16          7         Is          0           0           0           11          9
Total                     26         30         61         28         40          33          42          27          32          30
st     P  P Present 198 ).  f * Future at Fult oevetopnt.  V a Without Project.  v w Uith Project.



IDIA: Rahraetra  alter Utilization Project
Attacint 1: A*itiaul Data
Tdloe 6.      _ la8ms  - 'irigated CroIfa  intensIty
sam  I                                           d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tltal
1   M  1 1"0/86I   91 1/8II      W o i    1 19869 1                     9/90                  91
P    I F            END  I    V   I     v     I         I                    I  V  VIND       I            V IND I
- wasawcw.                     1          -2        4                                                                                                       3 2  t  3
-Ordhard                                 1         3
totd                        1.        3         7                                                                   1                2        1         3
* RSe                                     1         2
-10,0mm                       1          2         6                             1 
-Illet                                  1        1                                                  S        1       2        S       6        5         3
-maize                                    1         1                             t
-r*h.t                                    1         2                   1         2          1         6        6       a        a       7       S         S
-Vegetables                   11                   3
oatb.3                                                               8          6         tO        7        4       2         3      2        3         3
mb-total                       2          7        15                   9         10        12        la       1I      12        1?     is       13        11
uhb                            2          4 7                           4         3                    4    3   6    3   9    2    5
-Sorsta                       3          a        IT                  a          9         17        Is      23       it       25     10        9         6
- 6ra-                                 t~~                                                                     ~ ~ ~~~ 1  1  1                 1
* Vegetables
- Othas                                                                 6         7          4         4                1        0       2        1         1
bh-total                       5         13        26                  Is         to        26        23       27      20       23      22       13        13
Ibt _m
-    ize                                            2                             3          1         1
- Cotton                                  t         1
,rar nu8s                      I          5        12                   4                    6         9        9       a     ,7         S       10        5
* Vegetables                   1          1         1
OtWers                                                               5          5         7         1        3       2        6       S        2         4
Sb-total                       2          7        16                   9         a         14        12       13      10        13     10       12        9
total                         tO0        30        64       '          36        36         52        53       51      44       S8      49      39        36
Motes P a Present (19     3).  f   Future at Fult Development.  V a With Project. Actual is based on 10.263 ha Om area. For 1964-85 to 1987-88, Irrigatlon
Intensity includes areas Irrigated fro wells and canals. Froe 1918-89 to 1990-91, Intensity from eanals onlty. VD   WIthout Project. Actual Is bosed on
7,471 ha of Distrfbutaries 24 a1 25 outside IIW. IrripatIn Intensity from canals only. See also Attaecwent 2, Table 1.



81
ATTACHMENT 2
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Economic Analysis
Assumptions
1.       Economic rates of return (ERRs) have been recalculated using two sets of
assmptiozis to demonstrate the sensitvity to the assumptions-made.. In both cases
September 1991 constant prices have been used. Economic prices for taded
commodities were derived from parity prices based on World Bank commodity price
forecasts Import parity pnces were used for cultural inputs. Export parity was used
for sugarcane and cotton. A standard conversion factor of 0.8"1 has been used to
convert financial costs and prices of non-traded goods and labour to economic prices
(ifinancial and economic prices used are shown in Table la; economic prices ate derived
in Tables lb and lc); costs incurred before 1991 have been adjusted using ODP deflators
(Table 2) to 1991 terms, O&M costs for the irrigation network are excluded as they
-would be incurred both with and without the project. In the absence of any clear trend,
crop yields have been estimated based on the average of 5 subprojects recorded ovr 5
years period (see Table 3). Farm level production costs have been included.
2.       Fistly, (Case A) the ERR was calculated generally following the assmptions
used in the SAR. In this analysis cost and benefit streams were taken for 20 yean and
benefits were based on the changes in cropp$ig pattern resulting from increased
irrigation intensity using canals only. January 1991 World Bank commodity price
forecasts were used; an average of import and export parity prices was used for food
rains. For the second case (Case B), cost and benefit stea  were taken for 30 yea
April. 1992 World Bank commodity price forecasts resulting in the use of a higher wheat
price; import parity prices were used for food gras on the grounds that forecast
suggest that India wil encounter increasing deficits In national supplies Furthermore,
benefits were included to reflect the increase in irrigation intensity resultig from the use
of both canals and wells;V.
3.       Iriation. IJtemlty. The weighted avge  irrigation intensities of
3 subprojects for which with and without project data are available bave been used in the
esmation of the benefit of the whole project. Resmation Ofthe incremental ritWon
intensity, however, presents a difficulty as the project his just been comleted, and
tberefore the time span is too short to be able to judge With accuracy the fumte
irigaion intensity. It has been etmated that, at preent, the canal WIigainiesities,
are 36.7% without the proec and 37.4% with the project It has baen amed the
canal irrigation inesity would Icea  to 5096 at full developmnt, S year  ter
Saw   wad .. tk
lbi scou be jdlued   o d eroudst h ie        suj eppfrkm hwh th wdu ae 1fed
dies to a kaW pat fit Ir atio sys. ot onher  had coss of webws e ot cw
by tX pojct ow hu  bn posb to estmate  m Thy are defor eclued fom de ao
sream and hene ts itns -a mrob" oertimatef th bnfts atrtb to th projt



82
MaWUas bta Wae Uuion PI*
Am_mat 2: &D=Mi  Fkiauda AWIs
compledon and 60% when irrigation from wells is included (Case B). These rates are
far lower than the 86% expected in the SAR. It could be argued that average cropping
intensity would increase with time as farmers gradually take up more efficient irngation
pracdces but this would be offset by the gradual deterioration of the project works (see
Part 1, parms 7.2 and 73).
4.       CroppIg Pattern  Changes in cropping patterns for both Khadakwasa
subproject and the whole project are showm in Table 4. As data without the project are
not available for all the S subprojects cropping patterns of the whole project have been
derived fom the average of 3 subprojects. It appeas tba'. the effect of the project is to
increase the area of wheat and sugarcane, while reducing sorghum in rabi Analysis of
crop budgets (see Table 5) indicates that sugarcane is the most profitable crop, while
rabi sorhum gires poor retu    Crop budgets expressed in economic terms for different
croppig patterns ae shown in Tables 6(a) to 6(d).
ReDafted ERRs
5.       Based on the above a   ps, the ERRs have been re-esdmated for the
whole project (Tables 7a and 7b)t and 3 subprojects: Jayakwadi (Table 8), Pma (Table
9) and   a       (Table 10).
6.       For the whole project the ERR has been esdmated to be 3o in Cwase A, and
13% applying the ore optimtic asumptons retained for Cae B; these rates are far
less than the 36% expected in the SAR This reduction in the ERR is due mainly to
lower cropping IntDity and delt In generating the benefits. The incremental aopped
area was expeted In the SAR to reach 45,000 ha compared to about 15,000 ha in the
PCL
7.       As there are unries in the maitenance of the irrigation system fom
now unt the end of the project life, the sensitivity has been tested,auming that the
benet would be reduced by half at the end of the project life. It is fund that the ERRs
are senstie to this reduction, and they would drop by about 3% (i.e. to 0 and 10%).
Other Factors
8        It se   that, particuly In wet years, fnmers prefer to rely on rainfl
ratr than u  caal water. Tis may be due to a fear of making heuy black cotton
sois unworkable if they become too wet and a wish to save paying for Irrdiat  Thus,
whe the rer . Is    foMllowig wet weate, th  canal Irrigation ntesty may
deoas bse  the frmet   use rn  and 1resda moire. Of cuw, whe the
rOae. 4 u.mk 1t... late    iei I. ma.m 10 0 i.mrn.34. I. t*tg. kmj.rn,e  It1 u0.4aew ..lh..a. ch -



83
IDIA Mbhazbzu Wa r UWilion PriIc
AUaehmfns 2- Eco=mI WAn FinAnwal AnalY*i
figures from Khadakwasla subproject (see Table 11), which indicate that the canal
irrigation intensity with the project is lower than that without the project, are hard to
explain but may be due to crops with higher water requirements being grown in the
project area.
9.       The SAR (para 6.03) assumed there would be no increased production due
to wells attributed to the project. However, it appears from data available that the
number of wells and the area under irrigation have increased substanialy during the
project implementation period, although without project funding. Table 11 shows that
the well irrigation intensity in Khadakwasla subproject is about 359{o with the project,
whereas without the project it is only 159o. Case B has therefore included the benefits
from well irrigation.
10.      It is evident that the project encourages farmers to expand their rainfed
cultivation, as they feel more secure if they know that they could get supplemental canal
water for their crops when there is a shortage of rainfall. It might be, therefore,
appropriate to consider increased production from rainfed cropping as a benefit of the
project. However, these benefits have not been quantified.
B. Finandal Anaysi
11.      To assess the impact of the project on the frmers, 3 models of partial farm
budgets based on 3 ha fiams have been prepared: (i) without the project (see Table 12);
(ii) with the project and with change in cropping patterns (see Table 13); and (iii) with
the project and without change in cropping patterns (see Table 14). A summary of
finding is presented in Table 15.
12.       Due to the project, the net fim  income would increase about 60% from
Rs8,100 (USS310) to Rs13,100 (US$500). In 1991 constant terms, net inoome estimated
in the PCR is much less than was ected in the SAR; the main reason for this
reducdon is lower irigatio intensity and smaller farm   e TS e retur to hmily labour
ineases from Rs14 (USS4.4) to Rs131 (US$S) per man-day. f cropping patr are
assumed to be unchanged, increased cropping intendty alone would raise the net revenue
by about 36%.



84
India
Maharashtra water UWliztlon Projet
Table 1 (a) Prices of Agriculture Products
(constant 1991 prices)
Unit: RsAton
Economic Prices
Products               Financial Prices 1/          CaseA      Csse B 3f
SePt           1991    200       1991   2000
Sorghum (Jawar)           3,300           1,588    1,965   3,177  3,381
Minet (Bara)             2S00            1,427    1,765   2,414  2,570
Cotton                    9,000          10,000   10,400   11,454 11.677
Wheat                     3,600           2,179    3,350   4,255  5,665
Gmoundnuts                9000            6,266    4,750   5,792  3,763
Sugarcane                  380             288      390      270    408
11 provided by CAQA.
2/ used in GOM  gMaharasha Composite Irrigation Prolect i Sudy, which Is based an
the World Bank Price Forcasts - Jan 1991; average of import and export parity
prces used for food crop.
3/ see tables 1 (b) and 1 (c); World Bank Price Forcasts - Aptr 19On Import party
prices used for food crop.



85
T..e 1(b) O eistibn d EoomhW Po   for 131l
-moe P    _                     PM
,Ui           Dm        Oat                       0      ona
Wedd Multet Pdee 11
- In 1s69 co_nst   US$          usn              71        69         601       133        1,130
-hI 1691 coraWl  US145L7        USlt            106       143         694       13         1,6
uoflfty a*dJ w                   %                so        so          so        so          90
Wadd Mmket E*uvakfnt             U SAa            64       128         604       17B        1,512
FrigM and Iwrance        U9M@                     36        35          35        PM5)
CIFBombay
-hUSS                           USSAon         l1s        163         639       143        1,44A
- h Re t4 RsAJw                 RaI           297       4,066       206       356
OomManHing, Tawpoat, Mugin       Ren             300       300         300      (30        (1.
Preusl%ag m10 100                                          10           go        10          34
WholsaIe Pdes                    Rtn            3         4,305       6,42       320       11t04
Trspottoltomfm                   Rdlmon           (         (am         (         150)
Fam-gat pdo                      Retn           3.177     4,236       6792       270       11.454
1/Woadd Bk. Rwtds  of P*my C      nmdky Pds Fases, Api 1M2.



86
TaWe 1(c) Oer*atln of Economic Pue for 2000
I nompor PafI d
Unit       sorXm   Wheat   Groun  uts ISuaree   conn
Wadd Maket Pdce 11
- in ls5 onsan USS             US/ton           78       139        380       175       1,150
- hi 1991 contat USS14S7       USton           116      207          6O5      260       1,710
Odlyadjuatnt                                     s 80      90         90        90          90
Wodd Masket Euivadent           US6ton           93      1S          509      234       1,539
Freightnd ummnc                 USmon            35        35         3:       (3 5
CIF Bombay
- h Us                         USSon           120      221         544       190       1.469
-  R As 24.5  PU               RAston        3,131     5.415      13,317    4.860      35,992
Oom.Handig, Transport Margin    Rs/ton          300      300         300      (300)      (1,
Proodesssng rso                 %               100       100         28        10          34
AolewJe Pdce                    As/ton        3,431     5,715       3.813      456      11.727
Transpot to/Irom fam            RAtn             (GM      (50         (G0       (%50) 
Farm-gate puic                  Aton          3.381     5.66        3,76       408      11i677
1/Wodd Bonk, RAWblon of P*uy CommodtyPeFoeasts. Apd 199



87
INDIA Mabahtr Waer Uhsition Pt*cg
Attacham  2 EIauomic  FSW Sun "alS
Table 2. Ilation Facton and Exchange Rates
Years        Inflaton 1/    Detbtors    Exchange Rates 2/
-~~~
80/81=100    90191=100       (Rs to US$)
1983184            126.4        175.2              10.3
1984185            136.3        162.4              11.9
1985186            145.6        152.1              12.2
1986/87            155.5        142.4              12.8
1987188            171.1        129.4              13.0
1988/89            183.6        120.6              14.5
1989/10            201.3        110.0              13.7
1990191            221.4        100.0              18.0
1991/92                                            24.5
Source: Wodd Bank, New Delhi.
-/ domestic inflation.
21 for 1991/92, Includes period up to September, 1991.



88
INDtA Mahaiisbtg Watet Udflition Pjct
Anachnmet I Eomic and Fnci Analyil
Table 3. Estimated Yields
SAkl                    PR 1/
Unit Vha
Wo P   WI P             'WI P
PERENNIAL
Sugarcane                      73   80.00              82.00
*           M~~~0APJF
Sorghum (Jawar)                 2    2.20               1.70
Mist (Balm)                    0.8   0.80               1.70
Cotton                         0.8    0.9                1.15
RABI
Sorghum (Jawat)                 2    2.30               1.40
Wheat                          1.3   1.40                1.80
HOT SEASON
Groundnuts                     1.5   1.70                1.60
1t average figures of 85/90. based on data of DIRD.
Wo P - without the project
WI P  with the project
I. -



89
INDr  Matbas  Water Utaatioa Pre
Attachmnt 2: Economic and Fmanda Analyis
Table 4. Cropping Patterns 1/
Khadakwasla              Whole Projet
Unit: %                       -
WoP2/ WIP3/              WoP4/  WIPSI
PERENNIAL
Sugarcan                        3      19                7       13
KHARIF
Sorghum (Jawar                                           S-    7
Millet Bair*)                   15     20                16      14
Cotton                                                   S        5
8.total                         1S     20               25       26
RABI
Sorghum (Jawar                 48      18               25       17
Wheat                            5     20                23      25
S.total                        53      38               48       42
HOT SEASON
Groundnuts                     29      23               20       19
TOTAL                          100    100               100      100
1/ all crops, Including rainfed.and wells; minor crops excluded.
21 data of a non-MWUP area, In Khadakwasla.
3f data of a MWUP area, In Khadakwasla.
4/ average fIgure of Jayakwad, Mula, and Khadalwasia sub-proect.,
from SM; actual figure not available.
5J actult average figure of Jayekwadi, Mula, and Khadakwaesa
sub- pojects, which represent 78% of the total area.
Wo P  without project
WI P   wih projsct



90
IN0lkAauratt Water UtUtzatlon Proct
__________   _ Attachmentt2: E¢onorIc and Firmcl Af,Ly__
Tabla IL Crop BudC a at Fianca Prlees
Hot
Peroal              Khartf      8        an            Swam
Unlt  -- -- --m
&uarcan. Sorghum     Met   Cdton Sarghum   Wheat  oiu
REVENLE                                                                         - -
iemu       02       1.70    1.70      1.15     1.40    1.       1.W
PRice                RsiA         380    3,300      0      9,000    3,300    3,600 
VanuWn product       Rs        31,160   5610    4.25Q    10M50    4         6,480   14,400
VakLbY-productl/    Rs          3,116     568      425     1,035     482     648    1,440
Total                Rs        34.276    8,171    4,75    11.65    5062   7,12    1660
COSTS 2J
seed
uaty                kg             1      10        3        3       10     100      100
Uf tcost            RS         2,000      15      1i       200       15       6       18
Sub-cost            As         2,000     150       48      60       150     600   1,600
NPK
QAnW                kg         1,100     150      150      200      150      180     109
Urtcost             Rs           2.1      3.0     3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0     3.6
atb-cost            Rs         2,310     450      450      600      450     480      392
Lkea
Quam"Ity            kg           500      SO       50      100       50      54       15
UrtCOSt             As           2        2.4     2.4       2.4     2.4      2.4     2.4
ftb-cost            Rs         1,200     120      120      240      120      130      38
wate                 As          1200      7        78       120     108      120     450
Hltd labo1
Qum"tity            md            45       8        8       s0       10      19      110
Lt cost             Rs            20      20       20       20       20      20       20
SUb-ost             RS           900     1S0      160     SM        200     360   20
HlIwdOrutPow S/I    Rs             80      80       80      360       80      40      180
?celwsou             Rs           100     100      100      100      100     100      100
Totl                 As         7.790    1,138    1,036    3,620    1,208    1.650   5,15I
NErP RVENU            As        26.486    5,033   3.39     ?.765    3874    5278   10862
FaMl ybor             md           80       50      50        s0      s0       75      80
RETURNfFALABOUR    Rs             331      101      73       129      77       70     134
11 10% d nabh woduct
21 hp proded by CADA. and misain e_ta.
21 Me rate As 40Ipeir/day.



91
IMDIAW  Mahatlura Watet UtIiation Pwqec
Attachment 2: Eom1i and FInancl Analyiis
Table 6(a). Economic (1991) Crop Budgets for the Whole Project (With and Without the Project)
Hot
Perentil     Kharf                           Rbi   Sson  TOTAL
Unit    -
Sutm8e  Soghum Met    comn  Sorgum Wut   .nuts
SENEfITS
Yilds                 th          £2n0      1.70    1.70    1.15     1.40    1.80     1.60
Pdoes 1t              Raft         288    1,58    1,427  10,000    1,5    2,179    SAO
Valueimain product    Rs        23*16    2,700    2,426  11,IO0    2223   3,022   10,026
Value/by-product      Rs          2,362     270      243   1,150     222    392    1,3
ToWl                  Rs         25176    2,870    2,68   12*50    2,446   4,314   11,028
Seed
QuantIy              kg             I       10        3       3      10    100       100
Unitcost             Rs          1,600      12       13    160       12       a       15
Sub-coet             Rs         1600      12D       39    400      120    500    1,500
NPK
Quantity             kg          1,100     150    10    200        150    16O.    106
Unit cos             Rs            5.5      5.5     5.5    5.5      85       5.5     5.5
Sub-cost             Re          6.050     825      823   1,100     8o2    S80       6c0
urea
QuantIy              kg           50        50       50    100       50      54       15
Unitcost             Re            5.      5.0      5.0   5S0        5.0    5.0      50
Sub-coot             Re          2,500     250      250   5am       250-   270        75
Watce                 Re           960       o2       62     86       86      96      310
Labour
QuantIy              m.d          125       S8       56    140       60      94      190
Unltcogt             Rs            16       16      1       16      16s    16        16
Sub-coat             Re          2,00      93       9     2,240  880  1,504    3,040
Hlred Dft Power       Re            64       64       64    290       64      32      144
Mlsoeleneous          Re           100      100      10      100     100    100       100
ToWl                  Re         13,274    2,349    2*8   4,800    2,405   3,382    5,819
NET SENERTS/h          Re        12i704      621     400   7,844       41    932    5,210
WlTHOW tHE PROECT
Croppigpettem2f       %              7        5       15       5      25      23       20      100
Ni beanae             Rs           a3        31       60    392       10    214    1,042    2.839
WITH THE PROJECT
Cloppingpttem2f       %             13        7       14       S      17      25       19      100
Nutbn                 Rs          1,651      43       56    392        7    233       900    3,3?3
11 econonic pdlce 1991.
2/ oe Tabo 4.



92
INDIA: Malaushtt WatrUon Pro,jM
AamuM2: Econom icandiancufianlys
Tb Ob. Eeonoumo (20O) Crop B6sadts for the Whdto Preot
(wl4t and wout the proleal) (161 Rsa)
Hot
Pu~amiW      Kharitt                          Nabi    Sessn  TOTAL
LUnit imm~
Sug_w  Sarghum    FUIst   CoMa  SahUin   Weat  G.AM
w-mam-a-mm--
Yie                 on          6200     1.70    1.70      1.15    1.40    1.60    1.60
Pdsm 11            RMAt          390    1,965   1,75    10,400    1,9     3,3      4,750
owumainpaduct   ft             31tM0   3,341    3,001   tt800   2,51    ,30   7,600
Vak.by-produt       Rs         3,198     334      300    1,196     275      603     760
Toan                As         35,178   3,675   3,301   13,156  13020   6,033   6,360
COSTS
Quany              kg             1      10        3        3      10      100     100
Unitcot            Rs          1,600     12       13      160       12       5      15
Sub-cot            Rs          1.60     120       39      480      120     500   1,500
NPC
Quantity           kg          1,100    1So       S0      200      150     160     109
Unltat             Rs           5.5              5.5 5     5.      5.5     5.5      5.5
Sub-cot            As          6,050    825      625    1,1O0     625      S60     600
ula
OMantity           kg           500      50       50      100      50       54      15
Licost             Rs           6.       5.0     8A       5.       5.0     5.       5.
Sub-cas            R           2,500    250      250      500     250      270      75
Whtv                Na           90       62       62       96      a8       98     360
Labotr
oaf"               mJ           125      58       58      140      60       94     190
=Jicost            P4            16      16       186      l        16      186     i
Sub-at             Rs          2,000    926      926    2.240     960   1,504   3,040
i*    Vt Power      Ns            64      64       64      290      64       32     144
M olAnsous          Rs           100     100      100      100     100      100     100
Tout                Rs         13.4   2,349   226S        46    2,405   3,32   5,681
NET884qFrSIha       Na         21,S04    1,326   1,033    6,350     621   3,251   2,542
WflHOUT ThE PROCT
Cropplng pbm2/      %              7        5      15        5       25      23      20      100
NSbSUeW             fs          1,533      de     155       418     155    748       506   3,583
Wflh WH PFKLEr.
o=pvlnopauW2        %              13       7      14        B       17      25       10     100
NKtOnefi            NA          2,648      93     145       418     106     613      463   4,0W4
2m Tabl 4.



93
INDIA: Mabaahta Water Utiliation Prec
Attachment 2: ESQOnlic and FinanCial Analysis
Table 6(c). Econortlc (1991) Crop Budgets for Khadakwusla (Wltb and Without the Project)
Hot
Perenrial    Khailf                          RAW    Season  TOTAL
Unit    rwim
Su     en  Sorgtwm Mie      Cotton  Sorghum  Wheat GQnuts
SENEPITS
Yeld                  th         82.00     1.70     1.70    1.15    1.40    160      1.60
Peea 1               PeA          268    15S      1,427  1C000    1,588   2.179    SAO
Valuetmain product   RA         23*B16    2.700    2.426  11600    2J3   3.822   10126
Vasluby-ptoduot       Rs         2,362     270      243   1,150      222    392    1,003
Total                 Re        25,978    2.970    2,8  12650    2.448   4,314  11,028
COSTS
seed
Quantity             kg             1      10        3       3       10    100    100
Unitcost             Rs         16000      12       13    160        12      S       15
ub-coat              Re         1,600     120       39    480       125    S0    1A00
Quantiy              kg         1,100     1S0      150    20D       180    160      109
unit cost            Rs           5.5      5.5      5.5    5.5      5.      5.5     5.5
Sub-coat             Rs         0,050     825      825   1,100     02S    880       600
Urna
Quantiy              kg            00      5.0      50    100        50     54       15
Urdt cost            Ae           5.0      5.0      50     5.0      5.0    5.0      5.0
Sub-cod              Re         2,500     280      250    500       250    270       75
Wa'tr                 Rs           060      62       6.2    s0        00     9       360
Labour
Qua t                m.d          125      58       58    140        60     94    10
Unitcost             Rs            16      18       18      10       16     16       is
Sub-cost             Rs         2.000     928      92    2,240      S00   1,504    3,040
ked Omft Powe         Re            64      04       64    290       64      32      144
Mecelaneous           Rs           100     100      100    100       100    100      100
Total                 Re        13,274    2,349    2,8   4.800    2,405   3,382    5,819
NET BENEFITSf/        RS         12,704     621      400   7,844      41    932    5,210
WMTHOUT nE PRO£Cr
Cropping patm 21                     3       0       15       0      48       5       29      100
Net bnlef             Re           681       0       s0       0       19     47    1,511    2,018
WIlH THE PROJECT
CroppiG pdta 2m                     19       0       20       0       18     20       23     100
Notbmnalts            Rs         2,414       0       s0       0        7    186    1,198    3,80
leonom  pdole 1991.
21 e Table 4.



94
INOW: MabWm rtmWeorUtibanProjeat
Alachmun 2: Econmic en Pinancl. As
Table 6.dL Eoonomic p000) Cop ludgeft for Khadakwuula
(itiv and wWltuat th proj    (199 R)
Hot
PS    Ig     Khalft                          RFtabi    S5sn  TOTAL
Unit-
Sugrwas Saghum    Moht   Cotn Saghum   Wheat  Gl
EeEt'Efl
Yids                tN          600      1.70    1.70      1.1t    1.40    1.80    1.
Ptlae 1I            RIt          390    t9    1,6        IO1040   1,95   3,350   4,750
ValutmaIn pvduc     Rs         31.980   3,341   3,001    11,90    2.751   630   7,9,o
Vaufy-produot       Fi          3,198    334      300    1.180      275     603    T7
Toon                Rs         35,178   3.675   3,301    13.150   3,02,  6.633   880
COSTS
Sed
Quontity           kg             1      10        3        3       10     100     100
tcout              Rs          1,600     12       13      16O       12       5      1s
Sub-cot            Rs          1.00    120       39      480      120     So0   1,50
NPIC
Quantty            kg          1.100    150      150      200      150     16o     109
Unicost            Rs            5.5     GA      5.5       5.5     5.5     5.5      5.5
Sub-coa            Rs          6,050    625      625     1.100     825     880     60
Lsa
Qua-               kg            00      50      s0       100       SO      54      15
Utcout              s            5.O     5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0
Sub-cm             Rs          2S50     250      250      500      250     270      75
hiIr                RS           960      62       62       95       66     SI      360
tbur
Qany               m.d          125      s6       se      140       s0      94     190
Unitccat           Rs           1       1       16       1s       1s      16      16
Sub-ot             Rs          2.000    929      292     2o40      960   1,504   3,040
iH  d wtpow         Rs            64       64      64      290       64      32     144
Msootneom           PA           100     100      100      100      100     100     100
Tow)                As         13,274   2,349   2.        4,06   2.405   3,382   5.819
NET ENIEFtTVu       RS         21,904   1,326   1,033    8,350      621   3,251   2.542
W*WNOTThPROJEcT
arn -- ---------
Cropping pom2i      %              3        0      1i        0       48       5      29      100
Netheallns          Rs            657       0     155        0      298     163      737   2,010
WnHn TE PFKECr
Ouppingpanm2/       %              1s       0      20        0       16      20      23      100
NhabAMR             R           4,162       0     207        0      112     650      U     5,715
W meToW4.



I       a                                                    a       *       a       t*      ii       a       14      19      u        '       a       to      so
| ~ ~~I                                                 wa   -             -   uotmser    4seSusUS0l6                                                                                P
Si    SAM    van 4IiV  8ax ?SA  ISA  WA  8mm1 *       87*    84    408   t4O2    4tt    4l7         to0*  t00    020   ta0             00x      000     60*     90
A.ba.M4               U~ ~~~~ 31        go       "a*7  55         41052   NY56     403     SAN6    47164   10566    4.164   am50    0150    am50   loom6   Om0    8000   0115W      Pso
WewauWa~hwbl            12N      13?      357      SW7       SW?    37       157    am       337      SW57            S 33? 3 27    3as       357      SW7    480    480    490    401
S,-0S                51~~~~~ MI.5    3671     645W      UJ5W   USIS  510540  USD00  56PS    P964  700551  M*AN   064,11   56.@   114.152  56.15  282540  262540  and"5  21240
k-q .F ae       fA         1a"       21     36            * "  o  soy    soy     26        .       7       6       6 367 MY so6: ey M     267      367     soy    97    a6"        32*      MY
Aussmppsd 9.)         15~  350       OMW    5.16       2695   WM*   25*6    30*71   42a7    42*7    42,V1   42X73   42*71   42X71   42,*71  42*76   42*71   42*76   42*71   42X76
9mm 9mspmrtIS&         2to       to6      38       3         *86     *86     256;   *0       as      286    *86       2*6    2tA      286     2*4      206    215    316    3S6        316
~~sbsyS   ~~~~~46    Sol    7?16    UPI    5.560  5113   17,701  311X3   43575   S1IAN   SOA0,  70500   RAW    62507   PAW    PAS   50563  13056   505W   13056
3.-s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ft*amow                   Isun     sun3   OkISO   MISO   511  aimW  11257   10505
A*Iftden                  48g      110$$11   MA 50565    64.5         IVAN716    5pW  112
Aqa.14       S               Il                  6       43       50      SI      15      10
- .    -     -     i~~~I3.  (MU)(IS           (I'.Uq  ("PRt  psi"   P,6O    0.781   43575   slAw   16*06   70500   NW6    62AR    VWA    Sam?  I0563  m05m   505A63  130
IwsI9mSE.a  .i.M4WwnbPuumdWmd kbm~wftvdmgn
Ig.T6
__ u   aS osdha                is   odO l
_______m0



c6 .  esto.e "togw  e      ;t oe SIsg   Woen  VW=   Wm  OK,=  eetsw  ode   MS" 0    wed balaS  bweD  bod  bWeeal be"s) *asI (                      -w-
selsi ole.  ee       wIes   ests    wVm   aso   gWe                    qup_
sSP    we.  telL   telds   0ww   011    we    OtI                1     1mo
OVO a         toIP   e af 16(13   SWIo   are s   0(   aB-              MoUidp#_
esem   cet oe gstose atom  sweswes  ewe   eewa  owect elit  esg    vu   eotso   ceseel na                           NMs      ae      w         
WMAL  IeVLf  161L3 llag UILO   KILO  KILO  "ties MILeS  56(00  gid   5m  mesa  maes    ,fa w e slettS                 u ea t  wo   ols    gme
Ws     Ws    Wes    Ws L      t LOG    1   tee    tee    tee    Cte   Cte  tee    tee    tee   tee   tee            teM    fen      er      WV
uee   s9            goe  got    got    Zoe        es   Zoe    sa eZoe    Ae    tus  sae  gteo  tgm                 easas   gots   gm       es
"sOM  bo      two   tec  tsue    We        se    sue   wose nc          sse t    e tse e     au ae     g    see =se n c ne          *@@     IVOiWeU               S" ea  m-s$
CrO    adll9  :f9s  acst  gagz  *e0s>  acez   age  ago    009    upf   ews  W"    oi'a   ot                Ott     ca ane           VA      gm _ 2
*t9    t9e   at8    tu   cw9    *osg  lwos  tws           ¢st  wst  owss  *aso   not  nws    aSW   owo             *os      lB      is      *"       n4J0
e.  eaW,  swats owes  aoWes  own   Wes  uases  oeas u  al  wg   isls  *Wfm  OWNs.  oecaWe  tuw                    e"la       wa o   We    to
@1    @0 $ @0         : @01    St  @              @SL                                    tUs-P  W1   O9   U        POPt   @0           a O       _
esee  sleS  amu  cllewosl  oeos  owe   wiule  esees  ee e 0(            els  oo1s0  DellC   *W5   051* 011         OVa ete          SRl     0                     _
pupwo   awase*    "Wee   W9 8S  _u-   s-u   ses                                  a    n   _si               se4ts                   _       son 
is     -      S       1     es     Sl    n-       v      P      II      5      S      e      L      9       Sg      5        t      t       W
P_q                                                                           - _
aw



TaSkS. SsMoab AneI)uWhA"bE
ab d40eb_t pbmMka.
I       2        a        4         6       6       7        6       0       1       11       2       3       14      a       t6      a n              -      8
AuetwIspsd                     at    46    am19          118.134 . 1    5196   36510   41I   60    1210    52 w    *90   2Sa0    S29               1200   1200   m20    a0    Wm             200
bmamEopdau.                      a       46      so1       667    170      on7    SW2    Sim6   01         790  W so           oope   w,   uim   aim    * JIQ         . 101  . IM   16.110   ".120
hi6S_b*MV                      aU        36       36       04       3a     u6        O     470 a          #O    PO    s2P0 42  44  40  43  go  a      so      62       so    s0        so      s0
A03161pk               ~~~ ~~46    1.916  4.110    6300   OM35   12.13   t4964   16.13   219O2IN 20                 4      3A      3130 3esU*  10 tgs sas sta  tg    3Aiao    siam   auso   31a
Wst..60.bfepwkM       60So      Gal      601      6o1      So1    S0l    Sal    S01         Sal    Sol    Sol    505         Sal    561      S01     60l    a"3    03J3       on8    6J
2as    1.03    89met       56     40.03   06701   74971   6570   13016,1   11690   t1f136  1250  13651   M6611   116l3  156612 211136  211136  *31M 3 11536
kip" bupj%1g                    so       a0                                  go      26      20     2go      26       29      26      *6      26      26      29       26      20      26      go
*u.a.ppm               ~~~ ~~44  110    3.743    SAO6    7AWS   OM6   111         1390   1590   1OM6   ISM    ISM6   ISOM    ISM6   16Dm   SAM   19I0   OM16    066   15966
__MRW"          tvpm Im       440      440       443      440      443    4A3    4A3    4A3    43           443    44       443    43        443    44S    4A3    8*o         Us    6D    0*
MS 101tse                      03     0   1     65 0S6I   269541   396    4190   49*0    61S9O  SO6N   SOOt   6604  69)04  6904   6904  6604   0694  SI*                   615*1   061*6    Wi1t
U      1926    4.111    spit   13960   16.706  25977   W.V   42DM   47924  533A2   Us$46  06906   soon6  061ON   6"An  13093   "Om9   "Om96   1
__u a4 2 1m 1               12*2   32960   06296    40130    3674?  4329   4096   WA
A ~ ~ d o m g b       1 6 9 66~~O   4 2 5 6 3  4 3 5 1  W P9 6   4 0 . 1   4 1 1 0 6  = 5 1  64 5 6 3
0.        _                    II t   r   S                         as      to t tS
tze   _ptElit2t        4F11011t    4jU    AX1       44M   4%I      4J2a    MIS    544         F        4     *         4     4F        4      4 "5I                    JI     51
-_ _         ---.   (116W    *I.64q   90.701)  P40W    PS6) RIP9                  PA"   P.281)  42414   47064   39S    WAS   606    MA6               S M  OMS   MA0W    WAS  S13   130AN
..in e                                  us0.
0136666s%Wuut EOlt40eut  SaW8a db 06 1
~41 tO,72Ut 41;pt ttO  L4



Wism   it  Kit s   Ki WAI V   onV   Wsv  tiwe  OVA   we         d, ft in    I'sbl    er)ww)  e)w  (ed  (tW  bW       Iwo
seen am           se   s 4  ones    oe Ws    t
an      is   en       s     -      em    ea
arm    ew  w%  wt   Ss   $a" two   oft   tA    Ws   m*  ov   ow    ewe  meo  se    to'   mV    us    ml             umh
we  o    s   W    C  I" C" Iw   4w    W    tw    Io   "    4w   S#       "    a"    S"    S"   oI"
an i   M    an   an   Ws   an   lan   =e   we    we  an    ef ts  ae   a*   o*   Om              no           =
so    ie   iee  of    al   ea s f Wel a,i           as   asw 61   ss   a ff    is me    v  V    geo   aI    e0    e1-
eve   we   wez as    v        v     v      e         * we   eve   eve  ev   *v    __    v        v       e    we     seuqm
us.  #m.  sWe  en   see   me'  se    se,  see  seet  am   se   $M   own  see  em                  so   Om    *
-    -       -   es isw        -           mw  ms  esu   ev   wue  NMe  onw  fm.  we   we'   wie    WV    wea
a    4        s   o           se  of           so   so    m       se   so    oe   a         'sso   * *
MA'V
or   Gem    am -B  am   am   V*  am   am   am   of   WA  "S    so    SWs
K    -    5        5     5     S     it    5     5     I     e     i    e    *g  5         5      C      5      S 
" ~ ~ m          m    am    WA    am    gm    a"        NM    on   "    on   gm         Oa        AM    -WA    a"      Wm^
nu _0    a        a                             a_4 s             A         _                                                 u 
umimdAIAwmusme3w
= * F " * n eb " ** " * p4in* @ g euwq$
--"         V~ewe 



'sWn             WB"RAW           kIb9nNw)
1      2        3        4       6        6       7       a      6       10      11     It      13     14       5     i       17                -       30
am    G.        Wm     a        awnm     a       ame    MINt  1ts   am     am    Om69           a"   67   w7oo  ae.   Om0             am8               SW1
o o tA0                                      &s 2   $A      7w    94   1            I=        m   1i,#  1063  1Q*6   AM   106   l'3 10.AM3   IVA                 10.26U U1023 te      63
_ W89abi.iU~AV                   *4      49       0        a       so       so      51     es      54     6557            so  a*         so     30      do      4        30       so      6
bla        he                    0              1*33    g.m      9.0     4,57    5*34   s.43s  uS"     $S.    uAW   u.s   06.10 616    6.1AD56        6 0,130 6t15      60       0.5    C.1M
NgbuiPWm                       am   am   am   am   am    m   5                              1  M   5              M0.0 SM   M  1M    M   6M                             7.5   7 M3  7.23
1m0-tuasU                         0    10        .t130   "AM    16    2460   =.MS t.=   WOO 2.3                U.40       30    5 74  304  U0.4 20174   44.1   443    44.1   44U
6hUmsWin i*gtJ                   46      46       46       41      4S       45      48     46      4t                             9      4S 4  4  41    4        4                4        46
Arn_p.h.                          0     GU      16      3.664    3.76     4.464  4.996   4.116   4.16   49164# .6   4m    4           4,6 4.9  4,3  4.911    42        4, 4OM6    4.
Ngmomba0ewpsrw                 am3      3.3      US0       .9      .0      3.30 &   3.0    .3 3.0          3 3.39       3.39 1   3.3 S 130    3M.3   3.3       1.0       M      3.0      am6
"b4ue                             0    1,730    UN       .A      WM    15.26017001970  M,=   1470   19.70   19.700  1000  16.700 1t700  106700 t54744 t04 tSM4                           .4 
S1wuS                       0      66ll4   1.6     4,X    9.041    6.3   93 5         O 10SN 011,176  11,3  12.M   13,15   1*4  144  14*4  14*4           .447 t    4?   l944 -9.441
a wirs
I_~*S_U                       4.400   14*2    2 l   SAM4   3.11l1 t1904  1316   371
I  u      b                 9       11*34   1 4   14416   1.71    1O*0M  10,547  %t
#4 _ _                        4til t"1  13    1V          141     130       M      110   1S0
C. .6 5571
inuininuinrn         .Al".q  (7.744  01.914  (19W"    M"j  (10U    PAM7  9.471  11,176  11.93  tg.m   13.7   14*4  14*74  14*74  14*74   19.44    ^.44     19.44    39.44
M AM 
zm~~~~~~~~u  t3~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
t l_ __? sbi*U,s
Vm1_6
#awrwabi1es~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aa~~



IMIAt kalrestre vter Uttlizottin Prject
Attadwmot 2: Econmle wn Finanmcl Analysis
d11e I(*).  Cepfr bntuusttls in aaxbAsasa Cm Aa outside mI   vidmut tie project) It
UftmI
OWN    Wll  FOWv    Rfed    Tom         Cml       WllS  fRy    RJd    Told        CmI       Won      irV     fIed   ToMi
" *_ ,- - - - -
PEu                    0      2      0
_8_             ~~0    2      0        0        2         0        2      0      0       2                   a        0       0      3
0     2      0        0        a         0        2      0      0        2         1        2        0       0      a
1 _   1  1   0        S       7          5        2      0      4       It         5        2        0       5    12
1     0        0        7         a        I      0      0                  5        1        0       0      1
Pzum                  o      o      o       o        o          a        o     o      o        9          0        t       O        0o
abius                 4      0      0       0        4          3        0     0      0        4          80                        a      4
aW_                  it      2      0       O        71                  3     0      4       24         13       5        0        5    22
em~~moo
UVmmIhtw)            25      3      0 96            42         25        3     0      I?      45                   3       0 o         2
UwEt                  3      1      0       0        4          91             0      0        4          2        1       0        0      3
*UU                   0      0      0       0        0          1        0     0      0        1          0       0        0        0      0
01..                  0      0      0       0        0          0        0     O      0        0          1       0        0        0      2
&8m                  27      4      0       to      47         2s        5     0      17       f         to3      a        O       a      A?
HOT SEABCK
G==                   9      1      0       0        11    t    7        I     0      0        O         10                0        0     It
Ka"                   3      1      0        0       4          5        I     0      0        7          2        2       O        O      4
3ie                   0      1      0       0        1          1        t     0      0        Z          0        0       0        0      0
at"DI                Is      3      0       0        is        t3        3     0      0       t6         12       3        0        0     IS
mm                   St    tt       0       21      62         as       13     0    22        93         so      Is        0       24    76
'-us-
IImUI@ttruw7147 I.



INDIA: NheftMreM Wter tiitft.on fJect
Att    t 2: EcInelc and Fhical Alysis
TMe. 11(b).  CroWtqe Inatties In Ndinat_ (IA Ares Infd SW - Villt the Project) 1/
-                              5~~~~940                               g0o9t
Iw9   Wad   I,r    Rhd    TOMl           1Sl    Wd    Rlar  RNod   TIO         Cud,)   WON    NWr    aed   TW
inwS                  t      11    2       0        3         2        7     3      0       12       3      11        5       0    t9
8tgW                  1           2       0        a         2        7     3      0       12       3       11       S       a     19
a    1       a       0        S         6       0      2      2      10       a        2       6        4     15     a-
GmaidtM               a      1     0       0        9         I        0     1      0       a        a       2        0       0      7
1  0  0      a       a        0         0       a      0      1       2       0        a       0        0     0
atWus                 a      a     I       o        a                  0     0      3       4        a       2        1       1      7
8lAm                 12      a     3        0      20         is       t     3      6       24      11       S7 J                   g2
auo.Sb)              12     9      3       14      as         0       to     2      4      27        0                1       3     i5
lbu.                 e0      a     t       0       10                  8 a   a      o       5is      6       S                0     to
Ou                    1t     0     0       a        2          1       1     0      0       2        1        I       0       0      2
Cin                   1      5     t       0        1         2        8      1     0       a        1       2        I       0      4
SAW                  20     1t     5       14      50        22       to     7      4       el      13       14      tO       3    s9
6   t        0       0        S         5       S      0     0        6       5        2       0        0     7
d1                             0        0 t               4        a     0      7       13       3       2        0       0      5
a                                  a 1  0   0       2          t       0     0      0       1        1       1        0       0      2
IAt                  10      4     1        0      t5         10       6     0      7      23        0       5        0       0     14
1074.              44    25    it       14                 4        82    12   t1       110      36       34      22        0    t0o
ileua_tmnuu  diomim.



}}   ~~.       a     g§  
'*1  -      I       
J  g f    E|  Iib  
{t~u :    ' '           l55'E,
*ii             {Igj11



103
INDL4 tdh         Wowp U     Wdt    hujsu
AnAmemea 2: Dhouomi, sd FlaOWh AnaI**
TaM. 13. FM= Budget 3 NUA  Fimal ?ds  1I/ (WItb te Pr@jeet
L~~~~~~~~t~~f
Ptwdd       K     hRU                             a u    TOTALI
U* 
C    EOPP   PATTEAN   %          13       7      14        5      17      a       19      100
Gms ASmis          As      9 #          64      I          4    1.296   27    4*14   17.S
Taut COW           AS          1.51s    11e    216       27       O       44   12470    4,5S
N~tP&mm                        Watus   S.      1 m       i.      m      162   30" 4    1s.01
Tof  famf           md           is       5      11        S      13      a       23      100
RmnpMD             Flos         331     l10      73      129      77      70    134       131
Il I ong   * hbedamed t150.L.kiad toppiem1 Shb
atomnumd  nes haolngp;m ro*FiwrW Oupe4t hWAS.



104
INDowA mahah  Water UUlizdea PiJM
Aftd#hNWu 2: Uwaoaan a"~ Fhwud Aft*y*
Tabto 14. Fan Dudgt 3 Ha . F_ al Prlee 1/  MItb the Pro"ect * Croppig Pattlr Unchanged
*Pt M        '      OiE mm                     '    lSin Sh 8  TOTGAO
. p0Wb PAT8M    %                   7       5       15       5      25      23      20       100
Rues Rwuf.                  3590.   463   1,052        854   1.06   Z45    4,7    1504
TOWl0               Rs       -      e8     6S      233      272    453      a     1548    4.047
Nut@e WJsN          Rs           27       377-   819-  56    1.4,    1X           3.204   113
- T'FsIJbm            md               8       4.11             5      19      26      24       97
ftMOpvMD0           Rs            351      101      73      129      77      70     134      114
wd umAnd no dulps In a;pft         rurpt wsclW OP  uzrawsr
.2  
)  



105
INDA.* Mahaas)uha Water UtUoatin Paoec
Attactmnt 2: Ecnomic and Finacial Analysis
Table 15. Impact on Farm Budget - Summary Table
Unit  Without the         With the           With the
Project            Project I/         Project 21
Gross Revenue         Rs            11,071              17,661           15,084
Total Costs           Rs             2,970               4,599            4,047
Net Revenue           Rs             8,102              13,051           11,038
Total Fam.labour      m.d               71                 100              97
Return per M.0        Rs               114                131               114
1/ assuming changes in inrigation intensity and cropping pattem.
2/ assuming only change in irrigaion intensity.



IRID 16997
.ARC.
I N    D  I A                                                                                                                                                                           ,.
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                 o___ZG
JAYAKWADI AND PURNA SCHEMES                                                                                  _ ^0
Proiect Areas                             =    tRiver                                                                       K-e'
--_Dirtihoteries lo be InPrrored              -<  _Overage Channels                                                                                                                     rnrraetar pearx                tm. atrf-:lfer mr.cr.du
Arigat on d Areas  C                          Selected   C riet   and  Vil egg,                                                                         _                                  aa.n,nratrta. m                    rev
*-.--Mjo  n  Bra-h C.A*6n                      Stole HigheasV -yoa,avaa,a                                                                                                                                                     e      a
Zr  Existing Domg  end Rest-ir                ---- MAjo Distict Roods
hrO vtco Dcoe  Fnd Reservir             -Ra--.-  Reilroad)
Distict R-onrifre ttmtaes
I-- elntionel Boundaries
J     1            b~~~1 A-o
A  U R A N  G A B A D
J A Y A K W A D I                 P R O J E C T                 A R E A
W ~~~~~~~~'MAHR SaTtA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                                                    RBH    
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_~.         \             I$f 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J
_\ L N,  \



t8RD 170S
,0                                     S                                                          MARC WnI
,-)  ' GuJARA>,2_                         Ntt                               M A D H Y A                      P    A    E    H
sX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                   -                          N Npr
lcNlo    4'  Sud  j$c6tX  ,¾.                                        ,                                      '       !         - 
IA IWA~~Z DI
amt, d t R edPff S vl r-  -t                        t_r2- UTiLIZATONA   N   D   H   R   A
PA                                                                       *3~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  Existing~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ram     An Reseroir
C' 8  I  X    .- BeS l  N-   bS,'S                W-f    A'S        '%ME                                                 -'S~~-'--intorRotroas  IN 
*4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Distric-Gt Roondoran                                                       H            Vr
w-.                                      ,                                                      *  72   :  Riwndotes
0, ,  t  .  t,   ,\&tW -7Es-020
to ' t-  rt,.~X-t SMAHARASHTRA WATER
A a A 8 i A Al                                                                                         ,>.2Z^  f f)-4)\t, UTILIZATION    PROJECT
\ z 2 8\ < o< 9yf v A ~~~~~~~~~PROJECT LOCATION 
i Lw- 1^ l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kohjr,    .iipstion Sch. Ame                                                           Mra uw 
S F A         . _      9              c n        ,e           f                                         - Existin Dams qnd Ro"swTso
¢ 6 > ta °+ 0 \ t Molt Rrnlrwda W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N D I A 
\   i.stf                                        KtCgETEF ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 2a  Lt  w>  paalalat
.    0    ,j,.   JllLEST  Zd  at  eo Ea ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iw   ~1060 urK_



