Document of
The World Bank                                   o
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3585-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT
EQUIVALENT TO US$22.7 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 29.6 MILLION
TO INDIA FOR THE
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
May 19, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 13, 1983)
US$1.00        =  Rs 10.030026
Rs 1           =  US$0.099706
Rs 1 million   =  US$99,706
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00.= Rs 9.5, which represents the average exchange
rate projected over the disbursement peri.od.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms used in this Rdport
CAD        -    Command Area Development
CADA       -    Command Area Development Authority
cusec      -    cubic feet per second
ERR        -    economic rate of return
GOI        -    Government of India
GOM        -    Government of Maharashtra
ha         -    hectares
ID         -    Irrigation Department
NABARD     -    National Bank for Agricultural Refinance and Development
O&M        -    operation and maintenance
RWS        -    rotational water supply
tpy        -    tons per year
WALMI      -    Water and Land Management Institute



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT, LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                        India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:                    Government of Maharashtra (GOM).
Amount:                          IDA Credit:  SDR 29.6 million
(US$32.0 million equivalent)
Bank Loan:   US$22.7 million, including
capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:                           IDA Credit:  Standard.
Bank Loan:   Repayment over 20 years,
including 5 years grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Re-Lending Terms:               From GOI to GOM as part of Central assistance
to States for development projects on terms
and conditions applicable at the time. GOI
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:            The project would seek to raise agricultural
production and farm incomes by increasing the
effective utilization of available irrigation
water supplies. The project would upgrade
irrigation and drainage systems of selected
areas covering 95,000 ha in five existing
irrigation schemes. To ensure reliable water
supplies to the farm level, the project would
emphasize improvements to minor networks and
field channels. It would provide construction
and equipment, training, adaptive research and
improved water management. Possible risks
under the proposed project are minimal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: 1/
(US$ Millions)
Item                                     Local           Foreign            Total 2/
Land Acquisition                          0.1             _                  0.1
Distributaries                            3.2            0.3                 3.5
Minors                                    6.5            0.3                 6.8
Field Channels                           13.8            0.7                14.5
Link and Main Drains                      2.4            0.1                 2.5
Offices and Quarters                      4.9            1.2                 6.1
Training                                  2.0            0.6                 2.7
Vehicles and Equipment                    1.4            3.8                 5.2
Adaptive Research                         1.3            0.3                 1.6
Engineering Research,                     1.2            0.5                 1.7
Monitoring and Evaluation
Engineering, Supervision and
Administration                          12.3            0.1                12.4
Base Cost                             49.2            8.0                57.2
Physical Contingencies                    6.0            1.1                 7.1
Price Contingencies                      12.3            1.4                13.7
Total Project Cost                    67.5           10.5               78.0
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                 -             0.1                 0.1
Total Financing Required              67.5           10.6               78.1
Financing Plan:                          Local           Foreign           Total
Bank/IDA                              44.1            10.6              54.7
GOM/GOI                               23.4              -               23.4
Total                                 67.5            10.6              78.1
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Million)
Bank/IDA FY                FY84      FY85     FY86      FY87      FY88    FY89
Annual                     6.9        8.3    10.4       11.1       9.5      8.5
Cumulative                 6.9       15.2    25.6       36.7      46.2    54.7
Rate of Return: About 36%
Appraisal Report: No. 4349-IN, dated May 20, 1983
1/ Net of taxes and duties, which are applicable to only a few items of
equipment, and which are, in the aggregate, insignificant.
2/ Discrepancies due to rounding.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendatlon on a proposed loan
in an amount equivalent to US$22.7 million (including a capitalized front-end
fee of US$0.06 million) and a development credit of SDR 29.6 million (US$32
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to India to help finance the upgrad-
ing of irrigation and drainage systems in the State of Maharashtra.  The Bank
loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
applicable interest rate. The proceeds of the loan and of the credit would be
channelled to the Government of Maharashtra in accordance with the Government
of India's standard terms and arrangements for financing State development
projects. Exchange risks would be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation of India and Resource Mobi-
lization Issues" (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy Is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Himalayan Watershed Management Project
(No. P-3570-IN), dated May 11, 1983.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2% at
1.6 percentage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown In industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though les-
sened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed export
markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was able,
however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the momen-
tum of the investment program through largely successful public sector resource
mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in support of this
effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic policies
mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon. Continued
improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace than in
the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined In 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance. Neverthe-
less, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy. Railway
traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from 1981/82. The
lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational efficiency of the
railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like steel, iron ore,
coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in 1982/83), after
10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There were no major
shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal. Recent easing
of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily from better
utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improvement must



-4-
result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important that India
maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize sufficient
resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited.  India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, Is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the l.arge
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significarnt
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.l1% respectively In the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India-s develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terns
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of sue-
pliers- and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has enabled
India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over relatively
high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted commercial



-5-
loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of about
US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10% increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan invest-
ment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of develop-
ment, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been needed
to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as power, transport and
irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is
scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater efficiency
and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors clearly



-6-
can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been made.
As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic service
sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to
higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy. At the
same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of
tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long--term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further invest-
ment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments.  In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial borrow-
ing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of
such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India with
the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assis-
tance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on
commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Goverrment's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign



-7-
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts.  The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly overes-
timated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth rate
has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed, firm
judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However, the
results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health
and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the
proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India-s sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging



-8-
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhalnced
prospects for India-s poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 71 loans and 156 development
credits to India totalling US$4,683 million and US$11,447 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively.  Of these amounts, US$1,332 million has been
repaid, and US$5,907 million was still urndisbursed as of March 31, 1983e Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1983
totalled US$1,008 million, representing an increase of about 17 percent over
the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoirng projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 28 commitments in India totalling US$220.4
million, of which US$28.3 million has been repaid, US$56.2 million sold and
US$17.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$113.6 million, US$111.1 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent writh
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural produc-
tivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural inputs to
farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed projects.
Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at helping to
meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports,
and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth
in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and railways
and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided financing
for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily
in the private sector, through its support of development finance instituticins.
Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy the essential
needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition
and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply
and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India-s adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly Increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India Is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors.  Exploitation of oil



-9-
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India-s economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India-s poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1983, outstanding loans
to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,471 million, of which US$1,854 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,617 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion conr-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-1 0-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN MAHARASHTRA
29.       The State of Maharashtra in Western India covers an area of 30.8 mil-
lion ha and has a population of 62.7 million (1981), making it the third
largest State in the Union. By Indian standards, the State is highly urbanized
and industrialized. Manufacturing has expanded more rapidly than agriculture
(4.8% per annum), but the fastest-growing industrial activities (chemicals,
engineering, etc.) have been capital-intensive. Much of the industrial growth
and related economic activities has been concentrated in Bombay and Poona,
leading to urban congestion and widening intra-State income disparities. Not-
withstanding the importance of industry in the State's economy, two-thirds of
the labor force is employed in agriculture. Thus, the Government of
Maharashtra (GOM) views increased farm productivity as a prerequisite to a more
rapid and balanced overall economic development. Maharashtra had a per capita
income of Rs 2,021 (US$212) in 1979/80, considerably above the national averge
of Rs 1,267. Between 1970/71 and 1979/80, the State's real per capita income
increased by an average of 2.7% per annum, relative to a 1.6% annual increase
for India as a whole.
30.       Agriculture contributes 30% to 35% to the State's income.  About 43%
of the agricultural labor force is landless. Some 18.2 million ha, or nearly
60% of the State, is under cultivation and there is little scope for increasing
the net sown area. Agriculture in Maharashtra is predominantly rainfed; only
8.4% of the total cropped area is under irrigation. The cropping intensity is
among the lowest in India (110%) and cannot be increased substantially without
irrigation. The average farm size is 3.7 ha, with significant variations
across the State. In contrast to a number of Indian States, over 92% of the
holdings are owner-occupied. Cereals (sorghum, millet, paddy, wheat and pul-
ses) account for about 60% of the gross cropped area. Yields are low and the
State is a net importer of foodgrains. The rate of agricultural growth, which
had been sluggish since the early 1960s (averaging 0.7% per annum) accelerated
in the 1970s following a succession of favorable monsoons and in response to
GOM's agricultural development programs. In particular, high-yielding
varieties of rice, sorghum, and wheat have been promoted and have gained wide
acceptance. Other significant developments have been the growth of irrigated
sugarcane and horticultural crops, and the rapid increase in fertilizer con-
sumption, particularly in irrigated zones. Nevertheless, considerable scope
for improvement in agricultural techniques still exists.
31.       Present irrigation standards reflect the main objective of past
Government irrigation policy--to provide drought protection over extensive
areas planted to foodgrains. However, improved high-yielding crop varieties,
the spread of modern agricultural practices and the introduction of more com-
plex and diversified cropping patterns are placing new demands on irrigation
systems. Better irrigation design and operation standards have become neces-
sary to meet the need for more reliable water supplies.



-1 1-
32.       The water resources potential of Maharashtra is limited by the
seasonality of the major rivers, and by topography. Out of a gross cropped
area of 20 million ha, only 2.5 million ha , or 12.5% of the gross cropped
area, is now irrigated, less than half the national average, of which 1.1 mil-
lion ha is from wells. The present irrigation potential is estimated at 6.3 mil-
lion ha. Assuming improvements in irrigation efficiencies, the ultimate poten-
tial could be as high as 8.9 million ha, including 2.7 million ha from
groundwater sources. Necessary improvements to irrigation efficiencies entail
improved operation of the conveyance systems, and the systematic introduction
of rotational water supply to provide equitable access to water for farmers in
the command areas.
33.       Groundwater resources are substantial, but easy opportunities for
well development have already been utilized. At Independence, some 0.5 mil-
lion ha in Maharashtra were irrigated from wells. Groundwater development
increased by 4.2% per annum during the 1950s. During the 1960s and early 1970s
the well-irrigated area increased further, partly because of replacement of
traditional animal-operated water lifts by electric and diesel pumps.
Individual and cooperative river lift irrigation schemes have also spread.
These investments--largely carried out by the private sector--have made a
substantial contribution to agricultural growth.
34.       Since Independence, COM has invested the equivalent of US$1.3 billion
in major and medium surface irrigation schemes, adding 870,000 ha to the
irrigation potential of the State. This implies a cost of US$1,500 per ha, a
reasonable level by international standards, but some 40% higher than the
all-India average. Seasonality of river flows, lack of major storage pos-
sibilities, difficult soil conditions and the GOM policy of spreading irriga-
tion benefits over wide areas helps explain the relatively high costs. Returns
on this capital could be substantially enhanced by correcting deficiencies in
planning, design, construction and operating standards of existing irrigation
systems.
Bank Group Lending for Irrigation in Maharashtra
35.       IDA's first credit for irrigation in Maharashtra for the Purna
Irrigation Project (Credit 23-IN for US$ 13 million), was approved in July
1962. The main works included a dam at Yeldari, a re-regulating reservoir at
Sidheshwar, about 86 km of main canal and 400 km of distributaries, to irrigate
some 61,000 ha. This scheme was completed in the early 1970s. 1/ However,
agricultural production in the project area increased only slowly due, inter
alia, to an inadequately constructed irrigation conveyance system, lack of
coordinated crop and water planning, and drainage deficiencies.
1/ The Bankls Operations Evaluations Department had not yet been established,
so a Project Performance Audit was not undertaken.



-12-
36.       A US$70 million credit (Credit 736-IN) was approved in October 1977
for the Maharashtra Irrigation I Project which included completion of the
on-going construction of irrigation infrastructure to serve 95,000 ha in the
Jayakwadi Scheme, land shaping and field channels over 45,000 ha, as well as
rehabilitation of the irrigation distribution system and drainage construction
on 30,000 ha in the Purna Scheme. Approximately 84% of this credit has been
disbursed; the project is scheduled for completion by 1984. The main problem
with the project has been the initial poor quality of construction.  However,
the Irrigation Department has since improved Its techniLcal standards and is
making the necessary repairs.
37.        IDA approved in October 1979 a US$210 million credit (Credit 954--IN)
for the Maharashtra Irrigation II Project. Tnis credit finances a five-year
time slice of a composite project consisting of five new irrigation schemes
(Upper Wardha, Upper Penganga, Kukadi, Krishna and Warna), and priority work in
two existing schemes, Mula and Girna, all located on the drought-prone Deccan
plateau.l/  This project would bring some 147,000 ha of land under irrigation.
The total area commanded by the six new schemes would ultimately comprise about
620,000 ha. Improvement works are still on-going in the Girna and Mula schemes
and mainly aim at the removal of major bottlenecks in the existing conveyance
system, selective lining and additional water control structures. Project
progress is satisfactory.
38.       The Maharashtra Water Utilization Project builds on the success of
two components developed under the Maharashtra Irrigation II Project: (i) a
pilot water management component to identify appropriate conveyance tech-
nologies for the minor water distribution system, and (ii) establishment of a
Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) to train irrigation engineers In
the design and management of irrigation projects.
39.       Maharashtra's irrigation has also benefitted from four IDA-financed
multi-State operations of the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corpora-
tion (now renamed the National Bank for Agricultural Refinance and Development
- NABARD) directed towards the development of the State's groundwater resour-
ces. IDA has also contributed to the development of Maharashtra's irrigation
potential through an agricultural extension project and through multi-State
operations of the Rural Electrification Corporation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project was appraised in November/December 1982.  A
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Maharashtra Water Utilization Project"
1/ One additional new scheme, Bhima, also appraised by IDA, is being financed
by IFAD.



-13-
(No. 4349-IN, dated May 20, 1983) is being distributed separately to the Execu-
tive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1983. The Govern-
ment of India and the Government of Maharashtra were represented by a delega-
tion coordinated by Mr. V. Govindarajan of the Department of Economic Affairs,
GOI.
Project Description
41.       The project would seek to raise agricultural production and farm
incomes by increasing the effective utilization of available irrigation water
supplies. The project would upgrade, over a five-year period, the irrigation
distribution network of selected areas on an aggregate of 94,450 ha, in five
existing irrigation schemes, viz, Jayakwadi (42,350 ha), Purna (10,500 ha),
Mula (21,970 ha), Girna (11,030 ha), and Khadakwasla (8,600 ha). The project
would emphasize improvements to minor irrigation networks and field channels,
so as to ensure reliable water supplies to the farm level. It would include
improvements to surface drainage and access along canals, improved systems
operations, the promotion of land shaping, the identification of suitable
on-farm irrigation practices and viable cropping systems through adaptive
research, and the training of farmers, canal inspectors, and land development
assistants. The project would complement infrastructure development by sup-
porting various components aimed at intensifying the utilization of available
water supplies.  Criteria satisfactory to the Bank Group for the planning,
design and construction have been developed by which GOM would carry out the
upgrading of the irrigation and drainage network (described below in paras
42-45)(Section 2.03(a), Project Agreement).
42.       Improvements to Distributaries.  Improvements would be made to ensure
a reliable water supply to the head of the minor, This would involve the
construction of additional cross regulators, repair of structures and gates,
the replacement of structures where they are beyond repair, and the reshaping
of canal sections or repair to embankments, where necessary.
43.       Upgrading of Minors.  Minors would be improved by clearing, silt
removal and resectioning, and construction of additional structures (e.g.,
cross regulators and tail escapes), where required. Minors would be extended
to reduce the size of the irrigation service areas (chaks) to a 25 ha maximum,
and water-measuring devices at the head of each minor would be provided and
selective lining undertaken.
44.       Upgrading of Field Irrigation Channels. These channels take off from
minors through gated outlets and convey irrigation water within the chak to
individual farms. Work on field channels would include clearance and resec-
tioning of the channels and their extension, where necessary, to reach all
farms, provision of additional structures where required, water measuring
devices downstream of the chak outlet, and selective lining.



-1 4-
45.       Drainage Improvements.  Field drainage channels would be constructed
within every chak to assure drainage for every farm. The field drains would be
connected to link drains to convey the drainage water to existing natural
drainage channels, which would also be improved as necessary.
46.       Canal Service Roads.  Canal service roads would be improved (or
constructed where they do not exist at present), concurrently with the con-
struction or reshaping of the canal embankments along the distributaries and
minors.
47.       Buildings.  This component would include six training centers (two in
Jayakwadi and one in each other scheme) for farmers, Canal Inspectors and Land
Development Assistants and the necessary additional offices and quarters for
construction and operation and maintenance staff.
48.       Equipment.  This would include vehicles, trucks, surveying equipment,
construction equipment, extrusion machines (for the pre-fabrication of concrete
field channel sections), mini-computers, communication equipment, and equipment
for monitoring, training and research.
49.       Training.  To ensure implementation  of the project to agreed stand-
ards, all engineering staff working on the project would be trained at
Maharashtra's WALMI, established under the Maharashtra Irrigation II Project to
train irrigation engineers in the design and management of irrigation projects.
Maharashtra would ensure that Command Area Development Authority (CADA) staff
would be trained In accordance with project implementation, staffing and train-
ing schedules agreed with the Bank Group (Section 2.03(c), Project Agreement).
The training programs to be financed under the project would be as follows:
(a) Farmers. Farmers would be trained at Training Centers to be estaLb-
lished under the project, to make maximum use of available water under prevail-
ing difficult topographic and soil conditions. Each Center would have suitable
staff housing and classroom and hostel facilities for about 35-40 people. The
Centers would first train the contact farmers of the farmer groups organized
under the Training & Visit system of agricultural extension, and then others as
time and opportunity permit.
(b) Canal Inspectors. The introduction of improved system operations
would require the training of about 1,000 Canal Inspectors. The Command Area
Development Authorities (CADAs) would train all inspectors in the scheme areas,
concentrating on system operations, irrigation scheduling, water management,
water accounting, maintenance, and communications with farmers.
(c) Land Development Assistants. One WALMI-trained Junior Engineer would
normally be assisted by two Assistants in the design and rehabilitation of
minors and field channels. The training of about 300 Assistants would focus on
survey methods, planning and design of project works, preparation of cost
estimates, construction methods and quality control.



-15-
(d) Study Tour. A three-week study tour would be organized for six
senior project engineers and agriculturalists to observe engineering and
agricultural practices developed in countries with soil types similar to those
in Maharashtra.
GOM has submitted a training program and syllabi to the Bank Group, and would
carry out training activities under the project in accordance with the program
and syllabi furnished to the Bank Group (Section 2.16, Project Agreement).
50.       Adaptive Agricultural Research.  Adaptive research would principally
focus on developing and demonstrating: (a) irrigation practices suitable for
farmers' fields before land shaping; (b) cropping sequences and farming systems
suitable to the physical environment and the various farming skills; and
(c) farming with purchased input levels that fall short of the optimum usually
recommended by research stations. Adaptive research would be integrated into
the on-going IDA-financed Agricultural Extension Project (Credit 1135-IN) and
would develop recommendations that the extension organization would dissemi-
nate. Subject Matter Specialists would receive additional training in
irrigated agriculture at WALMI. GOM would submit annually to the Bank Group
for review and comment adaptive research programs to be carried out during the
forthcoming farming seasons and thereafter carry out such programs (Sec-
tion 2.15, Project Agreement).
51.       Water Management and Engineering Research.  GOM has established two
research divisions under the Directorate of Irrigation, Research and Develop-
ment to develop and evaluate new modes of system operation, irrigation schedul-
ing and irrigation practices, and develop cost-effective designs for structures
and for lining. GOM would prepare a detailed work plan for the two divisions
for the period up to 1989, furnish it to the Bank Group for comment by December
31, 1983 and thereafter establish and apply suitable work programs (Sec-
tion 2.07(a) and (b), Project Agreement).
52.       Land Shaping. One of the major constraints to maximizing crop yields
under irrigation in the project area is uneven water distribution in the
fields. To some extent, this can be mitigated by the proper orientation of
the fields relative to the inlet and the contours but, for maximum efficiency,
land shaping must be undertaken. This work has been typically executed with
heavy machinery, bulldozers and scrapers, operated by agencies of the State
Government with little farmer involvement. Under the project, the procedure
for land shaping will be changed. Land shaping by the landowner utilizing his
own resources will be promoted through a free technical advisory service
provided under the project; landowners would be free to invite any private or
public agency to assist them. GOM would take all action as shall be necessary
to promote land shaping in the Project area (Section 2.12, Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
53.       Irrigation development in Maharashtra is the responsibility of the
Department of Irrigation, which is divided into two Wings: the Irrigation Wing



-16-
and the Command Area Development (CAD) Wing. The Irrigation Wing is respon-
sible for all new construction above chak outlets, while the CAD is responsible
for all construction below the chak outlets, all modernization work and opera-
tion and maintenance (O&M). The implementation of the Maharashtra Water
Utilization Project would be the responsibility of the CAD Wing through its
Command Area Development Authorities (CADAs). The CAD Wing is headed by a
Secretary and Commissioner, CAD.
54.       Construction of the project works and subsequent management and
operation would be the responsibility of CADAs in each of the five project
areas. All survey, design, planning, procurement and construction activities
would be carried out by engineers assigned to the respective CADA headquarters,
divisions, subdivisions and sections.
55.       The project would be implemented over a five-year perlod beginning
November 1983. Initially, high priority would be given to the design and
construction of additional offices, quarters and training centers, the procure-
ment of equipment, the positioning of staff and the preparation of designs for
subsequent years. Careful planning would have to be undertaken by the engineer
in charge to synchronize the construction schedule with the irrigation
schedule.
56.       Operation and Maintenance (O&M).  Responsibility for the day-to-day
operation of the canal system above the outlets rests with the CADAs. Until
recently a typical O&M budget In Maharashtra provided an allocation of
Rs 20 per ha per year. Recently this was increased to Rs 80, wnich Is adequate
for the project. GOM would (i) operate and adequately maintain the irrigation
and drainage network (except for field channels--see para 57 below) and canal
roads and provide sufficient funds to carry out such operation and maintenance;
(ii) cause each CADA not later than 30 days after the end of the rainy season
of each year, commencing in 1984, to carry out a survey of the required repairs
in each irrigation system in their respective jurisdictions; and (iii) cause
each CADA to carry out the repairs (Sections 2.03(b) and 2.08, Project Agree-
ment).
57.       Strong efforts would have to be made by GOM to ensure that the field
and drainage channels within the outlets are also maintained. After comple-
tion, the channels will be tested for compliance with planning and design
criteria and handed over to farmers' organizations for operation and main-
tenance. GOM would take all action as shall be required to ensure that
farmers' organizations properly operate and maintain upgraded field irrigation
and drainage channels. It would promptly repair and maintain such channels at
farmers' cost in case the required works are not carried out by the concerned
farmers' organizations (Section 2.13, Project Agreement).
58.       Improved System Operations.  Under the system of operation tradition-
ally practiced in Maharashtra, farmers have to submit applications in advance
for the supply of irrigation water for one or more seasons or several years.



-17-
Supplies to the individual farmers are then sanctioned after considering fac-
tors such as water availability, crops planned to be grown and drainage condi-
tions in the area. At present, water applications are still being received
after the irrigation season has begun, so that irrigation schedules have to be
revised (by hand) two or three times each season. This is a difficult and
time-consuming process, considering the large number of farm units. The effect
has been an unreliable and inefficient water supply to individual farms.
59.       In the Mula area,  rotational water supply (RWS), with a fixed dura-
tion of supply per ha, has recently been introduced as a pilot operation on
3,000 ha, together with rigid water scheduling among the chaks on the minor.
This new system has been very well received by the farmers and would now be
extended to the project areas. The rehabilitation of the irrigation networks
would make it possible to reduce irrigation intervals and create a better match
between water availabilities and crop water requirements. Efforts would be
made gradually to introduce mini-computers to prepare the irrigation schedules;
this would also facilitate keeping flows more or less constant in minors and
distributaries.
60.       Operation manuals which do not exist at present, would be prepared
under the project and would provide detailed rules and procedures, including
aspects of timing and frequency of water applications. In conformity with this
objective, GOM would establish and apply, after completion of the rehabilita-
tion works, detailed water allocation plans for each canal and chak for each
farming season, provide a rotational water supply system within each chak,
based on pre-determined water flow durations, and on data obtained from
reference fields of typical soils and crops (Section 2.11(a), Project Agree-
ment)-
61.       Quality Control and Farmer Participation.  To ensure implementation
of the works to agreed standards, all engineering staff assigned to the Project
would be trained at WALMI. Specific duties covering survey, design, construc-
tion and O&M activities have been agreed between GOM and the Bank Group.
Farmer involvement in the operation and maintenance of the irrigation distribu-
tion system would be promoted through the establishment by GOM of farmer
organizations at the chak, minor and main or branch channel levels. Before
works are commissioned, the concerned engineer would certify that chak and farm
outlets can receive the design flow, that irrigation water can reach the
highest points in the farmers' fields, and that field drainage channels have
been constructed (Section 2.10, Project Agreement).
62.       Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) The demand for irrigation water has developed only slowly in the
command areas, and particularly so in Jayakwadi. While the prime objective of
the project is to remove the constraint of unreliable and inadequate water
supply, it is essential also to learn what the farmers' perceived reasons are
for not making more use of irrigation water than they now do, and to endeavor
to remove these constraints. A Farmers' Attitude Survey would therefore be
undertaken by the agricultural universities. Its contents have been mutually



-18-
agreed between GOM and the Bank Group. The first survey would begin in 1983
and thereafter be repeated at two-yearly intervals, at least until all project
works are completed and commissioned. The surveys would also indicate progress
made by the respondents in water utilization between surveys.
(b) Studies would be conducted to evaluate the impact of improved system
operations and of the establishment of the farmers organizations. Also to be
monitored are: (i) training and positioning of staff; (ii) progress in survey,
design and construction, and costs; (iii) extent of land shaping; (iv) seasonal
cropping patterns, yields and production; (v) weekly water demand and
deliveries by distributary, minor and chak to identify deficiencies in watier
distribution or potential improvements in system operation; (vi) reference
fields; and (vii) groundwater levels and extraction. GOM would establish
monitoring cells in each CADA and would submit to the Bank Group by Decem-
ber 31, 1983 a detailed plan for carrying out monitoring and evaluation
activities under the project (Section 2.06, Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
63.       Total project costs are estimated at US$78.1 million equivalent, net
of taxes and duties, which are applicable to only a few items of equipment and
which are, in the aggregate, insignificant. Foreign exchange costs are
estimated at US$10.6 million, or about 13.6% of total project costs. Physical
contingencies, which were estimated separately for each item, range from 10% to
20% and average 12.4% of the base cost. Price contingencies, amounting in total
to 24% of base cost, have been applied as follows: 8.0% in 1983/84, 7.5% in
1984/85, 7.0% in 1985/86, and 6% thereafter.
64.       The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit totalling US$54.7 million
equivalent would finance about 70% of project costs, net of taxes and duties,
including all foreign exchange costs and some 65% of local costs. The balance
of the funds required would be met by State and Central Government sources.
GOI would make the proceeds of the loan and credit available to GOM on GOI"s
standard terms and arrangements for development assistance to the States. To
ensure an early start of the project, it is recommended that the Bank Group
finance up to SDR 1 million retroactively for eligible expenditures made after
January 1, 1983 on items such as buildings and equipment and costs of conduct-
ing the farmers' attitude survey (paragraph 4 of Schedule 1, Development Credit
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Civil works financed under the project would cost approximately
US$35.0 million, excluding physical contingencies, price escalation and
engineering and administration costs. The works would be carried out in five
different project areas and constructed over a five-year period. Most of the
work would be small rehabilitation work on minor canals and field channels
adjacent to farmers fields, involving earth work and repairs to or construction
of small structures. The work would be highly labor-intensive, spread out over



-19 -
large areas, seasonally executed, and scheduled intermittently to avoid disrup-
tion of irrigation. This requires great flexibility on the part of contrac-
tors. International contractors and larger local contractors do not have this
flexibility; moreover, because of the seasonal nature of the work, their over-
head costs would be very high. Consequently the works are not suitable for
international competitive bidding. The work would be carried out by local
village contractors on the basis of small piecework type contracts. Such
contracts would be awarded under local procurement procedures which are Ratis-
factory to the Bank Group.  Some departmental work may be carried o. tlr types
of work in which local contractors would experience difficulties, or for
quality considerations (such as compaction); such works would be limited to 25%
of all works.
66.       Equipment and vehicles financed under the project would cost about
US$5.2 million, excluding physical and price contingencies. All equipment and
vehicles would be procured locally to benefit from existing servicing and
supply facilities for spare parts. Adequate competition will result from local
competitive bidding among Indian equipment suppliers. Suitable items would be
grouped to promote efficiency in tendering. The Central Water Commission has
developed standard bid documents and procedures for equipment, materials and
supplies which have been approved by the Bank Group and would be used in the
project. Contracts for equipment estimated to cost US$50,000 or less may be
procured by prudent shopping using normal commercial channels.
67.      Disbursements under the credit would be made as follows:  (a) 85% of
expenditures on civil works; (b) vehicles and equipment--(i) 100% of foreign
expenditures on directly imported goods; (ii) 100% of the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured goods; (iii) 70% of the cost of other locally procured
goods; (iv) 70% of expenditures on salaries of incremental staff for training,
adaptive and engineering research, monitoring and evaluation; and (v) 100%/ of
expenditures on special surveys and study tours. Disbursement requests for
civil works would be made against certificates of expenditure submitted by GOM
separately for each sub-project and itemized by project component. Disburse-
ments for work within a chak would only be made upon full completion of the
work. Disbursement requests for such work would be submitted together with a
completion certificate duly signed by the Assistant Engineer in charge stating
that all works in the command have been completed in accordance with the agreed
planning and design criteria. Also disbursements against departmental works
and for payments for Rs 150,000 or less for equipment and vehicles would be
made against statements of expenditures, itemized by type of work. Statements
of expenditure would be audited annually by independent auditors. Documenta-
tion for these works would be retained by GOM and made available for inspection
by Bank Group review missions. Full documentation would be required for all
other disbursements. It is expected that disbursements will be completed by
August 31, 1989.



-20-
Cost Recovery
68.     Overall collections of water charges int Maharashtra were, in the past,
disappointing, having been as low as 35% of dues in 1976/77. Reasons for low
collection rates in the past included understaffing of CADA revenue divisions
and slow assessments of water charges. Measures recently taken by Maharashstra
to improve collections have included use of the rural banking system to assist
in the collection effort, posting of additional revenue staff to Superintending
Engineers' offices to supervise collections, elimination of water charge sub-
sidies on groundnuts, and streamlining administrative procedures for collec-
tion. These measures resulted in State-wide collections having risen to over
80% in 1981/82. However, collections of water charges in the Project Area are
still only 45%-50% of amounts due, so that additional collection efforts are
called for. Maharashtra is examining the feasibility of introducing an
individual billing system and of automating the billing process, as well as
additional strengthening of revenue staff in CADA, and further procedural
improvements in collections. Under the project, Maharashtra would continue to
review its procedures for collection of irrigation water charges, and shall
take all action as shall be necessary to improve and expedite collection of all
such water charges (Section 3.06, Project Agreement).
69.       GOM recognizes the importance of introducing an appropriate system of
water charges to promote efficient water use by consumers. Experiments with
various types of volumetric water charges are at present on-going under the
Maharashtra Irrigation II Project; an evaluation of these experiments will be
available late 1983 to permit Implementation of a suitable system of charges
thereafter. Under the proposed project, GOM would introduce an appropriate
system of water charges in the scheme areas after two years of operation of the
upgraded field and drainage channels within a chak. The system would ensure
direct recovery of annual operation and maintenance costs of the upgraded
irrigation system, and a reasonable contribution to the costs of infrastructure
investments in the field and drainage channels, having regard, inter alia, to
the incentive and repayment capacity of farmers (Section 3.04, Project Agree-
ment).  With projected cropping patterns, revenues from water charges would
average Rs 310 per ha.
Project Benefits and Risk
70.       Many Indian irrigation projects face varying degrees of water scar-
city so that the water supply has to be rationed among the irrigators. The
proposed project is exceptional In that It takes place in an environment where
water is, by and large, still relatively abundant. The project would enhance
the demand for water by upgrading the infrastructure (with emphasis on minors
and field channels) and by supplying water regularly and reliably.
71.      In calculating the economic rate of return (ERR) the costs of this
upgrading have been set against the anticipated benefits of higher irrigation
intensities in the five project areas. The project is expected to result an
increased production of about 300,000 tons per year (tpy) of sugarcane,
44,000 tpy of foodgrains, about 33,000 tpy of bananas, and 14,000 tpy of



-21-
groundnuts. Additional long-term benefits could arise from (a) long-term
effect of water savings through higher conveyance efficiencies; (b) induced
Investment in land-levelling and land shaping and possible shifts to high value
crops; and (c) induced investment in groundwater exploitation. Although these
possible benefits have not been included, the ERR is satisfactory, ranging from
19% to 47%, and averaging 36% for the project as a whole. 1/ Incremental farm
employment will be the equivalent of about 3.3 milion man-days per annum.
72.       The results of a sensitivity analysis indicate that only large (and
unlikely in the magnitude required) deviations from the basic assumptions would
jeopardize the economic viability of the project. The main risk would be that
the resulting increases in water utilization are less than projected either
because (i) the reliability of water supply in the modernized areas turns out
to be lower than anticipated, or (ii) farmer response to irrigation is less
than expected. However, the introduction of improved systems operations,
procedures and quality control in design and construction, and the adaptive
research, monitoring, evaluation and training programs included in the project
would reduce these risks. Moreover, the project has been limited in size to
that which can effectively be implemented by staff trained at WALMI. Overall,
the project risks are representative of the risks associated with similar types
of irrigation scheme in India and are not significant.
73.       Environmental Effects.  The improved drainage should have positive
environmental effects. However, the expansion of irrigation may be accompanied
by an increase in the incidence of water related diseases. GOM would take all
measures considered necessary to minimize the hazards of malaria and other
water-related diseases in the project area (Section 2.23, Project Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement and Development Credit Agreement between
India and the Bank and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Bank and the Association and the State of Maharashtra, the Report of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
75.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and of the Association.
1/ For the Jayakwadi scheme the ERR for all past and project investments is
estimated at 14%.



-22-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
May 19, 1983



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                     Page  1  of  5
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV_RAGES
AREA (TROUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL            3287.6                                 MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    70.0       110.0      240.0              261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      111.2        152.5     194.4              448.7                     701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)   434850.0    547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9          19.7      22.3               17.3                      32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       132.3        166.6     200.6              158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0         307.8     362.8              355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          40.9         42.7      40.2               36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.5         54.2      56.8               59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.6          3.1       3.0                3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8          2.3       2.1                2.0                      2.3
URBAN                               2.5          3.3       3.3                3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.7         40.0      35.6               29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.8         16.7      13.6               11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9          2.7       2.4                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      64.0       3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          12.0      22.6               19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           98.0        102.0      99.0              108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.6         90.4      88.8/c             97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.6         49.7      48.4/i             56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.2         14.8      13.1/i             20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      26.2         20.7      17.4               10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.2          48.1      51.8               57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           165.0        139.0     123.4               89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0      33.0               32.9                     32.0
URBAN                                ..         60.0      83.0               70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                ..          6.0      20.0               22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         18.0      20.0               18.1                     37.7
URBAN                                ..         85.0      87.0               72.7                     65.7
RURAL                                ..          1.0       2.0                4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4850.4       4889.0    3630.6             3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5    5696.1               4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2178.7      1612.9    1311.0/e            1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                                ..           ..     362.3/e            301.3                    651.6
RURAL                                ..           ..   10432.8/e           5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..                 ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                               5.2         5.6        4.8
RURAL                               5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6          2.8
URBAN                               2.6          2.8        ..
RURAL                               2.6          2.8        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2Apf 5
INDIA-80CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGETED AVE4IS
- MOST RECENT ISTINATE )(
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLU INCMI
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTItATE /b   ASIA 6 FACIFIC            ASIA S PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0         73.0       78.0/c             97.4                     96.2
MALE                  80.0        90.0       92.0/?            101.0                     99.S
FEMALE                40.0        56.0       63.0/?             87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.0         26.0      27.0/c             53.0                      37.6
MALE                  30.0        36.0       36.0/?i            63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                10.0        15.0       17.0/t             41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0           1.0        0.7/f              1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TEAC1ER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.1         41.5      51.8/c              37.7                     35.5
SECONDARY                          16.0         20.9         ..              20.2                      23.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0         33.4       36.0               52.1                     73.1
CONSUHPSION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.6          1.1        1.3/c              1.5                      9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.9         21.5      33.6               35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.0          0.0        1.0                3.2                     37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  10.6         16.0       19.8               16.4                     53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1           4.1       3.7                3.6                       2.8
LABOR FORCE
nYTOA=1OR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   185951.1    219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   30.7         32.5      31.8               29.5                      33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.0         74.0      69.3               70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         11.0      13.2               15.0                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.8         40.0      39.2               40.0                      38.5
MALE                                 57.0         52.4       51.8               51.8                     50.5
FEMALE                               27.3         26.9      25.9                23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1         1.1        1.1                1.0                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/     22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.97j    49.4/i*
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6.7/S     7.0/*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.27j    16.2/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..            .     132.0              133.8                     194.7
RURAL                                 .           ..     114.0              111.1                     155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                ..                     178.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                ..                     164.9
ESTIYATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.3               43.8                      24.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.7               51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-veighted aritlmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962;  /e 1976;  If 1975; /I 1964-65.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notoe   Although tht data are drao fIo  sources. gene-ally j`dged the  -as  -ohoettil.i   and reltabl.  it  hboild also be  -otd that they nay ro  be inter
naioaly coparbl Dbho-us   fh lo  of.sta.dardized dahfittoia  and concpts usd by dlffe-os                         .. rootnle  to collecling  tba data.  The, data ar,on-
theles. osaful to de-rrhi orer  of   goiode  tod-trantteds, and  oosoeie                      -etoto  major dfi_fero_e  b..etween        l
Th  rheeoe   rops00  (   to  an  rnce   droo  ofreshatmoe   n    l   cneygoptbsealghge   nrg   noeso   h    onr   ra
of .hee .ie. ....tr  (enep  Io%'th  r                  p Ofil        .jl tooses  g..u  shtyab  ftdl( na2NrhArc   n   tdlets    scoe   eas   hsrne
sorto-rutor-   .f.llo      nterfeec    ro    aatenorgsaepplt    r/lgtdydthrnrotn                                             ifr  ah- ard-So   end,- shoo  oly~ sce
o-ie  .thouandIsOs.)                     -pfl-inodne-tohlsallad   total,n-ban  and  min -l hooltor(otl
loha  - Ttal  orfan  ato r~ rltog  ard Irea  nd -Ilan     ratrs  1-1  dat.                uln   n usd    Inidad bye                  . raprl-eroe  ofhLpta  bd
-N  hot dPIa d  111 I-  aS  per colt  enclor--y        t croed   rackrpuo,cl                           Ptlcn   t   onIcue. Orl  oytl.heno.toehat
19I1, no  19-1 data      ab.l,ii.    -             .a   d"'l                 11d.                     sbadca  assistant,      d. nure, ldmife  etc.  ehi-  offer       . tn pat tart acds
kat -d  it~h aplda-   l. fall     1979 Ily..         Oncoor. ind  peoid 'alnte   rareif-           mdIAl  aills    o             ns
data.CPT   US             N   al-iA                    l-     b  -klp                               Adosern1     e  hoslta- ld~ - Tta  noher of selnnlo              i-to o    h-rar
darn.             dta                                                                               -doe-I Aboo    ... o ..uahl -loidioon  -t  t    hco h lord)  - too toion, adrno
OrIn PpultIo   Ieeros  1 tna) -hasuu  f  chn  trtorl  npoarund    _asbod  r.n. iso ofla grou  of tdinidoa snboishare lnFn   -uane
a- oni ruon-ruil    19..01,        .         pl 110,and1990dot.7th--osahol  foe tralh.:c,    pupoes
dooatlontroerrons                                                                                                                    T-rososhaeho-sof  deeoo-ttn.ur-n apro  d- h-aogeue
tonal   pop        idno Yby-n e shctotand  hA.e rofooluy   and90.190 Ptal   d eaten              dOU  ltg.rsprtsy    IaInsoru                        o-otetGorue    n
netar  foefentl   7 o   roabnOt honor d--rs  Ieeah.tn    o    nt                        o   oa,.ro,adonl  ol royse   le
fs _tt _tya-ordrgtoocur_auaotadlonr-eu-.rlao-rnprf-roora
en In  cunfou-pc.flue . In arloo-  oalt lor Ontr-lto  corn  darDl b-- no                          -lnr  sr       ---etoul n    ot11roally  -nclde  chIldre   agd 0-11
th-repbadI-selnneif~ -plnotr-yeotobijjiogtunt7.tlonenrhgaTaa..t..                                  y..a.. i.coadjuingdfodffeear   ient'inofolS              y         puslrt-Pan
T no..o fa- lacesiioel- oatl-p.   Tho-sna-Onaypo oto   sloeg tan-                                r1 oct-1o  aDnh1unloernl ed-ocalon  ane-l-lonmay.era   I    ern
-sls   c ntin,ant  of--t  projected   -taof-1On Ir  of. tie poplar coo                       sic-omppl   r   eo    rarnteutoa    o lae
E,,tteysarl_ltl.ba%a nndhosrbiorlnofop                         i-tpotroep-c-ly              EDCTIONdnsbo-on,aarfoneCsuanooe    and
too.ocntnautai"otfn   or   fanooonloycsoott
rosa   ara;i00        .11  and 1919- dao.                                                        nc ud_tuntco.  odoera   or-onon pogres hTch oenne DA                       eed
cou p;lIt.--7  mO,1 u07  "nto -     PPuJth,lhg.....                                                 -sncar rjatto-yruadifp.- and             lh oso r-oaf  o-i-y t  onroDi- d an
PooltcAg   rr-rr ite..   rre -  ITtle        -lfar)sukg-e  (1--rtatyadsc ap  eesdndl  ytoeso    -acor  In, sto .
laln   10,190   ord -1990 dora plPull-                                                          I Itorarp1-  i   rate peocoor p.   - lteate  adults (abl  toredan r-
popol llu   190,   Dll,h nd1d     3daa                                                          ntlacp,    fL nolro. 1   a         fa.. al
upun    ..ou ; 191.1 1911, nod 1(80  data.                                                        iroprsnrgnacrilD  nrtlr-on.d of t pulhrcon; ent c                         dpstan-
sDltr  rosn    ... ally   fIn-pea -neagd enur  tn. 190.  lO.l-and 1901                        nosrcrous dat-lln-d  tr....da.y1     ,
DastDyPtaococg-Arepoocs,PruonChilosdn(~-lrnylonnborkiof  acraptorsi-, T9o atndees(pert ytu ...ndodulal lyr(-lrrrinersfo_hccadoosh
of64  thcot-olelc -odeonpde                         p---g-lfoappstf      t   prugess-t--esalpiltprbg                         aroolalnecI.nn.cnefresn
aslyilonIrp9sec    psec80 dfoeedosclProonslnrldAc,troor-oes  -nl 'peatahetc--stadlo ffI                                                                       etsasd          ,i.
-,,,htenomnRaos                 -aaog-sgeoup.h                                               cnl-afl-oonOddally    ..1ad geaalttctenpprdeenePaspey         _drd
I'll, GI"lh Rat~~~~~~~~~~  - -bpoblcato-dentedrlmrtltofrn-b-gerCnOenn    lrsPTIOdre
FOOl dll-NItlIl                                                                                      fo5ha  dolly' I  Or-ape97n  a   a-o-  four clots-a  ek.  .I....
Inde ofhoodtroocnic pr C  Ito      l 10-1llO -it, lode  ph. oardaiaao                      on    nua   lednaprOon  pefTncOno   onth   omero
Ino   slro  yA    asodlnodolsco   prlsnyh Rdn  e.g  augrsar                                        an    "Ii"e pnirs        ,  igta- ;             1                     -    aa
nalca  anr1  po uc I Trcotpt.101h,110   o   90   aa                                   TotalMAEio   yptc  Ononod-          -tluncly   r rpesn,Inldn
PrCaps  syl ofvlra  Ieosot rngui-aho...    -                           -C1pte  fooane  foecesab                      an ioapoe   hot- ent l-nr  booto. toos.  nfdts  etc.,
nelt n'ap       _alolafiyo   oycs    csncpoPrIn    sor  lascttsnrie! 90,11   nd19    as
on/rttardbanoauo-oto. Nstoppuenncldtalrafoo,sed IS.                                          htma--iparant i-o dalolbo.itfrespo nagcoslheoro
Fno- tttPla. ned t  foyd-p-rcct-1 (lcd, .. and  usn - In ldblsrhton    leoto                       Age Rc..tu.. lyacn 'h -..o.    o  foecei In Voeuo, fi-       re f-   hn- n  and
yoctisnh-eon l ned-tpro -od-          on ytpsnfo-tul reons for--oalonu-ft io as  s                                        h..ag  ofd tcco al iahr   ore   O   1900 and 190  dat. 
housohud  -onnL; 191a._  1910 gand17   os.11,11 fdandy 1990                                                                         --       -p Onto.,,               . lidi
Fotouuasonl/fcctuultotnrody(-ycpolrcrtonot  acrntblPntt.tp -nd-naoldncinil-ycoI                                      olonufnoale_-yt ittiup          --ldn -d
plepc at llo Ifo_  10tes  no.       dh  onuno96   prtlp-.  lien   ntrd -d                  rafckcctn   000sond trcoon  thOo -        o-1 fosludn, nod  dlcg els  trooP
onvs-O-r-r-tu-sar ins.sgeocrdenuclPprntoll                  bphoE lohafhl-                       EccncaorerttoOol    fooloonddiodlso
uoel- odlorc f       lihI -b    1010l nud 190dtsi. -0 ho-totallabor fced
tot          "d        "g,  ..utopro.iod-rnp-ru   futnolhnO ... noPotlo  Ioyl  of fod   do-     AORFO
otned fal  arue.no.. or- pbes D _grhno urn 1da5, 1901-0, -1910 odd 1917 data.                 Illo            F-o DITlI Il --i        ,..  ,iy- l -                 ,'1d
-lP-Aer1-)len   nto (pe  optnd -iclubl.  doI lu  pary ohuod  pForotgapIrgoc  lcs                                                      hn   fia .ud kInd) -i-ore aby clca-
trosdendroo   fc-cnl .lif-  -ohles   99-         IP   n  1990l..li   idocs                         of-loupehlds.       6,  90ad1S  1:
..Il               h....                                  Pd .i1  -                                 TEd~  l-l ll/  Ip--tO -FIlPbOf. a.                    -
IrorftolyOnolnPbuad)-Wo)dnII  o dlibfant-   R.qi.rdeuo   ot                              ttsodboct  cot   torLpl10 Lbor fcoilf....                        - ucan nu coal
norcentooetuftonictasnerroraouolotluns.   IuoP... n. rrnnpul lct                     persoosDi R-ootcfnhnconpne... lraulnno-llndaetelcrbeo
contldocd on beig suthrcesesunold otet  ofD clot  fno.,I  roal-  ros                  Etaodnpltotalon alosulut f-nert  Icconb Lnl  (prcnt
fono     60cno r -so foll.splynl..tot-nso_nnpoccr-a_sherocfou-i-nsnod                       1n960 nl 1970     cPfy-d     Ioron;u lanonruroCnhoIanahsl,o-ne-
I...   .-uct,h11g hh--ocnPdco,uocctou                _-flco t  unroTo-fl -& arts                  pIouIr0.d.  
fadcap on-of- croOn.
u,.ssId  tt-duoS- syuola61perc170r- of 977tldtfou                                                            t.ool  I.t  ndtco
-uttrofuunlo ynt             o-ton     an        I,,o ntt-hp    nctt          -dopo d-
uChl  Ius-callohtodcI
Poci-uo doe d--scdlI                  - nolnlo   ltddb  pudo  of8  d--cur    tn-                                                          couo   o   oDa   aaflul.
toAUnvocfodrpuoVElntolasuoaolcoulhcnoHc   roonosofrtjcOfosDaoroo
Iopuotlo  net ludrnuIns-                                                   d. foroo   - Pi-dAbon dundod   yn-n-o  u  poLtntcr                           toyS  1        r9PaP    -a
nooofr nlet..doatnoooon                 1970stactonoro     draclal  Anu-nnenond-1i    h,   l-     -                                                         b     hh
onerung o.ooollot-loo.al    a    N                                                         -li:1yad al    i~ p-    -l-                       a-



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 US$250
GROSS RATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981/82 b/ANAL BATE CF GROWTH (%, constant prices) -/
US$ Bl .      %                  1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices           165.38    100.0                          3.7              3.6               3.6              2.9
Gross Domestic Investment       41.74      25.2
Gross National Saving           37.66      22.8
Current Account Balance         -4.08      -2.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)            Labor Force i/           V.A. Pe: Worker
US$ Bln..           %             Mil.         %                 us$      1 of National Average
Agriculture                     39.8               39.6            180.6     70.7                220            56
Industrv                        25.2               25.1            32.2      12.6                783           199
Services                        35.5               35.3            42.6      16.7                833           211
Total/Average                  100.5              100.0           255.4    100.0                 394           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government            e/                           Central Government
Rs. Bln.        %  of  GDP                                    Rs.Bl-.         %  of  GDP
1981/82      1981/82  1977/78-1981/82                        1981/82     1981/82 1977/78-1981/82
Current Feceipts                    285.77        19.4         19.1                               149.26      10.1        10.4
Current Expenditures                280.34        19.0         18.2                               155.01      10.5        10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit               5.43         0.4          0.9                                -5.75      -0.4        -0.2
Capita- Fxpenditures f/             116.91         7.9          7.8                                83.66       5.7         5.5
EPternal Assistance (net) d/         16.45         1.1          1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES            1970/71  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82    February 1982                February 1983
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money               110.2      224.8    277.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    554.5    625.5          615.5                      711.7
Bank Credit to Government/net)    54.6          69.2      77.6     76.4      94.2    124.1    164.4    204.4        292.2                      353.5
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  65.2         156.2    188.5    212.2    255.3    310.1    362.8    430.4          422.2                      487.7
(percentage or Index Numbers)                             April-Feb 1981/82    April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasi Money
as 7 of GDP                      27.4       30.3      34.6      36.5      41.2      44.1      43.3     42.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                 100.0      173.0    176.6    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.3                281.7                  287.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7       -1.1       2.1       5.2      -        17.1      18.2       9.3            10.0                    2.0
Bank Credit to Government (net)   15.0           6.3      11.1      16.3     16.0      25.6      29.6      19.1            22.7 g_/               21.0
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector  20.5          22.7      20.7      12.6     20.3      21.5      17.0      18.7            20.9 g/                15.5 hI
a/  The per capita GMP estimate is at market r-ices, using World Bank Atlas  methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
c/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation after last
year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates of net disbursement; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/  Percentage change from  end-March 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/ Percentage change from end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
1/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annex-re Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978/79-1981/82)
(USS Mln.)                                                                                                            US$ Mln.    Z
Exports of Goods a/                7,948    8,504    8,511        8,800                Engineering Goods                 901       11
Imports of Goods q/              -11,383  -16,119  -15,253  -14,801                    Tea                               457        6
Trade Balance                     -3,435   -7,615   -6,742   -6,001                    Gems                              759       10
NFS (net)                           1,042     1,365     1,120     1,088                Clothing                          556        7
Leather & Leather Products    470           6
Resource Balance                  -2,393   -6,250   -5,622   -4,913                    Jute Manufactures                 279        4
Iron Ore                         352        4
Interest Income (net) k/             287       600        212      -128                Cotton Textiles                  319         4
Net Transfers  1/                   1,852     2,771     1,577     1,668                Sugar                             104        1
Others                         3,789       47
Balance on Current Account           -254   -2,879   -3,833   -3,373
Official Aid                                                                           Total                          7,986       100
Gross Disbursements                 1,218     1,629     1,821     1,933                EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1982
Amortization                        1,894    2,338    2,475       2,569
US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                 -       1,035       690    1,980                 Outstanding and Disbursed                   18.3
All Other Items  o/                  -740      -130   -1,075       -358                Undisbursed                                  8.5
Outstanding, including                     26.8
Increase in Reserves (-)            -224        345    2,397       -182                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) p/    7,204    6,859    4,462    4,644
Net Reserves (end year) m/         7,204    6,532       3,498     1,703                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 i/  n/  6.9 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, as of February 28, 1983
Imports (Petroleum) g/             4,046    6,657    5,570    4,686                                                             US$ million
IBRD          IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed            1,357          6,688
Undisbursed                          1,896          4,270
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                        3,253        10,958
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971               US$1.00 = Rs 7.50                         Spot Rate end-March 1983:  US$1.00 = Rs 10.03
Rs 1.00 = US$O.13333                                                   Rs 1.00 = US$0.0997
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:          US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 = US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                          Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1981           :      US$1.00 = Rs 9.099
RS 1.00 = US$O.110
Spot Rate end-December 1982           :      US$1.00 = Rs 9.634
Rs 1.00 = US$0.104
i/  Estimated.
k/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to
IMF, and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
1/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within
official aid disbursements.
m/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
n/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.and current transfers.
o/  Includes commercial borrowing.
p/  Excluding gold.
a/  Net of crude petroleum exports.



ANNEX II
Pag-e iof2 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2!
46 Loans/                                               1,568.0         -
76 Credits fully disbursed                                 -        4,364.4            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -          30.0          11.87
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                   -           83.0          13.99
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -          27.7           6.84
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -           16.4           0.31
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply             -          40.0           8.55
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -         105.0           3.59
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -         150.0          10.17
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.           -           4.0           0.98
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           5.02
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0         -            52.44
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                               40.0         -             1.31
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0          -           17.08
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                 80.0         -             3.68
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0         -              5.69
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -          30.0          14.82
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -          20.0           4.01
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -          150.0          9.62
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0          11.60
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0          -             4.68
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                -           10.0           1.57
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation              -          23.0          10.40
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -            8.0           4.81
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                 -          70.0           6.34
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension             -           13.0           1.37
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                      -           58.0           0.24
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5          -             3.86
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage               -          107.0         64.61
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II          -           87.0           8.30
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -            8.0           6.19



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2 6
US$ mil lion
Loan or  Fi scal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -             4.66
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -            16.68
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          57.00
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0          49.63
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture            -           14.0          11.56
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -           85.0          29.91
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5          10.53
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -           16.0          10.55
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            28.48
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0          87.61
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0         170.17
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                    -          111.0           0.10
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -         190.0          63.60
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -           38.0           9.88
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          20.30
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0           9.45
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                                     30.0          6.07
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0          52.90
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                                129.0          68.92
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply                          48.0          17.49
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          26.76
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -           23.0           9.77
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0         99.51
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0          18.45
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -           20. 0         18.29
981-IN    1980      Population II                         -           46.0          39.48
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0          25.95
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                        -           18.0           3.75
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0         132.77
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                             -           22.0          18.95
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                  -          300.0         221.29
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport              -           56.0          30.35
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0          44.68
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                        -          80.0          64.42
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0          -            15.29



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -          225.0         179.32
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0          -            25.30
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400.0          -            42.02
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -           35.0          28.17
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -           83.0          77.59
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -           42.0          29.88
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -          140.0         132.36
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -          314.0         210.79
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -           54.0          53.85
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -          400.0         344.72
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -           23.0          21.75
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -           28.0          25.25
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -           37.0          36.27
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -          125.0         109.46
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II         -          400.0         366.87
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -          220.0         206.58
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0          -            81.29
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -           29.0          26.86
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -           25.0          23.37
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0          -           124.82
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0          -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                              190.0          -           190.00
1209-IN    1982      ARDC IV                                -          160.0          23.34
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                           -            6.0           5.80
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization           200.0          -           181.91
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III            304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    20.3          -            20.00
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     -           60.0          48.41
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                   -           72.0          71.45
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and                                   -
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          31.70
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                 -            -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0          31.00
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation                -          127.0         123.26
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration         165.5          -           163.05
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         200.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 26
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
2241-IN    1983       South Bassein Gas Development*    222.3              -           222,30
1319-IN    1983       Haryana Irrigation II*                 -          150.0          150.00
1332-IN    1983       U.P. Public Tubewells II*              -          101.0          101.00
Total                                      4,b8i.1    11,44b.6
of which has been repaid                1,211.8         120.4
Total now outstanding                      3,471.3    11,326.2
Amount Sold                      133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/          3,471.3    11,326.2
Total undisbursed (excluding *)            1,854.3      4,052.3
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their US dollar
equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as subsequently
presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative dis-
bursements converted to their US dollar equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate (1 SDR = US$1.07867) in effect on March 31, 1983.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 26
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                        Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                          6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5         1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited          15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0             -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited              15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.              2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited                2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                 1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                   28.0         -       28. 0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.              18.8         -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.               16.3         -       16.3
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.              8.5         -        8.5
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          208.3       12.1    220.4
Less:   Sold                           53.0         3.2     56.2
Repaid                         28.3         -       28.3
Cancelled                     15.9         1.4      17.3
Now Held                     111.1         7.5    118.6
Undisbursed                   93.1         0.2     93.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 26
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1983)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasor.ably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$1,245 million in FY82, compared to
US$962 million in the previous year.  Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1983 total US$1,008 million, representing an increase
of about 17% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1983, is US$5,907 million.
Ln. No. 1475  Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1843  Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051  Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closin Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing mediur- and large-scale
industries, often in the high technology fields and are also mostly
export-oriented. Disbursements are on schedule for the twelfth loan and
ahead of schedule for the thirteenth and fourteenth loans.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 26
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 has been completed and was closed on March 31, 1983. Diis-
bursements are expected to be completed by the end of April 1983.
Loan 1511 is nearly complete and was also scheduled to close on
March 31, 1983. Although project implementation has been satisfactory, a
small number of sub-projects remain unfinished. Following a detailed review
of the project by a Bank mission in April, a short extension of the closing
date will be made to allow completion of these sub-projects and full disbur-
sement of the loan proceeds.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Project progress is good. Land acquisition has been completed and
construction began in July 1982. Basic engineering work was completed on
schedule at the end of August. Procurement is proceeding as planned.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1125  Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Following completion of 37 fertilizer sub-projects, Credit 598 was
closed on December 31, 1982. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
the end of April 1983. About US$3 million in the credit account are expected
to be cancelled.
Credit 1125 is proceeding generally satisfactorily. Procurement of
all critical items is on schedule. The need to undertake unexpected piling
and foundation work identified by detailed soil surveys delayed somewhat the
start of major civil works. This has now been completed, and erection of the
ammonia and urea plants is scheduled to begin in April-May 1983.
Ln. No. 2123 Refineries Rationalization Project; US$200 million loan of
May 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 29, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Project implementation is satisfactory. The conversion component
is making very good progress, with construction about to commence. Prepara-
tion work and investment approvals for the energy effici!ncy and pollution
control components are underway.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 26
Ln. No. 2205  Krishna-Godavari Exploration Project; US$165.5 million loan of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date: February 28, 1983; Closing
Date: March 31, 1986
Ln. No. 2241  South Bassein Offshore Gas Development Project; US$222.3 million
loan of March 31, 1983; Effective Date: Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The Bombay High Project is progressing well. All platforms and
subsea pipelines have been installed essentially on schedule. ONGC reached
its targetted production level of 240,000 Bbl/day in May 1982, and is
presently producing 250,000 Bbl/day, 44% of which comes from project wells.
Initial activities under the Krishna-Godavari Project are about four
months behind schedule due to longer than anticipated testing and completion
time for on-shore wells, lack of adequate number of geophysicists for
processing the seismic data, and delay In initiating procurement actions.
These problems have been discussed in depth with ONGC, and they are in the
process of undertaking steps to correct the situation.
The South Bassein Gas Project is designed to assist India to increase
her gas production capability through the installation of offshore platforms
for drilling, processing, and gas flaring, and the laying of a subsea
pipeline to Gujarat State and the fertilizer plant at Hazira. Initial
procurement activities are underway.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 19767UClsing
Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
Cr. No. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988



ANX I I
Page 9 of 26
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project, US$25 million loan and
Cr. No. 1053  US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project  US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February_4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government-s
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid.  Credit 793, together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053 assists in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 supports the construction of a 500 MW extension of
the Tata Electric Company's station at Trombay, designed to help meet the
forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
All these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satis-
factorily. Construction works for the Singrauli, Korba, and Farakka stations
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The first unit at the
Singrauli station was commissioned on schedule in February 1982, the second
unit in October 1982, and the third in March 1983. The first unit at the
Korba station was also commissioned in March 1983. In the Third Trombay
project, procurement is complete and the generator is expected to be conimis-
sioned in April/May 1983. Tata Electric Company's financial performance In
1982, and projections through 1985, are satisfactory.  Cost overruns, caLused
by design modifications, price increases in materials, and increases in
customs duties, will be met by the Government of India.
Cr. No. 911   Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2165  Third Rural Electrification Corporation Project; US$304.5 million
loan of June 22, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
These projects are progressing satisfactorily with no major problems.
Procurement of materials and equipment is on schedule, and disbursements are
keeping pace with appraisal estimates.  Detailed plans for the new Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) training institute to be established in



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 26
Hyderabad are well advanced. REC's financial performance continues to be
satisfactory. In the near future, REC-s major thrust under both projects
will be on improving consumer connection performance, which is lagging con-
siderably behind projections. REC is in the process of reassessing the
annual work programs of the State Electricity Boards, including an analysis
of the reasons for the poor connection performance, the setting of realistic
new goals, and the introduction of measures to improve the situation.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1313 has been successfully concluded and was closed on March 31,
1983.  Disbursements are expected to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Loan 1592 and Credit 1112 are both progressing satisfactorily and
there are no major problems. Initial delays in Loan 1592 as a result of late
procurement caused by a strike have been offset by accelerated implementation
during 1982. All bidding under Credit 1112 is now complete and civil works
are underway. Institutional improvements under all projects have been
achieved and the financial position of the Posts & Telegraph Department
remains sound.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Ln. No. 2210 Second Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project;
Cr. No. 1299 US$200 million loan and US$200 million credit of December 23,
1982; Effective Date: February 23, 1983; Closing Date:
September 30, 1987
These projects are designed to help the Indian Railways reduce
re-manufacturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and
to improve their performance and availability. The physical execution of
Credit 844 continues to make good progress. Procurement of all critical
equipment is complete and civil works are well advanced. Commitments under
the project total nearly 97% of the Credit amount. Initial activities for
the second project are underway. The Indian Railways- financial and traffic
performance continued its significant improvement in FY1982/83, and this is
expected to be sustained in FY1983/84.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 26
Cr. No. 1072  Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule. The majority of the equipment required for the
project has been delivered.  Contracts have been awarded for civil works
totalling to about US$13 million and work began last March.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with about 75%
of the loan disbursed. Construction of new workshop facilities began in
January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan closing date may have to
be extended one year. A bus fare revision on April 1, 1982 increased
revenues by 20% and will enable the project authority to achieve its targeted
operating ratio.
There has been considerable recent improvement in the Calcutta
project, including definite progress at the policy level in response to IDA's
15-point action program to improve project implementation, which was
presented to the project authorities in October 1982. All 75 new tramcars
financed under the project have been delivered, an additional 60 should be
renovated and in service by December 1983, and the operating performance of
the tram company has improved substantially over the last six months.
Although the operating performance of the bus corporation remains unsatisfac-
tory, the recent appointment of three new senior staff members to the cor-
poration's management and a new Chairman of the Board is expected to improve
operations, and there are now over 500 new buses in service.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 1s4, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185  Kanpur Urban Development Project; TUS$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Physical performance in the Calcutta project is generally good. All
sub-projects presently under implementation are scheduled to be completed by
March 31, 1983. Following a review of the overall program for Calcutta's
further development, the Government of West Bengal shifted its investment



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 26
priorities somewhat and consequently requested a revision of some components
of this project. IDA agreed to the suggested changes, and the closing date
has been extended by nine months to allow for completion of the redefined
project.
Credit 1082, Is proceeding satisfactorily, with the exception of the
sites and services component, where legal challenges are causing delays in
land acquisition. The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) is actively pursuing
the resolution of these court cases and has identified alternative sites to
be used so that the sites and services works can be finished by the project
closing date. The financial performance of the Pallavan Transport Corpora-
tion (PTC), the project implementing agency, is unsatisfactory. It is not
generating funds sufficient to meet its financial targets. An action plan to
cut operating costs, reduce new investment, and raise revenues has recently
been formulated and, subject to the agreement of GOTN, will enable PTC to
achieve the required targets by 1983/84 and maintain them thereafter.
Progress under Credit 1185 is mixed. Procedures to improve cost
recovery have not been introduced as agreed, studies on institutional
strengthening of the project agencies have not begun, and the project
authority suffers from a serious lack of staff with proper management exper-
tise. However, there has been considerable improvement recently in land
acquisition for slum upgrading, where completed works have benefitted nearly
6,700 households. Procurement is proceeding well and all physical works are
expected to be completed on schedule.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Following the completion of physical works, the project was closed
on December 31, 1982. Institutional and financial performance under the
project were unsatisfactory, and several of the implementing agencies were
unable to achieve the financial performance targets which had been agreed
with IDA.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 26
Cr. No. 1280 Gujarat Water Supply and Sewera e Project; US$72 million credit
of November 9, 1982; Effective Date: February 8, 1983;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Recent progress under Credit 842 has been encouraglng. Preparation
of contract documents and drawings for the water supply component is well
advanced. For the 137 sewerage sub-projects, all tender documents have been
completed and construction is well underway, although there have been serious
delays on the two major sewerage treatment plants due to land acquisitiLon
difficulties. Cost overruns are expected and IDA has requested the project
authorities to prepare detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
these.  The financial performance of the Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage
Department continues to be satisfactory, and all financial conditions under
the project are being met.
The closing date of Credit 848 has been extended one year as a result
of initial procurement delays. Physical implementation of the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily, and all works are expected to be finished by the
extended completion date of December 1983. The quality of construction work
Is excellent, and the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board is proving to be
an effective implementing agency. However, there continue to be significant
problems with financial and operational performance, which must be improved
considerably if agreed targets under the project are to be met. IDA has
brought this to the attention of the project authorities repeatedly, and
plans to concentrate its supervision efforts for the duration of the project
on improving the financial and operational aspects of implementation.
Credit 899 is proceeding reasonably well. It has now entered the
full construction stage, and work is satisfactory. Disbursements are In line
with the appraisal estimates. The level of tariffs is adequate to achieve
the financial performance targets under the project. The Government of
Maharashtra is preparing detailed estimates and proposals for dealing with
the anticipated cost increases which have occurred as a result of delayed
start of construction and retendering on one major water supply facility.
Attention now needs to be devoted to the resolution of the staffing difficul-
ties in the Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Board, particularly the
lack of financial staff to properly administer their financial operations.
Under the Rajasthan project, Credit 1046, the rural water supply
schemes are well advanced and engineering designs for the urban schemes have
been nearly finalized. Progress in the project has been hampered by the
Government of Rajasthan (GOR) fund allocations running at between 50%-60%
of annual requirements. A recent Cabinet decision has deferred the construc-
tion of the planned Hemawas/Kuri Pipeline to provide water to the city of
Jodhpur, in order to consider the possibility of accessing water from the
Rajasthan Canal instead. A feasibility report has been completed. GOR has
decided on the alternative Rajasthan Canal source, which will be funded
without Bank assistance.
Initial work under Credit 1280 is proceeding well. The design team
has been established and detailed design of all sub-projects is on schedule.
The bid documents for civil works in Ahmedabad, one of the project cities,
have been approved and will be issued shortly. Work is now concentrating on
preparation of bids for materials procurement.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 26
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 26
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 16, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Ln. No. 2186 Kallada Irrigation Project; US$20.3 million loan and US$60 million
Cr. No. 1269 credit of July 6, 1982; Effective Date: September 21, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1288 Second Chambal Madhya Pradesh Irrigation Project; US$31 million
credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date: December 1, 1982
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1289 Subernarekha Irrigation Project; US$127 million credit of
November 9, 1982; Effective Date: January 10, 1983; Closing
Date: April 30, 1987.
Cr. No. 1319 Haryana II Irrigation Project; US$150 million credit of
February 23, 1983; Effective Date: Expected May 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads.
Following unsatisfactory early project progress, Loan 1251 was refor-
mulated in May 1980, at which time project completion was planned for Decem-
ber 1984. On the basis of improved implementation performance under the
reformulated program, a one-year extension of the closing date is now under
consideration.
Implementation of Maharashtra I has been unbalanced, with emphasis on
major works. As of March 31, 1983, the original closing date, the large
construction components were about 80% complete, but there were major short-
falls in the minor irrigation and CAD works. Over recent months there has
been some improvement in implementation, with the provision of adequate
budget resources and staff, and the preparation of detailed work programs for
completion of the works. Therefore, a one-year extension of the closing date
is being considered to allow completion of all project components and hence
full development of the irrigation potential of the area.
As a result of cost overruns, the Periyar Vaigai Project was reformu-
lated in 1981, at which time completion was planned for March 1984. Accord-
lngly, the closing date has been extended by one year to March 31, 1984.
Recent implementation progress has been encouraging, particularly in the
construction of field channels. The project could profit still further,
however, from improved coordination among the various Government of Tamil
Nadu agencies responsible for project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 26
The Karnataka Project is experiencing serious delays in command area
development and completion of construction of the distribution system, due
mainly to lack of proper support from the State Government and inadequate
staffing of the project entity. The urgent attention of the State Government
must be devoted to the early resolution of these implementation problems.
Although the Gujarat Medium Project is 30% behind schedule on
average, there has been considerable recent improvement. There is no longer
a shortage of field staff, construction standards have improved, and there
has been substantial progress in finalizing the designs of the distribution
systems. Disbursements, at 50% of the SAR target, are expected to improve
following the introduction of steps designed to reduce ineligible expendi-
tures. The GOG is currently preparing detailed implementation schedules to
ensure completion of the 23 sub-projects by June 1984.
The Gujarat II Project has also demonstrated recent signs of improve-
ment. Staffing problems, which had been a cause of serious delays, have now
been resolved. The quality of construction work has improved, design
problems have been corrected, and the Water and Land Management Institute is
contributing significantly to the training of Irrigation Department staff.
Although the project remains considerably behind schedule and will face cost
overruns, all components continue to be economically and financially viable.
The GOG is now preparing detailed implementation schedules for the completion
of project works which will form the basis for future monitoring.
Shortages of cement and inadequate provision of budgetary resources
continue to delay implementation of the Punjab Project. In addition, there
are cost overruns in the canal and watercourse lining components of about 15%
and 40%, respectively; and the study of water charges, due in August 1981,
remains incomplete. The Government of Punjab has repeatedly been requested
by Bank supervision missions to address these issues urgently.
The Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project is considerably behind
schedule. The sub-project appraisal process has been overly slow. While
there are 12 sub-projects now under implementation, approximately 20-25 are
needed to assure expected project benefits and full disbursement of the
credit proceeds. Moreover, the works are unbalanced in favor of construction
of dams rather than conveyance systems. Several significant procurement
contracts are scheduled to be awarded in April 1983, which is expected to
bring about accelerated project implementation.
There has been significant recent progrss in the MP Major Project.
Procurement procedures have been streamlined, several major ICB and LCB
contracts are expected to be awarded in March-April 1983, and design work for
the canal structures is progressing well. The GOMP's planned intensification
of project activities during the current December 1982-June 1983, and the
1983/84 construction seasons, should be adequate to offset initial start-up
delays. Attention can now be devoted to completion of the resettlement plan
for persons to be displaced by project reservoirs, and to initiation of the
minor project components, such as roads, research stations, and the estab-
lishment of drainage and hydrometeorological networks.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 26
Credit 1289 supports an irrigation and industrial/water supply
program on 255,000 ha in the States of Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal.
Credit 1319 continues the Government of Haryana's modernization program
through the lining of irrigation channels and the provision of supplementary
water from augmentation tubewells. Early project activities are proceeding
as scheduled.
Progress of the remaining projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
Th project is designed to finance the construction of 120-160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. The Government of
Karnataka has proposed a reduction to 87 in the number of schemes to be
completd. Project preparation has been slow due to serious staffing vacan-
cies and the overloading of senior project staff with non-project responr-
sibilities. Design work is seriously behind schedule and construction has
not yet begun at the dam sites. The Government of Karnataka has been asked
to prepare a program to complete the scheduled works within the agreed
project period, together with a staffing and budget plan, by the end of
October 1982.
Credit No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million
credit of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Credit No. 1332  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells II Project; US$101 credit
of March 31, 1983; Effective Date: Expected June 1983;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The first project has been successfully completed within the original
closing date. In fact an additional 70 tubewells above the 500 originally
plannned at appraisal were constructed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1983.
Initial activities are underway for Credit 1332, which provides for
the installation of 2200 new tubewell systems, and the upgrading of 750
existing tubewell systems, based on the modernized design which was success-
fully proven in the first project.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 26
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Dat_e October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979;_Closing
Date: December_ 31, 1984 _
Cr. No. 1028  Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date:_August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137  Tamil_Nadu Agricultural Extension Protect; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22,_1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July_22,_1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138 Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$37 million
credit of May 7,_1981; Effective_Date: July22, 1981; _Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219 Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit of_May 5, 1982;_Effective Date: Julyv 7,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in thirteen States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been most encouraging, both
in terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields.
In Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, significant gains have been made
under the projects.
There has been considerable improvement in the West Bengal Project
over the past year. Staffing problems have been resolved, and civil works
have started. Attention now needs to be devoted to improvement in fieldwork,
which is weak due to insufficient supervision of extension workers and poor
generation of agricultural recommendations.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 26
In Rajasthan, too, significant early gains were achieved following
the establishment of a well organized and stable extension service. Although
the quality of field work is somewhat uneven, the basic extension system is
well established.
Implementation of the Assam Project is slow due in part to unsettled
conditions in the State. Insufficient supervision contributes, inter alia,
to lack of coordination among various implementing agencies, staff vacancies,
and poor understanding of the AEOs appropriate role in the extension sys-
tem--all of which result in ineffective field work.
Implementation of the Bihar Project is unsatisfactory.  Despite the
decision of the Government of Bihar (GOB) one year ago to commit adequate
budget funds and appoint key staff, there has been no progress to date.
Staff vacancies remain, field extension continues to be weak, and civil works
have not yet started.
In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, the basic extension system has been estab-
lished and attention now needs to focus on the quality of extension recommen-
dations and the filling of remaining staff vacancies. The Directorate of
Extension in the Central Government's Department of Agriculture needs
strengthening.
In Kerala, following the successful introduction of the T&V system
in three Districts, the project was extended to the entire State in December
1982. The recruitment of the additional staff should be completed by April
1983, after which project implementation is expected to accelerate conr-
siderably.
In Maharashtra, project implementation is ahead of schedule. The
basic infrastructure of the revised extension service is well established.
Field workers are visiting farmers regularly and their recommendations are
being widely accepted.
The Madhya Pradesh II Project remains behind schedule due to delayed
sanctioning of budget resources during the first two project years. There
has recently been considerable improvement in implementation which is
expected to continue.
Implementation of the Andhra Pradesh Project has been hampered during
its first year by vacancies in senior staff positions caused by the decision
of the newly elected State Government to retire all staft over 55 years of
age. Promotion boards are now meeting to choose staff for the vacant posi-
tions. Field activities have been ongoing for about six months and are
generally satisfactory, although an improved orientation program would be of
benefit to staff at all levels. Civil works and procurement activities are
on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 26
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project progress continues satisfactorily. Implementation of the
smallholder component, the project's largest, continues to gain momentum with
a 36% increase in plantings in 1982/83. One crumb rubber factory of the nine
included in the project is in operation and a further two should be commils-
sioned in late 1983. The cashewnut component is completed.
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
Cr. No. 1209  US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
1982; Effective Date: May 25, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers. The project is
proceeding well, with disbursements ahead of schedule. In July 1982, ARDC
and ACD/RBI were successfully merged into the National Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (NABARD). The merger was carried out efficiently,
permitting operations to continue uninterrupted. The loan recovery perfor-
mance of the State Land Development Banks during 1981/82 was weak. NABARD
has introduced rehabilitation programs and management studies designed to
improve loan recovery and the overall performance of the participating banks.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
The project has made significant progress over the last six months.
Contact has improved with the State agricultural universities, where there is
considerable enthusiasm for NARP objectives. Implementation of sub-projects
in Haryana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu is proceeding on schedule. The basic
research projects, although satisfactory thus far, need to focus their atten-
tion on local needs and problem-oriented multi-disciplinary research.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project was revised in May 1982 to provide additional bag storage
capacity in lieu of the bulk storage component. A one-year extension of the
closing date was granted, with the possibility of further extension if
project implementation improved. The project continues to be considerably
behind schedule. However, implementation has gained some momentum since
September 1982, when specific targets were established for accomplishment of
certain project works by June 1983. Land acquisition, construction, and
procurement are, overall, in line with these targets, but there remain
deficiencies in staffing, and in the monitoring, training and research
programs which have to be overcome to ensure satisfactory project progress.



ANNEX II
Page 21 of 26
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector.  Disbursements under Credit 871 are
on schedule. However, the construction of godowns has been slower than
anticipated because cement supplies have been erratic and the response by
contractors to tender offers has been poor in remote areas. Although the
project is expected to be completed on time, increases in construction costs
are likely to require a revision of the project scope to keep expenditures
within the project financing provisions.
Project implementation in most of the nine participating States under
Credit 1146 is also behind schedule, principally because of organizational
delays. The participating agencies have taken steps to speed up implemena-
tion, but progress continues to be hampered by lack of adequate number of
properly trained staff, supply shortages and cost escalations. NCDC and the
State agencies concerned have resolved to do what is required to speed up
implementation of these projects.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat. Farmer response has been excellent. About
18,000 dairy cooperative societies (DCS) have been established, with over two
million members. Profitability of most DCSs is good and construction of
dairy and feed plants is proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 26
In Credit 482, construction of the mother dairy at Bangalore, the key
processing facility, was delayed by litigation. Construction by an
experienced civil works contractor has now begun. To allow for near comple-
tion of this dairy, and for the Government of Karnataka to implement improve-
ments in their management support of the dairy producers- unions as required
under the project, the closing date has been extended by one year.
Under Credit 521, nearly 1,500 dairy cooperative societies (DCSs)
have been formed, benefitting over 78,000 families. During 1981/82, these
DCSs collected over 30 million liters of milk, for which the producers were
paid Rs 67 million. The project was scheduled to close on December 31, 1982.
However, as several project-financed facilities are not yet complete, includ-
ing two processing plants, one powder plant, four training centers, and
living quarters for staff, the GOI has requested an extension of the closing
date, which is now under consideration.
Credit 522 has been successfully completed and was closed on
March 31, 1983.  Over 800 dairy cooperative societies were formed, serving
a membership of approximately 35,000 families. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by May 31, 1983.
Physical execution under Credit 824 is excellent, with the estab-
lishment of new rural and urban dairies, cattle feed plants, and the acquisi-
tion of rail and road milk tankers. The cooperative processing industry is
served by 18,000 cooperatives with membership of over two million households.
In addition, substantial institution building is taking place through the
formation of federations, unions and cooperatives in 59 milksheds covered
under the Operation Flood II Agreements designed to ensure autonomy in pric-
ing and a three-tiered cooperative structure.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects are designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States. Although they are two to
three years behind schedule because of initial problems in coordination and
monitoring, mainly at the national level, there has been significant progress
over the last year. The construction of transit and bulk storehouses has
been delayed by land acquisition problems. However, there has been good
progress in civil works and equipment procurement for the seed processing
plants.  It is expected that all works except seed farm development under
both projects will be completed by December 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project helps to finance cashew planting and plantation improve-
ment programs in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Orissa.



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 26
The planting and improvement programs initially made very good progress
although this has been dampened in 1982/83 by decreased cashewnut prices and
Corporation land acquisition problems resulting from the Forest Conservation
Act (1980). There is still every expectation that the project will fulfill
its objective of significantly increasing cashew production and improving the
incomes of the farmers.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be covered
by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are increasing.
Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under contract and
work is progressing satisfactorily. The link between university research
and project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in
the early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034  Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The recent significant improvement in the staffing situation of the
Department of Sericulture should bolster the previously curtailed extension
program and should lead to increased bivoltine silk production which is a
major project objective hitherto not being achieved. All other project
components are progressing satisfactorily, especially the industrial com-
ponent where spun silk mill and silk filature are expected to be operaticinal
within 9-12 months.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The recent change in management of Jammu and Kashmir Horticultural
Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation is expected to recoup implemen-
tation progress lost in the last 12 months, and about 60% of project
facilities could be operational for the 1983 harvest.  Training programs and
research activities are now well behind schedule.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178 West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 24 of 26
Cr. No. 1286 Jammu-Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project; US$33
million credit of September 7, 1982; Effective Date:
December 7, 1982; Closing Date:  March 31, 1988
Physical progress under Credit 925 is satisfactory, except in the
Eastern Region of the State, where greater population density, lower per
capita income and fragmented farm size have been disincentives to the plant-
ing programs. Remedial measures designed to address these problems, inciud-
ing free distribution of seedlings and a planned land consolidation program,
are under consideration by the project authorities.
Credit 961 is proceeding well.  In response to rising prices for
poles and pulpwood, the project has been adopted enthusiastically by the
local residents. The current rate of planting is more than five times that
which existed before the project. Project management is good, with cost
control, audit, disbursement and procurement activities in line with
appraisal report schedules. If the present momentum is maintained, it may be
possible to resolve the rural fuelwood crisis in Gujarat within a decade.
Implementation of the West Bengal Project is satisfactory. The
overall physical targets of the project have been exceeded. The building
program is progressing well and ahead of schedule. Attention now needs to
focus on the recruitment and training of forestry extension workers, who are
becoming urgently needed as tree plantings increase and project activities
accelerate.
Credit 1286, which became effective in December 1982, is designed to
increase suppies of fuelwood and secondary products through the establishment
of 94,000 ha of a new tree plantations, the rehabilitation of 17,000 ha of
degraded forests, and the strengthening of research, training and forestry
extension services in Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir. Both States have made a
good start in implementing the first season-s plantation program, and
procurement of vehicles and equipment is underway.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The recent improvement in project execution continues, and project
activities are well coordinated. Progress on the main Dholbaha Dam is satis-
factory, and the afforestation and soil conservation components are on
schedule. Feasibility reports for ten watersheds have been competed, five
of which have been reviewed and approved by the Bank. There are expected to
be cost savings from the irrigation and flood control components of the
project, as a result of which the Bank is now reviewing the overall project
design and concept and the possibility of expanding the project scope.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW)          million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 25 of 26
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
Ju-ne 19,1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the harbor works are now proceeding well following the
finalization of a contractual dispute in September 1982. These harbor works
and shore facilities are expected to be completed within the next year. The
village roads and water supply components have been largely completed.
However, the credit component is considerably behind schedule as a result of
the weak financial position of the Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative
Association (GFCCA) and loan recovery problems of the participating banks.
Recommendations for improvement of GFCCA are currently under review by the
Government of Gujarat.
In Andhra Pradesh, one of three fishing harbors being constructed
under the project has been operation for nearly one year, and the remaining
two are scheduled to be completed by mid-1983 and early 1984. The financing
of mechanized fishing vessels remains at a standstill due to loan recovery
problems of the participating banks. NABARD is in the process of discussing
with the banks ways to rectify this situation. Due to an expansion of
private sector investment in seafood processing plants, the Government has
decided to delete one of the two processing plants from the project and
reduce the scope of the second one.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Project implementation is generally satisfactory. Construction of
the fish hatcheries in all five project States has commenced, and the first
hatcheries are expected to begin limited operations by June 1983. All 58
Fish Farmer Development Agencies are fully functional and, as project
activities accelerate, are placing necessary extension agents in the field.
Progress of the pond improvement schemes has slowed considerably due to
difficulties with loan sanctioning by the participating banks. Through a
more active involvement in the loan approval process, NABARD is taking steps
to correct this situation.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. Marked improvement
has occurred in several components especially construction, now that cement
is being allocated to the project on a priority basis. As a consequence,
disbursements are accelerating. The Director of the Population Centre in
Uttar Pradesh has been appointed and the training program is well underway.



ANNEX II
Page 26 of 26
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
The project is fully operational in Madurai District, with all nutri-
tion and health workers in place. Evaluation data show a significant decline
in malnourishment in the project area and the participation rate for those
people eligible for project benefits is over 90%. Civil works are a few
months behind schedule, but the Government of Tamil Nadu has intensified its
supervision work which is expected to speed up completion of the health
subcenters and training facilities. Preparations are well advanced for the
planned expansion of the project into two more Districts in the State in
1983.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project
About six months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Maharashtra with assistance from
Bank Group staff and consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
April and June 1982, respectively.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1983
Section II:    Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  GOM would ensure timely training .  WALMI of all
engineering staff required to work on the design and
upgrading of field channels and minors (para 49).
(b) GOM would adequately operate and maintain the irriga-
tion and drainage network (except for field channels)



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
in accordance with sound engineering principles and
provide sufficient funds to carry out such operation
and maintenance (para 56).
(c) GOM would prepare and implement detailed water alloca-
tion plans for each distributary, minor and chak for
each season (para 60).
(d)  GOM would strengthen quality control of survey, plair
ning, design and construction and O&M activities
(para 61).
(e) GOM would take all necessary action to ensure adequate
collection of water charges In the project area
(para 68).
(g) GOM would introduce an appropriate system of water
charges in the chaks two years after operation
(para 69).



I



-  -  -  -                                                                                                                                               ^1 ARO   - -----7056
Jr s_. / t 2>  M    A    D    H   Y    A  P    R   A    D    E    S    H
c, U   JA,                                                                                                                        AtR AS                                       Ar H
ls   _ -    \   _              ;2-S~~7    \   sq ~~J_4>_  *\\                    4Ac r                                                             Ncg
K. ;.
A',             4                              I             1'                                                                           cc~~~~~~~~~~~~ ND    
Jc   /               ..,, \       "IA '   f- >Z                               "0. (                             1b  
A                                        A                                           Y elt    J rZ~ M ar otv  3    ~+ >>MAHARASHTRA  WATER
jj   r   > ts;  ~9>s X    t  J  1  >  s, s<>S? vk  sSUTILIZATION                                                 PROJECT
,    t   9   t   >   'r                                               ~~~~~~~~~~PR03ECT  LOCATION                                            aSrs     v
ROng Cl _  .~ C                                                                                                                            #c (;E       r  SSAPI\C   r;Reenoe^,
- A \WE  - K ;s.OA PrS
b'   ~~                      ~       ~~                     4      V 7                                                                   .C.-A'-An-A  -A5
/                                >A ,egA A  ,f                                       4loN    E sc   n  A     u   d    v    2    K   Ijr
7~~~~~                              ~~ MIE O,                      7 2'0d  l                            fRdA_S.7Mh @
A                   NI                                                                                       yNo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
AM,                                                                                  -cA--A-A'-d  IIR-



