Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4349-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
May 20, 1983
South Asia Project Department
Irrigation II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00       =      Rupees (Rs) 9.50 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                              =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                           =   2.47 acres (ac)
I million cubic meters (Mm3)             =   810 acre3feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC)   =   28.32 Mm
1 cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec)=   0.028 cubic meters per second (m3/s)
1 ton                                    =   1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 ton                                    =   2,205 pounds (lb)
I/  The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to cnange.  Conversions of
cost estimates in this report have been made at US$ 1.00 to Rs 9.5,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the disbursement
period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AA      -    Agricultural Assistant (or Village Level Worker)
AD      -    Agriculture Department
AE      -    Assistant Engineer
AO      -    Agricultural Officer
ARDC    -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
BC      -    Black Cotton
CAC     -    Canal Advisory Committee
CAD     -    Command Area Development
CADA    -    Command Area Development Authority
CCA     -    Cultivable Command Area
CI      -    Canal Inspector
DSCS    -    District Soil Conservation Service
EE      -    Executive Engineer
ERR     -    Economic Rate of Return
GES     -    Guaranteed Employment Scheme
GOI     -    Government of India
GOM     -    Government of Maharashtra
J{YV     -    High Yielding Varieties
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
ID      -    Irrigation Department
JE      -    Junior Engineer
LDA     -    Land Development Assistant
M       -    Million
MIP I   -    (first) Maharashtra Irrigation Project
MIP II  -    Maharashtra Irrigation II Project
MLDC    -    Maharashtra Land Development Corporation
MWUP    -    Maharashtra Water Utilization Project
NABARD  -    National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
OC      -    Outlet Committee
ODSD    -    On-Farm Development Structures Division
OER     -    Official Exchange Rate
O&M     -    Operation and Maintenance
PWD     -    Public Works Department
RWS     -    Rotational Water Supply
SCS     -    Soil Conservation Service
SE      -    Superintending Engineer
SMS     -    Subject Matter Specialist
T&V     -    Training and Visit (System of Agricultural Extension)
TcD     -    Trial-cum-Demonstration
VEW     -    Village Extension Worker
WALMI   -    Water and Land Management Institute
WMRD    -    Water Management Research Division
WUC     -    Water Utilization Committee
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






GLOSSARY
Chak                        -   Block or irrigation service area below the
Government outlet.
Kharif                      -   Wet Season (June to October)
Rabi                        -   Winter Season (November to March)
Taluk                       -   Sub-division of a district
Field irrigation channel   -   Irrigation channel from the Government outlet
to individual farms
Minor                       -   Irrigation canal with capacity less than
0.7 m3/s and serving the chaks
Zilla Parishad              -   District Level Authority
Panchayat                   -   Village Council
Distributary                -   Irrigation canal with capacity more than
0.7 m3/s
Field drainage channel      -   Drainage channel within the chak serving the
individual farms.
Murrum                      -   Granular material derived from eroded basalt
formations.
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Maharashtra and Agencies   -   April 1 - March 31
NABARD, Cooperatives                      -   July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks                          -   January 1 - December 31






INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND   ..................................................                         1
Agriculture and Irrigation in India ......................                         1
Agriculture in Maharashtra   ..............................                        2
Irrigation in Maharashtra   ...............................                       3
Previous Bank Group Assistance in Irrigation ..............                       4
Project Formulation   .....................................                       7
II. THE PROJECT AREAS   ...........................................                          8
General   .................................................                       8
Climate,  Topography and Soils   ...........................                       8
Population and Land Ownership   ...........................                       9
Irrigation Development   ..................................                      10
Cropping Patterns  and Yields   ............................                     12
Farmers' Support Services   ...............................                      12
III. THE PROJECT   ................................................                        14
Project Scope and Objectives ..............................                      14
Infrastructure and Equipment   ............................                      15
Survey,  Design and Construction Standards   ....                  ...........   17
Land Shaping   ............................................                      17
Adaptive Agricultural Research and Extension   .                   ...........   18
Improved System Operations   ..............................                      19
Training   ...........           .....................................           20
Water Supply and Demand   .................................                      22
Implementation Schedule   .................................                      22
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Mission which visited India in
November/December 1982, and comprised of: Messrs. W.A. van Tuijl, P. Dax and
A. Seager (Bank), Y. Pret and R.K. Sabherwal (Bank, New Delhi Office,
part-time), and Dr. Karmeli (Consultant, part-time). Mr. M. Herman assisted
with the economic analysis. The word processing was done by Mrs. P. Waiter.



-ii-
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS   ........                                                      ..........          23
Financing            ...............................................                                                 24
Procurement              .............................................                                               24
Disbursements               ...........................................                                              25
Accounts   and  Audits                  .....................................                                        26
V.     ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT                          ............................. ...                                     26
General          .................................................                                                   26
Command Area Development  (CAD) Organization   ....                                                .........        26
Design  and  Construction                      .................................                                     27
Quality  Control   and  Commissioning                             .......................                            28
Operation  and  Maintenance                        ...............................                                   28
Engineering Staff and Training ............................    29
Land   Shaping   .............................................                                                       29
Farmers  Organizations                     ...................................                                       30
Engineering Research, Monitoring and Evaluation ....                                                  ......    31
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT IMPACT AND
COST  RECOVERY              ..............................................                                                33
Agricultural   Production   and  Yields                             ......................                           33
Farm  Incomes             ............................................                                               34
Project   Impact              ..........................................                                             35
Cost  Recovery              ...........................................                                              36
Watercharge Collection Performance ........................   37
VII.       ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS,   RISK  AND  SENSITIVITY                                  ...................                        38
General          .................................................                                                   38
Prices   and  Economic  Analysis                        ............................                                 38
Sensitivity   and  Risk                  ....................................                                       39
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ........ ..                                                    ...........           40



-i ii-
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1   Supporting Tables and Charts
T-1  Results from Pilot and Farmers Project
T-2  Climatic Data
T-3  Size Distribution of Holdings in the Project Areas
T-4  Present and Expected Land and Stored Water Utilization:Jayakwadi
T-5  Present and Expected Land and Stored Water Utilization:Purna
T-6  Present and Expected Land and Stored Water Utilization:Girna
T-7  Present and Expected Land and Stored Water Utilization:Mula
T-8  Present and Expected Land and Stored Water Utilization:
Khadakwasla
T-9  Water Balance and Irrigable Areas with the Project
T-10 Present and Future Irrigated Areas and Cropping Intensities
in the Project Areas
T-11 Present and Expected Future Yields
T-12 Details of Present and Planned Systems Operations
T-13-23 Cost Estimates
T-24 Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
T-25 Proposed Credit Allocation
T-26 Quality Control
T-27 Required Training at WALMI and Creation of Posts
T-28 Staff Requirements for Implementation
T-29 Agricultural Production
T-30 Crop Budgets and Typical Farm Budget
T-31 Price Estimates and Forecasts
T-32 Costs and Benefits Streams for Economic Analysis
CHARTS
C-1       Typical CADA Organization at State and Regional Level
C-2       Typical CADA Organization at Project Level
C-3       Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 2           Criteria for Survey, Planning, Design and Construction of
Minors and Field Channels
ANNEX 3            Scope of Work for Water Management Research Division and
On-Farm Development Structures Division



-iv-
ANNEX 4            Adaptive Research
ANNEX 5            Training Centers and Training
ANNEX 6            Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAPS
IBRD 17058     Project Location
IBRD 16997     Jayakwadi and Purna Schemes
IBRD 16996     Girna Scheme
IBRD 16995     Mula Scheme
IBRD 17057     Khadakwasla Scheme



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Agriculture and Irrigation in India
1.01      India has a population of about 684 M which is growing at an annual
rate of about 2.1%. Since 1960, per capita income grew at an annual rate of
1.2% and reached US$240 in 1980. Although the average per capita income has
increased and access to public services has improved, there has been, in
general, little change in the incomes of the urban and rural poor, who com-
prise about 50% of the total population. Accordingly, GOI's development
plans give priority to alleviating poverty, increasing production and
incomes, and creating productive employment, especially in rural areas.
1.02      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy; it con-
tributes about 40% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and
provides the base for about 45% of India's exports. GOI has devoted con-
siderable resources to agricultural development, especially irrigation.
1.03      Irrigation development had high priority since the beginning of the
planning era in 1950. Some 57 M ha were developed by 1980/81, of which about
58% receive water from surface sources and 42% from groundwater. In recent
years, the irrigated area has been expanding by about 2-3 M ha annually. It
is estimated that increased production resulting from investment in irriga-
tion has accounted for at least three-quarters of agricultural growth since
1960. Presently, irrigated agriculture accounts for about 60% of all
agricultural output in India. However, for a number of reasons, production
levels in much of the irrigated area, especially the area irrigated from
surface sources, are considerably lower than the potential.
1.04      At Independence, Indian irrigation systems commanded some 23 M ha.
Many were planned to provide famine protection, had limited or no storage and
did not have sufficient water control structures. Water supply was largely
unreliable. Irrigation projects built in the early 1960s typically involved
a storage or diversion dlam and only the main conveyance system, leaving to
the farmers the construction of the distribution system from canal outlets to
individual fields. As some of these outlets served areas in excess of 100,
or even 200 ha, conveyance of water to the farmgate required construction of
minor channel networks that were often several kilometers long. In most
projects, farmers were unable to finance or organize construction of the
field channels without outside assistance, which was rarely available. This
resulted in considerable delays in utilizing water from the irrigation
potential created.
1.05      The concept of a Command Area Development Authority (CADA) evolved
in the early 1970s. The main objectives of CADA were to coordinate the
activities of the State Irrigation and Agriculture Departments, to assist
farmers in obtaining institutional credit for the construction of field



-2-
channels, and for land development. Achievements have been below expecta-
tions: coordination was not entirely effective, and the attempt to finance
on-farm development through institutional credit (generally refinanced
through the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation, or ARDC 1/)
was generally not successful because farmers had no confidence in the
reliability of water supply and were therefore reluctant to undertake loan
repayment obligations. Also, no facility or framework for effective group
action had been developed in the irrigation sector to implement such
projects.  This experience indicates that:  (a) more emphasis is required on
improving the efficiency and reliability of the conveyance system from the
water source to the irrigation outlets; (b) Government should assume greater
responsibility for conveying water to an outlet closer to the farmgate, to
facilitate construction of watercourses conveying water to each individual
field; and (c) Government should promote the development of effective farmer
involvement by providing the necessary mechanism, framework and support for
efficient group action and cooperation among irrigators. There are clear
indications that when the farmers are confident that thiey will receive a
reliable water supply, they will take steps to make full use of the water
supplied.  These concepts have been used in the design of the proposed
project.
Agriculture in Maharasthra
1.06    Maharasthra covers an area of 30.8 M ha and has a population of
62.7 M (1981). Although, by Indian standards, the State is highly urbanized
and industrialized, two-thirds of the labor force is employed in agriculture.
Since the early 1960's agricultural growth has been sluggish (0.7% p.a.).
Manufacturing has expanded more rapidly (4.8% p.a.) but the fastest-growing
industrial activities (chemicals, engineering, etc.) have been capi-
tal-intensive. Much of the industrial growth and related economic activities
have been concentrated in Bombay and Pune--leading to urban congestion and
widening regional income disparities. Thus, GOM views increased farm prodluc-
tivity as a prerequisite to a more rapid and balanced overall economic
development.
1.07    Agriculture contributes 30-35% to the State's income and employs some
62% of the landless labor force. About 43% of the agricultural labor force
is landless. 18.2 M ha (59% of the area) is under cultivation and there is
little scope for increasing the net sown area. The cropping intensity is
among the lowest in India (110%) and cannot be increased substantially
1/ ARDC ceased to exist as of July 12, 1982. The refinance functions and
obligations of ARDC were assumed by the National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (NABARD), a GOI undertaking which was formally con-
stituted on the above date.



-3-
without irrigation. The average farm size is 3.7 ha, with significant varia-
tions from district to district. About 92% of the holdings are
owner-occupied, 5% are partly owned and partly rented and 3% are wholly
rented. Even in a normal year, about 50% of the rural population has incomes
below the poverty line (US$ 90). Cereals (sorghum, millets, paddy, wheat and
pulses) account for about 60% of the gross cropped area. Yields are low and
the State is deficient in food-grains. The rate of agricultural growth has
picked up in the first half of the seventies, following a succession of
favorable monsoons, and in response to GOM's agricultural development
programs. In particular, high yielding varieties of kharif sorghum, paddy
and wheat have gained wide acceptance. Other dynamic aspects of agricultural
performance have been the growth of irrigated sugarcane and horticultural
crops and the rapid increase in fertilizer consumption, at an annual rate of
about 8%. However, foodcrop production did not show a discernible growth in
the five year period 1976/77 to 1980/81.
1.08    Present irrigation standards reflect the main objective of past
Government irrigation policy: to provide drought protection over extensive
areas planted to foodgrains. Improved, high-yielding crop varieties, the
spread of modern agricultural practices and the introduction of more complex
and diversified cropping patterns are putting new demands on irrigation
systems. Better irrigation design and operation standards have become neces-
sary to meet the need for more reliable water supplies.
Irrigation in Maharashtra
1.09    The water resources potential of MaharashLra is limited by the
seasonality of the major rivers, and by topography. Out of a gross cropped
area of 20.0 M ha, only 2.5 M ha is now irrigated, of which 1.1 M ha is from
wells. This amounts to 12.5% of the gross cropped area, less than half the
national average. The present irrigation potential is estimated at 6.3 M ha.
Assuming improvements in irrigation efficiencies, the ultimate potential
could be as high as 8.9 M ha, including 2.7 M ha from groundwater sources 1/.
In turn, this calls for distribution systems reaching the farm outlets, for
improved operation of conveyance systems and for the systematic introduction
of rotational water supply to provide equitable access to water for farmers
in the command areas.
1.10    Groundwater resources are substantial, but easy opportunities for
well development have already been utilized. At Independence, some 0.5 M ha
was irrigated from wells. Groundwater development increased rapidly (4.2%
p.a.) during the 1950's. During the 1960s and early 1970s the well-irrigated
area increased further, partly because of replacement of traditional
1/ This would require increases in irrigation efficiencies from the present
average 25-30% to about 50%.



-4-
animal-operated water lifts by electric and diesel pumps. Individual and
cooperative river lift irrigation schemes have also spread. These invest-
ments--largely carried out by the private sector--have been a major engine of
agricultural growth. IDA has contributed to these developments through
financing rural electrification and agricultural credit projects 1/.
1.11    Between Independence and the late seventies GOM has invested the
equivalent of US$1.3 billion in major and medium surface irrigation schemes,
adding 870,000 ha to the irrigation potential of the State. This implies a
cost of US$1,500 per ha, a reasonable level by international standards, but
40% higher than the all-India average. Seasonality of river flows, lack of
major storage possibilities, difficult soil conditions and the GOM policy of
spreading irrigation benefits over wide areas helps explain the relatively
high costs. Returns on this capital could be substantially enhanced by
correcting deficiencies in planning, design, construction and operating
standards.
Previous Bank Group Assistance in Irrigation
1.12    IDA's first credit for irrigation in Maharashtra for the Purna
Irrigation Project (Credit 23-IN for US$ 13 M), was approved in July 1962.
The main works included a dam at Yeldari, a re-regulating reservoir at Sid-
heshwar, about 86 kms of main canal and 400 kms of distributaries, to
irrigate some 61,000 ha. This scheme was completed in the early 1970s. 2/
However, agricultural production in the project area increased only slowly
due to, inter alia, an inadequately constructed irrigation conveyance systema,
lack of coordinated crop and water planning, and drainage deficiencies.
1.13    A US$70 M credit (Credit 736-IN) was approved in October 1977 for the
(first) Maharashtra Irrigation Project (MIP I) which included completion of
on-going construction of irrigation infrastructure to serve 95,000 ha in the
Jayakwadi Scheme, land shaping and field channels over 45,000 ha, as well
as rehabilitation of the irrigation distribution system and drainage con-
struction in the Purna Scheme over 30,000 ha. Approximately 84% of this
credit has been disbursed; the scheme is scheduled for compLetion by 1984.
The main problem with the project has been the initial poor quality of con-
struction. However, the Irrigation Department has since improved its techni-
cal standards and is making the necessary repairs.
1.14    IDA approved in October 1979 a US$210 M credit (Credit 954-IN) for
the Maharashtra Irrigation II Project (MIP II). This credit finances a five
1/ Credits 911-IN, 572-IN, 540-IN, 715-IN and 293-IN.
2/ Bank's Operations Evaluations Department had not yet been set up, so
Project Performance Audit was not undertaken.



year time slice of a composite project consisting of five new irrigatior.
schemes (Upper Wardha, Upper Penganga, Kukadi, Krishna and Warna), and
priority work in two existing schemes, Mula and Girna, all located in the
drought-prone Deccan plateau.l/ MIP II would bring some 147,000 ha of land
under irrigation. The total area commanded by the six new schemes would
ultimately comprise about 620,000 ha. The project aims to increase water
use efficiency and to guarantee a timely and reliable water supply at the
farm outlet. For the six new projects, this is proposed to be achieved
through better planning criteria, improved design standards (including addi-
tional cross regulators and canal lining down to the 8 ha units), and better
construction standards and operational procedures, including rotational water
supply. Improvement works are still on-going in the Girna and Mula schemes
and mainly aim at the removal of major bottlenecks in the existing conveyance
system, selective lining and additional water control structures. Two spe-
cial features of the MIP II will be highlighted as they are closely related
to the proposed project (i) the Pilot and Farmers Project and (ii) the Water
and Land Management Institute (WALMI).
1.15    Pilot and Farmers Project.  The MIP II includes a component for pilot
water management, to identify appropriate conveyance technologies for the
minor water distribution system. Pilot schemes were started in 1979; by the
end of 1982 approximately 4,000 ha had been furnished with fully lined minores
and field channels to the individual farms. As this type of development was
found to be rather expensive (Rs 4,000 per ha) another type of pilot effort
was initiated in 1980, which became known as the "Farmers Project". It
differed mainly in the extent of lining provided which was reduced to 10-15%
of total length, and costs to about Rs 2,000 per ha. By the end of Decem-
ber 1982 about 6,000 ha had been completed under the Farmers Project, mostly
in the Jayakwadi Scheme, in areas that had not been included in MIP I
(para 1.13). In these areas the utilization of irrigation water had been
very low mainly due to lack of proper terminal irrigation facilities. The
works carried out consisted of reshaping and, where necessary, extending
existing minors and field channels; reducing the size of tertiary units
(chaks) sometimes commanding more than 100 ha, to more manageable 20-25 ha
units; constructing a measuring device at the head of the chak; selective
lining of field channels and minors; construction of additicnal control
structures such as drops, turnouts etc.; construction of service roads along
minors; and the introduction of better system operation and irrigation
scheduling. The impact of the Pilot and Farmers Project on the agricultural
production has been quite remarkable (Annex 1, T-1).
1.16    Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI).  Actual utilization of
the irrigation potential, which has been created since Independence
1/ One additional new scheme, Bhima, also appraised by IDA, is being
financed by IFAD.



-6-
(para 1.11), has not been up to expectations, mainly because of inadequate
development of the minor canal commands and lack of good canal system manage-
ment. An important finding of the MIP II preparation was that few of CADA's
personnel had the necessary specialized skills in water management and land
development. To overcome this bottleneck, it was agreed that under MIP II
GOM would train the irrigation engineers within CADA organizations in these
subjects, and they would then gradually take over management of all public-
sector major and medium irrigation projects in the State. It was agreed
that, as a first step in the long-term program, GOM would commence vocational
training in water management and land development. For this purpose IDA
agreed to finance the establishment and operating costs (up to October 1984)
of WALMI, involving IDA financing of US$3.8 M out of an estimated total of
US$5.7 M.
1.17    WALMI has a 65 ha campus near Aurargabad.  It is being provided with
appropriate training facilities, accommodation for the trainees, a library, a
40 ha demonstration farm and computer facilities.  The buildings have been
completed to the extent that the training programs can proceed on schedule.
The 20-man teaching cadre of the faculty is now at full strength.  The Direc-
tor of the Institute is a Chief Engineer on deputation from the Irrigation
Department (ID). There are three faculties: agriculture, engineering and
science. The WALMI conducts four different types of courses:
(a) There is a course each year for degree holders, lasting 12
months, and another for diploma holders, lasting 10 months.
Plant science, soil science, soil-water-plant relationships,
irrigation engineering, land development, drainage engineering,
hydraulics, statistics, social science, agricultural extension,
economics and computer programming are taught. A special
feature of the course is that it includes a four-month practical
exercise when the trainee does actual survey, planning and design
work. By May 1983, 108 Junior Engineers (JEs) will have been
trained.
(b) Four short-term courses of eight weeks duration are being conducted
each year for senior officers like Assistant Engineers (AEs) and
Executive Engineers (EEs). The course imparts a working knowledge
of various aspects of irrigated agriculture. One of the four
courses is specially designed for agricultural officers. So far
200 officers have been trained.
(c) Special courses of about 1-2 weeks are conducted on special
subjects for senior officers; Superintending Engineers (SEs),
CADA Administrators and EEs. Also, a special eight-week course
has been conducted for 30 JEs working on the Farmers Project.
(d) Trainers courses are planned for the trainers of Canal
Inspectors (CIs), Agricultural Assistants (AAs), etc.



-7-
Project Formulation
1.18    The project is the direct result of GOM's wish to extend the success-
ful Farmers Project (para 1.15) to other areas where the absence of properly
designed and constructed irrigation facilities (particularly below the minor
outlet) has proven to be a major constraint in irrigation development and has
led to under-utilization of irrigation water. The emphasis is therefore on
improving the irrigation system within the command of the minor. These
improvements would be undertaken according to design criteria that have
evoled from experience gained in the Farmers Project. Some other necessary
improvements in the infrastructure would also be included, such as improve-
ments to distributaries, drainage, and for better operation, the provision
of canal service roads. An important aspect of the project is that, to
ensure quality of design and construction, all engineers working on the
project would be WALMI trained.
1.19    In addition to the construction of infrastructure, the project would
include a number of other features which aim to induce the farmers to make
more intensive use of the available water supply: (i) improved system opera-
tions, to provide a more reliable water supply to chak outlets and individual
farms (including training of canal operating staff); (ii) the setting-up of
farmers organizations for a more systematic involvement of farmers in the
design of the project and its subsequent operation and maintenance, and to
improve communication between project management and farmers; (iii) an adap-
tive research program aimed at finding appropriate recommendations for
suitable on-farm irrigation practices, cropping sequences and farming sys-
tems, and input levels suited to the farmers financial resources; (iv) promo-
tion of land shaping through the farmers own efforts, with assistance from
staff of the Maharashtra Land Development Corporation (MLDC); (v) farmer
training in irrigated agriculture, and; (vi) an attitude survey to monitor
farmers reaction to, and utilization of, the improved irrigation system.
1.20    The size of the project (about 95,000 ha to be implemented in five
years) was determined by the output of trained engineering staff from WALMI
to undertake the design and implementation of the irrigation facilities,
without hampering on-going efforts in the MIP I and MIP II.
1.21    Location of project areas within the scheme command areas were deter-
mined (i) to ensure adequate water supply from major conveyance channels,
(ii) to minimize overlap with other IDA financed activities, and (iii) to
select areas with lower than average water utilization rates.
1.22    The project is the outcome of the first large scale venture in India
for carrying out a full well-tried (on 10,000 ha) package of closely linked
water management improvements (organizational, manpower training, upgrading
commissioning of the minor distribution network, the spread of RWS) aimed
specifically at more rapid utilization of existing irrigation systems. It is



-8-
intended to pioneer long overdue initiatives, in a program of mutually sup-
portive components, to make better use of existing irrigation facilities.
The project would be replicable in most other existing irrigation schemes
in the State.
II. THE PROJECT AREAS
General
2.01    The project areas, totalling about 95,000 ha, are located in five
existing irrigation schemes commanding more than 0.5 M ha: the Jayakwadi,
Purna, Mula, Girna and Khadakwasla Schemes. The schemes are located on the
drought-prone Deccan plateau, in the central and eastern parts of Maharashtra
(Map 17058). They were started in the 1960s to overcome agricultural produc-
tion constraints brought about by the low and uncertain rainfall.
2.02    The scheme areas are served by main road and rail links, which are
part of the Statewide network and the all-India system. The main roads link
the project areas to the industrial and commercial centers of Bombay, Pune,
Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nasik, and to Delhi, Calcutta, Hyderabad and Ban-
galore, beyond the State bondaries. Market centers are promoted under an
ongoing GOM program to meet expected levels of marketable surplus, resulting
from planned irrigation development. Electric power is available in all the
scheme areas, and GOM has an ongoing program of rural electrification.
Domestic water supplies are largely restricted to urban areas. Public health
services are backed by a network of health centers and hospitals. Public
administration is structured around the elective district level authority
(Zilla Parishad) and the village council (Panchayat).
Climate, Topography and Soils
2.03    Climate.  The plateau east of the north-south mountain range (the
Ghats) is about 500-700m above sea level, slopes eastward and is sheltered
from maritime influences by the Ghats. This gives rise to a moderate winter
(November-March), the rabi, a dry hot season (April-June), and monsoon rains
(July-October), the kharif. Temperature (Annex 1, T-2), with few exceptions,
does not impose any constraint on continuous cropping. The exceptions are
maize, which may suffer from pollen sterility in the dry hot season; wheat,
which requires cool weather for tillering and ear initiation and therefore
yields well only when winters are exceptionally cool; gram (chickpea), which
only flowers when daylight hours are diminishing and is therefore always a
winter crop. All other major crops - sorghum, cotton, millet, sugarcane,
bananas - thrive throughout the year, constrained only by availability of
water, be it rainfall or irrigation.



-9-
2.04    Past the eastern foothills of the Ghats rainfall increases from west
to east. The rainfall zones with range of rainfall, and location of the
project areas, is as follows:
Rainfall Zone      Rainfall (mm)            Project Area
scarcity              600-750               Girna (part); Mula; Khadakwasla
assured               750-1000              Girna (part); Jayakwadi (part)
moderate             1000-1300              Jayakwadi (part); Purna
high                 over 1300
Since the rainy season is only 3-3 1/2 month long, irrigation is necessary
for the remainder of the year and even in the rainy season, when there may be
prolonged periods without precipitation.
2.05    Topography.  The plateau area is gently rolling anid generally not
deeply incised, except for the valleys of major rivers. Slopes are steep
enough to make basin irrigation a difiicult process and therefore land shap-
ing, adoption of more sophisticated border or furrow irrigation, and growing
crops on ridges or raised beds is necessary to attain potential yields. For
parts of the project areas rough landshaping had been carried out in the past
and would need further improvement. Also, natural drainage is not adequate
to deal with the at times intensive rainfall (100 mm in 24 hours).
2.06    Soils.  Black swelling heavy clay soils (locally called black cotton
(BC) soils) cover most of the project areas. In parts of the Mula project
area somewhat lighter soils can be found. The soils are all of basaltic
origin, formed in situ and therefore of varying depth. The major mineral is
a shrinking, self-mulching, montmorillitic clay which, when wet, tends to be
plastic, structureless and of low bearing capacity. The soils are difficult
to work during the rainy season and also difficult to irrigate. Therefore
traditional, non-irrigated agriculture relies heavily on cropping early in
the winter season, using residual soil moisture.
Population and Land Ownership
2.07    The total number of farm holdings in the project areas is estimated
between 20,000 and 25,000. The population which depends on agriculture as
their main source of income is estimated at around 200,000. The average size
of landholdings is relatively large by Indian standards: more than 60% of the
holdings are over 4 ha (except in Girna, where the proportion is only
35-40%). The proportion of holdings less than I ha is under 15% (except
Girna, where this proportion is 20%) (see Annex 1, T-3).
2.08    A decade ago the average farm size was still about 6.5 ha.  The
decrease in farm size reflects in part the sub-division of holdings as
population increases, and may also be a response to the Land Ceilings Act of



1971, which imposed limitations on the size of holding: (i) 7 ha for peren-
nially irrigated land; (ii) 11 ha for land with seasonally assured water
supply; (iii) 14 ha for irrigated land without assured water supply; (iv) 22
ha for unirrigated land.
Irrigation Development
2.09    Most of the main infrastructure in the scheme areas, such as dams and
reservoirs, main canals and branch channels, has been completed and, within
the project areas, also the minor irrigation networks. IDA is already
assisting the financing of irrigation works in the Jayakwadi, Purna, Girna
and Mula Schemes (paras 1.13 and 1.14). The Khadakwasla Scheme is the only
one in which IDA has not been involved before. Within this scheme, the
proposed project area (8,600 ha) is only a small portion of a much larger
development. The Mutha River, which supplies water to the Khadakwasla com-
mand area, is regulated by two storage dams. A third storage dam, the Varas-
gaon Dam is presently under construction and scheduled for completion by
1986. This additional storage facility would extend the present scheme from
41,210 ha to 101,600 ha.
2.10    The general condition of the main and branch canals that would convey
the required supplies to the project areas is satisfactory. Repairs are being
made to the lining of the two main canals in Jayakwadi. There were some
bottlenecks in the Girna and Mula branch canals but these are currently being
rectified under MIP II. For the Khadalkwasla project area water would be
supplied through the new Mutha right bank canal which is fully lined and
completed up to the Bhigwan Branch Canal (Map 17057).
2.11    Present water utilization in the project areas is :Low, particularly
in the kharif season. The Farmers Project demonstrated that the major con-
straints are deficiencies in the irrigation distribution system, espcially in
the minors and field channels, which makes good system operations virtually
impossible and results in an inadequate and unreliable water supply at the
farm level (para 1.15). Other constraints are (i) lack of farmers experience
in irrigating the difficult BC soils, (ii) absence of, or inadequate, land
shaping (para 2.05) and (iii) the fact that no suitable recommendations on
irrigation practices have yet been developed for the BC soils. The present
rate of water utilization in the project areas may be summarized as follows:



Command Areas
(ha)
MWUP           Irrigation Intensities (%) I/
Scheme Areas  Project Areas       Present 2/  Potential 3/
Jayakwadi         183,000        42,350              31         113
Purna              78,500        10,500              51          84
Girna              79,300        11,030              26          49
Mula              118,200        21,970              26          61
Khadakwasla       101,600         8,600               10         64
560,600        94,450
1/  for canal irrigation only; excludes groundwater (para 2.16)
2/ in project area
3/ at full development, assuming uniform water use in each scheme area.
(see also Annex 1, T-9).
2.12    The main problems with the minor irrigation and field channel network
are:
(a)  deficiencies in layout of the minors, resulting in chaks that are too
large to be handled by the number of farmers served; improper
alignment of field channels resulting in unirrigable areas; field
channels that are too long, creating problems for the farmers at the
tail end, and a field channel layout that does not serve all farms;
(b) deficiencies in canal cross sections (which may be either
insufficient, eroded, show excessive leakage or obstruct flow
because of excessive vegetationa);
(c)  improper canal bed slope, either too steep, causing erosion, or
too flat, causing siltation;
(d)  serious deficiencies in structures:  deterioration or collapse
(especially in BC soils), abseace of structures (particularly
water measuring devices) and improper location of structures.
2.13    Field drainage channels for draining the individual farms are lack-
ing, as are the link drains to connect the field drainage channels to the
major natural drainage system. The major drainage system also needs improve-
ment; mostly removal of weeds and local bottlenecks.
2.14    The distributaries in the project areas generally have insufficient
cross regulators; gates are missing, aad structures need repair or complete
replacement. The Purna Tail Distributary lacks service road bridges over



-1.2-
major drainage channels. Some canal sections have inadequate capacity
because of weed growth and siltation. On the distributaries in BC soils in
Mula and Khadakwasla many of the structures are broken beyond repair because
of inadequate foundation design.
2.15    Access along the canals is difficult.  Service roads are generally
poor, or have not been provided along the smaller canals. This makes proper
supervision and operation of the canal network impossible.
2.16    Except in Jayakwadi, groundwater is being pumped from dug wells which
tap the low yielding Deccan trap aquifers. It is mainly used for the
profitable sugarcane and banana crops. Groundwater is used more where canal
water is more intensively utilized, probably because such farmers can afford
to invest in wells. Statistics on the use of groundwater are inadequate. In
the Mula Scheme, however, they show that in the head reach 16% of the CCA (or
2,400 ha) is being irrigated from wells.
Cropping Patterns and Yields
2.17    The field crops are sorghum in both the rabi and kharif season, pearl
millet and pulses in kharif, short-stapled (desi) cotton in the kharif
long-stapled, usually hybrid, cotton, which either starts in the hot season
and finishes in the kharif or starts in the kharif and finishes in the rabi.
Groundnuts are grown either in the hot season or in the kharif; yields of the
former are usually higher. Other rabi crops are wheat and gram (chickpeas),
although wheat is at its ecological limit because of the usually warm weather
in December and January and the rapid rise of temperature in March,when the
wheat ripens. Other important crops are chillies and onions and, in some
areas, leaf and other vegetables, grown more or less continuously on canal
or well water. The presenat somewhat rigid water allocation system does not
allow canal water to be used in well irrigated areas. In Mula and Khadak-
wasla this system is changing and the conjunctive use of canal and well water
is gaining in importance. Annex 1, T-4 to T-8 show the cropping pattern on
the canal irrigated areas; T-ll, the yields.
Farmers Support Services
2.18    Agricultural Extension.  Agricuiltural Extension in the State is being
organized to the "T&V" (Training and Visit) system under the IDA-support-ed
Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1135-IN). Staff are being
built up to provide one Agricultural Assistant (AA) (the term used for Vil-
lage Extension Workers in Maharashtra) for every 6-800 farm families.  A more
recent development is to assign AA-s eLther to irrigated or non-irrigated
areas, to enable them, and, as far as 13ossible also their supervisors, to
focus either on the problems of irrigated or non-irrigated agriculture. This
is a most welcome development which, if properly supported with well-designed
adaptive research, will go a long way rowards providing relevant advice to
irrigating farmers.



-13-
2.19    Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research, which has a long and
distinguished history in the State, is currently supported by IDA under the
National Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 855-IN). The two lead univer-
sities for the project areas are the Rahuri (for Mula, Girna, Khadakwasla)
and Parbhani University (for Jayakwadi, Purna). Assisted to varying degrees
by the Universities, the CADA's and DA are operating Trial-cum-Demonstration
(TcD) Farms and Taluka Seed Farms. The TcD Farms develop and demonstrate
irrigated farming technology; the Seed Farms produce stock seed for multiply-
ing into certified seed, and planting material for producing hybrid seed.
The Seed Farms also demonstrate irrigated farming practices. Recently
attempts have been made to initiate adaptive research on the demonstration
and seed farms but, to date, this program has not been fully developed.
2.20    Agricultural Inputs.  (a) Fertilizers are marketed by the private as
well as the public sector. The business is well organized and has been
functioning effectively for several years. Adequate competition between
private traders, and between the public (Fertilizer Corporation of India) and
private sector ensures prompt service to farmers and prevents unauthorized
prices being charged. Legislation ensures fertilizer quality and truth in
labelling. (b) Pesticides are manufactured and formulated locally and are
sold principally by the private sector. The range and quantity is adequate;
quality and shelflife notification are controlled by legislation. A product
technical service is available from most of the larger distributors, the
manufacturers  and formulators  representatives, and the extension service.
(c)  Seeds are produced and marketed by the Maharashtra Seed Corporation and
by private growers and merchants.  Much of the sorghum and an increasing
amount of the pearl millet are hybrids; practically all the long-stapled
cotton is the well known and well liked H-4 hybrid. Seeds of the non-hybrid
crops (wheat, pulses) are produced and tested according to legislation
modelled on the International Seed Testing Association standards and has been
supported by the Bank Grouip (Ln. 1273-IN).  (d)  Credit.  M4aharashtra has one
of the better developed credit systems in India. Farmers in general have
adequate access to institutional credit. Credit is provided through Land
Development Banks, commercial banks and cooperative banks. Refinancing of
long-term credit was provided by ARDC, (assisted by IDA) and will continue to
be provided by NABARD, which has replaced ARDC. Loan recovery performance of
ARDC-refinanced loans, though inadequat:e in the recent past, has improved
substantially during the last year and GOM is exerting a strong effort fur-
ther to enhance recoveries.  Loan recovery rates of short-term production
credit (60-70%) are also showing an improving trend in the project areas.
2.21    Marketing, Storage Processing and Prices.  The project area is ade-
quately served by marketing, storage, distribution and prinary processing
facilities. Prices are competitive. Government-supported procurement prices
help even out disruptive price fluctuations and are chiefly effective after
harvest when prices tend to be depressed.



-14-
III. THE PROJECT
Project Scope and Objectives
3.01    The project would upgrade, over a five-year period, the irrigation
distribution network of selected areas on an aggregate total of 94,450 ha, in
five existing irrigation schemes:
Jayakwadi                  42,350 ha
Purna                      10,500
Mula                       21,970
Girna                      11,030
Khadakwasla                 8,600
Total                  94,450 ha
3.02    The main objective would be to increase the effective utilization of
available irrigation water supplies, thereby to increase agricultural produc-
tion and farm incomes, and promote rural development. This would be achieved
through a number of measures of which the most important would be the upgrad-
ing of the irrigation distribution network, with emphasis on the minors and
field channels, to ensure a reliable water supply at the farm level. To
remove other existing constraints, the following complementary activities
would be undertaken: (i) improving surface drainage and providing access
along canals, (ii) improving system operations, (iii) promotion of land
shaping, (iv) identification of suitabLe on-farm irrigation practices and
viable cropping systems through adaptive research, and; (v) the training of
farmers, canal inspectors, and land development assistants.l/
3.03    The main components of the project would be:
(a)  Upgrading of the existing irrigation and drainage systems (with
emphasis on minors and field channels) and construction of canal
surface roads;
(b) construction of buildings for engineering staff and training
centers;
(c) procurement of equipment for construction, operation and
maintenance, survey, landshaping, training and research;
(d) improving the operation of the irrigation distribution systems;
1/ A generic term adopted for CADA's technical assistants, agricultural
assistants and civil engineering assistants, all of whom are field super-
visors of land development works.



-15-
(e) an adaptive research program;
(f) training of farmers, canal inspectors, and land development
assistants (LDAs), and study tours for senior staff;
(g)  research in water management and small structures; and
(h)  monitoring and evaluation, including a farmers  attitude survey.
Infrastructure and Equipment
3.04    The project would finance the following:
(a) Improvements to Distributaries. Improvements would be made
to ensure a reliable water supply to the head of the minor.
Distributaries would be improved in the project areas of
Jayakwadi, Purna, Mula, (distributaries Nos. 3, 4 and 5 only)
and Khadakwasla. 1/ In conformity with a recent GOM decision,
carrying capacities would be increased in Khadakwasla (as in
Girna under MIP II) to allow for a seven days on/off operation
in kharif and rabi. In case of Jayakwadi and Purna the canials
original capacities would be restored.  Upgrading the distribu-
taries would mainly involve the construction of additional
cross regulators, repair of structures and gates, drainage
channel crossings, the replacement of structures where they
are beyond repair, and reshaping of canal sections or repsir
to embankments where necessary.
(b)  Upgrading of Minors.  Minors would be improved in Jayakwadi,
Purna, Mula (under Distributaries Nos. 3, 4 and 5 only) and
Khadakwasla.2/ Work would include (i) clearing, silt removal
and resectioning; (ii) construction of additional structures
where required, in particular cross regulators and tail escapes;
existing falls would be converted into cross regulators where--
ever possible; (iii) the provision of a water measuring device
(standing wave flume) at t:he head of each minor; (iv) necessar.y
repairs to existing structures; (v) extension of minors to
reduce chak size to a 25 ha maximum, including construction
I/ Distributaries Nos. I and 2 in Mula and distributaries in Girna are
being improved under MIP II.
2/ Minors under distributaries No. 1 and 2 in Mula and minors in Girna are
being improved under MIP II.



-16-
of additional chak outlets, and; (vi) lining at critical
locations such as in high fills and in sharp curves.
(c)  Upgrading of Field Irrigation Channels.  These channels take off
from minors through gated (one cusec capacity) outlets and
convey irrigation water within the chak to individual farms.
Work on field channels would include (i) clearance and
resectioning of the channels to one cusec capacity and their
extension where necessary to reach all farms, (ii) provision of
additional structures where required including drops, division
boxes, tail escapes, a water measuring device (Parshall flume)
just down-stream of the chak outlet and crossings of farm
tracks, (iii) selective lining (not more than 15% of the total
length): 5 m upstream and downstream of structures, in stretches
where channels run in high fill, along curves etc.
(d)  Drainage Improvements.  Field drainage channels would be
constructed within every chak to assure drainage for every farm.
The field drains would be cornected to link drains
to convey the drainage water to existing natural drainage
channels. Improvement to the latter channels would be limited
to major bottlenecks, mostly removal of excess weeds and channel
widening at critical spots.
(e)  Canal Service Roads.  The existing canal service roads would be
improved concurrently with the construction or reshaping of the
canal embankments along the distributaries and minors, or,
where not available, they would be provided according to the
present GOM criterion that every canal with a capacity of more
than 5 cusecs will be provided with a canal service road on its
embankment.  These roads would have a width of 3.0 m and, where
in BC soils, pro-vided with a 20 cm murrum topping applied in
two stages.
(f)  Buildings.  Buildings to be constructed under the project would
include six training centers (two in Jayakwadi and one in the
other schemes) for farmers, Cls and LDAs, and the necessary
additional offices and quarters for construction and operation
and maintenance staff.
(g)  Equipment.  Additional equipment would be provided for construc-
tion, operation and maintenance. This would include vehicles,
trucks, surveying equipment, construction equipment, extrusion
machines (for the pre-fabrica:ion of concrete field channel
sections), mini-computers, communication equipment, and
equipment for monitoring, training and research.



-17-
Survey, Design and Construction Standards
3.05    Appropriate survey and design standards for the upgrading of the
minors and field channels have been developed during the design and construc-
tion of the Farmers Project. The most relevant design criteria are presented
in Annex 2. A detailed design manual has been prepared by COM and would be
made available to all concerned CADA staff. Ar. important step in designing
chak improvements is the "problem survey" to identify existing irrigation
problems.  This survey, together with the topographical survey, helps to
decide where improvements are needed, particularly the extent of channel
improvement, repair of strumctures, need for new strutures, extension of field
channels to irrigate until now uncommanded areas and, most importantly, to
decide on the need for selective lining, since this is the most costly item.
3.06    Design standards used prior to the Farmers Project have been rather
poor, as evidenced by the many structural failures in the field.  An album
with improved typical designs for various structures to be used in the
project has been prepared.  For this purpose the best designs available with
the CADA's have been selected - for minors and field channel structures
mostly the designs used in the Farmers ]?roject; particular attention has been
given to foundation details in BC soils.. In addition, an assurance has been
obtained from GOM that it would plan, design, construct, operate and maintain
the irrigation, drainage and road network in accordance with standards and
criteria satisfactory to the Bank Group.
3.07    Cross regulators in distributaries would be designed and constructed
to allow for the diversion of the design flow into the minor when the canal
flows only half-full. The need for cross regulators on the minors would be
determined on the basis of the rotation schedule for the flows to be diverted
into the chaks located on each minor. Canal embankments would be properly
compacted. After completion of construction, levels would be taken of the
irrigated fields and farm turnout to check irrigability; any deficiencies
would be corrected prior to commissioning.
3.08    In Jayakwadi, design work for 5,000 ha to be implemented in 1983/84
is on-going. Survey work for 2,500 ha has been completed. Design of build-
ings is on-going in all project areas and their construction is to start as
soon as possible.
Land Shaping
3.09    One of the major constraints to maximizing crop yields under irriga-
tion in the project area is the uneven water distribution in the fields. To
some extent, this can be mitigated by the proper orientation of the fields
relative to the inlet and the contours (para 3.11) but, for maximum
efficiency, it must be combined with land shaping. This is well recognized
by the State, and land shaping has been a feature of irrigation development
for many years. The work was typically executed with heavy machinery,



-18--
bulldozers and scrapers, operated by the District Soil Conservation Service
(DSCS) or by manual labor provided under the Guaranteed Employment Scheme
(GES). The Maharashtra Land Development: Corporation (MLDC) has been provid-
ing technical guidance to DSCS and arrarnged interim finance according to
NABARD guidelines. Small and marginal farmers were given a 25%-33% subsidy.
More recently, a DSCS Cell has been set up within the CADAs. The landowners
usually received a loan for the work, the size of which was determined by the
number of cubic meters of soil that had to be moved. The funds were passed
to DSCS and the landowner had to repay the loan either directly to the Bank,
or as arrears of land revenue if the loan came from the special fund set up
to assist farmers not eligible to borrow from commercial banks.  The fact
that farmers could only use DSCS or CADA has limited the extent of land
shaping to what those agencies could achieve; the fact that no assistance by
surveyors in marking out the fields for land shaping was available prevented
the landowners from doing landshaping themselves or to call upon other
individuals or agencies to assist them.
3.10    Under the project, the loan for land shaping would continue to be
based on the number of cubic meters of earth to be moved. However, the
landowner would be free either to execute the earthmoving with his own
resources, or to invite any private or public agency to assist him. Land-
owners who would want to arrange their own land shaping would be assisted by
a free technical advisory service, the costs of which have been included in
the project cost estimate. Small contractors undertaking the work for the
landowner would be paid at agreed intervals for completed sections of work,
which would be checked by CADA whether it meets specified standards. After
the initial land grading operation the farmer may have to undertake light
land shaping at regular intervals to maintain a uniform grade. For further
details see paras 5.12 to 5.16.
Adaptive Agricultural Research and Extension
3.11    Adaptive research would principally focus on developing and demon-
strating: (a) irrigation practices suitable for farmers fields as they are,
i.e. before land shaping; (b) cropping sequences and farming systems suitable
to the physical environment and the various farming skills and risk-taking
ability of the farmers, and; (c) farming with purchased input levels that
fall short of the optimum usually recommended by research stations.
3.12    Adaptive research would be integrated into the ongoing agricultural
extension project (para 2.18) and develop recommendations that the extension
organization would disseminate. The program would be developed by Rahuri and
Parbhani Universities and would be designed to serve the commands of the
project areas. It would be reviewed by the Agricultural Extension Direc-
torate and their regional officers responsible for the command areas, and
implemented by officers seconded to CADA from the agricultural extension
service and the participating Universities, in accordance with the concept of
CADA's charter (para 5.04). To strengthen implementation, the extension



-19-
services' Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) would receive additional training
in irrigated agriculture in WALMI (para 5.11). The Universities' Directors
of Research would be in overall charge oE execution which would be the
responsibility of the Regional Research Stations or sub-stations. They would
thus be in a position to become familiar with the problems faced by the
farmers and integrate them into the program for the following year. The
venue would be six selected groups of outlet comands (two in Jayawakdi and
one in each of the other scheme areas) where farmers owning at least two
thirds of the land agree to participate. While farmers in the selected
outlet commands would, along with all other farmers, be actively encouraged
to shape their land to meet CADA's standards (paras 3.09-3.10); once over two
thirds of the area has been shaped, the adaptive research venue would move to
another outlet command, to serve better those farmers whose land is not yet
shaped (para 3.11). The coordinating body would be the Directorate of
Irrigation Research and Development.  For details see Annex 4.  An assurance
has been obtained from GOM that, commencing March 1, 1984, it would submit
for the Bank Group's review and comments., an annual program for the adaptive
agricultural research activities to be carried out during the following
farming seasons, and, thereafter, taking into account the Bank Group's com-
ments, carry out such program.
Improved System Operations
3.13    Under the "Shajpali" system of operation traditic,nally practised in
Maharashtra, farmers have to submit applications for the supply of irrigation
water for one or more seasons, or several years (i.e. sugarcane), depending
on the type of crop. Supplies to the individual farmers may then be sanc-
tioned after considering water availability, crops planned tc, be grown,
drainage conditions in the area etc.  Flows of one cusec are rotated among
the farmers of a chak but the time of supply to each farm varies according
to the perceived need of the farmer. At present, water applications are
still being received after the irrigation season has started, so that irriga-
tion schedules have to be revised (by hand) two or three times each seasons a
difficult process, considering the large number of farm units.  The combined
effect has been unreliable and inefficient water supply to chaks and
individual farms.
3.14    In the Mula scheme rotational water supply (RWS) within the chak and
with a fixed duration of supply per ha has recently been introduced as a
pilot operation on 3,000 ha, together with rigid water scheduling among the
chaks on the minor. This new system has been very well received by the
farmers and would now also be introduced in the project areas. The
Maharashtra Irrigation Act (1976) allows the CADA to make this change. The
present and intended mode of operation in the schemes have been shown in
Annex 1, T-12. The rehabilitation of the irrigation networks would make it
possible to reduce irrigation intervals and meet crop water requirements
better. Minors would generally be operated on a 7 days on/off basis except
in the hot weather season when irrigation intervals would be less than 14



-20-
days. Efforts would be made gradually to introduce, for the first time in
India, mini-computers to prepare the irrigation schedules; this would also
facilitate keeping flows more or less constant in minors and distributaries.
3.15   At present water allocations do noit depend on crop and actual soil
moisture conditions.  To match more closely allocations with requirements,
reference fields would be set up in each lproject area on typical soils and
crops, to monitor soil moisture conditions under irrigation. This informa-
tion would be used, firstly, to evaluate and improve irrigation scheduling
and, secondly, when water becomes scarce, to reduce the water supply to
farms. The second objective could be ach:ieved by eliminat:ing or delaying
certain irrigations in the kharif after rainfall or during droughts, by
reducing the flow duration per ha and/or 'by applying water only at critical
growth stages.
3.16    Operation and maintenance (O&M) manuals, which do not exist at
present, would be prepared under the project. They would provide detailed
rules and procedures, including aspects oi' timing and freqcuency of water
applications, flow measurement (instantaneous and in volume), water account-
ing, standard forms for reporting, operat:ional policies fcor droughts and
periods with more than expected rainfall and emergency situations, response
to variations in local demand, information on closing periods, communications
with farmers and farmers organizations andl within the pro-ject organization,
detailed job descriptions for O&M personnel and sanctions.
3.17    In conformity with the above, assurances have been obtained from GOM
that, to the extent the irrigation system has been completed, it would
prepare and apply for completed works (i) improved plans f'or water distribu-
tion and allocation for each distributary canal, minor and. chak; (ii) RWS
within each chak, based on pre-determined water flow durations for each farm;
(iii) data from reference fields for typical soils and crops to improve
irrigation scheduling.  In addition, an assurance has been obtained from GON
that it would furnish to the World Bank Group for its review and commients,
not later than June 1, 1984, a revised draft of its operation and maintenance
procedures for canal irrigation distribution systems in the project area,
and, by December 1, 1987, develop and introduce an operation and maintenance
manual, taking into account the Bank Group's comments and the experience
gained through the adoption of the revised operation and maintenance proce-
dures.
Training
3.18    To ensure successful implementation and operation of the project
training programs would be arranged for farmers, CIs, and LDAs.
(a) Training of Farmers.  In addition to the unreliabiLity of supply, the
uptake of irrigation water has been slow because many farmers do
not have the tradition, and therefore the experience, in its



-21-
use. The difficult topography of many holdings contrilbutes to
this. Land shaping, which will eventually modify the t:opography,
is an expensive and necessarily slow process (para 3.09).
Therefore, it is essential to train farmers to make maximum use
of their water under the topographic and soil conditions of their
farms. Such training cannot take place on an operating farm
which is under crops: no farmer can be expected to use his land
and water for learning instead of income generation. I'herefore
suitable Training Centers would be established under the project
where farmers could themselves practise different fieldL layouts,
observe the results and learn how to adlapt them to their own
lands. The training would be extended to the total scheme
areas. There would be one Training Center in each scheime area
attached to the TcD farm. In Jayakwadi, at present, there is
only one TcD farm. For this large diverse scheme two Training
Centers would be established; the secornd one would be on one of
the Taluka Seed Farms. Each Training Center would have suitable
staff housing, and classroom and hostel facilities for about
35-40 participants. The staff training the farmers would consist
of an irrigation agronomist and an agriculturist; courses would
last for three days, to enable the staff to visit their former
pupils on their farm, to follow up on their progress. The
Centers would first train the contact farmers of the farmer
groups organized under the T&V system, and then others as time
and opportunity permits. Since training all farmers will take
time, the objective would be to have as wide a spread o:J trained
farmers in the command areas as possible and practicable. The
facilities of the Centers would also be used to impart Initial
training to the AAs, for their pre-season and fortnightly
training sessions under the T&V project, and also to train LDAs.
Under the Civil Service Commission rules of Maharashtra, all
recruits have to undergo a mandatory four-month period of
induction training. Since suitable facilities for this are
inadequate in the State, the Training Centers would havet to be
used also for this purpose. Participants would be the newly
recruited CIs and LDAs.  For details, and expected utilization of
the Training Centers, see Annex 5.
(b) Training of Canal Inspectors. The introduction of improved system
operatlions would require the training of the CIs in the new
disciplines (the Cls form the lower field staff in canal opera-
tioa and are responsible for areas of approximately 500 ha).  All
of about 1100 CIs in the scheme areas would undergo training, but
priority would be given to the about 200 working in the project
areas. The training would 'be for eight weeks in the first year;
additional two-- week courses would be held in subsequent years.
The training wouild concentrate on system operations, irrigation
scheduling, water management, water accounting, maintenance and
communfcations with farmers., The classes would be held in the
same Training Centers as used for farmer training (para 3.18 (a)).
A brief outline of the training program is given in Annex 5.
The trainers would be WALMI--trained JEs.



-22-
(c) Training of Land Development Assistants.  One WALMI trained JE would
normally be assisted by two LDAs in the design and rehabilitation of
minors and field channels. The traiLning would focus on survey
methods, planning and design of project works, preparation of cost
estimates, construction methods and quality control. About 300 LDAs
would be trained for a period of one month; the instructors would
the JEs.
3.19    Study Tour.  A three weeks study tour would be organized for six
senior project engineers and agriculturists to visit the Sudan and Egypt to
observe engineering and agricultural practices developed in these two
countries on soil types similar to those in Maharashtra.
3.20    GOM has already furnished the Bank Group with a detailed training
program and syllabus, which are very similar the training program presented
in Annex 5. An assurance has been obtained from GOM that, taking into
account the Bank Group's comments, it would carry out the agreed training
program.
Water Supply and Demand
3.21    Irrigation water is underutilized at present.  As a result of the
project, irrigation intensities are expected to more than double (Annex 1,
T-10), with the main increase in the rabi and hot weather seasons. The
projected irrigation intensities with the project during these seasons have
been estimated on the basis of the expected average reservoir storage
capacity at the beginning of the dry season (Annex 1, T-9) and projected
cropping patterns (T-4 to T-8). Water availability during the kharif would
not be a constraint; projected irrigation intensities during this season are
not expected to increase much.
Implementation Schedule
3.22    The project would be implemented in five years from November 1983 to
November 30, 1988 (Annex 1, C-3). Initially, high priority would be given to
the design and construction of alditional offices, quarters and training
centers, the procurement of equipment, the positioning of staff and the
preparation of detailed plans for subsequent years. Small village contrac-
tors would carry out the work. One contractor would generally have a con-
tract for construction work in twgo chaks, with exception of the drains which
would be constructed by another contractor. Careful construction planning
would have to be undertaken by the engineer in charge to synchronize the
construction schedule with the irrigation schedule.
3.23    Implementation targets folr the project areas would be kept flexible.
To meet the overall target of 95,000 ha, the itargets for one or more areas
may be increased in case implementation in another area is slow.



-23-
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANCEMENTS
4.01    Total project cost would be about Rs 742 M (US$78.1 M).  Taxes and duties
included in this estimate are only applicable to a few items or: equipment and are,
in aggregate, negligible. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
Rs 100.4 M (US$10.6 M) which is about 13 % of the total cost. Estimates are based
on expected May 1983 prices. Physical contingencies which were estimated
separately for each item range from 10% to 20% and average 12.5% of the base cost.
Price contingencies, which amount to about 25% of the base cost are based on
expected inflation rates of 8.0 % in 1983/84, 7.5% in 1984/85, 7.0% in 1985/86 and
6% thereafter. The cost estimates are detailed in Annex 1, T-13-T-23 and sum-
marized in the following table:
% of
Foreign Total
Exchange Base
Local  Foreign  Total 1/  Local  Foreign  Total 1/          %      Cost
----Rs Million ------       -----US Million------
Land Acquisition             1.4      -       1.4       0.14     -       0.14          -       0.3
Distributaries              30.8     2.7    33.5        3.24    0.28    3.52          8.0      6.2
Minors                      61.3     3.2    64.5        6.45    0.34    6.79          5.0     11.9
Field Channels             131.0     6.9   137.9      13.79    0.73   14.51           5.0     25.4
Link and Main Drains        23.1     1.2    24.3        2.43    0.13    2.56          5.0      4.5
Offices and Quarters        46.7    11.7    58.3       4.91    1.23    6.14          20.0     10.7
Vehicles and Equipment2/  13.8    36.1    49.9          1.45    3.79    5.25         72.3      9.2
Training 3/                 19.3     6.0    25.3        2.02    0.63    2.66         22.8      4.7
Adaptive Research 3/       12.1      3.0    15.0        1.27    0.31    1.58         19.7      2.8
Engineering Research,
Monitoring and
Evaluation 3/             11.0     4.7    15.7       1.16    0.49    1.65         29.7       2.9
Engineering,
Supervision and
Administration          116.8      0.5   117.3      12.29    0.05   12.35          0.4      21.6
Total Base Costs          467.0    75.9   542.9       49.16    7.99   57.15          14.0    100.0
Physical Contingencies    57.3    10.2    67.6          6.04    1.08    7.11         15.1     12.4
Price Contingencies        116.8    13.7   130.5      12.29    1.45   13.74          10.5     24.0
Total Project Costs       641.2    99.8   741.0       67.49   10.51   78.00          13.5    136.5
Front-end Fee on Bank
Loan                       -       0.6      0.6       -       0.06    0.06
Total Financing
Required                641.2   100.4   741.6       67.49   10.57   78.06
1/  Discrepancies due to rounding.
2/  For construction and O&M.
3/ Includes required equipment.



-24-
Financing
4.02    The proposed IDA credit of US$32.0 M and Bank Loan of US$22.7 M would
finance about 70% of the total cost including the foreign exchange component
(US$10.6 M), about 65% of local costs and a capitalized front-end fee of
US$0.6 M. The Bank Group's financing of a high percentage of the total cost
is justified, given GOM's constrained budgetary situation, and because the
project specifically aims to improve the distribution system closest to the
farmers- fields, most of whom are small subsistence farmers who cannot afford
to execute improvements out of their own resources. Its other aims are
better irrigation water utilization, improved systems operations, training
programs for farmers and CIs, advice to farmers on land shaping and adaptive
research. All expenditures would be met by GOM from its development budget,
which includes a GOI contribution. The credit would be made to GOI on stand-
ard IDA terms. The Bank Loan would be for 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the prevailing interest rate. An assurance has been obtained from
GOI that it would make the proceeds of the credit and loan available to GOM
on GOI's standard terms and arrangements for development assistance to the
States. In addition, an assurance has been obtained from GOM that it would
promptly provide the funds to implement the project in accordance with the
five year project implementation program. To ensure an early start of the
project, the Bank Group would agree to GOM's request to finance retroactively
after project appraisal (January 1, 1983) items such as buildings and equip-
ment, and costs related to the attitude survey, adaptive and engineering
research, and training programs.  The amount of retroactive financing would
not exceed US$1.0 M and procurement would be in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Procurement
4.03    Civil works financed under the project would cost approximately
US$35.0 M, excluding physical contingencies, price increases and engineering
and administration costs. The works would be carried out in five different
project areas and constructed over a five year period i.e. an average volume
of work per year per project area of only US$1.4 M. Most of it would be,
small rehabilitation on minor canals and field channels adjacent to farmers
fields, involving earthwork and repairs to, or construction of, small struc-
tures. The work would be highly labor intensive and spread out over large
areas. During the kharif season practically no work would be done: construc-
tion would be mainly during the rabi and hot weather season, but the work
would be scheduled intermittently to avoid disruption of on-going irrigation.
This requires great flexibility on the part of contractors. International
and larger local contractors do not have this flexibility; moreover, because
of the seasonal nature of the work, their overhead costs would be very high.
Consequently the works are not suitable for international competitive bidding
(ICB). The work would therefore be carried out by local village contractors
on the basis of small piecework type contracts. Such contracts are awarded
under local procurement procedures which are satisfactory to the World Bank
Group. Some departmental work may be carried out for types of work in which



-25-
local contractors would experience difficulties, or for quality considera-
tions (such as compaction); such works would be limited to 25% of all works.
4.04    Equipment and Vehicles financed under the project would cost about
US$5.25 M, excluding physical and price contingencies. They would be
procured according to LCB procedures. Suitable items would be grouped
together to promote efficiency in tendering and attract competition; however,
awards will also be accepted on individual schedules to attract small
manufacturers. Adequate competition can be solicited among Indian firms for
this equipment. Because of existing servicing and spare part supply, there
are considerable benefits to be derived from procuring local models. The CWC
has developed standard bid documents and procedures for equipment, materials
and supplies which have been approved by the Bank Group and would be used in
the project. Contracts of equipment estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent
or less may be procured by prudent shopping through normal trade channels
(i.e. off-the-shelf) subject to a ceiling amount of US$250,000. Contracts
for bidding packages for goods costing US$300,000 equivalent or more would be
subject to prior review by the Bank Group. Remaining contracts would be
subject to post-review by the Bank Group.
Disbursements
4.05    Disbursements under the credit would be made against:
(a) Civil works--85%
(b) Vehicles and equipment:
(i)   directly imported--l00% of foreign expenditures;
(ii) locally manufactured--100% of ex-factory cost;
(iii) other locally procured--70%;
(c) Incremental staff costs for training, adaptive and engineering
research, monitoring and evaluation--70%;
(d) Special surveys and study tours--100%.
Disbursement requests for civil works would be made against certificates of
expenditure submitted by GOM separately for each project and itemized by
project component. Disbursements for work within a chak would only be made
upon full completion of the work. Disbursement requests for such work would
be submitted together with a completion certificate duly signed by the AE in
charge, stating that all works in the chak have been completed in accordance
with the agreed planning and design criteria. Disbursements for departmental
works,for Rs 150,000 or less for equipment, vehicles and incremental staff
costs for training, adaptive and engineering research, monitoring and evalua-
tion and the costs for the special surveys and study tour would be made
against certificates of expenditures itemized by type of work. Documentation
for these works would be retained by GOM and made available for inspection by
the Bank Group during review missions. Full documentation would be required
for all other disbursements. The disbursement schedule and proposed alloca-
tion of the credit by category are shown in Annex 1, T-24 and T-25. Expected
disbursement rates are somewhat higher than experienced disbursement rates in
the irrigation sector. This appears realistic as five separate CADA



-26-
organizations will carry out a relatively small program. It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by August 31, 1989.
Accounts and Audits
4.06    The CADAs would be subject to normal Government control and auditing
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank Group. Agreements have been
obtained from GOM that it would (i) maintain separate records and accounts to
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting principles and procedures, its
resources, expenditures and operations related to the project; (ii) furnish
to the Bank Group copies of accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year, certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank Group, not later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year; (iii) have accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
Group; (iv) furnish to the Bank Group immediately following its finalization,
the report of such audit in such detail as the Bank Group shall reasonably
request; (v) furnish to the Bank Group any other information as it shall
reasonably request; and (vi) establish within CADA separate accounts and
maintain separate records to reflect expenditures in each of the sub-project
areas (para 4.06).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
5.01    Irrigation Development in Maharashtra is the responsibility of the
Department of Irrigation. This Department is sub-divided into two Wings: the
Irrigation Wing headed by a Secretary and the Command Area Development (CAD)
Wing, headed by a Commissioner and Secretary (Annex 1, C-1). The Irrigation
Wing is responsible for all new construction; the CAD organization is respon-
sible for all construction below the chak outlets, all modernization work and
O&M. The implementation of the project would be the responsibility of the
CAD Wing through its CAD Authorities (CADAs).
5.02    Overall responsibility for the project would rest with the Commis-
sioner and Secretary, CAD. Ianagement responsibility for coordination and
monitoring of project activities would be shared between the Water Management
Research Division in Pune and the CAD Administrator for Jayakwadi. The Water
Management and Research Division would be responsible for coordinating
activities contributing to improvements in system operation, agricultural
research, training, special surveys, etc., including monitoring and evalua-
tion (paras 5.19 - 5.21). The CAD Administrator for Jayakwadi would be
responsible for coordinating the monitoring of all physical worlcs, procure-
ment and accounting under the project.



-27-
Command Area Development (CAD) Organization
5.03    Construction of the project works and subsequent management and
operation would be the responsibility of five CADAs. The first CADAs were
created in the early 1970s, to coordinate the work of the various State
agencies and departments involved (the ID, the Agriculture Department (AD),
the Public Works Department (PWD) and the MLDC) in the development of major
irrigation schemes. CADAs have been established for the Jayakwadi, Purna,
Mula and Girna Schemes and have generally performed well. A CADA for the
Khadakwasla Scheme is still to be set up. However, as the CAD activities
in the Khadakwasla Scheme would be limited for the time being to the project
area, it would not be justified to set up a separate CADA. It has been agreed
that the Khadakwasla Project area would come under control of the CADA for
the Bhima project, which has its offices in Pune.
5.04    The CADA's principal executive is the Administrator, who is respon-
sible to an Executive Committee (EC) comprised of Regional Heads of Depart-
ments, Members of the Legislative Assembly and cultivators. The EC, through
its composition, permits the participation of elected officials in planning
and policy making. The CADA falls within the purview of a Regional CAD Board
which is chaired by a State Minister and composed of elected and appointed
officials. The Regional Board acts as a filter between the Regional CADA and
the State Cabinet Subcommittee, which directs CAD policy. The Cabinet Sub-
committee is chaired by the Chief Minister of the State and includes the
Ministers of Agriculture, Irrigation, Power and Finance. The chain of com-
mand reflects both GOM's desire to involve the peoples' representatives in
planning and decision-making at Regional and scheme levels and the substan-
tial powers that it has provided to the Authority's Administrator who, unlike
even the heads of line Departments, has, through the Subcommittee, a very
close link with the State's Chief Executive. The Secretary of the Subcommit-
tee is the CAD Commissioner and he is responsible for preparing annual
development and financial plans for each CAD scheme. Such plans are prepared
in conjunction with the Secretaries for Finance, Agriculture, Irrigation,
Public Works and other Ministries involved in CAD schemes.
5.05    The CADA Administrator directs the work of a Deputy Administrator
(Engineering), Deputy Director of Agriculture, Assistant Administrator of the
Revenue Department, Accountant Officers of the Finance Department, Deputy
Registrar of the Cooperative Department and a Statistician of the Economics
Statistics Department (Annex 1, C-2). A Technical Cell provides technical
support for the scheme areas. Monitoring Cells would monitor the project
activities in each sub-project (para 5.21).
Design and Construction
5.06    All survey, design, planning, procurement and construction activities
would be carried out by engineers assigned to the respective CADA head-
quarters, Divisions, Sub-Divisions and Sections under the overall supervision
of the Deputy Administrator (engineering). Specific Divisions will be set
up, solely for the purpose of working on the MWUP, with their own offices and



-28-
quarters. Experience with the Farmers Project has indicated that one JE can
handle 200 ha per year of rehabilitation work on minors and field channels,
including all survey, design and construction work. During the implementa-
tion period, the Sub-Divisions would still have to operate the system and
establish farmers organizations. Also more time would be spent on quality
control by the AEs and EEs (para 5.07). To keep the AE-s and EE's workload
reasonable GOM has agreed to limit the number of JEs dealing with the con-
struction of minors and field channels to four per Sub-Division and the
number of AEs to three per Division.
Quality Control and Commissloning
5.07    An assurance has been obtained from GOM that it would take all
action, as shall be necessary, to ensure adequate quality control by the
CADA's of surveys, planning, design, construction and O&M activities.
Specific duties of EEs and AEs have been agreed upon (Annex 1, T-26).
Inspection books and chak registers would be maintained to report and monitor
observations. Also the Technical Cells would carry out occasional spot
checks.
5.08    To ensure that the works will be properly completed, assurances have
been obtained from GOM that it would (i) cause the CADAs to test and certify
in writing that the field irrigation and drainage channels within a chak have
been upgraded in accordance with the agreed planning and design criteria,
before entrusting the concerned Outlet Committee (OC) with the responsibility
for O&M; (ii) within a period of two years from the commissioning of any
distributary canal, minor canal or chak, and based on the experience obtained
during operation of the system, cause the CADAs to carry out promptly any
required improvements and modifications in the upgraded irrigation distribu-
tion system; and (iii) make promptly the necessary funds available for that
purpose.
Operation and Maintenance
5.09    Responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the canal system up
to the chak outlets also rests with CADA. Traditionally, one Section handles
about 4,000 ha, but because of the increased workload resulting from the
introduction of RWS each Section would only handle 2,500 ha upon completion
of the rehabilitation work. Until recently a typical O&M budget: in
Maharashtra provided an allocation of Rs 20 per ha per year. Recently this
has been increased to Rs 80 per ha, which is found to be satisfactory.
Assurances have been obtained from GOM that it would (i) operate and maintain
adequately the distributaries, minors, drainage channels, link drains, canal
service roads and buildings under the project and provide sufficient funds to
carry out such operaticn and maintenance; and (ii) for purposes of adequately
operating the irrigation systems under the project, cause each CADA, not
later than thirty days after the ending of the rainy season of each year,
commencing in 1984, to carry out a survey of the required repairs in each
irrigation system and cause the CADAs to carry out the repairs promptly.



-29-
5.10    O&M within the chaks will be the responsibility of OCs (para 5.17).
Strong efforts would have to be made by GOM to ensure that the OCs will
adequately maintain the field channels. An assurance has been obtained from
GOM that it would promptly repair and maintain the field irrigation and
drainage channels, at farmers costs in case such works are not carried out
by the OCs, and provide the CADAs with the necessary facilities for
that purpose.
Engineering Staff and Training
5.11    To ensure the implementation of the works to the agreed standards it
would be essential that the engineering staff working on the upgrading of
minors and field channels be WALMI-trained. The WALMI was primarily set up
to provide the necessary staff for the MIP II and the Jayakwadi Scheme.
Allocation of staff for these projects would have priority over the needs of
the MWUP. It has been ascertained that WALMI can meet the overall demand for
JEs for MIP II, the Jayakwadi Scheme and MWUP, with the exception of a small
shortfall in 1985. This can be overcome through some special short training
courses. It was agreed that the 30 JEs who followed an eight-week experimen-
tal course in 1982 - which was found to be too short - would be retained and
that 30 additional JEs would be trained in 1983 in a ten-week course. Also,
30 AEs and 30 AOs would be trained at WALMI in early 1984. Of the latter, 15
would work as farmer trainers in the Training Centers and 15 would work as
SMS (Irrigation Agronomy) in the extension service organization. GOM would
train engineering staff and create positions for these staff as shown in
Annex 1, T-27 and meet the engineering staff requirements during actual
implementation, as shown in Annex 1, T-28. In view of the importance of
meeting these staffing and training schedules, an assurance has been obtained
from GOM that it would train concerned CADA staff in WALMI in accordance with
project implementation, staffing and training schedules which have been
agreed between the Bank Group and GOM.
Land Shaping
5.12    One pre-requisite of the proposed land shaping activities is the
availability of sufficient trained staff for survey, marking-out and quality
control work. At present, such staff are only available with SCS and CADA.
Therefore, field surveyors would have to be trained to prepare a contour map
related to a common benchmark; typically, the chak outlet. From these data a
civil engineer, trained by SCS, would be able to calculate the necessary cut
and fill to achieve the desired grades and the amount of soil to be moved.
Field surveyors would peg out the field and, later, determine whether land
shaping has been carried out as planned. Payment to the landowner would be
made upon the surveyor's certification of good workmaiiship and proper finish.
5.13    It is expected that one engineer, assisted by drawing office staff,
would be able to prepare field plans for five field teams, and possibly many
more with the help of a mini-computer. Initially, therefore, the land shap-
ing team would consist of one field crew in each of the five project areas
and one engineer. One team would be able to survey, mark out and check the



-30-
completed work on a total of about 1,400 to 1,500 ha per annum. Build-up and
ultimate numbers would be determined by the demand for their services; com-
pared to the potential benefits, the cost of the survey teams is insig-
nificant. It is expected that landshaping operations could cover
approximately 15,000 ha during the project period.
5.14    Fields would be marked out also for landowners who do not propose to
borrow for levelling. This marking-out would be part of a free technical
advisory service for small and marginal farmers.
5.15    Land shaping operations for eligible landowners would be financed
from regular institutional sources. However, one obstacle to granting credit
for land shaping is the large number of farmers who are not eligible to
borrow from institutional sources because of previous defaults. These
non-eligibles would be financed from a Special Fund, already set up to help
such would-be borrowers. Total funding requirements would be approximately
RS 40 M for the 15,000 ha. The administering agency would be the Maharashtra
Land Development Corporation.
5.16    An assurance has been obtained from GOM that it would take all neces-
sary action to promote land shaping in the project area.
Farmers Organizations
5.17    Farmers organizations would be set up in the project areas at three
levels (at the chak, minor and main or branch channel level) to improve
maintenance, promote farmers involvement during the design stage, and improve
water distribution and communications between farmers and CADA irrigation
staff during project operation. GOM has provided the Bank Group with a
detailed organization plan which is acceptable. COM and the Bank Group would
also exchange views from time to time on how to improve the functioning of
the organizations. Through these organizations the farmers would be able to
convey compla!nts, requests and suggestions to the CADAs. Coordination
between the three levels is assured as each comprises both farmers leaders
and CADA officials. The CADA Boards (para 5.04) which also include farmers
representatives would oversee the working of the committees.
(a)  Outlet Committees (OCs) would be organized for each chak to maintain
field channels, distribute water according to RWS schedules, and
prevent unauthorized irrigation. The irrigation schedules would be
prepared by the O&M Section and displayed on signboards near the chak
outlet well in advance of actual water delivery. Each OC would have
five to seven members: two farmers on each field channel, one tail
ender on each field channel, and the responsible CI and AA. A
farmers leader would be elected from among the rnon- official members
and the CI would be secretary. The OCs would be formed as soon as
the chak boundaries have been determined and would be consulted on



-31-
the most appropriate layout of field channels, location of farm
outlets and crossings, and constraints in the present system.
(b) Water Utilization Committees (WUCs) 1/ would be organized for each
minor. WUC membership would comprise of five farmer leaders (out of
which two would be small land holders and/or tail enders), the CI,
and the JE. Initially, the WUC would only monitor the irrigation
schedules prepared by the O&M Section, process complaints and seek
appropriate solutions. However, GOM-s final aim is that the WUCs
should become fully responsible for water distribution among the
chaks on a minor since the many outlets on a minor are a heavy burden
for CADA-s O&M organization. The irrigation schedules for the chaks
would be displayed at the head of the minor (vide (a) above, for
within the chak).
(c) Canal Advisory Committees (CACs) would be set up for areas under the
jurisdiction of the EE covering 40,000 ha or less. Five to ten
members of the WUC would be elected on the CAC. The EE would be
President of the CAC; the Agricultural Development Officer, the
Assistant Engineer, Planning Officer of the Zilla Parishad and a
representative of the local sugar factories would also be members.
The CAC would develop the irrigation programs, monitor the perfor-
mance of the main system, identify deficiencies and make suggestions
for improvements.
5.18    An assurance has been obtained from GOM that it would take all neces-
sary action to establish the farmers organizations in the project area in
accordance with its prepared plan.
Engineering Research, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.19    Water Management and Engineering Research.  Responding to suggestions
from Bank Group missions, in November, 1982 GOM sanctioned the establishment
of two research divisions under the Directorate of Irrigation Research and
Development in Pune: the Water Management Research Division (WMRD) and the
On-Farm Development Structures Division (ODSD). Costs for necessary build-
ings, equipment and incremental staff costs over the project period are
included in the project cost estimate. The WMRD would evaluate and develop
new modes of system operation, irrigation scheduling and irrigation prac-
tices. WMRD would also evaluate the operation under local conditions of a
1,000 ha pilot scheme on two minors in Mula where irrigated chak outlets
would be constructed of the adjustable proportional module (APM) and/or open
flume outlet type, as used in north India. The ODSD would concentrate on
developing cost effective designs for structures and lining, with emphasis on
the development of precast structures, and guidelines for foundation design
in BC soils; WMRD staff would include an economist to undertake required
1/ Locally known as Water Panchayat Committee.



-32-
economic evaluations. As much of the actual field work required for the
research would be undertaken by the respective CADAs, the two divisions will
have access to their field staff. The scope of work is described in Annex 3.
An assurance has been obtained from GOM that it would (i) not later than
December 31, 1983, prepare and furnish to the Bank Group for its review and
comments, a detailed work plan covering the activities to be undertaken by
the Water Management Research Division and the On-Farm Development Structures
Division during the period 1984 through 1989, inclusive, and, not later than
April 1, 1984, taking into account the Bank Group's comments, implement the
work plan.
5.20    Farmers  Attitude Survey.  The demand for irrigation water has only
developed slowly in the command areas, and particularly so in Jayakwadi.
This delays the realization of irrigation benefits, and underutilizes major
infrastructural investments. Since the prime objective of the project is to
remove the main constraint perceived - unreliable and inadequate water supply
- it is essential to learn whether the farmers have additional reasons for
not making more use of the water, and to endeavour to remove also these
constraints. A farmers attitude survey would therefore be contracted to
agricultural universities. It would be started in August 1983 and repeated
at two-yearly intervals, at least until all project works are completed and
commissioned. They would also indicate progress made by the respondents in
water utilization between surveys. GOM and the Bank Group have mutually
agreed on the questionnaire for the survey 1/.
5.21    Other Monitoring Activities.  The CADAs would monitor a number of
aspects critical to the success of the project: (i) training and positioning
of staff; (ii) progress in survey, design and construction, and costs; (iii)
extent of land shaping; (iv) seasonal cropping patterns, yields and produc-
tion; (v) weekly water deliveries by distributary, minor and chak and com-
parison with planned allocations to identify deficiencies in water distribu-
tion or potential improvements in system operation; (vi) reference fields
(para 3.15); (vii) groundwater levels and extraction; and (viii) collection
of water charges. An assurance has been obtained from GOM that it would (a)
prepare by December 31, 1983 for comment by the Bank Group and subsequently
implement, a detailed plan for monitoring and (b) furnish the Bank Group,
commencing June 30, 1985, annual reports with analyses and conclusions of the
monitoring and evaluation activities. In addition, an assurance has been
obtained from GOM that a sociological survey would be completed before Decem-
ber 31, 1987 to evaluate the impact of the OCs, WUCs and CACs on the O&M of
the upgraded systems.
5.22    Organization.  The CAD Administrator for Jayakwadi would be respon-
sible for coordinating the monitoring of all physical works, procurement and
1/ To include farmers without canal water at present, the survey would also
extend to farmers in the Bhima and Kukadi Schemes (included in MIP II).



-33-
accounting. Assurances have been obtained from GOM that it would (i) main-
tain the Water Management Research Division under the Directorate of Irriga-
tion Research and Development with adequate staffing and funds, to coordinate
and develop improvements in irrigation systems operation and monitor and
evaluate activities with respect to adaptive agricultural research and spe-
cial surveys; and (ii) establish and maintain within each CADA a Monitoring
Cell with adequate funds and staffing to carry out the monitoring activities
under the project.
5.23    Reporting.  GOM would submit to the Bank Group quarterly and annual
progress Reports within three months after the end of each reporting period.
Formats for reporting by each CADA would be standardized in consultation with
the Bank Group. An agreement has been reached with GOM that it would submit
to the Bank Group a project completion report not later than six months after
the Credites closing date.
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMES,
PROJECT IMPACT AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Production and Yields
6.01    The principal impact of the project on agricultural production would
be increased canal irrigation intensity (Annex 1, T-10); practically all of
this would be at the expense of seasonal fallows which are now a major fea-
ture of the farming pattern. Most benefits would be obtained from increased
irrigation in the rabi and hot weather season through increased use of stored
reservoir water. Lesser benefits are expected from increased irrigation in
the kharif season, from surplus river flows, as the rabi is expected to
remain the main cropping season (para 2.06). The more assured water supply
under the project would not only induce farmers to plan for a larger area of
irrigated crops but also help increase yields. However, proper land shaping,
and its resultant better water distribution in the field would be the major
factor in yield increases. Since extensive land shaping is unlikely to be
carried out during the project implementation period (para 5.12), benefits
from yield increases, certainly during the early stages of project life,
would be marginal.
6.02    The increase in farming standards, the developing markets in the
Middle East and the Gulf countries, along with improved investigations into
the agronomy of many high-value crops, notably bananas, may well cause a
shift in the cropping pattern to such high-value crops (including year-round
vegetable production), and away from foodgrains. This development, too,
would be affected by the project but since its extent is difficult to quan-
tify, benefits would not be attributed to project works.
6.03    The general increases in farming standards would accelerate the
development of dug wells (para 2.16). While the additional water reaching
the fields would undoubtedly increase acquifer recharge, there is no evidence



-34-
at present that wells, except for a few in isolated instances, run dry.
Consequently, it cannot be assumed with any degree of assurance that, ini-
tially at least, accelerated well development would be a function of the
proposed project works. Consequently, increased production due to wells will
not be attributed to the project.
6.04    Projected production in the five project areas is detailed in Annex
1, T-29. The most important production increments are expected to be:
('000 tons)
Sugarcane                 301.3
Banana                     32.9
Foodgrains                 44.1
Groundnuts                 14.1
Farm Incomes
6.05    The project's effect on farm incomes has been estimated through an
analysis of crop budgets (Annex 1, T-30) and typical cropping patterns. Net
farm incomes in Jayakwadi are expected to increase from an average Rs 730/ha
to Rs 4,960/ha at full development, summarized as fo'llows:
Future Without
Present         Project       Future With Project
______________ (Rs/ha) ----------------------
Revenue           1,560         2,480               7,580
Production Cost    830            970               2,620
Net Revenue         730         1,510               4,960
Present and project prices of agricultural commodities are given in Annex 1,
T-31.



-35-
Project Impact
6.06    Direct Project Impact.  The further direct impact of the project in
terms of agricultural production and people benefited is summarized below:
(i) Directly Benefiting Farm Families: 30,000
(ii) Increases In Irrigated Cropping Intensity:
Jayakwadi     Purna      Girna    Mula      Khadakwasla
Present         31           S         26        26            10
Projected      113            84        49        61            64
(iii)  Generated Farm Employment (mandays/year at full development): 3.3 M
(iv)  Generated Non-Farm Employment (man/years during construction): 9,000
(v)  Value Added In Agriculture at Full Development: Rs 210 M
6.07    Employment Effects.  The project would generate employment by (i)
intensifying agricultural production, and; (ii) from construction work during
implementation. At full development, the demand for farm labor is expected
to increase from 31 man-days/ha to about 64 man-days/ha. Most incremental
demand for labor would be supplied by landless workers. Labor employed in
construction would entail about 9,000 construction jobs per year (full-time
equivalent), annually over the five years of implementation.
6.08    Poverty Impact.  The project would significantly reduce the incidence
of poverty in the project area. Assuming that the size distribution of
holdings in the command areas remains unchanged, the percentage of households
in the project below the poverty line is expected to fall from about 75% to
about 30%.
6.09    In addition to these direct impacts, the project would generate
indirect benefits through "multiplier" employment and income effects which
would not be confined to the project area. No attempt was made to estimate
indirect effects.



-36-
Cost Recovery
6.10    The following water charges are levied on crops, roughly in propor-
tion to their water requirements:
1/
Water Charges    (Rs/ha)
Basic     Local    E.G.S.    Education
Crop                            Rate       Cess     Cess          Cess   Total
Sugarcane & Bananas              750       150        25         150      1075
Other perennials                 500       100        25          -        625
Kharif (season crops)             50        10         25         -         85
Rabi season crops                 75        15         25         -        115
Hot weather seasonals            150        30         25         -        205
Hot weather cotton               250        50        25         150       475
Hot weather groundnuts           250        50         25         40       365
Pre-seasonal watering             75        15        -           -         90
Post-seasonal watering to         20         4        -           -         24
kharif crops in rabi season
Post seasonal watering to         25         5        -           -         30
rabi crops in hot weather
season
1/ The basic rate and local cess are collected by the CADA, the
employment-guarantee-scheme cess and the education cess by the Revenue
Department.
6.11    With the projected cropping patterns, the revenue from water charges
would average about Rs 310/ha/p.a. Assuming that all watercharges are col-
lected as due (para 6.15 below), this would be sufficient to cover opera-
tional and maintenance expenditures, estimated to average about Rs
80/ha/p.a., and make a modest contribution to the recovery of capital costs.
(No index for capital-cost recovery has been calculated in this project,
since the incremental investment cost in upgrading the minor conveyance
system is but a small fraction of the total capital costs incurred in the
past. 1/). Water related revenues of lesser importance would arise from
incremental marketed production and incremental irrigation intensity. Exten-
sion of irrigation to new areas would contribute by way of the difference in
land revenue rate between irrigated and unirrigated lands, averaging 10 Rs/ha
In the project areas. Incremental marketed production would contribute to
revenue via an agricultural sales tax of 4%.
1/ The overall cost recovery and rent recovery indices for new projects in
Maharashtra were estimated at about 30% in the Maharashtra Irrigation II
Project (Ln. 954-IN). These calcuations assumed (1) full recovery of
Part I works (field channels) and Part II works (land shaping) below the
minor outlet, and (2) 100% collection of watercharges.



-37-
Watercharge Collection Performance
6.12    The responsibility for collection of water charges rests with the
Irrigation Department. Collections from the project area are currently about
45-50% of annual assessments. For the state as a whole the collection rate
is 82%. The main reason for the lower collection rate in the project area
is the poor reliability of the irrigation water supply.
6.13    Farmers apply for irrigation just before the start of the irrigation
season. Watercharges are not based on applications but on ex-post assessment
of irrigated area (as area actually irrigated may be more or less than
applied for). Assessment of irrigated area is to be completed by 1st
February for the kharif season, or the 1st May for the rabi season, and on
the 1st October for the hot-weather season. Farmers are supposed to be
billed for watercharges within a month. However, the assessment of water-
charges is sometimes seriously delayed.
6.14    GOM has recently introduced a number of measures aimed at improving
the recovery of irrigation water charges, including: (i) introduction, in
October 1982, of a surcharge of 10% on overdue payments; (ii) consultations
between the Irrigation Department and the Cooperative Department to enable
rural banks to assist in the collection of payments for water charges on
behalf of the Irrigation Department; (iii) attachment of special accounts
officers in non-CADA areas to offices of the Superintending Engineers to
supervise the collection of water charges by the respective irrigation divi-
sions; (iv) elimination of the water charge subsidy for groundnut crops; (v)
assignment to sugar factories of the responsibility for collecting water
charges for sugarcane; (vi) collection, from those farmers not yet current in
their irrigation water charge payments, of one-third of the amounts due plus
amounts expected to fall due during the following season, before the commen-
cement of irrigation. Measures being considered by GOM for further improve-
ment in the collection rate include: (a) finalization of irrigation water
charge assessment not later than three months after the beginning of each
farming season; (b) introduction of individual billings and automation of the
billing process; and (c) extension of the system described in (iii) above
to CADA areas. Collections from the project area are expected to increase
as the irrigation system is being upgraded and are expected to equal or
surpass those of the State as a whole when the project has been completed.
6.15    An assurance has been obtained from GOM that it would continue co
review its procedures for collection of irrigation water charges and would
take all necessary action to improve and expedite collection of such water
charges.
6.16    GOM recognizes the importance of introducing an appropriate system of
water charges to promote efficient water use by consumers. Experiments with
various types of volumetric water charges are presently being conducted
pursuant to the Project Agreement of MIP II. A detailed report on the
results of the experiments is expected by October 31, 1983. Since this
report is still awaited, an assurance has been obtained from GOM that it



-38-
would, taking into account the results of the experimental schemes under MIP
II, after two years of operation of the upgraded field channels within a chak
in the project area, establish and implement for such chak an appropriate
irrigation water charge system; such system shall ensure direct recovery of
annual operation and maintenance costs of the upgraded irrigation system
servicing such chak, and having regard, inter-alia, to the incentive and
repayment capacity of the farmers, include a reasonable contribution of the
cost of infrastructure investments of the upgraded irrigation system, includ-
ing costs of infrastructure investment in the field irrigation and drainage
channels within the chak.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, RISK AND SENSITIVITY
General
7.01    Many Indian irrigation projects face varying degrees of water scar-
city so that the water supply has to be rationed among the irrigators. The
proposed project is exceptional in that it takes place in an environment
where water is, by and large, still abundant. The project would enhance the
demand for water by upgrading the infrastructure (with emphasis on minors and
field channels) and by supplying water regularly and reliably.
7.02    In calculating the economic rate of return (ERR) the costs of this
upgrading have simply been set against the anticipated benefits of higher
irrigation intensities in the five project areas. This results in an under-
estimation of long term benefits because the calculation ignores:
(a) the long term effect of water savings through higher
conveyance efficiencies;
(b) benefits from induced investment in land-levelling and landshaping
(para 6.01) and possible change in high value crops (para 6.02); and
(c)  benefits from induced investment in groundwater exploita-
tion (para 6.03);
7.03    Water Savings.  Water is likely to be in excess of demand for the
next decade in most areas. However, in the Girna Scheme water is already
short in dry years. In such years, and in the more distant future when
irrigation demand will have increased substantially, the much higher con-
veyance efficiencies in the project areas will make it possible to irrigate
larger areas.
Prices and Economic Analysis
7.04    Most of the important crops grown in the project area are traded
commodities (sugar, wheat, groundnuts). Incremental crop production was
evaluated at world market prices. Present and projected world market prices



-39-
are in most cases below the market prices received by farmers in the project
areas.
7.05    The economic prices of fertilizer nutrients (N,P, and K) were derived
from IBRD world-commodity price forecasts for Urea, TSP, and MOP respec-
tively. Non-traded inputs, civil works construction, and labor were valued
at 80% of their market prices, the estimated standard conversion factor for
India for non-traded items.
7.06    The economic rate of return has been estimated separately for each
of the such sub-project, as follows:
NPV at 12%
ERR (%)        (Rs M)
Jayakwadi 1/                             46.9           493
Purna                                    36.4            73
Mula                                     24.1            58
Girna                                    22.8            26
Khadakwasla                              19.1            25
The combined rate of return from the net benefit stream arising from the five
projects together is estimated at 35.6% with net present value of Rs 675 M at
12% interest.
Sensitivity and Risk
7.07   Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity to assumptions made in the economic
analysis was analyzed in terms of switching values. Switching values indi-
cate the reduction (increase) in benefits (costs) required to reduce net
incremental benefits to zero, with the cost and benefit streams discounted at
12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital for India.
Appraisal      Switching
Variables Tested             Estimate          Value         Change (%)
Incremental Benefits (Rs M)  1,090              344            -66
Investment Costs (Rs M)           324           998            208
Incremental Irrigation
Intensity (%)                    46            15            -67
1/  For Jayakwadi, including sunk costs (Rs 950 M in 1982 prices), the ERR
was estimated at 14%.



-40-
7.08    In addition to the above tests the effect of the following occurren-
ces on the ERR was calculated:
(a) If the farmers would take twice as long as anticipated to
achieve the projected irrigation intensities, the ERR would
decline to 14.2%.
(b) A five year delay in physical implementation would result in
lowering the ERR to 18.9%.
(c) IBRD commodity price forecasts assume an increase in the prices
agricultural commodities, implying an improvement in the terms
of trade facing farmers. Holding agricultural commodity prices
constant (in terms of 1982 prices), the ERR would decline to
30.1%.
7.09    Project Risk.  The results of the sensitivity analysis indicate that
only large (and unlikely to occur) deviations from the basic assumptions
would jeopardize the economic viability of the project. The main risk would
be that the resulting increases in water utilization are Less than projected
either because (i) the reliability of water supply in the modernized areas
turns out to be lower than expected, or (ii) continued poor farmers response
to irrigation. However, the improved system operations and adaptive
research, monitoring and training programs for project staff and farmers
included in the project reduce these risks considerably.
7.10    Environmental Effects.  The improved drainage should bave positive
environmental effects. However, the expansion of irrigation may be accom-
panied by an increase in the incidence of water related diseases. An
assurance has been obtained from GOM that it would take all measures con-
sidered necessary to minimize the hazards of malaria and other water related
diseases in the project area.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    An assurance has been reached with GOI that it would make the
proceeds of the credit and loan available to GOM on GOI-s standard terms and
arrangements for development assistance to the States (para 4.02).
8.02    Assurances have been obtained from GOM that:
(a)  it would plan, design, construct, operate and maintain the irriga-
tion, drainage and road network in accordance with standards and
criteria satisfactory to the Bank Group (para 3.06);
(b)  it would, commencing March 1, 1984, submit for the Bank Grou.p s
review and comments, an annual program for the adaptive agricultural
research activities to be carried out during the following farming



seasons, and, thereafter, taking into account the World Bank Group's
comments, carry out such program (para 3.12);
(c) it would prepare and apply for completed works (i) improved plans for
water distribution and allocation for each distributary canal, minor
and chak; (ii) RWS within each chak, based on predetermined water
flow durations for each farm; (iii) data from reference fields for
typical soils and crops to improve irrigation scheduling (para 3.17).
(d) it would furnish to the Bank Group for its review and comments, not
later than June 1, 1984, a revised draft of its operation and main-
tenance procedures for canal irrigation distribution systems in the
project area, and, by December 1, 1987, develop and introduce an
operation and maintenance manual, taking into account the Bank
Group's comments and the experience gained through the adoption of
the revised operation and maintenance procedures (para 3.17);
(e) it would, taking into account the Bank Group's comments, carry out
its submitted training program (para 3.20);
(f) it would (i) maintain separate records and accounts to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting principles and procedures, its
resources, expenditures and operations related to the project; (ii)
furnish to the Bank Group copies of accounts and financial statements
for each fiscal year, certified as to their accuracy and authenticity
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group, not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year; (iii) have
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group; (iv) furnish to
the Bank Group immediately following its finalization, the report of
such audit in such detail as the Bank Group shall reasonably request;
(v) furnish to the Bank Group any other information as it shall
reasonably request; and (vi) establish within CADA separate accounts
and maintain separate records to reflect expenditures in each of the
sub-project areas (para 4.06);
(g) it would take all action as shall be necessary to ensure adequate
quality control by the CADA's of survey, planning, design, construc-
tion and O&M activities (para 5.07);
(h) it would (i) cause the CADAs to test and certify in writing that the
field irrigation and drainage channels within a chak have been
upgraded in accordance with the agreed planning and design criteria,
before entrusting the concerned farmers' organizations with the
responsibility for O&M; (ii) within a period of two years from the
commissioning of any distributary canal, minor canal or chak, and
based on the experience obtained during operation of the system,
cause the CADAs to promptly carry out any required improvements and
modifications in the upgraded irrigation distribution system; and



-42-
(iii) make promptly the necessary funds available for that purpose
(para 5.08);
(i) it would (i) operate and maintain adequately the distributaries,
minors, drainage channels, link drains, canal service roads and
buildings under the p.oject and provide sufficient funds to carry out
such operation and maintenance; and (ii) for purposes of adequately
operating the irrigation systems under the project, cause each CADA,
not later than thirty days after the ending of the rainy season of
each year, commencing in 1984, to carry out a survey of the required
repairs in each irrigation system and cause the CADAs to carry out
the repairs promptly (para 5.09);
(j) it would promptly repair and maintain the field irrigation and
drainage channels at farmers' costs in case such works are not car-
ried out by the farmers' organizations, and provide the CADAs with
the necessary facilities for that purpose (para 5.10);
(k) it would train concerned CADA staff in WALMI in accordance with
project implementation, staffing and training schedules which have
been agreed between the Bank Group and GOM (para 5.11);
(1) it would take all action necessary to promote land shaping in the
project area (para 5.16);
(m) it would take all necessary action to establish the farmers'
organizations in the project area in accordance with its prepared
plan (para 5.18);
(n) it would (i) not later that December 31, 1983, prepare and furnish to
the Bank Group for its review and comments, a detailed work plan
covering the activities to be undertaken by the Water Management
Research Division and the On-Farm Development Structures Djvision
during the period 1984 through 1989, inclusive, and, not later than
April 1, 1984, taking into account the Bank Croup's comments, imple-
ment the work plan (para 5.19);
(o) it would (i) prepare by December 31, 1983 for comment by the Bank
Group and subsequently implement, a detailed plan for monitoring;
(ii) furnish the Bank Group, commencing June 30, 1985, annual reports
with analyses and conclusions of the monitoring and evaluation
activities; and (iii) complete a sociological survey before December
31, 1987, to evaluate the impact of the farmers' organizations on the
O&M of the upgraded systems (para 5.21);
(p) it would (i) maintain the Water Management Research Division under
the Directorate of Irrigation Research and Development with adequate
staffing and funds, to coordinate and develop improvements in irriga-
tion systems operation and monitor and evaluate activities with
respect to adaptive agricultural research and special surveys; and



-43-
(ii) establish and maintain within each CADA a Monitoring Cell with
adequate funds and staffing to carry out the monitoring activities
under the project (para 5.22);
(q) it would continue to review its procedures for collection of irriga-
tion water charges and would take all necessary action to improve and
expedite collection of such water charges (para 6.15);
(r) it would, taking into account the results of the experimental schemes
under MIP II, after two years of operation of the upgraded field
channels within a chak in the project area, establish and implement
for such chak an appropriate irrigation water charge system; such
system shall ensure direct recovery of annual operation and main-
tenance costs of the upgraded irrigation system servicing such chak,
and having regard, inter-alia, to the incentive and repayment
capacity of the farmers, include a reasonable contribution of the
cost of infrastructure investments of the upgraded irrigation system,
including costs of infrastructure investment in the field irrigation
and drainage channels within the chak (para 6.16); and
(s) it would take all measures considered necessary to minimize the
hazards of malaria and other water related diseases in the project
area.
8.03   With the above agreements the proposed project would be suitable for
a credit of US$32.0 M on standard IDA terms and a loan of US$22.7 for 20
years including four years of grace. The Borrower would be the Government
of India.



-44-
ANNEX 1
INDIA                                     Table T-1
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Results from Pilot and Farmers Project
A. Pilot Project (CCA - 5,143 ha)
Irrigated Crops and Irrigation Intensities
1979/80              1980/81              1981/82              1982/83
Area       Z of      Area       & of      Area       Y of      Area        % of
(ha)       CCA       (ha)       CCA       (ha)       CCA       (ha)       CCA
Type of Crop
Perennials              138          3      377           7        592        12        698          14
1tharif Crops           314          6      245           5        676        13        951         18
Rabi Crops              361          7      697          14        811        16      1,430          28
Hot Weather Crops       221          4      473           9        556        11        231           4
Total   1,034         20    1,792          35      2,635         51     3,310          64
Completion of
Physical
Infrastruct--re at
Year End (X)                  16                   34                   72                     n.a.2/
11  Up to March  83 only.
2/ Not available.
Irrigation Intensities in Completed Minors
1979/80                           1980/81                          1981/82                     1982/83
Rate of        Irrigation        Rate of         Irrigation        Rate of         Irrigation
CCA   Completion    Intensity (Z)   Completion    Intensity (%)   Completion    Intensity (%)    Irrigation
Distr./Minor       (ha)  at Year End    at Year End    at Year End    At Year End    At Year End    At Year End    Intensity (X)
Dy 4-PLBC          279       31               43              77                77              100               83                107
Minor 1l-PLBC  1,001         29                12             59                36               96               42                 59
Dy 13-PLBC         692       40                14             66                23               96               70                 66
Dy 8-PLBC          421       41                10             76                20               98               70                 67
8.  Farmers Project (CCA - 7,512 ha)
Irrigated Crops and Irrigation Intensities
1979/80              1980/81             1981/82             1982/83
Area       2 of      Area                           Z of    Area  2 o rea  2 of
Type of Crop           (ha)       CCA       (ha)       CCA       (ha)       CCA      (ha)      CCA
Perennials              269          4        812        11    1,010        13      1,081       14
Kharif Crops            912         12       447          6       827       11        840       11
Rabi Crops              381          5       910         12    1,192        16        899       12
Not Weather Crops       231          3       477          6       693        9        447        6
Total      1,793        24      2,646         35    3,722        49     3,267        43
Completion of
Physical
Infrastructure
at Year End (Z)                -                    11                 55
Irrigation Intensities in Completed Minors
1979/80                         1980/81                          1981/82
Rate of                         Rate of                          Rate of
CCA    Completion    Irrigation         Completion   Irrigation         Completion    Irrigation
Minor              (ha)  at Year End       Intensity    at Year End    Intensity          at Year End       Intensity
2                  300        -                18             10              46               100              57
8A                  52        -                11            100              29               100              70
8B                  49        -                 8            100              41               100             84
9                  163        -               26              80              60               100            135
C.  Unimproved Control Area (CCA - 7,529 ha)
1979/80                   1980/81                          1981/82
Area        2 of          Area           % of             Area             Z of
Type of Crop        (ha)        CCA            (ha)          CCA              (ha)             CCA
Perennials          212          3             578            7               560               7
Kharif Crops        538          7             132            2               451               6
Rabi Crops          358          5             602            8               524               7
Not Weather Crops 369            5             525            7               556               7
Total   1,477          20           1,837           24             2,091              27



Inidial
Maharashtra - Water Utilization Priect
Climatic Data
MONTH
Jayakwadi Project                                        JAN       FEB       MAR      APR       MAY        JUNE      JULY       AliC      SEP      O(T       15V       DEC         TOTAL
Mean monthly rainfall (mm) 1                             7         6         7         10       17         142       165       149       188       51         24        10          776
Mean monithly temperature (0C)21                         21.8      24.0      27.9      31.1      32.4      29.0       25.7      25.2      25.4      25.6      23.2       21.4
Mean relative humidity (in %131                           52        41       33         34       47        76         87        87        84        64         56        55
Potential crop evapotranspiration(mm)41                  148       180       243       293       317       223        159       147       149       166        146       132       2,303
Purna Project
Mean monthly rainfall (mm)5I                              9         8        11        10        19        154        192       144       215       49         34         9          854
MN-an monthly temperature ( C)61                         26.3      24.7      28.3      31.7      32.8      29.8       27.5      26.6      26.8      25.8       22.9      20.8
Mean relative humidity (in %)71                          51        43        37        36        44        64         73        75        72        59         55        54
Potential crop evapotranspiration(mm)81                  136       154       203       225       290       220        185       152       159       161        123       118       2,126
Girna Project
Mean monthly rainfall (mm)91                              9         3         4         2         11        129       250       164       149       37         22         7          787
Mean monthly temperature ( 0)101                         19.9      17.8      27.6      32.1      34.8       32.6      29.6      28.5      28.3      26.0       21.4      19.9
Mean relative humidity (in Z)Ill                         5()       45        30        35        56         76        84        88        85        73         55        58
Potential  crop evapotranspirarion(mm)121                127       142       217       292       358       208        121       89        111       137        131       116       2,039
Mula Project
Mean monthly rainfall (mm)13l                             7         2         4        11        21         128       97        74        175       58         36         9          622
Mean monthly temperature (-CO141                         21.0      23.1      26.8      31.5      31.1      28.1       25.6      25.2      25.1      25.2       22.4      20.6
Mean relative humidity (in %)151                         42        34        26        26        33        62         72        72        72        58         50        47
Potential crop evapotranspiration (mm)16l                206       127       200       252        197       143       143       91        115       130        101       93        1,798
Khadahwasla Project
Mean monthJ;  rainfall (mm)171                           3          '         2        i4        27         107       169       96        130       76         30         4           661
Mean monthly temperature ( C3181                         20.0      23.1      26.1      29.3      29.9       27.5      24.9      24.4      25.0      25.6       22.9      21.1
Mean relative humidity (in Z)191                         52        44        36        38        47        69         81        81        77        66         58        55
Potential crop evapotranspiration(mnl)201                149       163       219       239       272       2Y9        164       160       155       164        148       139       2,181
Spurce:  ii   liaharashtra I report           21  Atoraiigabad      31   Aurangabad       4L   Mahara6htra I renorL (WATREQ)                                                                HL
-1   P'3rbhani  Observatory          61  Parbhani         71   Parbhani         81   WATREQ
91   Jalgaon Observatory           IOL  Aurangabad    ILl   Joalgaon           l,l   Jalnaon Observatory (see niote)
LLI   Ahmednagar Observatory         1L4  Ahmednagar       5-1  Ahmedniagar    If61   Data Supplied by GOM Irrigation Department (see note)
171   Pune Observatory              181  Pune             191   Pune            201   WAPCO (Bhima)
Note:   Unless otherwise stated, potential Crop evapotranspiration isUSWB class B from evaporation X 0.7.



-46-
ANNEX 1
Table T-3
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Size Distribution of Holdings in the Project Areas
Jayakwadi -
and Purna           Mula            Girna            Khadakwasla
% of     % of   % of       % of   % of       % of    % of       % of
Holdings  Area  Holdings  Area  Holdings   Area   Holdings  Area
Size
Less than 1                13       2                        21         6        13        2
1-2 ha                     18       9       39       22      40        23        20        7
2-4 ha                     27       17      25       17      25        34        38      29
More than 4                42        72     36       61      14        37        29       62
100      100    100       100     100       100       100     100
Average Holding
Size (ha)                     4.6              4.6              2.0                4.3



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Jayakwadi Command (CCA 183,000 ha)
Present and Expected Land and Stored Water Utilization
Present                        Future Without Project                   Future With Project
Net Water       Crop Distribution        Water        Crop Distribution         Water          Crop Distribution         Water
Requirements      for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements    for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements           for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements
per ha (m3)1/    & Irrigated Area         (-000 m3)       & Irrigated Area   (~000 i3)            & Irrigated Area       (O000 m 3
Perennials
sugarcane                    15,674                10                  157                10                  157                 10                  157
bananas                      14,418                                                                                                 1                  14
orchard                      10,093                  1                  10                 1                   10                   1            _     10
Sub-total                        -                   11                  167 1/                                                      12                 181 17
Kharlf (July-Oct) 2/
rice                          2,768                 3                    8                 3                    8                   1                   3
sorghum                       1,112                '2                   13                12                   13                 10                   11
millet                        1,022                 -                    -                 3                    3                   1                    1
cotton L.S. 4/                3,591                17                   61                15                   54                  11                  40
(cotton L.S.) 4/              3,591                  -                   -                (1)                   4                  (3)                 11
cotton desi                   3,591                 3                    9                 2                    7                   2                   7
vegetables         _          1,112                 5                    6                 5                    6                   3                   3
Sub-total                        -                   40                   99                40                   95                  28                   76
Rabi (Nov-Mar)
wheat                         6,255                22                  138                20                  125                  20                 125
sorghum                       3,933                10                   39                12                   47                 16                   63
gram                          5,578                 2                    7                 3                   11                   2                    7
vegetables          _         3,933                 3                   12                 2                    8                                        8_
Sub-total                        -                    37                 196                37                  191                  40                  203
Hot Season (Apr-June)
groundnuts                    8,127                10                   81                10                   81                  15                 122
cotton L.S. 4/                  504                 -                    -                 1                    1                   3                   2
vegetables                    8,127                 2                   16                 1                    8                   2                  16
Sub-total                        -                    12                  97                12                   90                  20                  140
TOTAL                                                100                 460 3/            100                  448 3/              100                  524 3/
1/  Requirements only for stored water in reservoir (between: Nov-June); effective rainfall deducted.
2/  Not counted against stored water.
3/  Water requirements per 100 ha cropped and irrigated area excluding kharif requirements (see 1/).
4/ Long staple.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Purna Command (CCA 78,500)
Present and Expected Land and Stored Water Utilization
Present                         Future Without Project                    Future With Project
Net Water       Crop Distribution          Water        Crop Distribution          Water         Crop Distribution          Water
Requiremeits       for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements        for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements         for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements
per ha (m )i/      & Irrigated Area        (OOD m3)        & Irrigated Area        (O000 m3)         & Irrigated Area        (>000 m3)
Perennials
sugarcane                   12,103                   14                  146                  8                  97                    8                 97
bananas                     11,239                                                            4                  45                    5                 56
orchard                       7,867          ___              ___           _        _        2        __        16                    2                 16
Sub-total                                              14                  1461/               14 /158 1                                15                 169 1/
Kharif (July-Oct) 2/
rice                          1,424                  11                   16                 11                  16                    7                 10
(cotton L.S.) 4/                761                  (2)                   2                 (2)                  2                   (2)                 2
sorghum                         722                   3                    2                  3                   2                    6                  4
vegetables                      722                   2                    1       _  _       2                   1                    2                  1
Sub-total                                           _  16           _ _    21                  16                  21                    15                 17
Rabi (Nov-Mar)
wheat                         4,420                  40                  177                 37                 164                   35                155
sorghum                       3,439                   2                    7                  3                  10                    3                 10
gram                          4,082                   2                    8                  4                  16                    5                 20
vegetables                    4,082                   2                    8                  2                   8                    2                  8
Sub-total               ___   ______   46                                  200                 46                 198                   45                 193
Hot Season (April-June)
groundnuts                    5,414                  20                  108                 20                 108                   21                114
cot.on L.S. 4/                2,295                   2                    5                  2                   5                    2                  5
vegetables                    5,414                   2                   11                  2                  11                    2                 11
Sub-total                                              24                  124                 24                 124                   25                130
TOTAL                                                 100                  470 3/             100                 480 3/               100                492 3/
1/  Requirement only for water in reservoir (between Nov.-June); effective rainfall deducted.
2/ Not counted against stored water.
3/  Water requirements per 100 ha cropped and irrigated area excluding kharif requirements (see 1).
4/  Long staple.                                                                                                                                                         v
X-tn



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Girna Command (CCA 79,300)
Present and Expected Land and Stored Water Utilization
Present                         Future Without Project                     Future With Project
Net Water       Crop Distribution          Water         Crop Distribution          Water          Crop Distribution          Water
Requirements       for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements    for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements              for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements
per ha (m3)1/       & Irrigated Area       ('000 m3)        & Irrigated Area        (000 m3)        & Irrigated Area         (OO0 m3)
Perennials
sugarcane                    16,601                    8                  133                 7                  116                     7                 116
bananas                      15,945                    5                   80                 5                   80                     5                   80
orchard                      11,161                    -               _   -                  1                    11                    1                   11
Sub-total                        -                      13                    3 1/             13                   207 1/                13                  207 1/
Kharif (July-Oct) 2/
rice                          3,334                    5                   17                 4                    13                   3                    10
sorghum                       1,612                   18                   29                19                   31                   18                    29
millet                        1,612                    1                    2                 1                     2                   1                     2
cotton L.S. 4/                3,400                    2                    7                 2                     7                   2                     7
cotton desi                   3,400                    1                    3                 1                     3                   1                     3
vegetables                    1,612                    2                    3                 2                     3                                         3            -PI__
Sub-total                       1                       29                   61                29                    59                   27                   54 3
Rabi (Nov-Mar)
wheat                         4,732                   15                    71               14                    66                  14                    66
sorghum                       4,732                   12                    57               13                    62                  13                    62
gram                          3,569                    9                    32                9                    32                   9                    32
vegetables                    3,569                    1                     4                1                     4                   2                     7
Sub-total                         -                     37                   164               29                   164                   38                  167
Hot Season (April-June)
cotton                          748                    4                     3                3                     2                   3                     2
groundnuts                    9,850                   17                   167               17                  167                   17                   167
vegetables                    9,850       _            -                    -                 1                    10                   2                    10
Sub-total                                               21                   170               21                   179                  22                   199    __
TOTAL                                                  i DO0                 547 3/           100                   550 3/              100                   573 3/
1/  Requirements only for stored water in reservoir (between Nov-June); effective rainfall deducted.
2/  Not counted against stored water
3/  Water requirements per 100 ha cropped and irrigated area excluding kharif requirements (see 1/).                                                                      a
4/ Long staple.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Mula Command (CCA 118,200 ha)
Present and Expected Land and Stored Water Utilization
Present                        Future Without Prolect                    Future With Project
Net Water       Crop Distribution         Water        Crop Distribution         Water          Crop Distribution         Water
Requirements      for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements    for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements            for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements
per ha (m3)1/      & Irrigated Area       ('000 m3)        & Irrigated Area       ('000 m3)        & Irrigated Area        (-000 m3)
Perennials
sugarcane                   13,998                  6                   84                6                   84                     6                  84
orchard                     10,406                  2                   10                2                   10                     2                  10
Sub-total                                             8                   94 1/              8                  94 1/                  8                  94 1/
Kharif (July-Oct) 2/
sorghum                      1,801                 15                   27               14                   25                    16                  29
millet                       1,801                  1                    2                2                    4                     1                   2
(cotton L.S.) 4/             3,142                 (3)                   9               (3)                   9                    (3)                  9
rice                         6,377                  1                    6                1                    6                     1                   6
vegetables                   2,984                  1                    3                2                    6                     2                   6
Sub-total                                            18                   47                19                  50                    20                  52  u_
CQ
Rabi (Nov-Mar)
sorghum                      3,114                 23                   12               24                   75                    24                  75
wheat                        3,848                 20                   77               18                   69                    17                  65
gram                         2,516                  3                    8                3                    8                     2                   5
vegetables                   3,114                  2                    6                2                    6                     2                   6
Sub-total                                            48                  163               47                  158                    45                 151
Hot Season (April-June)
groundnuts                   7,891                 21                  166               21                  166                    22                 174
cotton L.S. 4/               2,334                  3                    7                3                    7                     3                   7
vegetables                   7,891                  2                   16                2                   16                     2                  16
Sub-total                                            26                  189               26                  189                    27                 197
TOTAL                                               100                  446              100                  441                   100                 442
1/  Requirements only for stored water in reservoir (between Nov-Jtune); effective rainfall deducted.
2/  Not counted against stored water.
3/  Water requirement per 100 ha cropped and irrigated area, excluding kharif requirements (see 1/).
4/  Long staple.                                                                                                                                                  _ x
H J



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Khadakwasla Command (CCA 101,000 ha)
Present and Expected Land and Stored Water Utilization
Present                        Future Without Project                    Future With Project
Net Water       Crop Distribution         Water        Crop Distribution          Water         Crop Distribution          Water
Requirements      for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements    for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements            for 100 ha Cropped  Requirements
per ha (m3)1/      & Irrigated Area       ('000 m3)        & Irrigated Area       ('00o m3)        & Irrigated Area       (COOO m3)
Perennials
sugarcane                    13,130                 5                   66                  6                  79                     7                 92
orchard                       9,191                 4                   37                  3                  28                     4                  37
Sub-total                                             9                  103 1/               9                 107 1/                 11                 129 1/
Kharif (July-Oct) 2/
rice                          3,842                 4                   15                  4                   15                    3                 12
sorghum                       1,781                 7                   12                 8                   14                   10                   18
(cotton)                      3,142                (1)                   3                (2)                    6                  (2)                   6
millet                        1,781                 1                    2                  1                    2                    1                   2
maize                         2,457                 2                    5                  2                    5                    2                   5
groundnuts                    2,802                 4                   11                 4                   11                     3                   8
vegetables                    1,963                 5                   10                  4                    8                    4                   8            la
Sub-total                                            23                   58                 23                   61                   23                  59   _
Rabi (Nov-Mar)
wheat                         4,999                15                   75                 13                   65                   11                  55
sorghum                       3,159                25                   79                26                   82                   26                   82
maize                         4,358                 2                    9                  2                    9                    1                   4
gram                          3,439                 1                    3                 1                     3                    1                   3
vegetables                    3,439                 2                    7                  2                    7                    2                   7
Sub-total                                            45                   173                44                  166                   41                 151
Hot Season (Apr-June)
sorghum                       4,107                 2                     8                1                     4                   -
maize                         5,665                 2                    11                2                    11                    2                  11
cotton                        2,640                 1                     3               2                      5                    2                   5
groundnuts                    9,850                15                   148              16                   158                   19                  187
vegetables                    9,850                 3                    30                3                    30                    2                  20
Sub-total                                            23                   200               24                  208                    25                  22
TOTAL                                               100                   4763/            100                   481 3/               100                 503 3/
1/  Requirements only for stored water in reservoir (between Nov-June); effective rainfall deducted.
2/  Not counted against stored water.                                                                                                                                 z
3/  Water requirement per 100 ha cropped and irrigated area, excluding kharif requirements (see 1/).                                                                X X
F3 



INDIA
MAHARASITTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Water Balance and Irrigable Areas with the Project
A. For Rabi and Hot Weather (Nov. - June)
Average Available                              Water Requirements                                                              Total
Stored Water at       Water Available           at Root Zone in                                            Area Under   Projected
Culturable      Reservoir and          at Crop Root             Rabi and Hot             Area Cropped in Rabi and        Kharif Crops   Cropping
Command     Available for Rabi    Zone for Entire 1/         Weather per 100 ha         Hot Season incl. Perennial        at Full      Intensity
Area (CCA)    and Hot Weather            Command             of Projected Cropping        Crops at Full Development   Development    at Full
Scheme           (O0O0 ha)      Irrigation (Mm3)           (Mm3)                  Pattern (Mm3) 2/          (O000 ha)        (% of CCA)   (% of CCA)  Development4/
Jayakwadi         183.0            2,193                      767                      0.52                   148                  81          32            113
Purna              78.5              651                      273                      0.49                    56                  71          13             84
Girna              79.3              396                      166                      0.57                    29                  36          13             49
Mula              118.2              608                      255                      0.44                    58                  49          12             61         ,
Khadakwasla       101.6              587                      247                      0.50                    49                  49          15             64
1/  Stored water utilized at 42% project efficiency (except for Jayakwadi for which 35% project efficiency was used).
2/  See Tables T-3 to T-7.
3/ Calculated from Tables T-4 to T-8 but taking into account fallow and rainfed areas; excluding perennials.
4/ As used in economic analysis.
B.  For Kharif Season (July - October)
Water Requirements
Water Available           at Root Zone in                                                Area Assumed
Culturable                                at Crop Root            Kharif Season               Maximum Area Irrigable         Irrigated in Kharif,
Command          Gross Water          Zone for Entire               per 100 ha              Under Projected Cropping        (Incl. Perennials) 4/
Area            Availability              Command            of Projected Cropping                Pattern 3/               at Full Development
Scheme           (-000 ha)            (Mm3)                   (Mm3)                 Pattern (Mm3)            (000 ha)            (% of CCA)        (% of CCA)
Jayakwadi          183.0               570 1/                  182                      0.11                    165                  90               45
Purna               78.5                97 2/                   40                      0.06                     67                  85               2S
Girna               79.3                77 2/                   32                      0.10                     32                  40                20
Mula               118.2                61 2/                    26                     0.08                     32                  27                17
Khadakwasla        101.6               844 2/                  354                      0.09                    393                 100                22           H ~
1/ SAR, MIP I; average available flow
2/ Dependable flow (70-75%) minus required storage for rabi and hot weather and reservoir losses.
3/ This is maximum irrigable area in kharif from water availability point of view.
4/ As assumed in economic analysis; these percentages are less than the maximum irrigable areas because of present cropping practices
and farmers- attitude to kharif irrigation.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Present and Future Irrigated Areas
and Cropping Intensities in the Project Areas
Future                                         Future
Present                                   Without Project                                 With Project
Project   - ---------------------------------------     ---------------------------------------        -----------------   ------ ----- -- --- --
Area       Total         Rabi and Hot       Total        Total         Rabi and Hot      Total         Total        Rabi and Hot       Total
CCA      Irrigation          Season       Irrigated    Irrigation         Season       Irrigated      Irrigation         Season       Irrigated
(ha)     Tntensity%l/      Irrigation      Area        Intensity%l/    Irrigation        Area       Intensity%l/    Irrigation2/    Area
Jayakwadi        42,350         31                19          13,000          42               25           17,875         113                81           47,855
Purna            10,500         51                43            5,390         56               47            5,880          84                71            8,820
Girna             11,030        26                18            2,910         30               21            3,310          49                36            5,405
Mula              21,970        26                21            5,710         30               24            6,590          61                49           13,400
Khadakwasla       8,600         10                 8              900         30               23            2,580          64                49            5,505   @
930                                27,910         38                            36,235          86                             80,985
1/ Includes Kharif irrigaticn - not using stored water.
2/ From Table 9.
Notes:
1/ For calculating irrigation intensities both perennials (grown over three seasons)
and LS cotton (grown over two seasons) are only counted once.
2/ All project areas except, at present, Jayakwadi, have many wells and their number is
increasing. Well irrigation hasa en excluded from the calculations.
oz



-54-                          ANNEX 1
Table T-1l
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Present and Expected Future Yields (tons/ha)
P           W           W
Sugarcane                                70.0         73.0        80.0
Bananas                                  35.0         36.0        40.0
Orchards                                 30.0         32.0        35.0
Rice                                      1.4          1.5         1.5
Sorghum:
Kharif                                1.8         2.0          2.2
Rabi                                  2.0         2.0          2.3
Hot weather                           2.5         2.5          2.7
Pearl Millet                              0.7          0.8         0.8
Cotton
Long staple kharif                    1.7          1.9         2.2
Long staple hot season                2.5          2.6         2.8
Desi                                  0.8          0.8         0.9
Groundnuts
Hot season                            1.4          1.5         1.7
Kharif                                1.0          1.1         1.3
Wheat                                     1.2          1.3         1.4
Gram                                      0.7          0.7         0.8
Vegetables                                6.2          6.2         6.3
P= present;  W= expected without project;  W= expected with project



-55-
INDIA                              ANNEX 1
Table T-12
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Details of Present and Planned Systems Operations
Present Practise        Intended Practise
with Project
---------------(in days) --------------
Jayakwadi
(i) On-farm Rotation Interval
Kharif season                                21                      14
Rabi season                                  21                       7
Hot Weather season                           10                       7
(ii) Flow Duration
Distributaries & Minors                 12 on/2 off               12 on/2 off
Mula
(i) On-farm Rotation Interval
Kharif season                                14                      14
Rabi season                                  21                      14
Hot Weather season                           14                      10
(ii) Flow Duration
Distributaries No. 1 & 2                12 on/2 off                7 on/7 off
Distributaries Nos. 3, 4 & 5            12 on/2 off               12 on/2 off
Minors (designed for)                   12 on/2 off                7 on/7 off
Girna
(i) On-farm Rotation Interval
Kharif season                                21                      14
Rabi season                                  21                      14
Hot Weather season                           21                      14
(ii) Flow Duration
Main Canal & Branch Canals              16 on/5 off               12 on/2 off
Distributaries                           5 on/off                  7 on/off
Minors (designed for)                    5 on/off                  7 on/off
Purna
(i) On-farm Rotation Interval
Kharif season                                14                      14
Rabi season                                  14                      14
Hot Weather season                           14                       7
(ii) Flow Duration
Distributaries & Minors                 12 cn/2 off               12 on/2 off
Khadakwasla
(i) On-farm Rotatiorn Interval
Kharif season                                21                      14
Rabi season                                  21                      14
Hot Weather                                  -                        7
(ii) Flow Duration
Distributaries                          12 on/2 off                7 on/7 off
Minors (dtiQned for)                    12 on/2 off                7 onl7 off



-56-
ANNEX 1
Table T-13
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
JAYAKWADI PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
(RS. '000)
83/84    84/85    851/6    86187    87/88    88/99          Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
A. LAND AhUISITION                                                 10.0    500.0               -              -         -      510.0
B. DISTRIBUTARIES                                               1,545.0  3s090.0  6,180.0  4,635.0            -         -   15,450.0
C. hiNORS                                                       3,260.9  4,891,4  6,521.8  8,152.3  6,521.8  3,260.9   32,609.0
D. FIELD CHANNELS                                               6,432.9  9,649.4 12,865.8 1k,082.3 12,865.8  6,432.9   64,329,.0
E. LINK AND MAIN DRAINS                                           783.5  1,175.3  1,567.0  1 958.8  1.567.0    783.5    7,835.0
F. OFFICES AND QUARTERS                                         3,S06,0 11,448.0          -         -         -         -   15,264.0
G. TRAINING CENTERS
BUILDINGS                                                   1,360,0  1!860.0           -         -        -         -    3,720.0
VEHICLES                                                       450.0         -                            -         -       450.0
TEACHING AIDS AND FURNITURE                                    500.0         -         -         -        -         -       500.0
Sub-Total TRAINING CENTERS                                      2,810.0  1,860.0               -              -         -    4,670.0
H. EQUIPMENT
CONSTRUCTION                                                 1,129.3  3.387.9  5,646.5  1,129.3            -        -   11,293.0
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION                                             -  1l050.3  3,150.8           -        -         -    4,201,0
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                               493.8  1,481.3          -         -         -        -    1,975.0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                             1,623.1  5,19.4  8,797.3  1,129.3            -         -   17,469.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                            20,281,4 38,533.4 359031.9 31,957,6 20,954.6 10,477.3  158!136.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. VEHTCLE OPERATION                                             105.0    e.20.0    525.0    525.0    420.d    105.0    2.1.'0+0
B. TRAINING CENTERS                                              808,0    80to0   B0O.0    908.O    80B8O         404.0    4.44'.0
C. ENJGINE'RING, SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATION                5,r203.E ll,449.4 10,407.6  9,8  ..2  9.887 .   5.203.8   52,038.0
Total RE(URRENT COSTS                                              6.116.3 12,6'6.4 11,740,6 11,220.2 11.115-2 ',712.B   58,582.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                               26,398.2 515209.' 47,672,5 43,177.8 32.069.8 16,19SO1  216,718,0



-57-
ANNEX 1
Table T-14
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
PURNA PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
(RS. '000)
83/84   84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88   88/89   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LANll AOUISITION                                             10.0         -         -        -        -       -      10.0
B. IIISTRIBUTARIES                                              96.2    480.8    769.2    576.9          -       -  1,923.0
C. MINORS                                                          -    892.5  2,231.3  2v677.5 2,231.3   892.5  8,925.0
D. FIELD CHANNELS                                                  -  1,207.5  3,018.8  3,622.5 3,018.8 1.2207.5 12,075.0
E. LINK AND MAIN DRAINS                                            -    399.0    997.5  1,197.0   997.5   399.0  3.990.0
F. OFFICES AND QUARTERS                                      1.513.5  4,540.5          -        -        -       -  6,054.0
G. TRAINING CENTERS
BUILDINGS                                                   930.0    930.0                           -           1,860.0
VEHICLES                                                    225.0         -        -         -       -        -    225.0
TEACHING AIDS AND FURNITURE                                 250.0         -        -         -       -        -    250.0
Sub-Total TRAINING CENTERS                                   19405.0    930.0          -        -        -       -  2,335.0
H. EQUIPMENT
CONSTRUCTION                                                328.9    986.7  1.644.5    3289.                  -  3,289.0
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION                                          -    797.5  2,392.5          -        -       -  3,190,0
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                            206.2    618.7         -         -        -       -    825.0
Su0-Total EQUIPMENT                                            535.1  2.403.0  4,037.0    328.9         --       -  7,304,0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                          3,559,8 10,853.2 11,053.7  8,402.B 6,247.5 2,499,0 42,616.0
II, RECURRENT COSTS
A. VEHICLE OPERATION                                           25.0    100.0    125.0    125.0   100,l     25.0    500,0
B. TRAINING CENTERS                                           404.0    404,0    404.0    404,0   404.0   202.0  2.2222.0
C. ENGINEERING, SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATION              1.181.2  2,598.6  2,3'.624  2,244.3 2i244.2 1,181.2 11I812,0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                           1,610.2  3,102.6  2,891.4  2,773.3 2,748.,  1,408,2 14y534.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             5,170,0 13,955.8 13,945,1 11,176.1 S,995.  3907'.2 57,1i50.0



-58-
ANNEX 1
Table  T-15
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA UATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
GIRNA PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
(RS. '000)
83/84   84/85    85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND ADUISITION                                                 10.0         -        -       -        -        -      10.0
B. DISTRIBUTARIES                                                                           -                                -
CG  MINORS
D. FIELD CHANNELS                                                     -  1s476.9 3,692.3 4,430.7 3Y692.3 1,476.9 14t769.0
. LINK AND MAIN DRAINS                                              -    420.0 1,050.0 1l260.0 1,050.0   420.0  4Y200.0
F. OFFICES AND QUARTERS                                        2,332,5  6i9?7.5          _ -              -        -  9Y330,0
G. TRAINING CENTERS
BUILDINGS                                                     930.0    930.0              -        -       -       1Y860.0
VEHICLES                                                      225.0          -       -        -        -        -    225.0
TEACHING AIDS                                                 250.0         -        -        -        -        -    250.0
Sub-Total TRAINING CENTERS                                     1,405.0    930.0         -        -        -        -  2,335.0
H. EQUIPMENT
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT                                        322.0    966.0 1Y610,0   322.0           -        -  3,220.0
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                              187.5    562.5         -        -                 -    750.0
Sub-Total1 EQUIPMENT                                             509.5  3.528.5 IY610.0   3 2 2 . 0                   3 970.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                             41257.0 11352,Q 6i352,3 6s012.7 4Y742.3 1,896,9 347614.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. VEHICLE OPERATION                                             20.0      80.0   100,0   100.0  OA80.0    20.0P    400.0
B. TRAINING CENTERS                                              404.0    404.0   404.0   404.0   404.0   202.0  2s222.0
C. ENGINEERING) SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATION                1s13-.5  2,502525 275.02s161 3 216i.3 i,i37,  lt37.C0
Total RECURRENT CIOST:;                                            1c1;1.92,6R,5 2= 79.;0  2?-66Sf:    S 64O.3 1.739.D  135997.0
Total BASELINE CS.JTS                                                  1SJ      - e9 >-4          6 24.   3-*0 27.135 3 .56,4 48 611.0
7= ='Z =  =7.   =          



-59-
AiiNEX 1
Table T-16
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
MULA PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
(RS. '000)
83/84   84185    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LAND AQUISITION                                              10.0         -         -        -         -       -        10.0
D. DISTRIBUTARIES                                               85.0    425.0    680.0    510.0           -       -    1,700.0
C. MINORS                                                           -  1,712.1  2,853.5  2,853.5  2,853.5 1,141.4   11,414.0
D. FIELD CHANNELS                                                   -  4,640.1  7,733.5  7,733.5  7,733.5 3,093.4   30,934.0
E. LINK AND MAIN DRAINS                                             -  1,078.5  1,797.5  1,797.5  1,797.5   719.0    7,190.0
F. OFFICES AND QUARTERS                                      4,400.0 13,200.0          -        -         -       -   17,600.0
G. TRAINING CENTERS
= ________ ___ __
BUILDINGS                                                   930.0    930.0                   -         -       -    I,860.0
VEHICLES                                                    225.0         -         -        -         -       -       225.0
TEACHING AIDS                                               250.0         -         -        -         -       -       250.0
Sub-Total TRAINING CENTERS                                   1,405.0    930.0          -        -         -       -    2,335.0
H. EQUIPMENT
CONSTRUCTION                                                414.0  1,242.0  2,070.0    414.0           -       -    4,140.0
OFFICE EOUIPMENT                                            412.5  1,237.5                   -         -       -    1,650.0
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION                                          -    797.5  2,392.5          -         -       -    3,190.0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                            826.5  3,277.0  4,462.'    414.0           -       -    8!980.0
Totsl INVESTMENT COSTS                                          6,726.5 25,262.7 17,527.0 13,308.5 12,384.5 4,957.8   80,163.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. VEHICLE OPERATION                                           55.0    220.0    275.0    275.0    220.0    55.0    I1I00.0
B. TRAINING CENTERS                                           404.0    404,0    404.0    404.0    404.0   202.0    2i222.0
C. ENGINEERING, SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATION              2,401.1  5,282.4  47802.2  4,562.1  4,562.1 2,401.1   24i011.0
Tot-' RECURRENT COSTS                                           2,860.1  5,906.4  5,481.2  5,241.1  5,186.1 2,658.1   277333+0
= ====A  ======== ======== ======== ======== ======= ==== 1=====
Total, BASELINE COSTS                                            9,586.6 31i169.1 213.008.2- 18Y549.6 176570.6 7,611.9  107.476.5



-60-
ANNEX 1
Table T-17
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
KHADAKWASLA PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
(RS. '000)
83/84   84/85    85/86       86/87     87/88    88/189   Total
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. LAND AOUIITION                                                   10.0         -         -          -         -        -      10,Q
B. DISTRIBUTARIES                                                  719.2  3Y596,0  5!753.6  4i315.2                       - - 14,384,0
C. MINORS                                                               -  1n730,0  2,883.3  2r983,3  2f883.3 1,153.3 11533.0
D. FIELD CHANNELS                                                       -  2,364.6  3,941.0  37941.0  37941.0 1,576.4 15,764.0
E. LINK AND MAIN DRAINS                                                       15958    266.3    266.3    266.3   106.'5  IfO65,0
F. OFFICES AND QUARTERS                                          27523.0  7569.,0           -          -         -        - 10,092,0
S. TRAINING CENTERS
BUILDINGS                                                       930. 0    930,0          -         -         -        -  }60.0
VEHICLES                                                        220            -         -         -          -        -     25-.0
TEACHING AIDIQS                                                 250.0                                                       2 -  -  -  -    250.0
Sub-Total TRAINING CENTERS                                       1,405,0      93C,0 o                  -         -        -   2'33'.0
H. EQUIPMENT
CONSTRUCTION                                                    591,1  1,773.3  2,955.5        591,1                   -  5,911.^
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                                25' 3    76817           -         -          -        - Q25,0
Sub-Tctzl EQUIPMENT                                                847.4  2.542. 1  2755,5        591.1          -        -  66.0 i,,
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                               5f504.6  S8!9 10 .4 15'709 Q   11,9%6,   7l090,5 2,236,       1 lQ
II, RECURRENT COSTS
Ai. VE"ICLE OPERkTION                                              35        P         1?.O      175.0    14C,9 40     i      7
B, TRAINING CENTERFS                                              40-i0    4Q40nv    4 1         '0 4 0    404t O,21.
. ENGINEERING. SIUPEFVTSIO' hNI Af!.INICTF'ATION                17381. 3             2,762,6   2,)        *.-  4   10'"  3 1
ct1RECURRENT lOT?I                                               1 ,9820-   _7 I     3-,34197                                    7~
3oi BASPhELINE  :0Tca T.34   2  4-4.' 19.141 +                                                            1    0        4  4.       54.



-61-
AN4NEX 1
Table T-18
MNAHARASHTRA lJATER UTILIZPATION PROJECT
ADAPTIVTE RESEARCH
qietdi1ed Cost Tible
(RE,. '000)
'iase Costs
833/"   84/85   85/u8   86/87   87/188  808/89   Total
I  IN.VESTMEN7 COSTS
VE H'tICLES  4K                                                    600.0                     6 , _
P, EOUIPMENT                            600.0        -        -        -        -       -    600.0
C- BUmPIIN;}OuS                       2fO9O.O  -------        -        -        -       -  4-1--- -----
TIt.l IN7'EST14ENT COSTS                 Zf290.0 2Y090.0                  -        -       -  57u89sQ
TI. RECURRENT COCSTS
A. ESTABLISHMENT                     1        1200.0 1!200.0 !Y200.0 1  "200.0 15200,0  600,0  6rf00.0
B. LABOR AND OPERATIOS                 550.0   550.0   550,0!  550.0   q0,0  275.0   >025 A0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    !Y750,0 1,7500 1'7C750 01 175i .0 l5O.C0  875.0 9i6f2l     .
Total BiASELINE C:OSTS                    5 0'4,0 *   >,00 r   S F I A50   ',5   17 85,0 i5d005,0



-62-
ANNEX 1
Table T-19
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILI7ATION PROJECT
WATEhR MANAGEMENT AND ENGINEERING RESEARCH
Detsiled Cost Table
(RS. '000)
Base Costs
83194   B4/85   85J86   96/87   97189  80/1?   Total
I, INVESTMENT COSTS
Ai LAND AaUISITION                      800.0        -       -        -       -       -    SOO0O
B. BUIL!TNGS                           8598.  2,576.3       -        -       -       -  3f435.0
CO 0FFICE EQUIPMENT                     100.0    97.0        -        -       -       -    197.0
Di COMPUTOR                             520.0   520.0        -        -       -       -  17040.0
E. FIELD EQUIPMENT                      750.0   750i0        -        -       -       -  1,500.0
F  VEHICLES                             500.0   500.0         -       -        -      -  1000.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                   3,528.9 4f443-3                          -      -  7F972.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT                               -    54.0   112.5   112.5   112.5   58.5    450.0
B. SALARIES                            455.0   910.0   910.0   910.0   910.0  455.0  4?550.0
C. TRAVELLING ALLOWANICE                22,7    45.4    45.4    45.4    4'.4   22-.7    22740
D. FIELD RESEARhCH                     160.0   320.0   320.0   320.0  320.0  160,0  1,600.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      637.7 1s329.4 15387.9 1Y387.9 1,387.9  696.2  6,027,0
Total BASELINE COSTS                      47166.5 5,772.7 1,387.9 15387.0 1,387.9  696.2 14,799.0



-63-
ANNEX 1
Table T-20
T ,4DIA,
MAUARASHTRA WATEF; UTILi:T IO T   F7Tl  1CT
liONf,'ITORThB TiN+fI ,nl V*^fLUA.;T-.iON
Flet,11ed .e 'OS4 T-Btle
83184  84/615  859/86  86/87  87ISS  I82/9  Thtal
1,RECURRENT C;3Tc
i7i FAiFRF iATTITUDE SUREY                        II67 660 -O  1b7'1             i7           _ 
E.p FAMERS  i;GANT7hT T C I,    Y                     -       -       - I iJ                  _   7'50iO
B~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                ~---:  - :r-    --=-  =.-  ===_-: =-=-==^-
I.R MIN TCRINCEL                       35.~2O    ~O)2B                 ~~      0P
S34 t3C  8!6.' !Tt
C. MISCELLANEOU  ps  c.  An4475    2   5  -  -7 t      -. 2i
IT  RECURRENT   COeSTS
tA   INTERVATIONAL TRAVEL   Person       ?500   57.0                -      -     -           57iOs
B. HO''TEL ACCOMM,ODAhTI,ON   diav          950  119.1/      -      -     -      -      -   17
C. MISCELLA,NEOUS            Poerson        475    ^9        -      -     -      -      -     si
Total REU,RRENT CiOSTS                                                                        1797+  -  6    7+
Total, BAS2ELINE COS.TS                               1? b-                    -      -      -   79.6k



-64-
ANN1EX 1
Table T-21
IND!IA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILI1ATION  PROJECT
LANiD SHh-FING
Detailed Cost Table
Y8c- e l'-   o-t
?/' ; B4/85  85/86   R6/e7  8 17/8  98/89  Tota.'
I, TIINESTMEMT COiSTS
'Ai EJl:I,P  E  r
2'H5015   4WDIL                     iiNos       LOO  2.r00.0        -  100,          -  1i00,0        -   30I ! 
FAWIPNG OFFICE          MENS  3',0                                   -       -                               '
IUcY EOui-'                                         5   25 0      5.0    10.0IC,     .0    25.0
v TU  ~TNE 9 U I2FFE SNT                                   I-5 .0     5.0   1101 0    10.0   1250
T,t2.} 1is!1YrST ;*L,NT Ff.D;7;!                              .55,       r, f0  :LP IC,  L?0    L'511 -            4l
F IEI   F!  C 9i s1i Hi   <
I !0 SUFYFYORS                   .~ea         1 2   60.   144+    192. 0  24M.   360.   ISM r  ,
ENE   P2l4ERvisH                 asrr26   '26.0    52 a -              104.0  104 +   l           si .i .i,2R  0
A,Ii5- T QiFEfFdJ.;%;CuA-tw NT!2     5        ->12   6              t4) )  0   3t6 .0    36.0  7       i-
DRIERS                           saMs~                                  18.      iM                            0
YFHIWLE 0V'ERAT'ION            vpi,i1cle   -     10     s o    10  0M   20 . w 0    2 0 r5                    0
Suib-Tota1  'TS  aND V,EHICLES                            1015   l09.0  370.0   4 1P R    5      .i'' I5     ,  i 01 F .,O4S
Total CEIPvfFFNT Cf)T-c                                        101i    27'Q{ 7 3700O  418 0   5'.             0 Q  2   0
Total BASELINRE  Ccir8 >T                                               244,0 40 ASO p  4A 28 ,   7 20,5  291.0 2,420.0



Annex I
Table T-22
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Procurement of Equipment
A.  Machinery and Vehicles for Construction and 0&M
Unit  ost   Total Cost
Item                                                 Rs '000      Rs  000
Nos. Required
Trucks/Tippers            10   2   3   -   6  21              220        4,620
Concrete Mixers           10   -   -   -   5  15               40          600
Compressors                -   -   -   -   1   1              180          180
Crushers                   6   1   2   -   2  11              120        1,320
Extrusion Machines         6   2   2   4   2  16              200        3,200
Rollers                    5   2   -   -   5  12              200        2,400
Micro Desktop
Computers                4   1   1   2   1   9              600        5,400
Vehicles                  14   4   4  1L   7  40              100        4,000
Misc. (L.S.)               1   1   1   1   1   5              500        2,500
Spares (15%)                                                             3,630
27,850
B.  Wireless Communication Equipment
Jayakwadi Scheme                                                         4,200
Purna Scheme                                                             3,190
Mula Scheme                                                              3,190
10,580
C.  Training Centers
Jayakwadi                                                   lotal
Units   Unit Cost    Cost
Minibus (16 seater)                     2        125           250
Vehicles - 4 WD                         2        100           200
Teaching Aids & Furniture               2       250            500
Purna, Girna, Mula &
Khadakwasla
Minibus                                 4        125           500
Vehicles - 4 WD                        4        100            400
Teaching Aids & Furniture               4       250           1000
2850
D.  Land Shaping
Surveying Equipment                   15           5            75
Drawing Office Equipment               3          10            30
Vehicles - 4 WD                         3        100           300
405
E.  Water Management & Engineering
Research, Monitoring & Evaluation
Office Equipment                                               197
Computer                                                      1040
Field Equipment                                               1500
Vehicles-4 WD                                                 1000
3,737
F.  Adaptive Research
Vehicles - 4 WD                         6       100            600
Misc. Equipment                                                600
1,200
G.  Office Equipment & Furniture
Jayakwadi                                                    L,975
Purna                                                          825
Girna                                                          750
Mula                                                         L,650
Khadakwasla                                                  1,025
6,225



-66-
ANNEX 1
Table T-23
INDIA
MAHARAcHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PRiOJECT
Fr'oject Comonenit bf, Timie
(R.milIion)
EBse Costs                       intel
83/84 84/85  85/86  86/87  87/8g8  88/89  RB.   fUs$ '000)
A, LAND11 AgUTITTIOON                                     0.9    05        -       -       _           t         14-,
I-. DISTRIBUrITARXIES                                     2.4    7.6   13i4  10.0          -        -     33.5
MI.NOR8                                               3.3    9.    14.5   16.6   14s 5   6i4   645.
11. FIELD CHANNELSf                                        64   19.3   31,3   35.8   31i3  1l,i   17.79   14,
E. LINK; AND MAIN DRAINS                                  0.8    3.2    5.7    6.5    5,7   2.4   24.3
F. OFFICES AN1, PUARTEiRS                                14.6   43f8       -       -       -     -   58.3z
Gf TRAI i                                                 06    7 6    2.,    2.0    2. O   0   1 t     o       t2, I  ; f3
H. VEH:'CLES AND' EQUIPMENT                              4,7    16.6  '23.2    4.0    1,1   0-2   49,9    51248t8
I* ADlATIVE RESEARCH                                      1.0    381,8 A3,9   15.0
'. ENSit:NEERiINOG RESEARPSH.MOmNT:I.Ni AfNS EVALh UTION    3.5    6.0   1,8    1.8    1.8   08   15,7    1 
3'; ENGINEERING 9 SUtPE''RUTC'SI'N AND ADMiNISTRATIOT N  11.8   25.5   2 3.4 ,4 22,3   22. 5  11.8  11737t    1 2  '3>
Tot,1 DAhELINE C,Q3STT                                     674.1  143.2  11A6.9  10 V8 80.5  37;4   42          Cf
PhYsieal Cor,tirxencies                                 h8 5   19.9 1   398 1 2 4        .0,  4,    6i   7? 1i2.1
FPrie CQntinrepeiec                                      2.9   19.7   26.3   316          9  !im o, o
Total PRO:JJECT   ETCuc .                                                                                        S 2,/    7  44,3    - , , ' ; 002.i
Fcsrei-gr. F. h:r5-e                                    17,)   3>it '29c,,4     >,    5,J-*.  _,0 ": '2W'fis  OliX509.4*t



-67-
ANNEX 1
Table T-24
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD/IDA Fiscal         During Semester                          Cumulative
Year and Semester       -----------------------(US$ 14)-------------------
1984
1st                      3.2                                    3.2
2nd                      3.7                                    6.9
1985
ist                      4.0                                   10.9
2nd                      4.3                                   15.2
1986
1st                      5.2                                   20.4
2nd                      5.2                                   25.6
1987
1st                      5.7                                   31.3
2nd                      5.4                                   36.7
1988
1st                      4.9                                   41.6
2nd                      4.6                                   46.2
1989
1st                      4.2                                   50.4
2nd                      4.3                                   54.7



-68-                            ANNEX 1
Table T-25
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Proposed Loan and Credit Allocation
% of Expenditures
Category                       Credit       Loan          to be Financed
-----US $ M-----
(1) Civil Works
(a) Completed Chak Work         11.0         6.90                 85%
(b) Other                       15.8        10.00                 85%
(2) Equipment, Vehicles                                        100% of foreign
Materials                        4.0         2.50         expenditures; or 100%
of ex-factory price;
or 70%.
(3) Incremental Staff
for Training, Research,
Monitoring and
Evaluation                       1.1         0.60                 70%
(4) Special Surveys and
Study Tours                      0.1         0.10                100%
(5) Front End Fee on
Bank Loan                                      .06               100%
(6) Unallocated                                   2.54
32.0        22.70



-69-
ANNEX 1
Table T-26
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Quality Control
Specific Duties of EEs and AEs                   EE                  AE
I. Survey and Design
(i) Survey of existing conditions
(in the field)                         10% of the chaks   100% of the chaks
(ii) Lay-out and design
(in the office)                        50% "   "    "      100% " t
(iii) Selective Lining
- in the office                        50% "   "    "      100% "   "    "
- in the field                         25% "       "       100%      "    "
II. Construction
- in the field                              2 half days/week   4 half days/week
III. Operation and Maintenance                    2 days/week         3 days/week



-70-
ANNEX 1
Table T-27
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA - WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Required Training at WALMI and Creation of Posts
19,82-83k'
(Total Need)
EE      AE       JE      AO
Jayakwadi                    2        6      24       -
19883-84i/
(Total Need)
Jayakwadi                    3       9       40        2
Purna                        1       4       15        2
Girna                        1       4       13        2
Mula                         2       7       28        2
Khadakwasla                  1       4       15        2
8      28      111      10
1L984-85
(Incremental)
Jayakwadi                    1       4       17        2
Purna                        -       -        1        -
Girna                        -       -        1        -
Mula                         -       -        2        -
Khadakwasla                  -       -        1        -
1       3       20        -
1985-86
(Incremental)
Jayakwadi                    -       -        4        -
Purna                        -       -        1
Girna                        -       -        1
Mula                         -       -        2
Khadakwasla                  -       -        1
_       _        9        _
1986-87
(Incremental)
Jayakwadi                    -       -        4
Purna                        -       -                 -
Girna                        -       -        1
Mula                         -       -        2
Khadakwasla                  -       -        1
_       -.       8
1/   Actual staff available will be deducted from the year's requirement
(construction year from October through September).



-71-
INIDIA                                              ANNEX 1
Table T- 28
MAJIARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Staff Requirement; for Implementation
Construction Year (October-September)
1983/84            1984/85             1985186             1986/87             1987/88
EE  AN  JE  AO   NE  ATE  JE  AO   NE  AE  JE  AO   EE  AE  JE  AO   EE  AE  JE  AO
Jayakwadi
Distributaries                            1   6              2   9               3  12               3  12               3  12
Minors and Field Channels            2   6  24           3   C)  36          4  12  48           4  12  48          4  12  48
Operation and Maintenance                                         2                   5                   9                  13
Monitoring                           1   2 10            1   2 10            1   2 10            1   2 10            1   2 10
Training Centers                          -   -   -          2   2               1   4   4           1   4  4            1   4   4
Total Need        3   9 40    -    41II59    2            5 18 79    4        5 1883 4            5 1887    4
Need for WALMI trainees-/            2   6 24    -       391)40    2         4 13 57    4    4 13 614               4 13 65    4
Purna
Distributaries                                                1   3              1   3               1   3               1   3
Minors and Field Channels                                1   3  12           1   3  12           1   3  12           1   3  12
Operation and Maintenance                                         1                   2                   3                   3
Monitoring                                                    1   2              1   2               1   2               1   2
Training Centers                                             1  2    2           1  2    2           1  2    2           1   2'2
Total Need                            1   6 20    2    1   6         21    2    1   6 22    2    1   6 22    2
Need for WALMI trainees                                  1   4 15    2    1   4 16    2    1   4 17    2    1   4 17    2
Girna
Distributaries (MCIP II)
Minors and Field Channels                                1   3 10            1   3 10            1   3 10            1   3 10
Operation and MaintenLance                                        1                   2                   3                   4
Monitoring                                                   1   2               1   2               1   2               1   2
Training Centers                                             1  2    2           1   2   2           1   2   2           1  2    2
TotalNaeed                           1   5 15    2    1   5 16    2    1   5 17    2    1   5 18    2
Need for WALMI trainees                                  1   4 13    2    1   4 14    2    1   4 15    2    1   4 16    2
Mula
Distributaries                                               2  10               2  10               2  10               2  10
Minors and Field Channels                                2   6  24           2   6  24           2   6  24           2   6  24
Operation and Maintenance                                         2                   4                   6                   8
Monitoring                                                    1   2              1   2               1   2               1   2
Training Centers                                             1   2   2           1   2   2           1   2   2           1   2   2
TotalMNeed                          2 10  40    2    2        10  42    2    2 10 44    2    2 10 46    2
Need for WALMI trainees                                  2 17 28   2    2   7 30    2    2   7 32    2    2   7  34   2
Khadakwasla
Distributaries                                               2  10               2  10               2  10               2  10
Minors and Field Chantnels                               1   3  12           1   3  12           1   3  12          1   3  12
Operation and Maintenance                                         1                   2                   3                   4
Monitoring                                                    1   2              1   2               1   2               1   2
Training Centers                                             1   2   2           1   2   2           1   2   2           1   2   2
Total Need                          1   7      27    2    1   7  2N    2    1   7 29    2    1   7 30    2
Need for WALMI trainees                                  1   4  ib5   2    I   4  16   2    1   4  17   2    1   4  18   2
Grand Total Staff Needs              3   9   40   -   ')   4     ]  _91    O In  46 156  12   10  46 195  12   10  46 203  12
Grand Total Need for
WAL.MI trainees                    2   6   24   -   8  30 111  10.    9  35 135  12   30  37 342  12   10  3q 1ifl  13
l/ WALMI trained staff is only needed for construictioni of ainors and field channels, operation and maintenance
and operation of the Training Centers (excludinE, lanid dlevelopment staff).
Motes:  (i)  EN   Execuiive Engineer, AN   Assistant: Engineer, JE= Junior Engineer, AO - Agricultural Officer
(ii) Actual sanctioning and positioning of etaff is to take place in the previous year.



-72-
INDIA                                                 ANNEX 1
Table T-29
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Agricultural Production
('OOD Tons)
Jayakwadi      Khadakwasla        Purna       Girna      Mula      Total
PRESENT
Rice               Kharif             0.5                0.0           0.8         0.2        0.1        1.6
Sorghum            Kharif             2.8                0.1           0.3         0.9        1.5        5.6
Millet             Kharif             0.0                0.0           0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Cotton LS          Kharif             3.8                0.0           0.0         0.1        0.0        3.9
Cotton Desi        Kharif             0.3                0.0           0.0         0.0        0.0        0.3
Groundnats         Kharif             0.0                0.0           0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Vegetables         Kharif             3.8                0.4           0.6         0.3        0.4        5.5
Wheat              Rabi               3.5                0.2           2.6         0.5        1.4        8.2
Sorghum            Rabi               2.6                0.4           0.2         0.7        2.6        6.5
Gram               Rabi               0.2                0.0           0.1         0.2        0.1        0.6
Vegetables         Rabi               2.3                0.1           0.6         0.2        0.7        3.9
Groundnuts         Hot-SN             1.8                0.2           1.5         0.7        1.7        5.9
Cotton LS          Hot-SN             0.0                0.0           0.3         0.3        0.4        1.0
Vegetables         Hot-SN             1.5                0.2           0.6         0.0        0.7       13.0
Sugarcane          Two-SN            91.9                3.0          29.4        16.2       24.6      165.1
Bananas            Two-SN             0.0                0.0           7.4         5.0        0.0       12.4
Orchards           Two-SN             3.8                1.0           3.5         0.0        3.3       11.6
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
Rice               Kharif             0.8                0.2           1.0         0.2        0.1        2.3
Sorghum            Kharif             4.2                0.4           0.3         1.3        1.8        8.0
Millet             Kharif             0.4                0.0           0.0         0.0        0.1        0.5
Cotton LS          Kharif             5.0                0.0           0.0         0.1        0.0        5.1
Cotton Desi        Kharif             0.3                0.0           0.0         0.0        0.0        0.3
Groundnuts         Kharif             0.0                0.1           0.0         0.0        0.0        0.1
Vegetables         Kharif             5.3                1.0           0.7         0.4        0.8        8.2
Wheat              Rabi               4.6                0.4           2.8         0.6        1.5        9.9
Sorghum            Rabi               4.4                1.4           0.4         0.9        3.3       10.4
Gram               Rabi               0.4                0.1           0.2         0.2        0.1        1.0
Vegetables         Rabi               2.1                0.3           0.7         0.2        0.8        4.1
Groundnuts         Hot-SN             2.7                0.7           1.8         0.8        2.1        8.1
Cotton LS          Hot-SN             0.6                0.1           0.3         0.3        0.5        1.8
Vegetables         Hot-SN             1.3                0.5           0.7         0.2        0.8        3.5
Sugarcane          Two-SN           129.8               11.3          34.5        16.9       28.9      221.4
Bananas            Two-SN             0.0                0.0           8.1         5.8        0.0       13.9
Orchards           Two-SN             5.4                2.5           3.7         1.1        4.2       16.9
FUTURE WITH PROJECT
Rice               Kharif             0.7                0.3           0.9         0.2        0.2        2.3
Sorghum            Kharif            10.3                1.2           1.2         2.1        4.2       19.0
Millet             Kharif             0.4                0.0           0.0         0.0        0.1         0.5
Cotton LS          Kharif            11.5                0.0           0.0         0.2        0.0       11.7
Cotton Desi        Kharif             0.8                0.0           0.0         0.0        0.0        0.8
Groundnuts         Kharif             0.0                0.2           0.0         0.0        0.0        0.2
Vegetables         Kharif             8.0                2.1           1.1         0.7        1.5       13.4
Wheat              Rabi              13.1                0.8           4.3         1.;         3.2      22.5
Sorghum            Rabi              17.2                3.3           0.6         1.6         7.4      30.1
Gram               Rabi               0.8                0.0           0.4         0.4        0.2        1.8
Vegetables         Rabi               6.1                0.3           1.1         C.7         1.7       9.9
Groundnuts         Hot-SN            11.2                1.7           3.0         1.5        4.7       22.1
Cotton LS          Hot-SN             3.8                0.3           0.5         0.3        1.0        5.9
Vegetables         Hot-SN             6.1                0.7           1.1         0.7        1.7       10.3
Sugarcane          Two-SN           352.6               29.0          53.6        28.1       59.4      522.7
Bananas            Two-SN            18.6                0.0          17.6        10.6        0.0       46.8
Orchards           Two-SN            16.3                7.8           6.2         2.3        9.2       41.8



-73-
NDIA
MHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
ANNEX 1
INDIVIDUAL CROPOUDGETS AT FINANCIAL PRICES                             Table  T-30
(RUPEES PER HA)
CROP            SEASON            YIELD   PRICE  VALUE OF  GROSS          SEEDS   LABOR   DRAFT   FERTI-  OTHER   INTE-             TOTAL       NET
(tons/             BY-PROD.  RETURN                        ANIMALS  LIZERS  &OSTS   REST            COST      RETURN
ha)
PRESENT
RICE            KRHARIF            1,40     1600       180      2420      19        350      600      320      100       50        0868        552
SORSHUH         KHARIF             1.80      YOU       300      1920         23      490      800      426       80        43       1062          50
MILLET          KHARIF             0.70     1500      250       1300         10      455      700      261       60       27        1513       -213
COTTON Ls       KHARIF             1.70    4000          0      6800          4       e0     a060      522      725      102        3193       360C7
COTTON OESI   KHARIF               0.80    3200          0      2560        20       560      700      240      200       30        1758        002
GROONDNUTS    NHARIF               1.00    4000          0      4000       400       910      800      200      200       73        2679       1321
VESETABLES    KHARIF               6.00      700         0      4200         30     1120      400      969      325       100       2952       124s
WHEAT           RABI               1.20     2000       304      2704       290       385      700      474        0        62       1911        703
SORGHUM         RABI               2.00      1500      300      3300         23      490      a00      426       70        42       1051       1449
GRAN            RABI               0.70    3000         50      2150        50       175      400      117      10O        22        064       1286
VEGETABLES    RABI                 6.00       700        0      4200         30     1120      400      069      225      i(T        2ss2        1240
OROUNDNUTS    HOI-SN               1.40    4000          0      5600       400       945      B00      402      325       93        2977       2627
COTTOH Ls       HOT-SN             2,50    4000          0    10000           4    1015       060      522      725      102        3220       b7-2
VEGETABLES    HOT-SN               6.00      700         0      4200         30    1120       400      969      225       100       2952       1248
SUGARCANE       TWO-SN            70.00      ISO         0    12000       1610      280    1600    1t61         500      343        5494       7106
BANANAS         TiO-SN            35.00       700        0    24500       4000      1050      800     1395      250      593       B00s       16412
ORCHARDS        TWO-SN            30.00     1000         o    30000           0    1050      1000     1161      525      177        0103      26087
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
RICE            KHARIF             1.50     1000       180      200o       109       357      060      340      100       51        1897        903
SORGHUH         AHARIF             2.00      1700      330      3730         23      497      800      476       80        47       1923      1I00
NILLET          KHARIF             0.80     0700       250      1610         10      462      700      277       60       28        1537          73
COTTON LS       KHARIF              0.90    4250         0      8075          4      900      860      559      725       105       3223       4842
COTION DESI   KHARIF               0,80    3300          0      2640        20       560      700      260      200       30        1779        861
GEOUNDNUTS    KHARIF               1.10    4600          0      5060       408       924      820      304      200        74       2730       2330
UKOETABLES      EHAHIF             6.20      000         0      4960        30      1120      400     1017      325      112        3004       1956
WHEAT           RADl               1.30    2300        304      3294       290       305      700      505         0       65      1045        1349
SDRGHUK        0RAi                2.10     1700      300       3070        23       490       0oo     451       70       44        0078       1992
SRAN            REAI               0,70    3500         so      2500         50      175      400      115       100       22       802         1638
VEGETABLES    RABI                 6.20      000         0      4960        30      1120      400    1017       325      112        3004       1956
GROUNDNUTS      HOT-SN             1,50    4600          0      6900       408       945      800      414      325        94       2980s      3914
COTTON Ls       HOT-SN             2.60    4250          0    11050           4    1015       80O      586      725      107        3297       7753
VEGEThBLES    HOT-SN               6.20      BOO         0      4960        30     1120       400     1017      325      112       3004        1956
SUGARCANE       TWO-SN            73.00       100        0    13140       lblO       280    1600      1238      500       352       5580       7560
BANANAS         TWO-SN            35.00      soo         0    28000       4000      1050      800     1433      250      597        0120      19071
ORCOARDS        TOO-SN            32.00     1150         0    36000           0    1050    0000       1238      025      1B5        3998      32802
FUTURE WITH PROJECT
RICE            KHARIF             1.50    1000        IRO      2800       189       357      860      340      100       5:        1897        983
S3RGHU9         KHARIF             2.20      1700      340      4080        23       504      800      500       02        5o       1965       2115
HILLEI          KH4RIF             0,00    1700        250      1630         10      462      700      277       60       20        1537          73
COTTON LS       KHARIF             2.20     4250         0      9350          4    1001       880      611      745       101       3051       S999
COTTON DESI   KHORIF               0.90     3300         0      2970        20      574       700      287      250       45        1O76       1094
GROUNDNUTS    KHARIF               1.30     4600         0      5980       408       945      820      346      025        SG       2932       3048
VEGETABLES    ROARIF               6.30      800         0      5040        30      1120      400    1017       325      1i2        3004       2036
WHEAT           RABI               1.40    2300        304      3524       290       385      700      505        0        05       1945       1579
SaRGHUN        R06I                2.30     1700       320      4230        23       400     B00       454       70       45        1881       2349
GRAM            RAUI               0.80    3500         50      2050         50      175      400      015      100        22        062       1988
VEGETABLES    RABI                 6.30      800         0      5040        30    1120        400     1017      575      32^        12,4       17s6
GROUNDNUTS    HOT-SN               1.60     4600         0      7360       408       945      800      414      125        04       296        41374
COTTEN LS       HOT-SN             7.70     4250         0    11475           4    1015       Sb0       013     ?25      li        3327       8148
VEGETABLES   HAT-SN                6.30      0oo         0      5040         30     1120      400     1017      325       112       3004       2036
SUGARCANE       TAO-SN            75.00      180         0    13500       1610       200     1600     1271       00      3155       Sl6        7084
BANANAS         TAO-SN            40.00      800         0    32000       2000       040      b00    1565       250      40i        S156      26344
00CHAR6S        TV2-SN            35.00    1150          0    40250           0     1050     1000    1263       025       188       4025      36225
NOTE  1:   Labor  cost  calculated  at wage  rate  for  family  labor
Interest at 14.0% per annum on seeds, fertilizers and 'other costs'.
NOTE  2:   Given  the  above  crop  budget,  the  present  and  expected  future
cropping pattern, the typical farm in Jayakwadi would experience the
following changes in its income:
Gross          Hired           Other            Total              Net
Farm Size              Time                     Value           Labor           Inputs           Coputs            Value
-------a------------ Rs -----------
4.0  ha          Present                  6,220              390          2,540              2,930            3,290
Future Without
Froject                9,920              510          3,370              3,880            6,040
Future With
Project               30,320           1,200           9,280            10,480            19,840



- 4-
ANNEX 1
INDIA                          Table T-31
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Price Estimates and Forecasts
Market Prices                 Economic Prices
1983       1990                1983       1990
Cash   Crops             ------------------    Rs/ton   -------------------
Sugarcane               160        180                 160        240
Banana                  700       800                  700       800
Fruit Trees            1000       1150                1000       1150
Cotton (American)      4000      4250                 4200       4500
(Desi)         3200       3300                3800       3900
Groundnut             4000       4600                 3200       4900
Vegetables              700       800                 700        800
Field Crops
Sorghum                1500       1700                 900       1100
Wheat                  2000       2300                1400       1700
Gram                   3000       3500                2900       3300
Millet                 1500       1700                1500       1700
Paddy                  1600       1800                1300       1500
Fertilizers             -------------------  Rslkg   -------------------
N                         4.4        5.4                 4.0        4.8
P                         4.1        4.9                3.7         3.9
K                         1.8        1.7                 1.9        2.1



INDIA
MAH{ARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Costs and Benefits Streams for Economic Analysis
(Rs M)
Fiscal Year                  1           2         3         4       5        6         7       8          9      10-20
Incremental Benefits -/            0          7.00    26.60    63.40  118.20  176.20   218.90   235.90   240.30   241.30
Investment Costs
Irrigation Infrastructure       34.18    100.13    83.09    68.52   49.41   21.69          -         -        -         -
Other Items                     10.34     23.16    21.11    20.13   20.12   10.53                    -        -
Operation and Maintenance           -          -       0.25      1.24    2.40    3.58       4.72      4.72     4.72      4.72
Net Incremental Benefits         -44.52   -116.29   -77.85   -26.49   46.28  140.40   214.18   321.18   235.58   236.58
ERR - 35.6
1/  The incremental benefits stream is based on the project implementation schedule (Chart C-3) and a
build-up rate of agriculture production applied to completed irrigation blocks.  The build-up                           |-
of benefits to full development level was assumed to take four years (0.60, 0.85, 0.97, 1.00).



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Typical CAD Organization at State and Regional Level
MaharashtraH
Minister of                          Minister of              Minister of                        Minister of                        Cabinet Subcommittee on CAD
oFinanceret                          Irrigation               Public                             Agorksl Aurie lueCD    einlBad
Financeorksigetion   Publie and                                                                          M       Chief Minister (Chairman)
_WorksCooperation                 M       s o       Ministers ofA Agriculture,
_ __ __ _ _ __ MmIrrigation and Power,
Revenue; CADA Commissioner
r- ~~~~~~~~~~~~f (~~~~~~~SECY)  
Sereta rI         Planning r            Secretary               i Secretary                                  Deretar yD A   Commisonr
of ~~~~DePaltmelnt               Irrigation       L        _Public VVorks                                  r _Arculture__CD eonlEad
Finance          Department |             Department          Command                   Dprret_ 
DevelopepamementnDeta lment  Aree Minister of Irrigation (Chairman)
Developm eAntl                                                                       Sue Ministers ef Agriculture
.ommissionerll                                                           Ministers Resident of the Area
i              l   l                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Members of Legislative Assistance                i
_ _ , 5 l r-- } - g , _ | * I _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAD Covmmissioner (Secretary)I
iJitSecrtyf   tJin Scetary   |Joint Secretaryl               foint Secretaryl                              |Drector                Director                              Divisional Commissioner
o  Cif      I       & Cif            & Ch ief       L      I& Chief         [                                     f                LDAIeto                               Regional Chief Engineer Irrigation
{Eginner     |        |EgneWaterl    Engineer        t         Engineer       l                                  griculture                                               S uperintending Agriculture Officer
Projects           R |Rsucs               Irrigation            Roads                                                  -                                                   Zilla Parished Representative
CADA Administrator
__  |  |Monitorin___I  _ Training   i  ___ -  District Collectors
l                  l       |and        t I lP H                  I       |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~CADA Executive Committee |
nSnio,  l                                                                          valuaton
Quality                                                                                                        erintending         Ministers Resident in Area
Cotrol                   Regional                                                                             eriteCADA Administrator
W            y    Ch ~~~~Fgiefer                                             1    11                         (SO              Additiona chief Engineer A      s
I| [rrigation  |                      | Superintending                                                    SAO
i Roaeeds                                                       Joint Registrar Coops            - I
V PD Roads       t |         |iI||                                                                                         |rn
Progressive Cultivators                            Regional Local                              rt
4 Members Legisl. Assembly                         Government                                  rr
Line of Executive Aathority                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Zilla Parishad( 
_ Line of Executive Aothority                                          |Settlement Commissioner
~- ~    -  Administrative CoordinationlTechnical Supervision                         CADA
Administrators                               Reps of SLOB and CB's
I] CAD Commissioner is a supervisory secretary tn Goverenment in the Irrigation Department.                                                                                                    World Bank-1 7037



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Typical CAD Organization at Project Level
-----------------r                                                                                                                                                                                    -
Add. Chief Engineer                                                                                                                                    Superimtending                MLDC Project            Superintending           Settlenent
|     Irrigat onD.P. |                                                                                                                          | Awricutwe eOfficer i            Representative          EngineerPD  |          Commissioner  |
Oeputy Administrator           Executive Engineer       Executive Engi.eer
Engineering                  Techsnici=l Cell        Montasing Cell
Assistant Administrator
Revenue Deportment
| Deputy Regastrar 1                     | Deputy Directot                              CADA,MLOC
Ca-operative Den                            Agriculture Dep.                          Lnd Development
Planning & Desigrt Dnit
Accounts Offiuer    |  Assittant Statistician   Deputy Engier            Markeling and         Production          Stte Supply               Farms
Finance Dep.     | Economics Statistics Dog    Irr-atin Dop               Storage               Crndit               Corps
yFeld Stylf                                      Field Staff
during Construction Phase                            fur O&M Uycr   ,
B       Completion
As Regiired:                                                          As Rawird:
Dis                    ExecutiveEect                                                                                                                     S       and
2400 ha/yr             Engmeer                                        EEnxtension                                                      Adaptsetr        Svey an
_  A,                  ,   ,-Id.
| S.b-D,vas ons   | 13 Assistant Engineers       CtE                    4 Asssta
t       ha/yr        Mins and -en                 iut-                    n                                                                                  Teams
Ch-.an1s
Sectio ns    t l      }12 Junixr     |      Jnivr Engineers
|   @ 200 ha/yr    l l  Engineers                     ' L    For  EM |meer)
| 24 Teoheival!                                5  0 Canal Inspectors 
Agriculture Assistants                                    500 h)
CI H
Line of Executive Authority                                                                                                                                                                                                             F-
Administrative Coordnation
World Sank-24d75



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
ITEM                           1983               1984                1985               19&'                1987                1988
Credit Effective                                _   _
Sanclloning & Positioning of Staff
Offices & Housing                                    _   -    _               -
Training Centers                                     =    _   =   -   =    =
Procurement of Equipment                             -   -   =   =   _    =
Distribution System & Main Drainage                  -    =         =    =    =     =            _              -
Minors, Field Channels, Link Drains
JayaKwadi (ha)                                   _     5000                7,500              10,000             10,000               9,850
Purna                                            _              _          2,500               2,50               3,000               2,500    _
Girna                                   _                                  2,000               3,000              3,000               3,
Mula                                    _.500                                         =         _ 5,500  5,500    5.500               5-50
Mula                                              -    p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2k                      I               pw.r
Khadahwasla                                                         _                          2,200              2,200               2,000
Total (ha)                                         5,000               19,700             23,200              23,700             22,850
Training ot Farmers, Canal Inspectors,
Land Developmnent Staff- -                                                   -- -                -         - -       - -       -- -
Adaptive Research- -                                                                   - -       - - - -             - --                - - -
Attitude Survey
Setting up Farmers Organizations                     _    -   -         _        r          _ -   -   -                        =   =        I -
Monitoring & Evaluation
Word Bank-24632
*~~~ I }H



-79-                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASTHRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Criteria for Survey, Planning, Design and Construction
of Minors and Field Channels
A. Survey and Site Investigation
1.      A detailed topographical survey and site inspection as to condi-
tion of channels and structures would be carried out along each minor.
The unit area for the survey is the chak and chak maps on a scale of 1 in
1,250 would be used with 0.2 to 0.3 m contours. The chak map would
include: survey number boundaries, physical layout of field channels,
roads, and drains and surveyed location of all structures. When maps are
not availble (or incomplete) proper maps would be prepared on the basis of
a survey with a 15 m grid. Updating of the chak map is part of the sur-
vey. All features would be indicated on the maps with proper distances,
elevations and sizes. Alignments of existing field channels, drains and
location of structures would be shown on the chak map.
2.      The survey of every field channel and minor would include:
(i) Elevation of outlet bed level (which would normally also serve
as a benchmark).
(ii) Cross-sections every 30 m including:
- Elevations
- Field channel depth from banks
- Bottom and top widths, and;
- Description of state of vegetation (in either one of three
categories: dense, medium or sparse).
(iii) Every structure would be surveyed including:
- Location and elevations (two elevations for drops)
- Description of structure and need for repairs.
(iv) Location and elevation of every turnout or division-box that
discharges water into the farm ditch equalizer. For each such
outlets, the highest elevation in the survey-number should be
measured.
(v) Careful observation and recording of existing problems like
leakage, poor drainage, erosion, etc.
3.      The outlets structures for field channels will be used as trian-
gulation and elevation control points. Also other structures would be
used as benchmarks.



-80-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.      Information from the survey would be compiled in chak files.  The
field channel survey data will be written in standard tables. All maps
will use standard symbols. The maps would clearly distinguish between
existing and proposed or designec features.
B. Planning and Design
With the data and information from the survey, the planning and
design would involve four consecutive stages:
1.      Establishment of chak size and alignment of field channels (after
considering topographial features, ridges or drains) would fulfill the
following requirements simultaneously:
(i) Water quantity as allocated by the project. In most projects
the resulting chak size would be 8-25 ha, with 25 ha as the
allowable upper limit.
(ii)  The number of farmers in a chak would not be more than 15.
(iii)  Length of field channel would not exceed 1 km.
If needed, existing chaks would be reduced and new chaks established.
This would normally require conversion of field channels into subminors,
construction of new field-channels and construction of additional chak
outlets.
2.      Identification of required improvements.  On the basis of the
survey data, and after checking for chak size, the need for the following
improvements would be considered:
(i)  To command at present uncommandable areas with additi-.nal
field channels.
(ii)  To improve minors or field channels because of existing
constrainst such as:
insufficient flow, reversed or steep slope, or other identified
problems (leakage, erosion).
(iii)  Need for new structures or repairs to existing drains.
Improvements would be carried out only where necessary and not
as a routi-te measure on each field channel or minor.



-81-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
3.      Design criteria for modernization of field channels:
(M) Field channels would be aligned along ridges and survey
number boundaries. A practical compromise would be made
between minimal disturbance of farmers fields on the one
hand, and optimal alignment from the topographical point
of view on the other. Farmers would be ccnsulted before
the final determination of field channel alignments.
(ii) Longitudinal slope should follow natural land surface as close
as possible and be within the range of 1:500 to 1:2000
(preferable around 1:1000).
(iii)  Cross section of field channel for one cusec (102 m3/hr)
trapezoidal with bottom width of 0.3 m. Side slopes (vertical:
horizontal):
- 1:2.5 in black cotton soil
- 1:1.5 in clay-loam and soft murrum
- 1:1.0 in hard murrum
Minimal freeboard is 30 cm.
(iv) Recommended maximum permissible velocities are:
- 0.5 m/sec in black cotton soils
- 0.6 m/sec in clay-loam soils
- 0.8 m/sec in soft murrumn
- 0.9 m/sec in grass sodded channels.
(v) Co-efficient of Roughness (N of Manning's formula) is:
- 0.018 for lined channels with smooth concrete surface
- 0.022 for lined channels with concrete elements (slabs, etc.)
- 0.025 for lined channels with bricks
- 0.030 for lined channels with masonry
- 0.030 for unlined earthen chanels; (with dense vegetative
growth, the N-Manning is significant and can reach high levels
of 0.035 - 0.045).
(vi) Water level in field channel should be at least 15 cm higher
than the highest field levels in the command.
(vii)  Lining would be provided for selective sites only and as
follows:
5 m upstream and downstream of all structures, from chak outlet
to water measurement structure, in curvatures, and channel
sections where channel is in fill and leakage is expected.



o 2-
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(viii) Each chak would have a water measuring structure placed at
the beginning of the field channel, upstream of the first farm
outlet. The measuring structure would be a Parshall flume as
standardized for a one cusec flow.
(ix) Drop structures would be constructed wherever required in
order not to exceed the permissible longitudinal slope and the
recommended velocities. The drops would be the open and
vertical fall type.
(x) Field channels would be provided with a tail escape structure
discharging into a field drain.
4.      Design criteria for field drainage channels:
(i) Design capacities:
- For heavy rainfall areas (250 mm/24 hrs): 42 mm/day or 5 1/s/ha
- For clay soils in low rainfall areas (100 mm/24 hrs):
33 mm/day or 4 1/s/ha
- For sandy soils in low rainfall areas (100 mm/24 hrs):
16 mm/day or 2 1/s/ha.
(ii)  Side slopes (vertical to horizontal):
- In clay soils : 1:3
- In soft murrum soils : 1:1.5
(iii) Dimensions of drains:
- Minimum width at bottom - 0.5 m
-  Overall depth             -  0.6 m
5.      Presentation of plans and designs.  Plans and drawings would have
standard scale and legend. Other criteria are:
(i) Chak maps would include all physical features like field
channels, drains, roads and tracks, boundaries and structures.
Turnouts and division-boxes would be clearly marked and the
area commanded by each turnout indicated.
(ii)  Clear distinction would be made on the maps between existing
and proposed features.
(iii)  Longitudinal and cross sections would perfectly match the
layout. Existing and proposed bed levels, and elevation of
structures would be provided.



-83-
ANNEX 2
Page 5
(iv)  Detaled lists and/or tabulations showing earth work and
structures required for the modernization work would be
provided. The available computer program can be used for
this purpose.
(v) Modification of plans and designs to show the "as built"
situation upon completion of constructon.
6.      Minors.  Minors would be provided with a two cusec tail escape
structure discharging into a drain.
C. Construction:
During construction supervision special attention would be given
to proper alignment of chanels, longitudinal slopes, elevations, and
compaction of embankments and sections in fill. Proper attention would be
given to the construction of turnouts and division boxes at the proper
location and elevation. After completion of contruction, levels of the
irrigated fields and turnouts would be taken to check the irrigability of
the fields by the concerned turnout; deficiencies found would be cor-
rected. Canal embankments and fill around structures would be properly
compacted.



-84-
ANNEX 3
Page I
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Scope of Work for Water Management Research Division
and On-Farm Development Structures Division
A. Water Management Research Division
1.      Evaluation of various existing and new modes of system operations
in relation to overall water supply and demard, reliability of water
supply and water use efficiency (i.e. with respect to operation of main
canals, distributaries, minors and supply within the chaks) and meeting
crop water requirements at critical stags of crop growth.
2.      Evaluation of the impact of the various modes of system operation
on the farmers response to irrigation, on agricultural yields and produc-
tion.
3.      Examination and research on various alternative operational modes
to arrive at appropriate policies for system operation during periods of
droughts and higher than usual rainfall.
4.      Identification, experimentation and evaluation of long term water
saving measujres and their implication on system operations. These
measures may include (i) increase in irrigation interval; (ii) reduction
in flow period; while keeping flow and irrigation interval constant; (iii)
reduction in flow while keeping flow duration and irrigation interval
constant.
5.      Evaluation of present reservoir operations in view of required
carry-over storage and optimum start of irrigation seasons.
6.      Research on and evaluation of various water application tech-
nologies on the farm under various soil conditiono, degrees of land shap-
ing and different crops. This research would include determination of
appropriate size of flow that can be handled by the farmer, infiltration
rates, rooting depth at various crop stages, water holding capacity,
available soil moisture and depletion rates, on-farm water use efficiency,
and the determination of actual crop water requirements in the field.
7.      On the basis of information obtained under item 6. recommendations
will be developed as to suitable irrigation intervals.



-85-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
8.      Determination of water use efficiencies in selected chaks, minors
and distributaries (lined and unlined) for various modes of operation, as
well as under unimproved as under improved conditions.
9.      Development of computer programs for system operations for
progressive use in the various scheme areas and related staff training.
10.     Evaluate the operation under local conditions of a 1,000 ha pilot
operation on two minors in Mula where irrigated chak outlets would be
constructed of the adjustable proportional module (APM) and/or open flume
outlet type as used in north India. The minors will run either full or be
closed. Within the chaks RWS will be practised. The sanctioning system
will be followed on one minor and water distributed within the chaks
accordingly. On the second minor farmers will be alloted a time share
proportional to the size of their holding. Adequate escape capacity would
be provided at the end of the field channels.
B. On-Farm Structures Research
1.      Evaluation of present designs of structures and canal lining in
terms of structural and hydraulic soundness and cost effectiveness. A
review will be made of the various types of structures constructed in the
field with special reference to their behaviour in black cotton soils.
2.      Development of detailed specifications, possibly in relation to
other component institutions, for foundation design of structures in black
cotton soils.
3.      Improvement, development and evaluation of new cost effective
designs for structures and canal lining.
4.      Development of new designs for precast structures including their
testing in the field.  Also develop recommendations on required equipment
for fabrication, transport and placinig of precast structures. A detailed
evaluation will be made of the possible use of precast structures at this
stage in Maharashtra; consideration will be given to existing constraints
for their use such as limited access to project areas, while also
advantages such as better quality control will be considered.
5.      After due examination and evaluation, introduction of standard-
ization of designs and dissemination of such designs to all projects.
6.      Undertaking of hydraulic research to develop a better one cusec
outlet, ideally with a more or less constant discharge for various
upstream water levels.



-86-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.      Checking the performance and suitability of selected water manage-
ment devices under local conditions.
8.      Design of the pilot area mentioned under A.10.



-7
Annex 4
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Adaptive Research
Objectives
1.      The most important facet of adaptive research is to devise and
demonstrate techniques that enable farmers to get maximum benefits from
their resources and environment. In the context of this project this
means, first and foremost, to devise and demonstrate irrigation methods
that suit the farm's topography, soils, and the farmer's skill.
2.      Generally, the topography of the farms is reasonably even, i.e.
there are few erosion gullies or other undulations. However, the fields
are, for irrigation, quite steep, often with a diagonal slope. Slopes,
typically for a command area, are approximately as follows:
less than 1%               60%
1-2%                   25%
2-3%                   10%
over 3%                     5%
3.      The best solution would be to shape the land into graded terraces,
according to standards that fit soil type, size of the farm and distance
from the field inlet to the farthest point. However, firstly, to have
every farm so graded will take several decades, and, secondly, criteria
are yet to be determined to suit all different soil conditions. The
Irrigation Department has published a Manual of Design for On-Farm
Development Works (October 1982) but gives only general design standards
for landshaping; it does not attempt to adapt it to soil types, prin-
cipally to clay content. Therefore, it is the urgent and immediate task
of adaptive research not only to determine and adapt the landshaping
standards to different soil conditions, but also to devise means on how
best to manage the farms under the present, unimproved or partially
improved situation. This may well require border, furrow, basin or
zig-zag Irrigation. These methods have to be tried. Suitable length,
width and grades have to be determined and guidelines prepared for field
staff on which they would base their advice to farmers.



Be 1-
Annex 4
Page 2
4.      Another major constraint are cultural practices.  One of the
reasons why much of rainfed cropping is in the rabi, on residual moisture,
is because of the difficuilties of working the soils during the rains and
the slow infiltration rates that cause temporary waterlogging of the
topsoil and affect crop root development. This can be mitigated by grow-
ing crops on ridges, which is already being practised with cotton and
sugarcane. This technique, partly based on experience in other countries
with similar soil conditions, may well be extended. There is urgent need
to develop a system of bed cultivation for crops with which ridge planting
would not give the optimal plant population, e.g. pulses and groundr.uts.
The size, orientation and locally acceptable technique of bed construction
needs to be examined.
5.      Other aspects of adaptive research are the general and conven-
tional ones, like (i) the kind of input package to be used by a farmer
who cannot, or is otherwise constrained, from investing in the optimum
package recommended by the applied research findings in a particular area;
(ii) farming systems investigations suitable to local conditions (includ-
ing markets) and the varying farmer skills; and (iii) the final work on
different crops and varieties before they can be recommended for general
adoption. These aspects are as important as the special problems of
irrigation and land preparation technology.
Venue
6.      The adaptive research program would, in the first instance, aim to
serve the five scheme areas in which the project is located; many of its
findings and recommendations would however be usable, often with only
minor changes, on practically all the major and medium irrigation projects
in the State.  Its venue would be complete watercourse commands on which
farmers who operate at least two-thirds of the land would agree to
cooperate and follow the recommended cultural practices. ArL important
selection criterion would be that at least two-thirds of the land be not
yet shaped to Irrigation Department standards (para 3); lane so shaped
will, for many years, not be typical of the majority of the scheme areas.
Therefore the findings on such land would not be universally applicable.
While of course the adaptive research team (and the regular extension
service) would endeavor to persuade farmers to shape their land, such
"graduation" would, as stated, necessitate to change the venue of the
adaptive research operations.
Execution
7.      The program would be implemented by the respective CADAs.  There
would be six teams: two in Jayakwadi and one in each of the other scheme
areas. The teams would consist of an Agricultural Research Officer, who
would be in overall charge.   He would be assisted by an irrigation



-369-
Annex 4
Page 3
agronomist and an agricultural engineer conversant with field layout
techniques, land preparation practices and basic irrigation engineering.
In addition, an agricultural economist, attached to the Irrigation
Research Institute, would be available to each team to supply costings and
other economic background, including information on markets for perishable
and semi-perishable products. While CADA and the adaptive research
program cannot, and must not, be involved in any crop marketing activity,
it must, in support of its farming systems investigations, be in a posi-
tion to inform farmers on the market prospects of the crops that can be
grown. This would be one of the functions of the agricultural economist.
8.      The team would be supported by four junior professionals and
several office support staff. The professionals would come from the
research staff of the universities and/or the agricultural extension
service; their secondment to CADA should be for no less than two years.
They would need housing (possibly at the Trial-cum-Demonstration Farms, to
ensure them being in a community with their peers), office space and
transport vehicles. One such team could handle three or four outlet
commands, i.e. a total of almost 20-24 in the five scheme areas.
9.      The program would be developed by the Agricultural Universities;
final responsibility would rest with their Directors of Research. It
would be reviewed by the respective CADA authorities and the senior
agricultural extension staff responsible for the area. The Directorate of
Irrigation Research and Development, along with its other supporting and
coordinating activities pertaining to irrigation in Maharashtra, would
be responsible to coordinate all activities necessary for the successful
execution of the programs. The finally agreed plan would be ready not
later than June of each year, including IDA's review, for the following
kharif, rabi and hot season.



-90-                            ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Training Centers and Training
1.      Under the project, training facilities would be provided in each
of the scheme areas; Jayakwadi, because of its size, and because it
extends into two climatic zones, would have two training institutes. They
would be attached to the Trial-cum-Demonstration (TcD) farms. There is
only one TcD farm in Jayakwadi; therefore the second Training Institute
would be on one of the Taluka Seed Farms.
2.      The facilities would consist of dormitories with bathrooms for
about 35-40 people, (the maximum number of trainees who would attend at
any one time), a dining hall and lecture room. There would be quarters
for five teachers; one of them would be the Principal, but also an active
teacher. Teaching aids, a 4 WD vehicle and two 16-seater minibuses would
complete investments. Since the Centers would be adjacent to the TcD or
Taluka farms, they would have access to the facilities of the farms and
also be able to make use of the findings of investigations and interim
observations of the adaptive research program (Annex 4).
Programming Training
3.      Timing.  Tables 1 and 2 give details of the time required for
essential training, analyse the available time in the Centers during the
project implementation period and conclude that there is approximately
four years spare training time in the six institutes. This time could be
used to train other than contact farmers, staff from other schemes, in
anticipation of a possible extension of the present project, or AAs 1/
from other scheme areas. The Centers would also be a convenient venue for
pre-season or even fortnightly AA training, if it is decided that the main
seasonal or fortnightly theme should be strongly oriented towards irriga-
tion.
4.      The Teachers.  The discipline required to be at hand for the AAs
and farmers would be agricultural engineering, - in this case, implying
irrigation layout and land preparation, not farm machinery,- and irriga-
tion agronomy. While the CIs need all the foregoing as background, and to
enable them to view their function In perspective, as part of the whole,
their principal task would be to learn the necessary engineering,
1/ The lowest level extension worker in Maharashtra is the agricultural
assistant. Elsewhere in India this cadre is the Village Extension
Worker (VEW).



-91-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
administration and operational details required to provide farmers with a
rotational water supply according to a prearranged plan and to be able to
indicate to their superiors whether some occurances require changes or
modifications in the routine. Land Development Assistants, who would in
fact function as site foremen and construction assistants, would be
trained by the same teachers. They would be principally trained by
engineers: at least two of the five permanent staff would be Junior
Engineers; the Principal may be an Assistant Engineer.
5.      It would be convenient if the AAs concerned were to be present
when their contact farmer, and, later, other farmers from their area of
responsibility, are trained: not only would they be useful as assistant
instructors, the could also establish closer contacts with farmers whom
they have to advise in their daily work.
The Subjects Taught
6.      Farmer Training.  Probably the biggest single, and most sig-
nificant, hiatus in the farmers- knowledge is how to change from rainfed
to irrigated farming over the whole of the commandable area of their
farms. Even if they had a well, it would be in the best and most level
part of the farm. Therefore the farmer will not have had the opportunity
to practice irrigation on sloping land. Their training must, first and
foremost, focus on irrigation layout under less than ideal conditions:
length and width of borders, possibly a zig-zag layout, adapting to actual
stream flow rates etc. The farmer must have the opportunity to observe
the difference between a good and bad layout and learn how to remedy the
bad one. This cannot be taught on his farm: there, land and water must
be used to grow crops and not for practice and training.
7.      Other points of immediate urgency are cultural practices that may
be adopted almost immediately; bed planting, especially for pulses,
groundnuts, and possibly sorghum; ridge cultivation for cotton and pos-
sibly also other crops. This would, in its turn, pose the question of
field length and time when the water has to be stopped, so as not to cause
flooding at the lower end of the field. More in the future would be
teaching new cultural practices and land preparation techniques that would
emerge from adaptive research findings.
8.      The farmers  course would last for three days; a working farmer
cannot leave his lanc and livestock for longer than that. First, the
contact farmers would be trained; later, as time allows, other farmers
(Table 2).
9.      Agricultural Assistant Training.  The AAs must be ahead of the
farmers, firstly, to maintain their credibility and their farmers'



-92-
ANNEX 5
Page 3
respect, and, secondly, to assist with problems that the farmers would
encounter on their farms, which cannot possibly be fully anticipated by
even the most detailed and elaborate training program. Therefore, while
the AAs must go through the same training as the farmers, they must also
be familiar with more extreme situations, and with the less common techni-
ques of field water control and management. Also, they would require at
least annual updating and a refresher course, which would not be prac-
ticable for working farmers.
10.     It is envisaged that the first round of AA courses would take
about two weeks, subsequent courses perhaps two or three days.
Canal Inspector Training
11.     The LDAs and CIs would be taught by WALMI-trained JEs.  These JEs
would have followed a trainers course in WALMI. Priority will be given to
train staff who would work in the project areas and then the CIs in
remaining scheme areas. Topics to be taught would include but not be
limited to:
(i) CIs responsibilities;
(ii) irrigation scheduling (flow rate, irrigation intervals;
crop-soil-water relationships etc);
(iii) on-farm irrigation practices;
(iv) water applications and sanctioning;
(v) system operation and RWS;
(vi) water measuring devices; factors affecting measurement;
(vii)  control structures;
(viii)  record keeping;
(ix)  reporting;
(x)  relation with water users;
(xi)  OCs, WUCs and CACs;
(xii)  maintenance policy; preventive maintenance; weed control;
(xiii)  collection of water charges;
(xiv)  legal aspects.
Initial emphasis during the training will be on irrigation
scheduling, system operation and RWS. Essential material will be compiled
in a Canal Inspectors Manual.



-93-
ANNEX 5
Page 4
Land Development Assistant Training
12.     In addition to a standard GOM induction training LDAs would
receive a one month technical training aimed at increasing their under-
standing of the work and their ability to carry out their tasks. LDAs are
mainly employed to assist JEs in survey, design and construction. Their
training would therefore include:
(i) principles of crop, soil and water relationships;
(ii)  irrigation methods;
(iii) principles of land shaping;
(iv)  topographical and "problem" surveys;
(v)  layout of minors and field channels;
(vi)  standard structures to be used;
(vii) hydraulic design of channels;
(viii) drafting standards;
(ix)  construction standards and quality control;
(x) role of farmers organizations; communication with farmers;
Farmers' Leader Training
13.     Training of Farmers- Leaders would include:
(i) overall CADA organization;
(ii)  functioning, duties and rights of the Outlet Committees
(OCs), Water Utilization Committees (WUCs) and Canal
Advisory Committees (CACs), wth emphasis on the OCs.
(iii) system operation, including scheduling and RWS within the
chak;
(iv)  survey, design and construction of project works; involvement
of OCs;
(v) maintenance of field channels; sanctions in case of non-
maintenance;
(vi)  water charges and their collection.



-94-
ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Training Programming
General Criteria
1.     One trainee group consists of approximately 35 pupils and never more
than 40. If total cadre to be trained is between 40 and 70, they
will be trained in two groups.
2.     Training time available under the project: July 1984 to December 1988
3.     Training time available per Center per year: 46 weeks.
4.     Length and frequency of training for the various cadres:
(a)  Contact Farmers                  one week 1/
(b)  Village Extension Workers/       two weeks in first year
Agricultural Assistants        one week thereafter
(c)  Canal Inspectors                 pre-service training of four
months for 30% of cadre,
in-service training for two weeks
once a year for all, (including
new recruits in their first year)
(d)  Land Development Assistants    pre-service training for five
months for 30% of cadre,
in-service training for one month
for 70% of cadre.
(e)  Farmers' Leader (Outlet          one week 1/
Committee Chairman)
1/ Actually, three days, but no other training possible that week.



-95-
ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Training Programming
Scheme Data                         Jayakwadi    Purna      Girna     Mula    Khadakwasla    Total
Area (ha)                            183,000    78,000    79,300   118,300        101,600     560,100
Farmers                               46,000    19,700    31,700    47,300         40,700     185,400
Agricultural Assistants/VEW
(1 per 800 farmers)                     58        25         40         60           51         234
Farmer Groups (8 per AA)                 464        200       320        480          408       1,872
Contact Farmers (3 per group)          1,392        600       960      1,440        1,224       5,616
Canal Inspectors (1 per 500 ha)
New Recruits                           110         46        48         71           61         336
Fromer Staff                           256        108       Ill        166          143         784
Land Development Assistants 1/
New Recruits                           111         45        48         72           63         339
Former Staff                           259        105       112        168          147         791
Outlet Committee Chairmen 2/
(1  per 15 farmers)                  1,800       440        470        930         360        4,000
Training Time Available (weeks) 3/
Each Center for 4 1/2 years              414        207       207        207          207       1,242
Training Time Required (weeks) 4/
Agricultural Assistants                   12          6        12         12           12           54
Contact Farmers                           40         17        28         41           35         161
Outlet Committee Chairmen                 51         13        13         26           10         113
Canal Inspectors
New Recruits                            48         32        32         32           32         176
Former Staff                           100         50        50         70           60         330
Land Development Assistants
New Recruits                            60         40        40         40           40         220
Former Staff                            32         12        12         20           16          92
Total  Required                          251        170       187        241          205       1,054
Balance Available                        163         37        20        -34            2         188
1/ A transient force of Site Foremen-cum-Construction Assistants.
2/ Onl.y for MWUP Areas, as follows:
(ha)
Jayakwada          42,350
Purna              10,500
Girna              11,030
Mula               21,970
Khadakwasla         8,600
3/ 46 weeks per year.
_/ See Table T-1.



-96-
ANNEX 6
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.      Project for Rehabilitation and Modernization of Minors,
GOM Irrigation Department, April 1982.
2.      Maharashtra Water Utilization Project, Project Report,
GOM Irrigation Department, February 1983.
3.      Maharashtra Water Utilization Project, Drawings, GOM
Irrigation Department, February and April 1983.
4.      Project for Upgrading of Minors and Field Channels, GOM Irrigation
Department, November 1982, in 5 parts.
5.      Maharashtra Water Utilization Project, Volume II, Cost Estimates,
GOM Irrigation Department, January 1983.
6.      Additional Information PUMF, CADA Jayakwadi Project, October 25,
1982.
7.      PUMF for Girna Project (Modified), CADA Girna Project, December,1982.
8.      Additional Information PUMF, CADA, Mula Project, November 1982.
9.      PUMF for Khadakwasla Project, Pune Irrigation Project Cicle,
November, 1982.
10.      Farmers Project, Irrigation Utilization Graphs, Jayakwadi Irrigation
Division, Paithan.
11.      Review of Agricultural Aspects of Project for Upgrading and
Modification of Minors and Field Channels in Maharashtra, IDA
consultant, November, 1982.
12.      Manual of Design for On-Farm Development Works, GOM, Irrigation
Department, November 1982.
13.      Project Cost Table (COSTAB).



_______  ____  -   bRD 17058
.OA                                                '4'                                                                                                                   8o'                           MA0*:0  000
.&i- .-, tgM                                                       A     D     H     Y    A                   P     R     A     D     E     S      H             ;0
G U  JAR  AT----                                   ~            \. -~A/20~
b,  ';, -AN  \A                                              D            R A
oo>-G ~   ~                </ko                                                                            i                    I;                                           Noyp~  _v4? h;   t,1  
,     00                              ) . .0              Jogo -.  (   .,~ 1                        /                                                                                                      N    -<o t4 A A
ii                                     (                                                         -9 ' 5suuX j   .    --- x;  ,j+m  <   cr    N D I A
,                                                 A                      -, \- Budoocor    >'   I  (-2  50' -   <           AHARASHTRA  WATER
3 S 4 <' ~~~~~~ X<* ' g r . ~~~~~PROJECT l-OCATION .:i.- ..''zh
qsn9!i) _- ,> kI -~~. ojkg ......  b w--.                                                                   g                                            <nrnolec A      o                                        = ''' ..
/                                 --              7~-   \    -~o                                                                  400                         oyEitn   oossreAw n;e'zrf
I         Au giod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h     ,
t-   ersShRa   P'                                                           | _.~~~~~~~~~~---.-- E-itmgr Ooms -rd R.s--v  r
jo  C                   <A       7                                                                                                                           C                                                                        5tal  od - b--
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                         \                                     i                                    Sa e audrs| 
4000   -  N                                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
74- 76 MLES i 2X iC 60                                                       '                                                                                                   |SPI ;:ANCA _lrfOKrOXn
1                                        1A _                                _                   _                         40                     _
4    I                      A-~~~>'00tm   FS                               -        4S                - 80   -  0






MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION  PROJECT
JAYAKWADI AND PURNA SCHEMES
Dstocbl 0s to OS mlot    poed              -o-_- Lroo.oge Chocnl  /eser S>1  uzt / e]  s M" r
t r   ofon Aseos                           I.   Seleded Cotle  cod Alleges                                                                                                         I          a   c       r.r.o<M~  1lmmos-n  <o  
Moo `, qd  ,ooc (,,oo,             s            Sloe Aheses
.11  F   09g  Conms ond Roco......                   MAo,Sol D.ICoe R-ds 
-'Cy- F eue Dom oed Bee seo                    --r  Rse 500 n
--    D.stlcI Booooos.e                                                                                             -5                  -0,4}   e2
-   lolerntoonll  dol Cdosiee
-4  //><f 4  1                                                                                                                                                                                    -< '2    A  h l   r I
t A.G .~co0d                                                                                                                                                   p        '                     ;t5at|B.   /     !|:G.Ser / 
I"o'oodoc                       05f'  "i                    A                                                                             Bf-gq  '           N                         A
9                <i~                                                         ',                                                  eto                                               '< ROM                                                                            Cm        ___ _  ,j,...   
    I                               r c~~~~~~~~~~~<                                                  <c9o1   -                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -'2  S~~~~~~~~ANDtC
OC'2    -    -; ~~~~~~ ~~~~-C--iTh' ~~~~~4>   ~~~ -   -~~~                   -~~                                  -~~                    /                                                          -,                 04~     ~    ~
A '-IAI[sjAGA/                        I                                                                        (C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
B H. R ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~               Meg






I N  D I A
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTILIZATION PROJECT
GIRNA iRRIGATION SCHEME
Project Areas                    -     Existing Major and  Branch Cancis                       o     Selected  Cities and  Villages
Existing Irrigation                    Existing  Distributaries / Minors                    -        National Highways
Command Areas              -         Existing  Weirs                                               State  Highways
Rivers                                                       Major District Roads
Drainage  Channels                                  i        Railroads
Internotional Boundaries
Fe Dhe/e  Parota
fo D~~~~~~~~~ 
/1,   _0    O, 
!    /           ~~~~t,                0 5d          < N                    DAHS/GAON V/FIR
s~~~~~~~~~~~~/ ~~~~~~~~~~~Th~ cap hsa b-en prepa-d by
The Arri Bant 's staff ecnc,-eIly
I   /  X            '      ~~~~~~~~~~ Jl40~~~~~ /                                    iolena ic-e r reerne cirol Belx
z    ,         <       '   t_--~    X           .<:,   t     W  y  ......................  sndth -  --nt   n tioalFnac
-aor -nd is ecle Wi c the
poo/of,cAi 4-                                                             Csrpoa!rcr rThe d eccc-ersocn
He,c f/rr. nd aId the .nucaasesitcwc
/                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hr hs ',sp 55 -cirdripfr, c 
-,                                                                                       peo csiere >.=g-_ >. Psrt op  The WfT cd he ak aid the
j~-_  - ,  ,       ,P,- aJ jadgcenf cthe legal sMatu
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ca  t ,ciX 0rnyerorycrarce
5hcdgmn,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sc cudrc
x,\ , < 4   /  /4/       So fVogerr;;ito/s                                          .    z    . . ,, . _ . - -,HUT
\ f X /bv to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nec                                                                       y, r 0
she\   'AKISTAN        '     Delhi. w,    eo
BANsGLADESH-
N~O   11   -10;        ,C20r -
Kiloes                                                                            ,     -,
0   5    0           5 2       2
0                                               Miles~~~~05             5                                                                   e
70                               1






____       ___                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 16995
PAKISIAN/f.-'      eh                                                                                                        N    D   IAMAC 98
MAHARASHTRA WATER UTfIIZATIONPRJC
MUL-A IRRIGATION  SCEMEPRJC
C)  I  A    IBANGLADESH
-- -1                     ~~~~~Praipct Area                       Existing M  ior, Branch Cinols             a    Selected lawns aind Viilages
K. ~~~~~     -6                                                         Distributaries / Minors        -  -1   Existing D;stribUlaries / Minors                 State Highways
2a~                                        20~d                                  o be Impr-esd                   j    Fisting D)oms aind Reservoirs                   Maojr District Roads
P001/                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Irrigajtion Cormmond Areas.                                      s  Railroads
Af/ ?Al                                                               xsigRvr
EXisting                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District Boundaries
Future
A,ab',np  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~,                                                                                      -----  ~~~~~~~~~~~International Baundcries
8 a:y O/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ep 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~~MJi    5~~~~~~~~~~~  - ~~~~~PA17HlAIV  DAM
S\\            (B                                                   --r
bAN,;~~~~~ T-/
a  I        is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eSanai J
h -p h., b- plp-d b,~h    N~                  - 
MI/L.    A            H        IV      5A                            Ghepo
-d lh~~~~~~ 11 t-h-l F- . . .'hnoqon                                                                           -- 
/                                                     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51
The Wold f-ats -s I,a,  esc,,,svc
t,"WY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, -Y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       K iete



I



_ ___ ___ ___   IdRD 17057
IINN [7A| A
________  a 1_t_B     nMAHARASHTRA  WATER  UTILIZATION  PROJECT
-                                          ts '0W nK,ometers KHADAKWASLA SCHEME                                                                                                                                N ,  A
prrlsbsEff: O 1  irs A BG  vrca.n.o,r  Iozrerc-   o                                             Protect Area                            -4. R ivers                                                              lao'        i .:T -.   I                  rO
{t1ess~]a110Zen_S>efw1J>rmeaueGectUrneU1:7:verMbmaw- - Dieh  r                           ^ h cI Ppicce               - -Druo-rge Cihccj -n Is-    /
.rDbcnSr.ar rVe3a  Rnrceec--a,eraecr'orar.merr aNRHrsrr                                              rr5ti (cinccmved Areas                  0  Se ieate  Citer arid Vidlogese                                                              fr
eirgti-g -C                              AMaSi Racr       d I   1 _g'
:,__|ltatire                            -. S-coedary Roads.
N                       ,~"  Reels ag Me;er   ci                                                 o     n      "---c- Rodlccrod u.
Wao                                                                       c' Melar Conoir UNde' Cviiontiac h o --  -- Dstrict Etavacarrer  
~~~u  .  z ~~~~-   "-   "   >                               __ S Dgr71Re na od eaeor cr5ReervCoisrrso   --ItnnoolBudce                                                            p-                                         o
<   __  1  *4:W4 /4 _ __ . g  . s ,-                  S                                                                                                                                                                                                   i QAr   LtV
                                  7~N                                                                                    -                                                I E  D   G
t.                      .  <-~'-  Af                                                                             44 rNV .                 S7 ar./iXXL- 6"0ff00     
V  14S;'  41
C-eRA  r.N,~~~~~~~  y  t       ,   '                     /4/                                                                                                                              '"i-~~~7A  A
I   <6"                                                                                                                                                             "'0c     "P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



