T' ~IAL    CREDIT NUMBER 1383 IN
DOCUMENTS          LOAN NUMBER 2308 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Maharashtra Water Utilization Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1383 IN
LOAN NUMBER 2308 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               JOL<&         , 1983, between
INDIA, acting by its P esl ent (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELt ENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to twenty-two million seven hundred thousand dollars
($22,700,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) the Project will be carried out by the State of
Maharashtra, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part 'of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the State of
Maharashtra the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(E) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association  and   the  State  of  Maharashtra,   the  State  of
Maharashtra has agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the .basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
State of Maharashtra;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
pOKovisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions), namely, that paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is
deleted and the following substituted therefor:
"9. The term Project means the project for which the
Credit is granted, as described in the Development Credit
Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the
Association and the Bank."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Loan
Agreement, in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra, a State
of India, acting by its Governor;
(b)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Bank and Maharashtra of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
the schedule to the Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Project Area" means the area of about 95,000 ha within
the Irrigation Schemes, as so defined, of Jayakwadi, Purna, Mula,
Girna and Khadakwasla located in Maharashtra;
(d) "CAD" means the Command Area Development Wing of
Maharashtra's Department of Irrigation;
(e) "CADA" means a Command Area Development Authority
established under the jurisdiction of CAD;


﻿-3 -
(f)  "Project  Agreement,   Second  Maharashtra   Irrigation
Project" means the agreement, dated April 14, 1980, entered into
between the Association and the State of Maharashtra for the
purposes of the Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; and
"Second  Maharashtra   Irrigation  Project"  means  the   Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement,
dated April 14, 1980, entered into by the Borrower and the
Association for purposes of Credit No. 954-IN;
(g)  "Chak" means the cultivable command area of maximum 25
ha served by an irrigation outlet;
(h)  "WALMI" means Water and Land Management Institute, an
autonomous entity of Maharashtra;
(i) "Irrigation Scheme" means each of the command areas of
Jayakwadi, Purna, Mula, Girna and Khadakwasla located in
Maharashtra and served by their respective irrigation distri-
bution network;
(j) "Rs" or "Rupees" means the currency of the Borrower;
(k) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement; and
(1) "Loan" means    the  loan  provided  for  in   the  Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-nine million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 29,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿-4-
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Procurement Schedule
to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1989,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January
15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1993, and ending January 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable


﻿-5-
on January 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment   thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause Maharashtra to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all  action, including    the  provision  of  funds,   facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Maharashtra to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Maharashtra in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of
India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Maharashtra shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Maharashtra will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event
specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of the Agreement shall
occur and shall continue to occur for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and Maharashtra.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Maharashtra has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except for the effectiveness
of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Maharashtra, and is
legally binding upon Maharashtra in accordance with its terms;
Section 5.03. The date a                    1983, is hereby
specified for the purposes ot Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary of the


﻿-7-
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECOFAIRS                           953-313546
New Delhi, India
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-8-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Aut orized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  0
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of such proceeds to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in
each Category:
Amount of    Amount of
Credit        Loan
Allocated    Allocated
(Expressed    (Expressed          % of
in SDR       in Dollar       Expenditures
Category       Equivalent)  Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) for com-  10,200,000     6,900,000          85%
pleted
works
under Part
A (iii)
of the
Project
(b) for other 14,600,000    10,000,000          85%
Parts of
the Proj-
ect
(2) Equipment,     3,700,000      2,500,000    100% of foreign
vehicles                                  expenditures,
and materials                             100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally


﻿-10 -
Amount of     Amount of
Credit         Loan
Allocated     Allocated
(Expressed     (Expressed            % of
in SDR        in Dollar       Expenditures
Category      Equivalent)    Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3)  Salaries       1,000,000        600,000           70%
and allow-
ances for
incremental
staff for
Parts E, F
and G of the
Project
(4) Overseas          100,000        100,000          100%
study tours
under Part E
(ii) of the
Project
(5) Fee                               56,608     Amount due
(6) Unallocated                    2,543,392
TOTAL    29,600,000     22,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "completed works" means that the irrigation
distribution system under Part A (iii) of the Project, within any
Chak, is certified to have been carried out and completed in
accordance with the planning and design criteria provided for in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement; and


﻿- 11 -
(d) the term "incremental staff" means the Borrower's addi-
tional staff employed after the date of this Agreement for pur-
poses of carrying out Parts E, F and G of the Project.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that the
proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan shall not be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any
Category decreases or increases, the Association or the Bank may,
by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such Category as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association and
the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000,
may be made in respect of Categories 1 (b), 2 and 3 on account of
expenditures made before that date but after January 1, 1983. In
addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit allo-
cated to any Category shall have been withdrawn or committed, no
withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account under such Cate-
gory except under commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in Section
1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
and of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan,
as the case may be, which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Association and the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
menc percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order


﻿- 12 -
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditure for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan, and the Association or
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement or the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit or of
the Loan as, in the Association's or the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit or of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to improve the effective util-
ization of available irrigation water supply in the Project Area
so as to increase agricultural production and thereby promote
rural development in Maharashtra.
Part A:   7pgrading of the Existing Irrigation System
(i) Upgrading of the existing distributaries in the Project
Area, except for distributaries Nos. 1 and 2 in Mula Irrigation
Scheme and for distributaries in Girna Irrigation Scheme.
(ii) Upgrading of the existing, and extension and construc-
tion, as necessary, of minor canals in the Project Area, except
for minor canals under distributaries Nos. 1 and 2 in Mula Irri-
gation Scheme and for minor canals under distributaries in Girna
Irrigation Scheme.
(iii) Upgrading of the existing, and extension and construc-
tion, as necessary, of field irrigation and drainage channels in
the Project Area.
(iv) Upgrading of the existing, and extension and construc-
tion, as necessary, of link drains and major drainage channels in
the Project Area.
(v) Upgrading and construction of required canal service
roads in the Project Area.
Part B:   Improvement in Irrigation System's Operation
Improvement in the operation of the irrigation syszems in
the Project Area through adoption of improved methods and proce-
dures for water allocation and distribution.
Part C:   Buildings
Construction, utilization and maintenance of about six
training centers, and of necessary office buildings and staff
quarters for the Project.


﻿- 14 -
Part D:   Equipment
Acquisition, utilization and maintenance of equipment for
construction, operation, maintenance, training and research,
survey, and land development.
Part E:   Training
(i) Training of farmers, including farmers' leaders, in
the Project Area, and of CADAs staff, including Junior Engineers,
Land Development Assistants, and Canal Inspectors.
(ii) Overseas tours for selected CADAs staff to study prac-
tices and techniques developed abroad for soils similar to those
in the Project Area.
Part F:
Monitoring and evaluation of the activities under the
Project, including farmers' attitude surveys to determine their
response to irrigation.
Part G:   Adaptive Agricultural Research
Establishment and implementation of a program of adaptive
agricultural research in the Project Area to develop and demon-
strate suitable irrigation practices, cropping sequences and farm
input levels.
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30,
1988.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  3O       day of ,
198 3.
FOR SECRETARY


