Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2580-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
GULF OF SUEZ GAS PROJECT
June 7, 1979
This document has a restricted disributen aad may be ued by recipints ondy In the performance of
their offical duties. Its contents may nt otherwise be disclosed without Wold Dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate 1/
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)               US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                         LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate 1/
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)         =     US$1.43
1 US Dollar                   =     LE 0.70
1/  As of January 1, 1979, all major transactions are carried out
under the Parallel Market Rate.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
List of Abbreviations
kwh                kilowatt hour
MMcf/d             million cubic feet per day
EGPC               Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
GUPCO              Gulf of Suez Petroleum Company
LPG                Liquified Petroleum Gas
NGL                Natural Gas Liquids
SOPCO              Suez Oil Processing Company
PPCO               Petroleum Pipeline Company
(See also Anney I', -  -lossarv of Technical Terms.)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARkB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GULF OF SUEZ GAS PROJECT
Loan Summary
Borrower:             Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC).
Guarantor:            Arab Republic of Egypt.
Amount:               US$75 million loan.
Terms:                20 years, including four years grace, at 7.9 percent
interest. EGPC will pay to the Guarantor a guarantee
fee of 2.1 percent per annum on the principal outstanding
amount olf the loan.
Project
Description:          The proposed loan would finance part of the foreign
exchange costs of a project for gathering, processing and
transporiting associated 1/ gas from oil fields in the Gulf
of Suez which is presently being flared. The stripped
gas would be used principally as fuel for electric power
generation and cement manufacture where it would replace
fuel oil and high value diesel oil and as a feed stock
for a fertilizer plant where it would replace naphtha.
Specifically the project would consist of:
(i)  three gas gathering stations for associated gas,
(ii) a liquified petroleum gas (LPG) and condensate
recovery plant,
(iii)  compression facilities and pipelines and related
services,
(iv) sector studies, training and technical assistance;
andl
(v)  engineering and consulting services for a Cairo
gas distribution project.
The principal benefit to be derived from the development
of the project would be to develop an energy source,
which is presently being wasted and, to that extent,
increase Egypt's exportable surplus of fuel oil and
Naphtha and reduce LPG imports. The proposed investment,
despite low domestic prices, would generate for EGPC
a financial rate of return of 13 percent. Sensitivity
analyses indicate that under optimum conditions of
reservoir productivity, the economic return could be as
high as 41 percent.
1/   A glossary of the technical terms used in this report is attached as
-    Annex IV.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Adverse conditions including diversion of gas for
reservoir pressure maintenance, could reduce the rate
of return to 22 percent which is fully satisfactory.
The project faces no special risks other than those
inherent in petroleum production and pipeline industry
and for which adequate safeguards have been provided.
Cost Estimates:                                           In US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
1.   382 Gas Gathering Station                  4.8        12.0       16.8
2.   GUPCO Gas Gathering Station                 1.1        4.2        5.3
3.   Ramadan Gas Gathering Station              4.1        11.6       15.7
4.   Ras Shukheir-Suez Pipeline                 7.6        24.4       32.0
5.   Suez Distribution System                   1.6         2.0        3.6
6.   LPG Plant & Compressor Station             8.0        24.0       32.0
7.   Suez-Cairo Pipelines & 24" Line            3.1        10.5       13.6
8.   Project Design, Implementation,
Training & Studies                         3.2         7.4      10.6
9.   Miscellaneous Support Items                1.0         3.2        4.2
Basic Project Estimate                         34.5        99.3      133.8
Physical Contingency                            4.4        12.7       17.1
Price Contingency                               5.1        11.0       16.1
Total                                          44.0       123.0      167.0
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                         -        75.0       75.0
Suppliers' Credits                -        24.5       24.5
Government/EGPC                44.0        23.5       67.5
Total                          44.0       123.0      167.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                              US$ Million
Bank FY  1980        1981       1982
Annual                          15.0       40.0       20.0
Cumulative                      15.0       55.0       75.0
Economic Rate
of Return:           32 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 2435 - EGT, dated May 30, 1979
Petroleum Projects Division
Energy, Water and Telecommunications Department, CPS



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A GULF OF SUEZ GAS PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) with the guarantee of the
Arab Republic of Egypt, for the equivalent of US$75.0 million to help finance
part of the foreign exchange cost of a Gulf of Suez Gas Project. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including 4 years of grace with interest at 7.9
percent per annum. EGPC will pay the guarantor a guarantee fee of 2.1 percent
per annum on the principal outstanding amount of the loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         A Basic Economic Report entitled "Arab Republic of Egypt:  Economic
Management in a Period of Transition" (No. 1815-EGT), and dated May 8, 1978,
has been diLstributed to the Executive Directors. A report on "Recent Economic
Development:s and External Ca,pital Requirements" (No. 2071-EGT), prepared for
a meeting of the Consultative Group was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 30, 1978. Economic missions visited Egypt in October 1978, and in
March 1979. Country data sheets are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.         Rtecent economic tr ends in Egypt have been strongly influenced by the
new "open-door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in October 1973 and
approved in a national referendum in May 1974. This strategy reflects a major
effort to accelerate economiLc development through modernization and making
Egypt's largely publicly-owned and centrally-controlled economy more market-
oriented.  Specifically, the! strategy envisages (i) a gradual dismantling of
government regulations, many of which are to be replaced by the price mech-
anism; (ii) the decentralization of decision-making in state-owned enter-
prises; (iii) a more active role for the private sector, including private
foreign investors; and (iv) expanded economic cooperation with Arab and
western countries. Substantial inflows of external assistance from Arab and
Western aid donors and institutions are considered essential to support the
new strategy.
4.         To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
1/   Part I of this report :Ls virtually identical to Part I of the President's
Report for the Tourism Project, which was approved by the Executive
Directors on May 17, 1979.



gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's curency has been effectively devalued from
US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound (by 44 percent) at present. At the same time,
exchange restrictions were eased, specific import allocations were replaced
by general import quotas, and more foreign exchange made available to both
the public and private sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977)
offers attractive incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially
with the EEC, opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bila-
teral trade with COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt management unit
was established in the Central Bank, and became operative in mid-1978.
5.        Internally, the autonomy of public enterprises was strengthened,
especially by a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to
individual enterprises in (i) setting up organizational structures, (ii) in-
troducing material incentives, (iii) establishing productivity related wage
scales, (iv) adjusting the work force to production requirements, and (v)
undertaking investments from own resources. Provincial authority to undertake
regional development programs was also expanded.
6.        A start has been made to rationalize the price structure, and to
increase price flexibility. Thus, the share of industrial output subject to
centralized price control was reduced from some 50 percent in 1975 to about 35
percent by 1978, and prices for a number of controlled products (including agri-
cultural crops and some public service tariffs) were substantially increased.
Interest rates were raised several times and stand now at 10 to 12 percent for
lending (to the non-government sector) and 6 to 8.5 percent for term deposits.
Private sector activity is being encouraged, and has been freed from many
previous restrictions. Moreover, a growing number of foreign investment con-
tracts are being signed, especially in the important oil and tourist sectors.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        The open-door strategy and subsequent policy action have yielded
some impressive results. Above all, they have led to a rapid increase in
Egypt's foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4 billion in 1973 to an
estimated $5.5 billion in 1978. During this period, oil exports, workers'
remittances, tourism and the Suez Canal emerged as major new sources of
foreign exchange. This was accompanied by a major shift of agricultural and
industrial exports from COMECON countries to the hard currency area. In addi-
tion, the Government managed to attract large amounts of foreign assistance.
Gross inflows of medium- and long-term capital averaged $3.4 billion p.a.
during 1975-78, compared with an average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72.
The bulk of these aid flows came from Arab and Western donors, and were pro-
vided at highly concessional terms.
8.        The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has eased the pres-
sure on the balance of payments and allowed much higher levels of imports.
This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase of investment, larger domestic



- 3 -
consumption., and a better utilization of existing production capacities.
Imports of goods and services (excluding interest payments) rose from about
$2.0 billion in 1973 to an estimated $6.7 billion in 1978; imports of capital
goods increased at an even faster rate. Gross capital formation expanded from
LE 515 million ($1.2 billion) 1/ in 1973 to LE 2,700 million (Y4.0 billion) 1/
in 1978, reaching the equivalent of 30 percent of GNP in the latter year.
Increased availability of foreign exchange to industrial producers and farmers
enabled them to import more raw materials, intermediate goods - including
fertilizer and pesticides - and spare parts thus breaking crucial bottlenecks
that had constrained local production. Together with investments in new
capacities and a vigorous expansion of services such as trade, tourism and
shipping, these developments sharply accelerated the rate of economic growth.
9.        The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices rose
at an average rate of close to 10 percent p.a. during 1975-78. 2/ Much of the
growth was concentrated in the petroleum sector, construction, manufacturing,
transport and public utilities. Agricultural production, on the other hand,
increased very slowly (about 1 percent p.a.). The higher level of economic
activity together with large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil export-
ing countries absorbed much of the excess labor force that existed in the
early 1970s. In fact, serious labor shortages have begun to emerge in a
number of occupations, especially in the construction sector.
10.       Increased exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows resulted in a
consolidation of Egypt's external debt, and strengthened the country's credit-
worthiness.  Short-term cred[its owed by the Government to commercial banks
were reduced from $1.4 billion at the end of 1976 to $490 million at end 1978,
largely with the help of loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the Devel-
opment of Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in debt
payments were cleared which had built up in the previous years. These changes
have solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's financial
position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms on new borrowings have also eased
the burden on the country's medium- and long-term debt. Although Egypt's
total medium- and long-term public debt increased sharply during recent years--
from $2.1 billion end 1973 to an estimated $9.2 billion end-1978--the debt
service ratio declined from 33 percent to 24 percent, respectively. This
reflects not only more favorable credit terms--i.e., lower interest rates and
longer maturities--but also the rapid increase in foreign exchange earnings.
11.       There are indicat:ions that the growth of production and investment
has slowed down in the last twelve months. One important reason for this is
that existing production capacities are now used at relatively high levels
1/   Conversions are made ait the weighted average of the official and the
parallel market exchange rates, the weights being their prevalent respec-
tive shares of trade.
2/   The growth rate of GNP was much higher, about 15 percent per annum,
because of the massive growth in workers' remittances (see Annex I).



- 4 -
while new capacities do not come on stream quickly due, in large part, to
administrative delays and construction bottlenecks. There are also growing
labor scarcities, especially in the skilled categories, and some branches face
stiff competition from imported consumer goods. Internal demand, on the other
hand, continues to grow rapidly creating rising inflationary pressures and a
high propensity to import.
Development Potential and Constraints
12.       Egypt has considerable potential for further development.  The
reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a proficient
population, an agricultural resource base not yet fully developed, varied
raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key geographical location.
In addition, there are good prospects for a continued growth of foreign
exchange earnings from tourism, workers' remittances and the Suez Canal which
is undergoing a major expansion. While oil exports are likely to decline in
the long-run--in the light of increasing domestic consumption and less opti-
mistic assumptions on new discoveries--the outlook for new industrial and
agricultural products are promising.
13.       However, future economic growth will come less easily than during
the past five years. As was mentioned above (para 11) capacities are now
strained in a number of sectors, including infrastructure. Investment in
new capacities is moving slower than anticipated, and is constrained by
administrative inefficiency, weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises is still weak,
while financial incentives for production are inadequate in many instances.
The latter problem has recently been reinforced by indiscriminate competition
from imports, many of which enter the country with little restrictions.
14.       Low levels of investment during the late 1960's and early 1970's
have led to a deterioration in physical infrastructure, mainly railways,
ports, airports, telecommunications and power. Similarly, there are serious
shortages in social investments, especially housing and urban facilities
(water supply, sewerage, etc.). Lack of adequate drainage facilities con-
strains agricultural productivity, while in industry large investments are
needed merely for balancing and modernization. These bottlenecks became more
pronounced as the economy expanded in recent years. Higher levels of economic
activity together with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical
professional and technical skills (see paragraph 9 above). Educational
facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs
to be upgraded.
15.       There is a severe shortage in domestic investment funds, especially
for the public sector. Notwithstanding high rates of taxation--over 30 per-
cent of GNP in recent years--savings generated by the government budget are
relatively low. During 1974-78 current budget surpluses averaged only
less than one percent of GNP, while their contribution to the financing of
public investment did not exceed an average of 10 percent p.a. This is the
result of high defense and security expenditures, large consumer subsidies



- 5 -
and fast growing interest payments which taken together claimed 71 percent of
the Government's tax revenues in 1978. At the same time, savings generated by
public enterprises are constrained by price regulations which frequently do
not allowi full cost recovery or seriously limit profit margins.
16.       Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 40 million in 1978 with an average density exceed-
ing 1,300 per square kilomleter of agricultural land--the population is growing
at a rate of 2.2 percent p.a., adding more than 800,000 people every year.
This creates great pressures on resources for consumption and investment, and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run.
17.       A serious side-effect of the open-door strategy has been a growing
disparity in income distribution and consumption levels. Income differentials
have been further widened by inflationary pressure (18 percent in 1978).  It
is estimated that currently the lower 40 percent of the rural population
receive about 25 percent of the rural incomes while in the urban areas the
proportion is about 21 percent. About 30 percent of the rural and 22 percent
of the urban population are below absolute poverty lines. Although the above
pattern of inequality and incidence of absolute poverty are less than in most
developing economies it is nevertheless a serious issue, which could worsen if
no effective policy action is taken.
Further Action Required
18.       The peace treaty with Israel presents a new situation the full
economic impact of which cannot be assessed easily at this stage. Internally,
it should allow the Governiment to devote crucially needed time and energy to
dealing with economic and development policy issues; it could free important
human, material and financial resources and provide a breathing space for pre-
paring a medium- to long-term framework for economic development. Externally,
however, there could be significant repercussions, at least in the short run,
particularly in terms of Foreign aid flows.
19.       To maintain the momentum of development, major efforts are required
to overcome present structural constraints. More specifically, action is
needed to (i) increase the efficiency of government administration through
organizational and procedural modifications, and selective changes in salary
structures; (ii) strengthen the capacity for development programming and
project preparation/implementation; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced
program to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) substantially
expand the program to curb population growth; (v) articulate urban and rural
strategies aimed at decentralizing urban agglomeration in Cairo and Alexan-
dria, and creating more productive opportunity in smaller towns and rural
areas; (vi) further activate the use of prices as indicators of relative
scarcities; (vii) strengthen the management of public enterprises; (viii)
improve professional and technical education; (ix) increase public savings;
and (x) develop a coordinated export promotion policy. There is an ongoing
dialogue' on all these issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank;
they have also been the focus of the discussion among the members of the
Consultative Group for Egypt, especially at its second meeting in June 1978.



- 6 -
20.       Over the last few years, the Government has initiated action in many
of these areas, often with support from the World Bank, IMF, UNDP, regional
and bilateral aid donors. Above all, the Government has prepared a Five-Year
Plan which was adopted by Parliament in mid-1978 and which provides a medium-
term perspective to the Govenment's development strategy and policy objectives.
It advocates a high growth strategy spearheaded by an industrialization drive
and supported by fast growing exchange earnings. The domestic and foreign
private sectors are expected to play an increasing role in the development
process, although the public sector will retain its dominant position. Each
year the plan is being updated and moved forward by one year, to flexibily
respond to changing economic conditions and investment options.
21.       In support of the overall plan a number of sector and subsector
programs are presently under preparation with the assistance of the Bank
and other donors. They include a water master plan, various industrial
sub-sector studies, a review of the transport sector, and an electrification
program. These programs will identify sectoral priorities, define appropriate
policies and institutional arrangements, and prepare specific development
projects, many of which could be cofinanced by foreign donors. Other pro-
grams such as those for the development of the oil sector, the widening and
deepening of the Suez Canal and a national drainage scheme, have already
reached the stage of implementation.
22.       The Government is also preparing a more rational price policy.  In
line with this, a comprehensive Bank study on the adjustment of agricultural
prices is underway, and first results are expected by the end of the year.
Price ceilings are expected to be lifted for most industrial products, and
further adjustments will be made for utility tariffs. However, care will have
to be taken that these price changes will not erode the standard of living of
the poor. In this context, efforts have been initiated to define the framework
for a more active program to provide for the basic needs of the lower income
groups.  In the past two years the Government, at the highest level, has also
come to a new commitment to direct action on population matters. While it has
already initiated such action (e.g. an intensified home visiting program under
the second IDA financed population project), it will take time until measure-
able results in fertility reduction can be seen.
23.       Last year, the Government negotiated an arrangement under the IMF's
extended facility, which was approved by the IMF's Board of Directors in July
1978. The agreement permits Egypt to make purchases from the IMF over the
next three years up to a total amount equivalent to SDR 600 million (about
$770 million). As part of this arrangement, the Government has adopted since
January 1979, the parallel market rate for virtually all foreign exchange
transactions, and has undertaken to further reduce exchange control restric-
tions. The Government has also undertaken to continue decontrolling the
output prices of public sector companies. The effect of this policy will be
to improve the financial situation of such companies as well as the Govern-
ment, and thus facilitate efforts to increase budgetary savings. A first
drawing of $96 million was made in June 1978.



-7-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed at December 31, 1978 was estimated at about $9.2 billion (see
paragraph IC). Of the total, medium- and long-term loans amounted to $6.4
billion (of which $0.4 billion was in non-convertible currencies), medium-
and long-term deposits with the Central Bank of Egypt were $2 billion, and
suppliers' credits $0.8 billion. Major creditors were Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia, followed by the USA, USSR and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRDIIDA debt comprised about 5 percent of the total disbursed debt. Debt
service on mledium-and long-term debt was estimated at $1.4 billion in 1978 1/
giving a debt service ratio of about 24 percent. No reliable estimates of
military debt are available.
25.       The Government's recent policy actions have initiated structural
adjustments called for by Egypt's economic situation and international envi-
ronment. If progress towards overcoming present constraints is maintained and
the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the average deficit
on current account is estimated at about $3 billion per annum for the coming
five years. The required capital inflows are large--but if they are available
on the terms expected, Egypt would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow
the amounts envisaged, includ,ing a limited amount on harder terms. The burden
of servicing medium- and long-term debt as a percentage of total foreign
exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate between 21 and 28 percent during
1979-83, and to gradually decline thereafter to about 16 percent in 1988.  In
these circurnstances Egypt may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount
of Bank lending in addition to the IDA assistance which Egypt merits on the
ground of iIts poverty.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 2/
26.       The proposed loan would be the World Bank's forty-third lending
operation in Egypt.  It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $1,430.5 million. 3/ Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of April 30, 1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
1/   Inclusive of IMF repayments of $75 million.
2/   Paras. 27 to 31 of this report are virtually identical to paras. 27 to 31
of the President's Report for the Tourism Project which was approved by
the Executive Directors on May 17, 1979.
3/   Includes Shoubra El Kheima Power Project ($102 million Bank loan and $37
million IDA credit) for which documents were distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 7, 1979 for consideration on June 19, 1979.



- 8 -
27.       Given Egypt's basic structural problems:  pressure of population on
resources; lacking economic infrastructure; a large public sector constrained
by administrative fragmentation and a network of controls over investment,
production, distribution and prices; significant balance of payments deficits
and pressing demand for finding domestic resources, the Bank's response has
been tailored to address, in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation
with other donors, these long-term developmental issues. The necessary
breadth of the Bank's contribution to Egypt has dictated a strategy which
involves entry into the whole spectrum of sectors with a view to provide not
only direct finance with the relatively limited resources that the Bank/IDA
can make available but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other financing
agencies, both bilateral and multilateral, and as a spur for initiating dis-
cussion and, hopefully, positive action on a coherent framework of policies
and investment proposals which can tackle the substantive issues. The
approach must also include delivery of technical assistance not only for
adequate implementation of specific investment programs but for developing
the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement future
policies and programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral inter-
vention has been differentiated by sectors and by the pace at which the
Egyptian authorities can address these issues.
28.       Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector receiv-
ing the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention, illus-
trates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. It is the one sector
which has the capacity for creating employment opportunities which can meet
the demands of Egypt's growing population and limited agricultural land.
However, this sector is beset by a complex constellation of problems which
stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and lack of management
autonomy, the distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives. Efforts under
our projects have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity
utilization (Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456)
.and increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort--embodied in these projects--has been
directed at introducing policy and structural improvements through initiating
six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food
processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, which would provide the
foundations for formulating a package of policy and investment proposals. To
complement these efforts in basic industries the Bank has also carried out a
study on small-scale industries which we hope would form a basis for Egyptian
and our efforts in this area.
29.       The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
our intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach
that we have adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the Egyptian
economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with that the Egyptian
Government wants us to play but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function, which the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group, should fulfill. Preparation of projects for future
lending follows this strategy. A development finance project, a second



- 9 -
textiles project, a pulp and paper project, and an agro-industries project
have been appraised.  A pipeline of projects for possible future lending is
also being developed, including further projects in water supply and sewerage,
telecommunications, education, power, rural and urban development, transporta-
tion, agriculture (including drainage) and agro-industry, development finance
and industry.
30.       Bank Group disbursements in 1978 represent 2.8 percent of Egypt's
medium- and long-term capitaL inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total
external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 2.3 percent and 2.5
percent, respectively at the end of 1978. For the future, the Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reaclh about 5.4 and 3.4 percent respectively in 1981.
It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service
payments due on Egypt's external debt.
31.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project, was
approved by the Executive Directors in 1976, the second, for a ready-made
garment project, in 1977, and the third, a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet, in May 1978. IFC is also discussing several other
private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Introduction
32.       Egypt's energy outlook has consistently improved over the last
decade. With the commissioning of the Aswan High Dam, Egypt successfully
developed its largest hydroelectric resource. Increases in oil production
'have made it self-sufficient and more recently an exporter of oil. In 1977
petroleum exports accounted for 25 percent of its foreign trade earnings.
Gas finds have further strengthened the energy base and increased export
possibilities of oil. These positive developments notwithstanding, the medium
and long term outlook is not as clear. Much of Egypt's current economic
and industrial planning is predicated upon ample and continued availability
of low cost energy and a significant increase in oil exports. However, it is
not certain that this will necessarily come about. A fast growing domestic
demand for oil stimulated by prices well below the international level,
decreasing productivity in some of Egypt's major oil fields, slackening in
exploration activities and delay in developing natural gas, are the areas
of concern.
Resource Endowment
33.       The main sources of primary commercial energy in Egypt are hydro
power and petroleum. While coal deposits have been discovered in the western



- 10 -
desert and Sinai peninsula, and are estimated at around 100 million tons, they
are not of cokable quality and are presently not being considered for exploi-
tation. As in other developing economies, non-commercial fuels in the form
of crop residues and animal waste are in extensive use but no data are avail-
able in regards to their magnitude. A recent study estimates energy produced
by non-commercial fuels at around 5 million tons of oil equivalent, which
would be one-third of the total commercial energy used. Though the level of
utilization of animal and vegetable waste is high, the end-use efficiency is
low and is typically of the order of 10 to 15 percent.
34.       Hydro power for Egypt is an important source and in 1977 accounted
for 20 percent of primary commercial energy. By equipping the Aswan Dam
with turbine generators having cumulative capacity of 345 MW, the first step
was taken in 1960 to tap the hydro power potential of the river Nile. With
the completion of the Aswan High Dam in 1970, having an installed capacity of
2100 MW, 80 percent of the Nile's hydro power potential has been harnessed.
The remaining 60 meter drop between Aswan and Cairo represent a generating
potential of 600 MW which, subject to the establishment of economic viability,
could be secured by electrifying three existing barrages and constructing others.
Oil and Gas
35.       Hydro carbons are a major source of commercial energy in Egypt and
on account of limited hydro potential, are likely to be relied upon increasingly
for meeting Egypt's incremental demand for energy. Though the first oil well
in Egypt was drilled in 1886, oil exploration was not taken up on a systematic
basis until the turn of the century. Commercial production commenced in 1913,
but it was only after 1968 that oil production exceeded 10 million tons. The
current production level is around 500,000 barrels a day (25 million tons per
annum) of which about 20 percent represents the share of foreign partners, 40
perceht is consumed domestically and the balance is exported. Recoverable
reserves are estimated at around 2.5 billion barrels (350 million tons).
Associated with the production of oil, 100 million cubic feet a day (MM cf/d
of gas) (one million tons of oil equivalent per annum) is expected to be
produced in 1979, which will be flared except for a small amount consumed in
the oil fields. Four non-associated gas fields have been discovered at Abu
Gharadig, Abu Madi, Abuqir and Amal (See Map), which cumulatively have recover-
able reserves of about 3.5 trillion cubic feet; production from the first
three of these fields, in 1978, has released 800,000 tons of oil for exports.
When fully exploited, the four non-associated gas fields would annually
replace liquid hydrocarbons to the extent of about 4 million tons.
Exploration Policy
36.       For exploration, development and production of oil, Egypt has
consistently followed an 'open-door policy' and almost all exploration and
production work undertaken within the country has been through foreign oil
companies. The exploration agreements have evolved from the 'concessions' of
the pre-1960's to participation agreements which were subsequently converted
into production sharing agreements. Under the currently prevalent production
sharing agreements, the cost of exploration and development is borne exclu-
sively by foreign contractors and amortized, interest free, over the next 4



- 11 -
and 8 years respectively. After taking into account these, as also the
operating costs, 'profit oil' 1/ is shared between the foreign contractors and
Egypt in a given ratio. In successive agreements, Egypt has improved upon its
share of profit oil and recently some agreements have been concluded in which
Egypt's share of profit oil has been negotiated at 87 percent.
37.       The exploration policy, as pursued by Egypt, has served well the
Government's objective of maximizing oil production without bearing any risk
of exploration. Of the present level of production of 500,000 barrels per
day, as much as 470,000 barrels are produced from these concessions. Since
1973, Egypt has made consciouas efforts to invite foreign companies and 53
exploration and production agreements have been entered into for an area
covering about 160,000 sq. kns. At present, the foreign contractors share oil
with the national oil company on average in the ratio of 1:3. Even at the
anticipated higher level of production, the share of foreign contractors is
not likely to go down significantly. Remuneration to foreign oil companies in
terms of profit oil is fairly attractive to them and currently averages at
about $1.5C per barrel of oil.
Current and Anticipated Level of Oil Production
38.       Cver the past few years, there has been an impressive recovery in
the production of oil in Egypt which rose from 11.5 million tons in 1974 to 20.9
million tons in 1977, a level which had been attained earlier in 1969. More
than 75 percent of Egypt's oil production is obtained from the Gulf of Suez by
the Gulf Oil Petroleum Company (GUPCO), an operator on behalf of Amoco and the
Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC), the borrower under the proposed
loan (see paragraph 46 below).
39.       Egypt anticipates a sharp upswing in petroleum production which
is projecte!d to exceed 35 million tons by 1980 and reach 47 million tons by
1982, a production level it hopes to sustain over the next 20 years. These
projections take account of the fact that major oil fields, which currently
account for 80 percent of Egypt's oil production, are anticipated to peak by
1981. Attainment of the targeted production rate of 47 million tons is,
predicated upon new discoveries being made, which will not only double
the current. level of production but would also make good the decline
in production from oil fields which have peaked. Failure to achieve the
assumed discovery ratio could result in a significant shortfall. In any
case, the lags which are inherent in the development of an oil field, will
make it extremely difficult to achieve the target stipulated for the current
Five Year Development Plan (1978-82).
Consumption Pattern
40.       The consumption of petroleum products has been rising sharply and
in 1977 was of the order of 9.1 million tons p.a. against 6.7 million tons
1/   "Profi.t oil" is the difference between total oil production and "cost
oil". "Cost oil" consists of operating cost and amortized cost
relative to exploration and development.



- 12 -
in 1974. While the overall annual growth rate in oil consumption was of the
order of 11 percent, motor gasoline and Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) recorded
a growth rate of 12.5 percent which is in line with the projected growth in
GNP of about 7 percent and with past trends. It is anticipated that in the
absence of demand management and/or a significant increase in the price level,
this growth rate in consumption would be maintained until 1985. This rela-
tively high growth rate is in part attributable to a quantum jump in thermal
power generation which is projected to rise from 17 billion kwh in 1980 to 28
billion kwh in 1985, resulting in the demand for fuel oil growing from 3.6
million tons to 7.7 million tons p.a.  A qualitative change in the pattern
of consumption is, however, anticipated with natural gas being increasingly
used to substitute liquid hydrocarbons, especially fuel oil. By early 1980,
natural gas is expected to replace fuel oil to the extent of 2 million tons
and by 3.6 million tons in 1985. Despite the increasing use of gas, the con-
sumption of liquid hydrocarbons could grow at around 11 percent p.a. between
1980 and 1985. Exclusive of gas consumption and in the absence of demand
management, the consumption of petroleum products in 1985 may reach about 20
million tons.
Energy Pricing
41.        The most important issues in Egypt's energy sector are pricing and
lack of adequate planning. Worldwide price increases and the consequent fall
in the growth rates of oil consumption have had no effect in Egypt where
domestic prices are still being maintained at essentially 1956 levels. EGPC
secures a net back of around $1.50 per barrel from domestic sales. Even
after the excise and treasury dues are taken into account, the total revenue
which the economy derives from the sale of crude domestically is around $4 a
barrel. The implicit subsidy in relation to the international prices at the
current level of production exceeds $600 million a year. By artificially
maintaining the petroleum price at this level, Egypt is losing a unique
opportunity of using its finite petroleum wealth for increasing public sector
revenues. Subsidies are also considerable in the power subsector where
present tariffs are below the marginal cost of supply. Both the levels and
structure of electricity tariffs are inadequate, according to an interim
report by French consultants (SOFRELEC and EdF) financed by the Bank under the
first power project (Loan 1453-EGT). In connection with the Shoubra El Kheima
power project, for which documents have been distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 7, 1979 for consideration on June 19, 1979, the Egyptian
Electricity Authority agreed to take all measures, including tariff increases
if necessary, to reach a minimum 9 percent rate of return on revalued assets
by 1983.
Energy Prospects
42.       Whereas Egypt is currently a net exporter of energy, it is not
endowed with a particularly plenteous energy base. Hydro power, which in
Egypt is synonymous with river Nile, has been harnessed to the extent of
about 80 percent. Coal deposits exist but are not presently considered
economic to mine. Solar energy, though available in abundance, must await
a series of technological breakthroughs before it can be considered for



- 13 -
extensive application. Hydrocarbons appear to be the only primary source
which can sustain Egypt's incremental demand for energy. While Egypt can view
the current level of production with satisfaction, its known oil reserves are
not high, being less than 0.4 percent of world resources. Its existing proven
reserves are capable of sustaining the present level of production for little
more than 10 years. Moreover, Egypt's major oil fields are likely to peak
by 1981 and until and unless new discoveries are made, there could be an
absolute decline in production. With burgeoning demand for hydrocarbons on
the one hand and prospects of reduced productivity from existing oil fields on
the other, Egypt would need to redouble its exploration efforts if it is
to maintain its present statuas as exporter of energy over the next decade.
In parallel Egypt would have to place greater emphasis on gas exploration
since its ability to develop and utilize gas instead of oil within the economy,
increases its exportable surplus of oil. As foreign oil companies have little
or no interest in developing gas resources for domestic consumption, it is
necessary for Egypt to take the initiative through domestic efforts.
Energy Planning
43.        A joint assessment of Egypt's energy resources and needs up to the
year 2000 carried out by an Egypt/US team in March-July 1978 pointed out
serious gaps and inconsisten,cies in Egypt's current energy planning. A lack
of an adequate energy planning data base was also emphasized. The joint
assessment concluded by recommending continuing assistance to help Egypt
establish a comprehensive energy planning capability to prepare and implement
energy development plans effectively. Bank Group technical assistance for
this is being proposed under the proposed loan through a study on the pricing
of petroleum products and another study on the optimum utilization of asso-
ciated and non-associated natural gas resources (see para. 45 below). In
addition, under the power project mentioned above, the Government agreed to
establish not later than December 31, 1979, an Inter-Ministerial Committee
on Energy to be solely responsible for energy planning activities in Egypt,
thus taking over and expanding the authority and scope of activities of
the Ministerial Committee established by a Prime Ministerial Decision of
October 26, 1974.
44.        Along with efforts to develop hydrocarbon resources within the
country, it would be necessary for Egypt to take conscious steps to slow
down the current growth of consumption. Present pricing policy, inevitably,
encourages wasteful consumption and would need to be reexamined. Further-
more, on the assumption of abundant and cheap availability of this resource,
energy intensive projects, even in the absence of basic raw materials, are
being actively considered. Such a policy may require reevaluation as Egypt
may neither have the endowment nor the resources to permit an unabated growth
in demand for energy.
45.        Energy in Egypt coiuld, therefore, from being an expansive force
become a constraint in moving to higher rates of economic growth. A careful
evaluation of long-term supply and demand options are, therefore, called for.
As a first step in that direction, the Bank would, as a part of the proposed



- 14 -
loan, provide financial and technical assistance in undertaking the following
sector related studies, which would subsequently be reviewed between the
Government, EGPC and the Bank.
(i) Exploration Study: This study would, inter alia, attempt to
reorganize, collate and reinterpret the existing geological,
seismic and drilling data. It would also cover the past
production data and assess whether it would be viable to
go in for an enhanced/secondary recovery program.
(ii) Pricing Policy: In conformity with its existing regime
of administered prices in most segments of the economy,
Egypt prices oil products at a fraction of international
prices. As a part of the loan, Egypt would undertake a
study, which would aim at evaluating the effect of discrete
price increases of oil products, on goods and services in
which it is an important input. This study is expected to
provide the Government with a set of policy options and
assist it in moving towards more realistic prices.
(iii) Gas Utilization Study: Important gas discoveries have
been made, but in order to maximize the benefits, end
use options would need to be carefully evaluated. The
gas utilization study would be initiated so as to prepare
a gas development plan, which, could also form the basis
of future Bank lending operations.
Draft terms of reference of the above studies have been agreed upon during
negotiations. EGPC agreed to implement all recommendations that are satisfac-
tory to the Government, the Bank and EGPC in accordance with an agreed time
schedule for each study (Section 3.06 of draft Loan Agreement).
The Borrower
46.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Egyptian General Petro-
leum Corporation (EGPC), a Government owned enterprise established in 1976.
EGPC is governed by a Board consisting of the Chairman and three Vice-Chairmen
who are in charge of exploration and production, planning and projects and
operations. Other members of the Board are: two General Managers for admin-
istration and finance, three Chairmen of subsidiary companies (General Petro-
leum Company, Suez Petroleum Company and the Petroleum Cooperation Society)
and the General Manager of the Egyptian Petroleum Research Institute. The
Board is empowered to establish EGPC's internal regulations with respect to
financial, administrative and technical management as well as conditions of
employment and remuneration. However, in matters affecting general Government
policies, particularly as regards pricing of petroleum products, EGPC is
subject to guidance given by the Supreme Petroleum Council which is presided
over by the Minister of Petroleum. Furthermore, all resolutions of the Board
have to be approved by the Minister of Petroleum who can, at his discretion,
amend or cancel them.



- 15 -
47.       EGPC functions as a holding company and performs the varied func-
tions with which it is charged through fully-owned independent subsidiaries
responsible for the processing, transportation and marketing of petroleum
products.  To a limited extent it engages in exploration and production,
though the main responsibility rests largely with foreign oil companies.
EGPC's affiliated companies have considerable autonomy in managing their
affairs but their capital and operational budgets must be approved by EGPC.
These companies function on a cost plus basis and charge EGPC a fee for
performing the various functions relating to the processing and marketing
of crude oil, and/or petroleumi products.
48.       E(;PC's management a.t the senior level is competent and experienced
in the various aspects of the oil and gas industry. It has, over the last
decade, expanded the marketin,g organization to meet growing demand, set up
and rehabilitated a number of refineries, laid an extensive network of crude,
petroleum products and gas pipelines; facilities which it operates with
considerable competence. It has created within its organization a specialized
group which has successfully negotiated production sharing agreements with 53
foreign oil companies. Separately, EGPC has developed three non-associated
gas fields within Egypt and linked them to the market. While foreign partners
are largely responsible for the production of oil, EGPC closely monitors their
exploration and development programs. Egypt's improved energy position is
in no small measure due to EGPC's effective intervention in the sector. It
currently faces the problem experienced by many national oil companies of
competing with the private sector and the Gulf area for experienced staff.
Rapid growth has further strained its managerial resources.  Plans are under-
way to install a computerizecl management information system to assist in
effective control of these multi-facet operations which will increase in
complexity ias time goes on. There is an apparent need for assistance in
the area of financial planning, rationalization of accounts and budgeting
techniques. The proposed loan includes funds for financing consultants
in this area.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
49.       The project was identified in May 1978, and appraised in October-
November 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 1 to 7, 1979.
The Government of Egypt was represented by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Undersecretary,
Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation and the Egyptian
General Petroleum Corporation by Mr. Sami Andrawis, Deputy Chairman. A staff
appraisal report is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
50.       More than 90 percent of Egypt's oil production is concentrated in
the Gulf of Suez and the entire associated gas becoming available from these



- 16 -
fields, presently about 100 million standard cubic feet a day (MMcf/d),
is being flared. This coexists with the situation where fuel oil of almost
equivalent thermal value (one million tons per annum) and which could
otherwise be exported, is being used for power generation. Oil production
from existing Gulf of Suez oil fields, however, is now declining and conse-
quently gas supplies will drop appreciably over the coming years. Studies
show that there is demand for gas in the city of Suez and in Cairo and a fair
proportion could be economically gathered and transported to these markets
from the Gulf of Suez. The primary objective of the proposed project is to
gather, process, and transport associated gas from oil fields in the Gulf of
Suez which is presently being flared, to secure for Egypt an energy source
which is presently being wasted. Natural gas liquids (NGL), essentially the
naphtha fraction, and LPG would first be recovered from the gas at Ras
Shukeir 1/ and the dry gas, up to 80 MMcf/d, would be transported to the
city of Suez through a 290 km, 16" pipeline. The stripped gas would be used
principally as fuel for electric power generation and cement manufacture
where it would displace fuel oil, and as a feed stock for ammonia systhesis
(fertilizer plant), where it would displace naphtha. Surplus gas up to a
maximum of 42 MMcf/d would be transported to Cairo, where it would augment the
existing supplies which are being secured from the non-associated gas fields
of Abu Gharadig. In Cairo, too, this gas would be used for power generation
where it would replace fuel oil and high value diesel oil. The equivalent
quantities of these petroleum products, along with naphtha recovered from
associated gas, would be exported. LPG would be used as a domestic fuel and
replace the currently imported LPG.
Project Description
51.       The proposed project would consist of the following major com-
ponents:
(a) three gas gathering stations at the Ramadan, Location 382 and
the GUPCO gas oil separator plants. These stations would
consist of gas dehydration and compression facilities and
pipelines to Ras Shukeir;
(b) an LPG and condensate recovery plant at Ras Shukeir;
(c) the main compression station located at Ras Shukeir and
a 16" gas transmission pipeline from Ras Shukeir to a
terminal at Suez, about 300 km in length, together with
distribution pipelines to the three main consumers in the
Suez area;
(d) compression facilities for the existing Suez Cairo 10"
gas line; its connection with and conversion to gas of
1/   The various locations referred to in this report are listed in the map.



- 17 -
the 10" white product pipeline so as to establish a cumula-
tive capacity of 42 MMcf/d. In addition 50 km of 24" pipe-
line in Cairo to tie in the Ras Sukheir system to the Cairo
gas distribution system.
(e)  supervisory control, cathodic protection and telemetry systems
for the gas pipelines;
(f) sector studies (para. 45 above), training (para. 59) and tech-
nical assistance (paras. 54 and 64 below); and
(g)  engineering and consulting services for a gas distribution
project to be installed in Cairo and for which the Government
and EGPC have sought Bank assistance.
Supply and Market
52.       As pointed out above (para. 50), natural gas being produced in the
Gulf of Suez in association with oil production would be utilized, to the
extent feasible, under the project.  However, as the associated gas from
existing oil fields appears inadequate to suport the gas system for the eco-
nomic life of the project, non-associated gas would be used to supplement and
subsequently replace associated gas. Bank financed consultants have developed
forecasts onl "proved" and "probable" reserves for the fields of July, Ramadan,
Location 382 and Amal. For purposes of Bank evaluation, the proved levels of
reserves and half of what the consultants considered as probable have been
accepted; even at these leveLs the reserves appear adequate for the economic
life of the project (20 years). However, in order to determine the extent to
which probable reserves could be classified as proved, further development of
the Location 382, Deminex, and Amal fields would be required. EGPC therefore
agreed to review with the Bank its plans for development (including the financ-
ing thereof) of Location 382, Deminex, Amal, the infield requirements 1/ of
July and Ranadan and the associated and non-associated gas reserve data for
the Gulf of Suez in order to determine the appropriate timing for the develop-
ment of the Amal field, or any other appropriate gas field (Sections 3.07 and
3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       As to the market, no problem is foreseen regarding the disposal of
condensates recovered from natural gas. Naphtha would be exported and LPG
would be readily absorbed in the domestic market, where a continuing and a
growing deficit is anticipated. The 80 MMcf/d of dry gas would be used in
Suez by an existing fertilizer plant (14 MMcf/d), a 300 MW power station (45
MMcf/d), a cement plant and for miscellaneous industrial loads (15 MMcf/d).
The cement plant and the power plant are currently under construction. The
cement plant is likely to be commissioned prior to 1981 and the power plant by
early 1983. In the interim, surplus gas, up to a maximum of 42 MMcf/d, would
1/   In an oil field, gas use consists typically of gas used for meeting oil
field requirements of power generation, motive power for compressors and
turbines, gas lift for producing oil reservoir pressure maintenance etc.



- 18 -
be piped to Cairo by creating compression facilities and connecting two
existing pipelines at Suez. The gas carried to Cairo would augment supplies
being secured from the non-associated gas fields of Abu Gharadig and be used
to replace liquid fuel in power plants. Between the commissioning of the gas
system in 1981 and early 1983 there may be a marginal surplus of gas (possibly
9 MMcf/d), which would be flared. However, EGPC intends to modulate the
production of oil from the oil/gas fields serving the project in a manner that
the surplus of gas will be kept even below the 9 MMcf/d.
Project Implementation
54.       EGPC would have overall responsibility for implementing the proposed
project. It would be assisted by an Egyptian affiliate of a US consulting
firm in matters of detailed engineering, preparation of tender documents and
various procurement and technical services. A project management team has
been assembled within EGPC and attached to its Planning and Projects Department
to coordinate and supervise the various implementation functions necessary to
design, procure, construct and commission the project facilities. Assistance
in carrying out and commissioning phase of the project would be assigned to
two of its wholly-owned operating subsidiaries:
(i) the Suez Oil Processing Company (SOPCO) for the LPG plant, the
main compressor station, the gas gathering stations and distri-
bution system; and
(ii) the Petroleum Pipeline Company (PPCO) for the Ras Shukheir -
Suez pipeline, Suez - Cairo lines and 24" tie - in to the Cairo
distribution system.
Staffing of the project management team comes mainly from within the EGPC
organization including SOPCO and PPCO. Additional technical assistance
requiring skills and/or equipment not available within EGPC's organization or
covered by the scope of work of its engineering consultants would be assigned
to local or expatriate consultants whose qualifications, experience and
condition of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank and EGPC (Section
3.02 of draft Loan Agreement).
55.       In accordance with its policy of entrusting its subsidiaries with
the processing, transportation and marketing of petroleum products (para. 47),
upon completion of the project, EGPC would assign operation and transfer the
assets of the project facilities to SOPCO and PPCO. The two operating subsi-
diaries collectively have fairly extensive experience in the construction and
operation of pipelines, natural gas compressors and turbo-expander plants for
field gas processing. Consequently, the Bank is satisfied that experienced
qualified personnel is available within these organizations to assist with the
support of consultants financed under the project in carrying out the project
and to operate the respective facilities after the completion of construction.
EGPC, however, would assume overall coordination and implementation respon-
sibility for the project. Composition, qualifications and organization of



- 19 -
the project management team and the assignment of all project related imple-
mentation functions between ECJPC and its two subsidiaries have been reviewed
and found satisfactory.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       The project cost is estimated at $167 million, of which $123 million
(73 percent) represents the foreign exchange cost. A physical contingency of
10 percent was applied againsi: the estimated project cost except for the gas
gathering facility and distribution network for which 15 percent was used. It
was considered prudent to use a higher contingency factor for offshore work
and the distribution network on account of the inherent uncertainties involved
in such operations. The price contingency is calculated on a combined equip-
ment civil works escalation of 7 percent during 1978 and 6.5 percent there-
after for all foreign exchange costs and 15 percent per year for all local
costs. With the proposed loan of $75 million, the Bank would finance 44
percent of the total or 61 percent of foreign costs. The proposed loan would
be made to EGPC at the current Bank lending rate for 20 years including four
years of grace. In addition, EGPC would pay a guarantee fee to the Government
so that the effective rate of interest to EGPC would be 10 percent. The Gov-
ernment agreed to finance the project's local and remaining foreign costs
(Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Up to $24 million of the
remaining costs might be secured through suppliers' credits. While approach-
ing the Bank for its participation in the project the Government has also
made serious efforts to obtain additional concessionary financing from other
sources, however, without success since possible other lending institutions
had already committed their funds for other projects. Multinational or
foreign oil companies which are generally prepared to engage in and provide
financial assistance towards the development of oil reserves, are in most
cases not in,terested in participating in the development of a country's gas
reserves to be used for domestic consumption, as is the case in Egypt. Also,
commercial institutions are not yet prepared to offer Egypt financing under
terms and conditions which would make the use of such funds an attractive
alternative source of financing.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.        The gas gathering, compression and process (LPG) facilities would be
procured ancl constructed under two separate single responsibility contracts
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for international competitive bidding.
Bidders would be separately prequalified for each of the two contracts. Pro-
ceeds of the proposed loan would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of the two contracts, estimated at US$62.5 million including contingen-
cies. Miscellaneous items of maintenance, operating and management equipment,
which cost 'Less than US$250,000 each but not exceeding US$4.0 million in the
aggregate, would be procured in accordance with EGPC's competitive bidding
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. In the event that the esti-
mated amounl' of any contract or the aggregate amount for such items is likely
to be exceeded, EGPC would consult and agree with the Bank on the procurement
procedure to be followed.



- 20 -
58.       Disbursements would take place against (i) 100 percent of the
foreign expenditures for (a) two single responsibility contracts for on-shore
and off-shore facilities, respectively, (b) engineering and related services,
and (c) technical assistance, training and studies, and (ii) 100 percent of
the foreign and local expenditures, ex-factory, and 70 percent of local
expenditures for imported items procured locally. It is anticipated that
the loan would be fully disbursed by June 1982.
Training
59.       Because of the new or unfamiliar equipment introduced by the proj-
ect, it would be necessary to train supervisors and operating personnel in
its operation and maintenance. The main items in this category are the large
combustion gas turbines and compressors, the telemetry and supervisory control
system for operating the pipelines and the turbo-expansion LPG process. Bank
financing has been included under the project for staff overseas visits to
manufacturers' plants for training in the operation and maintenance of the
equipment being supplied and for visits to facilities similar to those in-
cluded in the project. Additional on-the-job training would be provided
during construction and start-up by equipment manufacturers' representatives
who would be at the job site during those periods.
Ecology and Safety
60.       Two of the major consumers of the natural gas supplied by the proj-
ect would be a power plant and cement factory which otherwise would have to
burn residual fuel oil. By displacing these two major sulfur dioxide emission
sources, the project in effect makes a significant contribution to reducing
atmospheric pollution in the Suez area. The pipeline itself would pose no
serious environmental hazard since it would be buried and since measures would
be taken to assure proper protection, maintenance and operation. Design and
construction would be in accordance with the appropriate codes and standards
to minimize the chances of overpressurization, corrosion and third party
damage.
Financial Position
61.       EGPC, by virtue of its statutes, oversees the entire spectrum of
oil and oil-related functions within the Egyptian economy. Its activities
range from exploration to downstream operations like marketing and refining.
However, except for foreign trade in crude oil and refined products, EGPC
discharges these functions through foreign partners (exploration) 1/ and
fully-owned subsidiaries (refining, transportation and marketing). While
EGPC is vested with considerable managerial and technical authority it is
like all other government-owned enterprises and corporations not financially
autonomous. In the domestic market EGPC has at best, an advisory role in the
determination of petroleum products prices. All surpluses from its operations
but for a nominal proportion, are transferred to the government, and EGPC has
1/   The only exception being the General Petroleum Company (GPC) a wholly-
owned subsidiary of EGPC engaged in exploration and production.



- 21 -
to seek appropriations from the general budget on a loan basis to finance most
of its investments.
62.       EGPC's incremental project income would include its domestic sales,
the export sales of recovered naphtha, and revenue from exportable surplus
which will arise to the extent natural gas replaces liquid hydrocarbons.
Over the project life EGPC will realize, on an average, incremental revenue
of $115 million per annum. Of this, as much as $110 million would be from the
export of fuel oil ($100 million) and export naphtha ($10 million). The
balance of $5 million would accrue from domestic sales of dry gas and LPG.
Against an ultimate investment of little over $200 million, net annual profits
to EGPC would be $43 million with the government separately securing every
year, $27 million in the form of taxes and fees and $15 million as savings on
LPG subsidy. The project would yield EGPC, after taxes, a financial rate of
return of 13 percent in real terms. This figure is conservative particularly
in that it takes no account of the developments in the oil industry in 1979,
and assumes that both domestic prices and relative prices of oil products
would remain unchanged over the project life.
63.       Nevertheless, because of the specifics of the practices followed
in Egypt in allocating funds, incremental cash flow would be unevenly shared.
Eight-five to ninety percent of EGPC's surplus prior to debt redemption has to
be distributed to the Governmrent while EGPC's investments have in turn to be
funded through loans.  When taken EGPC's practice of borrowing to finance
investments and transferring them to its subsidiaries without transferring the
loan obligations, it is possible that EGPC could get into a situation where
it generates insufficient funds to meet its debt service obligations. There-
fore, the Government and EGP(, agreed for EGPC to retain out of its profits a
specific reserve, additional to its other reserves as prescribed by law, for
the repayment of the Bank's ]Loan (Sections 3.02 and 5.05 of draft Guarantee
and Loan Agreements, respectively). Further, the transfer of assets created
under the project to one or more of its subsidiaries (see para. 55 above),
would be on terms satisfactory to the Bank.  EGPC also agreed to maintain
separate project accounts unitil the project is completed or the assets have
been transferred, whichever is later (Sections 4.04 and 5.01 of draft Loan
Agreement, respectively).
64.       EGPC, like other public sector entities, follows Egypt's Unified
Accounting System, which is not particularly useful for activities in the oil
industry. EGPC has faced numerous problems in relation to uniform costing,
investment analysis and valuation of assets, consolidation of accounts and
flexible budgeting. The accounts are not kept in a manner which permit accu-
rate consolidation. The accounting procedures require review and simplifica-
tion to permit adequate costing and financial planning. EGPC therefore
agreed to appoint consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, who would (i) review the accounting systems and financial practices of
EGPC and its subsidiaries and their financial relationship with the Goverunment;
(ii) recommend suitable changes in financial policies and practices; and (iii)
assist EGPC and its subsidiaries in instituting a system of medium term
planning. Consultants would be required to complete a diagnostic study by
April 30, 1980, on the above issues. EGPC also agreed to consult with the
Bank on the findings of the diagnostic study and commence the implementation



- 22 -
of a time-phased plan of action by July 31, 1980 (Section 3.09 of draft Loan
Agreement). Given the present uncertainties in the financial information
available for EPGC it will be possible to set financial objectives in the
conventional manner only after the completion of the proposed studies.
Nevertheless, it is necessary to ensure that financial performance over the
longer term does not fall below a minimum standard. Therefore EGPC agreed
to review its finances and those of its subsidiaries by September 30 of each
year to ensure that, based on the findings of such review, the consolidated
net revenues of EGPC and all of its subsidiaries for such year shall not
be less than 1.5 times the consolidated debt service requirements of EGPC
and all of its subsidiaries for that year (Section 5.04 and of draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Justification and Benefits
65.       The project's principal justification lies in its securing for
Egypt an energy resource, which is presently being wasted and thereby allowing
the export of fuel oil which would otherwise be needed to meet domestic energy
requirements. Natural gas, both associated and non-associated, gathered from
the Gulf of Suez would be processed for recovery of LPG and NGL. While LPG
would be sold in the domestic market, the NGL which will consist essentially
of the naphtha fraction would be exported. Dry gas on an average of about 80
MMcf/d would be sold in Suez and Cairo, where it would essentially replace
fuel oil, which in turn will be exported. The total gas anticipated to be
recovered by the system during the life of the project would be 570 billion
cft (equivalent to 16.3 million tons of oil), one million tons of LPG and
860,000 tons of naphtha. Even after incorporating the likely cost of the
development of the Amal gas field (see para. 52 above), the project would have
an economic rate of return of 32 percent. The economic rate of return on this
project has been calculated on an incremental basis, with the past investment
on the development of oil fields in the Gulf of Suez being considered as sunk
costs. In computing the rate of return, petroleum products have been valued
at international FOB prices. No adjustment is considered necessary for
internal freight as products not consumed in the city of Suez can be exported
therefrom, especially fuel oil as bunker to the tanker trade. Sensitivity
analysis indicates that under optimum conditions of reservoir productivity,
the economic return could go as high as 41 percent. On the other hand, a
lower level of performance including diversion of gas for reservoir pressure
maintenance, could reduce the rate of return to 22 percent. Thus, even under
adverse conditions, the rate of return is satisfactory.
66.       The Bank's contribution to the proposed project goes far beyond its
financial support for the project investments since it will lead to institu-
tional improvements important for the entire sector and to several critical
sector related studies which will have an impact on Egypt's overall economic
development. These studies (see para. 45) should set a pattern for an
improved oil and gas exploration policy, come up with reasonable proposals for
proper pricing of oil and gas, and recommend ways and means to optimize the
use of gas.



- 23 -
Project Risks
67.       The risks associated with this project are those inherent in the
petroleum production and pipe:Line industry. These risks are somewhat com-
pounded by off-shore work tholagh it forms a minor part of the proposed proj-
ect. There are, however, two risks specific to this project, namely, (i)
adequate and continuous supply of associated gas from the oil fields of July,
Ramadan and location 382; and (ii) a further slippage on the implementation
schedule of the power plant, presently under construction in Suez and slated
to be the main consumer of dry gas. In order to reduce these risks, the Bank
has commissioned an independent reservoir evaluation which confirms gas
availability.  In any event availability of non-associated gas from Amal and
Deminex provides adequate insurance, as these fields could be tied in earlier.
Again, delay in the implementation of the power project in the city of Suez,
which is likely to be the main consumer of this gas, could result in offshore
flaring of dry gas after condensates have been recovered.  In order to contain,
if not fully eliminate this risk, facilities for transporting gas to Cairo,
through compression and connection of the two existing pipelines between Cairo
and Suez, have been made in this project; Also, EGPC will modulate the produc-
tion of oil at location 382 in a manner which would ensure that flaring of
gas will be kept to a minimum. The project risks are, therefore, considered
acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
68.       Th.e draft Loan Agreement between the Egyptian General Petroleum
Corporation and the Bank and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Arab
Republic of Egypt and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article IIE, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement; of the Bank.
PARI VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 7, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-24 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TARII 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Km.)                  EPT                           - MOST RECENT ESTIHATE)
TOTAL           1001.4                                                  SANF.       SAME     NEXT RICHER
AGRICULTURAL      29.9                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOtE
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       RECION     G GROUP Ld   GROUP L
GNP PFk CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       160.0    310.0           1438.5       182.9       432.3
ENFRCY CO9W9N4PTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF C9AL EQUIVALENT)     298.0       275.0    405.0            816.7       88.9        251.7
POPEILATIOI AIb VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL. P"PbLATION. KID-YEAR
(HILLIONS)                       25.8         33.3      39.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 38.0        42.1      44.6            45.8        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SO. KM.                       26.0        33.0      39.0            23.2       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0      1125.0    1311.0           112.4      254.1         95.0
BOPL9LATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.0        42.1      40.7            46.0       43.6         44.9
15-64 YKS.                         54.0        54.7      55.9            50.6       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.2       3.4             3.3         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.6       2.2             2.9         2.4         2.7
URRAN                              6.0         3.6       3.6             5.0         4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH NATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.5        42.1      37.8            45.0        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     20.7        17.0      14.0             13.7       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8 /f      3.0       3.0             3.4         2.9         3.2
FAMILY Pl,ANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       206.0     184.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          9.0      21.1            14.7        14.6        14.2
;FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             93.5       100.0     100.0           107.1        96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.0       106.0     113.0            99.2        92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          66.0        66.0      70.7            63.4        50.0        56.8
OF iUilICH ANIHAL AND PULSE     17.0 YA     16.0      16.0             16.4       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) KORTALITY RATE     39.3          ..        ..               ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BlIRTH (YEARS)    44.9       49.9      52.4            53.7        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          109.0       116.0     100.0            77.7       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
MOTAL                               ..          ..      74.8            59.1        26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..          ..      87.7            85.9        63.5        68.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      63.7            38.0        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..            64.3        16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..             94.5       65.9        69.5
RLRAL                               ..          ..        ..             27.7        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2500.0 /h   1910.0    1820.0 /i       4271.6    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2730.0 /h   1640.0 /I 1520.0 Li       2077.4      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            500.0 /h    460.0     460.0            580.2     1157.6       786.5
URBAN                               -.       290.0     250.0            310.0      183.3       278.4
RURAL                               ..      2110.0   2090.0                ..     L348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..             22.0       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.0          ..       5.2              5.4        5.2
URBAN                              4.8          ..       5.0               ..        4.8
RURAL                               . 8                  5.5                         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.9          ..       1.8
URBAN                              1.6          ..        ..              1.8        1.8         2.3
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                             38.0          ..      45.7             40.3       25.9        28.3
URBAN                 -           37.8          ..      77.0 *
RURAL                                                   19.6             12.2         ..         10.3
* Latest estimnate (January 1979) is 62 percent.



25                                           ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of  5
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ErERENCP. GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
CCY PT                                                      .
- MOST RCF.ENT ESTIlATE)
SAME         SAMF     NEXT HIGHER
LOSTI RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb      1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        RECION L    G GROUP /d    CROUP La
EDt7rATION
ADJLISTED ElROLlUF!T RATIOS
PRIlARY       TOTAL                 66.0         69.0       72.0              80.8        62.9         75.8
F .NALE               52.0          53.0      55.0              61.8        45.9         67.9
SECONDAItY:   ToTAl.                16.0          33.0      40.0              23.6        14.4         17.7
FEHALE                 9.0         21.0       28.0              18.2         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PFkCENT OF SELONDARY) 22.0            19.0       18.0              6.7         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIKARY                              39.0         38.0      40.0              31.5        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                            16.0         25.0      29.0              22.3        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          20.0           ..       40.0             50.1        36.7         63.7
CONSIrMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0           4.0       6.0              14.5         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          58.0         132.0     140.0             125.8        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.9         16.0      17.0              34.5         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST"- CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..         22.0         *.             17.4         6.0          16.3
CINEttA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            2.0         *-              1.6          1.4          1.6
EMPLOTMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7800.0 /i   8300.0 /k 9600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      7.;3         7.2        7.6              9.3        24.2         28.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)                57.0 Li      53.0 /k   43.9              42.0        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  121.2        18.8         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  211.9        28.0       28.0             26.9        39.8         37.8
MALE                                   53.2         51.5       51.3             46.6        53.3          50.3
PEM2ALE                                 1.2          4.1        4.3              5.3        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.8          1.8        1.8               1.9         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISl RIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHES: 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.2 /1           ..      21.0                ..        20.3         19.5
HIGHES-^ 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  4S.4  1          ..      46.0 L              ..        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.6 7            ..       5.2 /              ..         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14. L             ..      16.0 Tu             *-        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATEIE ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (UiSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     154.0                ..        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..     112.0             142.0        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (I3S$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  *-           *-     122.0             236.1       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..      60.0             144.7        42.0         87.3
ESTLATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      22.0              21.5        46.0          22.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..       30.0             37.4        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for sach indicator are populatiot-weighted geometric meang, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the sost populated country in each group.  Covetege of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Ib    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eat   te, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Lov Income ($280 or less per capita. 1976);  /e  Lower Middle
Income (5281-550 per capita, 1976);   Lf  1950-55;   j1   1960-62;   /h  1962;   /i  Registered, not all
practiring in the country;  LI Relaten to persons six years *nd over, excloding nomad population;
/k Relates to 12-64 years of age.t 1966; /L 1964-65; /a rural only.
September, 1978



-26-                                                               ANNEX I
Page9.5 of 5
DEFPNThICIS OF *9OCIAL IIIOICATORE
bates! Although rho date are drawn froxm.eorrma geomrally Judged the *sut authoritative and reliable, it should also be nouted that they may not be inter-
-oatloalt-psrable  he..u.. of the leek of atenderdinad definitiome anid cemoepra used by different conties  to col.trico.  the dare.  The date  r.nnceea
-sfi -o desc.ribe ordere of magnitude, indicate trende, and ohsraeteriee cartelm maJor differennee. between coontria..
Th. adluatd atone e-eramee for easch indicator aer population-weighted gasttric mesana, eaclading the eatresme -aloc of the indicator end the neat
_t..  e   occyi   uhgop    Cvrage of onuntriee amog the indinatore dependa on availability of dae  eod is rot otiforr.  Duo to lack of dote.
arep  oea0s  lt  opte  Srpl osli  oprterec   iniaosof u e  to water end socreta dispoeal, hoocing, J  oune dietrihucton  and pocerty ure
Ic  pop 1.talo-onghtad geuntric  _nar  witht t1dhe en!cloo , ofonrem   aus
..u.li AbEA (thouode.             ~                                                          Population. por hoespital bed - total. urban. end total - Population (total,
Total - Totul  _urfsc  urascoptialag lixd area and inland cetera,                             urban   a  rural) divided by their reopetivey nuber of hospital bade
optinlirel- Mat    gost estivate of agricultural area weed temporarily                  avu Iel Vin public and private, general and epeclalined hoapitel aedde
ccpemaetl,y foc c-pe, paetare.o market and kitchen gardaen  on to                      habilitation centers.  Noepitale are eatblihshmanro permanently aneffed by
Ito follow.                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at leaset one pbyacian.  Rtecblishm..nts providing principally ...enedial
caJre a1rent included, Rural hospitasis however, include health and modi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US)) - GNiP Pen capta. estimates  at currant market poices.el  errentperoman-tly etaffed by a phyalien. (but hy a medicel ae-
o-lcul.ted by acne            i cneaocmthod as World Bank Atlee  (1975-77 basis)l           eletant, nure, midwIfe, etc ) which uffer ie-putieot accesdatien  and
1q61,1970,.ad 1977 deco                                                                     provide a limited r-ng  of medIcal fociliotee.
A1dealns net hospital bad - loca1 l cmbr of odeieeion  to. or discbargea
ENtAiY CONSIIMPTIIN_tPu  CAPITA - Annual coneumption of cemeoroia1 energy                      from   oapitle divided by the comber of bode.
(ca  and ligotin, petroleum, natural gee and hydre-,  nuclear and gee-
choa   lctrllcty) in kilograme. of ocel equivalent per capita.                   HOUSING
Averag  aoof houaohold (peroone per houa..boldl      oa,uba,adrrl
POPULATION All hIA   TAITC                                                                     A...ueehe4d' to.ir  of a group of individuele whtohebre livngqurtera
Totopooutumi-ermllna   - do of July 1; if not available,                                      and thsir main mealIs.  A boerder or lodger may or may no  ho included in
ovocoo of  oo so-yea  cetiateel19h0  19     o nd 1977 data.                       tbo he..e.hold for etatietical purp...ao.  Statie tical definitIons of h....-
Irbun populatioL    pecn  o   oal            ati  of urban to total popula-                   bold vary.
don.; dirreee   deinitions of urban arae may uff..oncoeperbiliny                         Avea-   emba  of cerso.o.netarom   total, urban, end coral-Arrgsn1
of d to  mongcoutrie...                                                               her of1 pare.n Perroom in a11, urban, end rural .. copiadcnv ntina
PouaInd...ity                                                                           dwollinge, eeopoctively.  Dwellinge ecluda no-permaent.c  etr-cturee end
Per  eu. km. - Mid-your population par square kilomeeter (100 becotree)                      unoccupied pents.
of  .tota   r.a.                                                                         Atces. to  1.t alonitr  leercont of d.tlllnal - totu.A urban. and cocc   -
for so. Am. ariulr  ln   - Computed as above, for arcltrlland                                Cenventiena.l dwellinga wi th oIltociroty in l~ivig qartere as percentage
onl,Y                                                                                       of total, urban, and rural deellege ree*pectively.
PP.I.pltlcc  oE structure (pront - Ch!ildrenr (I-IA y are), working-age
(15-64 yeorul, and retird(L        yer   n  oa)          pecoentags.  of aid-          EDUCATION
ynrppltion.                                                                       Adjueted enrollment catiee
L-Popultion acowb-t  rate (percentl - total, and urban - Compound sonoaI                    Primary school - rutal, and fenle - total and femelo enrolint of all egee
grouch rates of total ad urban mid-yea   poplations for 1950-60,                           at the primary level as  percentages of respectively primary school-age
ili6D-7O, eud 1970-75.                                                                     pousi na;oumlly inoludoe child rn  aed 6-l  year  bun adjueted for
I-do hitch rte (cot~ c        -nsdl - Aunou.  live- births par thousand ofdifforsor lsngche of primary eduoutieo; for cou.. rie   it nob iu-ate    ado-
nId-y...uP poplationl iso-year aritheetico averagaa ending in 1960end                       cationtenrollmen  may eced li perccent ein..  oma pupilo are below or
170 .adfloeyou  average ending in 1971 dor moat receat  anon,aboe  he official erbol. ge
(rude death rate (oar  tusdi - Annual dsath. par thb.u.aend of mid-                   Scnayeco-ttl.ndfemal                         Coputed  o above; eeced-ty oduu-
yea- oootn    u-oraihei  aea en sding in 1960.and 1970                                      tion. requirse at leas.t four ...sre of appro-d primary Inoiruction; Pr--
and floe-Yer avrag  OdngI  1971 for most recent estimate.                                   vdeu ga...r-1  -cctlonu1, or teacher training inatructiono  for pupila
.,ounrecrouclio  rate -TAerge number of daughera a wom.an will bear                   usoully of 12 tc 17 yoare of ae.; -oraponde...r           . roue.rs,ur  goner allY
hoher ourmI-tproductin-  period if,uba aperea   p.seeat age-_encld.d.
upoific  fertl'it y ra..e; ueualy five-year avrsagee ending in 196i,                     VoCatina  aeri         tn (cemenat of secondary) - Vocationel  ioetituciune in-
1970, end 1.975.                                                                            cld   ehia , idostrie1, or other progrsee which operate iedepeodontly
Ponilo PI---nino - acoptora. annual liho:aaande   -.Annual number of                          or as departmen ts of socudory.institutioo.
-ccptorn of birth-controldevie asunderaepce  fntional  family                           .Pel-teochar rati  -  rmr.adacnao- Total studenoce enrolldin
pluocing prrn                                                                               primary antd eacondery levela divided by nnbere of teocbere in thecrr-
curie  wuenofchid-eerngag  (lI-i  yer)wou brhcnrl                               Adult Lterary  rat   (percent) - Lirerate adultu  (uble to rod end  -r0t.) as
d--oo  to oIl maried come   lo  am  age group.                                              a paros..tago of total adult popultto- aged 15 yeosr  and one.-
FWDl ll NLTI-ITIIN                                                                        CONSUMiPTION
lodc  i ludproucionre  onpia (97-11)      Inlden nuebec of per              Peeaeuaet cere (yth  thoucand  opu,la.tio,n) - Peo...e   ceacatlemtor cv
capit. annualI produotiue of all food teemditles.                                          et,gle  te    ight Persone;  -1cidea enbolne,h   ,eer eend military
Percuchauccly  f  elulee(prcet  f reouinemannte   - Computad from               vohicle..
""'rY equivaet of nor food euppliss available in coun.try per capita                    raio aavr  (Per thi....nd rorulntoi..  - All typea of receivers for radio
y-rt ,         A  IIy. .'ulal   _upylion copt lee domti  production, imports less        brad caste to Sgeneral public pec ibo....ud of population; an,ultde nl-foe:nand
ooyrc ,t  ond  haugoc in uok   Nteppi:les   lrde, animal feed, seede,                    re..eivore in. contriee and ic years whet  egistrenion of rsdioatws in
..u.cctieo o-   tofod  proros ing  sod lesoa in diotribno.t    in-                      effect; date for recant yoremy not be  -eperabie ain.e meet co-triee
jlcorn to..   coentinted by FAO base.d or phyeiulugica1 needs for nor-                   abolished liroreing.
-ol -utloy   ned huI .h.nIdorieg  -nvion-n,.I tepror,brdy                             TV receivero  (car thcuaand  ...uui-rc) -TVreioa  for broadoaet to aenerA
crfi.oeod   0dirbttoe  fpopultion, and allowing lf Per-                            pubLi  per thousand.po.pulerico;e1 encldes u oeose  TVl rciesinone
-eo  for  aute0  hounebId Iovl.                                                             triosan  i  yoor   ho.  regietreic ofI  aeoueioffet.
for caIta orplo o  yrotin (aom`c    ad -Prtein content of per                      Newspaper ciclto   rthtcoaend populationl  - Shoe  he                    rerge circ..a-
-apt - net eJyply ~offood perTdy.  Net-eppyo I           foo sdefined a                      ono   doIygeneral intereet newspaper", defined'ueha periodical publi-
uhre    lquire...nte for all countries established bp USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording genera  nes    It Ia con..idered to
otno....  allowance of h0 iran  of total protein per day and 20 grsma,                    be "daily" if it eppeers at Loaet four time.o.u...k.
urinal and pulne protr,ic,   owhc   Irsheould be animal pronain.                     Cinem annual  rtteuYdace per cap,it1aper year -tiuded  -n the number  fi tibete
Itrr  cuoars nc  oo   thrI hre        f    g'7 fram  of total proteir end             sold durngteea, inclding edeluetus todIv-                      ciasse  and nubil
3or ioof0000  proret  an no ev-rg  for the world, propoun dby                       u,ito.
FADl in rho Thirdt World Prod Survey.
Pc   oioprtI   ory  rnaialadple- Prtetin supply of food                                   EMPLOYMENT
d-rt-d fro  animate  nd pu1oe. io gr..a per daY.Total labor force (thou Eand                                                     ... innicelly ertico persons, including amed
Chil'd (gv11  noric0 ar  (per tcoacand)  -A A...I deaths per th-uc-                           forceiand unemployed but ealde    oswve    todonts, err.  Dtfini-
and it ngc group I-4 ysro.,ccchiIdre  in ca hic age group.                                  tiona  n vrious co ttear   o   oporable.
paFale (crenl        - Poo     labor force . as.p.r.etcgo  of tot lalibor force.
hEAL 10                                                                                     Airlra(ecnt) - Lehnr forc  in farcing, for-ery, hunting and fiebing
Life  -oP-t-Y at birth yor)- Av-ragi nuAe, of years of life                                   aepercentage of trot.  labohr force
rr-iotc0 or hirth; ....ully tine-year --orage  ending in 1960, 1970,                    unduatry (percent) - Lehbor. foc  in otinig,rosrcin   maoern    nd
codI1975.                                                                                   eletricty, watr and fa.asa perenag.e  of  torol ibcr force.
lournocli    rot  (pr ~thu-adt    AnnualI deeche of i.fente under                 Particlpation rate (prai  -totl male  andtieale- Crl   ae n
on   es   f  g  per thoaoand lilv  birhte.                                           feaelbo    oca   per-enlgee of their roe peotiv-pplnoa
Oeosoaeutrrrotefrcl_o)-  oa,ubn,adrrl-                                                        Tbhsee ey   mi     edja tad particiPati on cares reflecting ae-ea
luahot of peplo (.totl   urban  and rural) with -aamombld accesstoa trurue  f the pcpuletio.   dndlog tLno creod.
uaf, oItopyy inldoe trace.d -uf-cwanre  o,rhuntreatedibut                               tr.onoir dependency ratio  - ratio of pouirruder 11 and 61 and ovr to
urcccutoudwatr och  o  hatfrom protected boobole,  aprnga                           the labor force in age iroap  f 15-hi yearn.
and urtr  aeln) an p_renagsEoc  obteepctivo  popultion..
r. o  upurcoayblic  (curtain orsnPoet                  teecdp notmr                    INCOME DISTIiBU'CION
fra-  2(   orr   foC         houce may he  co..idered aabeing within te-                 Perceotage ofiprinste  i-ne. fbcth In cah and hind) r~eceived by richest 5
o    -ti aeb ofca  rca.  In rural aros   ranble acc-as would                           prcent,  hiceot 20 percent, pooreer 20 percent, -nxpoet 4l percent
'J,ycht  h h      un....ife or nobers of tho house.hol idontbasto                           f ho...ebolde.
ccoadtnprop-riooa-  part of the day Lc fetuhiag the mmaily's
heosA     ceoct d        -sou  (percent of ogplutionl - total, urban, and                  tE.timatad ebeloto poverty intn  lvl  I)pe   a ie   -ubanoad crsi  -
rural - Nootufyocyl   (total, uran,sdrural)scrved by ancrete                             Abuulate poverty incma  Ioeliethat iooe level below which a ~ inIna
7 tpc.t.        aontgao   bi   epctr   pepleion.    tot                                     nunitcoaryadeuae   Irt  I.:.. enenial eon-food requirements  is n.t
noo-l nay  -Inclde rho    latc   ano dis,.posal,  ith'or without                          of-odeb1o.
scto -,o  .cnnert  enod w.ece-oucer bpos.tor-horneoyeto..                       tEtimared relativecvroicm   ee                   S$i Per capital - urban and  -rurl1
50   0   f put prrte  cd  imlr   Potiale.rltv  poetIroelvlis thut income level loea  then ore-third
lesIon  ccccicaiciac - Poplatioc divided by umbeo of praciticig                    per capita pereona  i..m  of the country
physil&no q-llfied free a ndi-1i acho-I at unicereity level.                             Eteimaced roruation below poverty it-.m level (Parr..nnt -urban and-corel
.u-i.. pcocoon - Popolaion  ividedtby numbor of                              Pereent of po.pulotloc  )orbao and rural) who er  either "uheolute poor" or
prat..  ..rgmaleandfI l   radane-           ,a    practical n-rea. and                       "relorive poor  whichevr in greate.,
Et....omlc oaynie and ProJectiono Department



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                           AgE   o
Page 4 of 5 pages
GROSS NATIONAL PROCUCT IN 1978                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      _%                         1961-66-/         1967-741'        1979-7A2/
GNP at Market PriceNs          13,520        10O.0                        5.4              3.6              15.0
Gross Domestic Investment       4,o40         29. 9                      10.7             5.4               28.5-
Gross National Savinlg          3,110         23.0                        3.0            -7.0              117.0
Current Account Balance       - 1,580          6.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           3,620         15.7                        4.3              6.2               7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS           6,240         27.0                        8.8              9.2               7.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197b
Value Added                 Labor Force3/                       V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    _%                 Mln.      7.                        USS           7/
Agriculture                      3,340       29.0              4.162    41.2                         800       15.9
Industry4                        3,420       29.7              1.903    18.9                       1,800       35.6
Distributive Sector              2,210       19.3              1.557    15.4                       1,420       28.2
Services                         2,530       22.0              2.472    24.5                       1,020       20.3
Total/Average            11500/2875    100.0             10.094   100.0                       1,1140      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Ge!neral Government-
US$ Mln.       7. of GNP
1978     1973       1978
Current Receipts                      5,090      32.7      37.7
Current Expenditure                   5,030      29.0      37.2
Current Surplus                           60      3.7       0.4
Capital Expenditures                   2,740     11.8      20.3
External Assistance (net)             1,180       1.3       8.7
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1973       1974       1975       1976      1977       1978
(Million L.E. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      1207       1515       1883      2417       3185       4090
Bank Gredit to Public Sector               1852       2338       3527      4123       4775       6035
Bank Credit to Private Sector               102        149        230       251        434        570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          31.7       36.1       38.5      38.5       43.4       48.3
Wholesale Price Index (1973 = 100)        100.0      112.4      119.1     131.4      145.0      171.1
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                      10.4       12.4        6.0      10.3       10.4       18.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                9.6       26.2       50.9      16.9       15.8       26.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector              10.9       46.1       54.4       9.1       72.9       31.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the 1978 weighted exchange rate of 1$1.496 = 1 LE.
I/ At 1965 Constant Prices.
2/  At 1975 Const.nt Prices.
3/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
4/  Manufacturing and Mining, Petroleum, Electricity and Construction.
5/ Local Government comprises a small part of General Government.
not applicable
EM1DA
May 29, 1979



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                              MERCHINDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-78)
1975      1976       1977       19781/                                    US$ Mln.       %
(USs million)
Cotton                      354         19.8
Exports of Goods, NFS           2,194      2,759      3,536      3,620           Yarn and textiles           364         20.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          -4,931    -4,910    -5,486    -6,240              Petroleum                   441         24.7
Other agriculture           224         12.5
Imports of Foreign                                                               All other commodities       405         22.6
Oil Companies                  -164       -281       -401       -420
Total                  1,788        100.0
Workers' Remittances              366        755        896      1,750
Interest (net)                   -104       -202       -206       -290
Net Transfers                     262        553        690      1,460
_     _    _   -I-
EXTERNAL DEBT (MLT), DECEMBER 31, 1978
Balance on Current Account   -2,639    -1,879    -1,661    -1,580
Amortization                     -600       -734       -812       -930                                               US$ Mln.
Total Deficit                  -3,239    -2,613    -2,473    -2510
Public debt, incl. guaranteed        9,221
Direct Foreign Investment         165        342        504        570           Repayments on public debt              930
Grants                          1,076        792        445        200           Interest on public debt                390
MLT Borrowing                   2,509      1,622      3027       2510
3,750     2,756      3,976      3,280
Other Capital (Net)              -152        236       -961       -250           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978k!         24.0%
Residual                         -421       -334       -347       -449
Increase in Reserves (+)          -62         45        195         71
Gross Reserves (end year)         294        339        534        605
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports
of which:  Petroleum         -477       -388      -250       -200
Exports
of which:  Petroleum          164        268        600        730
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Rate of Exchange             1973      1974    - 1975     1976      1977      1978      1979
(US$ : LE)                                                                             3/
Official Exchange Rate    2.5343   2.5556   2.5556   2.5556   2.5556   2.5556            --
Parallel Market Rate        1.70     1.70      1.57      1.50      1.43      1.43     1.43
(Sept.)            (Feb.)   (May)
L/ Estimates
2/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and
non-factor services and factor services.
3/ As of January 1, 1979, official exchange rate has been                                                    EMIDA
abolished except for some bilateral transactions.                                                         May 4, 1979



- 29 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                    Page 1 of s
A. STATEMEST OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit       Approved                                                                      less cancellations
Numbers            FY        Borrower        Purpose                                 Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR            60          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                   56.5      --
Cr 181-UAR            70         UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                      -      26.0         2.3
Cr 284-UAR            72         ARE            Railways I                              --    30.0          1.0
Cr 393-UAR            73         ARE            Upper Egypt Drainage                    -      36.0         7.0
Cr 412-UAR            73         ARE            Development Industrial Bank 1/          --    15.0          0.5
Cr 423-UAR            74         ARE            Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation           -      18.5         4.1
Cr 437-UAR            74         ARE            Population                              -       5.0         0.3
Cr 484-UAR           74          ARE            Talkha Fertilizer                       -      20.0         2.8
Cr 524-EGT            75         ARE            Ag/Ind Imports                          --    35.0          1.28
Ln 1062-EGT           75         ARE            Ag/Ind Imports                         35.0      -         31.3
Ln 1064-EGT           75         SCA            Suez Canal Rehabilitation              50.0      -         3
Ln 1085-EGT           75         ARE            Tourah Cement                          40.0      -          7.8
Ln 1098-EGI           75          ER            Railways II                            37.0      --        12.5
Cr 548-EGT            75         ARE            Telecommunications                      --    30.0          9-1
Cr 576-EGT            76         ARE            Development Industrial Bank II 1/    --    25.0            41.8
Ln 1239-EGT           76         APA            Alexandria Port                        45.0      --        46.8
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/    76           ARE            Fruit and Vegetable Dev.               50.0      -
Cr 637-EGT            76         ARE            Upper Egypt Drainage II                 --    40.0         35.8
Ln 1285-EGT           76         ARE            Upper Egypt Drainage II                10.0      --        10.0
Ln 1292-EGT           76         ARE            Textile Rehabilitation                 52.0      --        50.9
Ln 1369-EGI           77         AWA            Alexandria Water Supply                56.0      --        55.2
Cr 681-EGT            77         ARE            Education                               -      25.0        13.0
Cr 719-EGT            77         ARE            Nile Delta Drainage II                  --    27.0         17.5
Ln 1439-EGT           77         ARE            Nile Delta Drainage II                 27.0      --        27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77           ARE            Nile Delta Drainage II                 12.0      --        41.2
Ln 1453-EGI'          77         EEA            Regional Electrification               48.0      --        58.1
Ln 1456-EG1'          77         ARE            Industrial Imports                     70.0      --         1.8
Ln S-005-EGT          77         ARE            Iron Ore Beneficiation and              2.5      --
Engineering                                             69.3
Ln 1482-EGT           78         SCA            Suez Canal Expansion                  100.0      --        1.3
Cr S-20-EGT           78         ARE           Water Supply Engineering                 --      2.0       53.0
Cr 774-EGT           78          ARE            Telecommunications II                   --    53.0        38.8
Ln 1533-ECT           78         DIB            Development Industrial Bank III        40.0      --       32.0
Cr 830-EGT            78         ARE            Agricultural Development                --    32.0        13.7
Cr 831-EGT            78         ARE            Urban Development                       --    14.0        25.0
Cr 850-EGT            79         ARE            Second Population                       --    25.0        40.0
Cr 868-EGT 3/         79         ARE           Second Education                         --    40
La S-14-EGCT /        79         ARE            New Valley Phosphate Engineering    11.0                  11.0
and Technical Assistance
79         ARE            Tourism4/                               --    32.5        32.5
Totals                                                                                742.0  531.0
Of which has been repaid                                                               56.5
Total now outstanding                                                                 685.5
Amount sold                                                              7.5
Of which bas been repaid                                                 6.0            1.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                        684.0  531.0       809.9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                     Type of Business                      Loan           Equity       Total
1976           Arab Ceramic Company        Ceramic Industry                      4.25             .75         5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment)  (5.635)
1977           Nile Clothing ComparLy      Ready-Made Garment Industry           0.40           0.20          0.60
1978           Delta Sugar Company         Agricultural Production,
mainly sugar                      20.0             2.00        22.00
(Plus 1.0 standby commitment)         (23.00)
1/  Formerly Bank of Alexandria.
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
-30-                         Page 2 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Full completion of the project is expected by mid-1980, nearly 3
years behind schedule. However, procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
It is expected that the whole of the credit will be committed in the near
future, and that disbursement will be completed during 1979.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing date
for the parts of the credit allocated to signalling items, originally Sep-
tember 30, 1976, has been postponed to June 30, 1979; the credit account for
the parts allocated to other items was closed on December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Over 50 percent of the project is complete; construction of open
drains is almost complete, and full completion is expected by end-1980, i.e.,
I year behind schedule. The bilharzia control program is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects
and over 90 percent has been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                          Page 3 of 8
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date;
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in end-1980 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed in 1981-82. The foreign cost of the project ($43.8 million)
is now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil
works. Recently, the project has also encountered delays because of shortage
of local ftnds.
Cr. No. 43;'-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is expected to be completed in 1979, although reduced in
scope from the original proposal. About 94 percent of the credit has been
disbursed; remaining funds aLre mainly for software activities.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: JTanuary 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1980.
Procurement has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication the project is likely to be mechanically com-
pleted by July 1979 or 19 months behind schedule, partly because of delays
in civil wDrks and procurement.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million CredLt and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.9 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Fi-ve out of six surveys of industrial subsectors
financed under the project have been completed. The Government has requested
that the unutilized balance of the loan and credit be used for an extension of
some of these studies. These additional studies are designed to either turn
pre-feasibility studies prepared in the context of the sector studies into
feasibility studies, as in the case of a proposed pulp and paper and possibly
another textile project, or to follow up on issues identified in the context
of the sector studies, such as the need for a brick master plan. While
preparation of the pulp and paper feasibility study is almost completed, the
additional studies are expected to be contracted shortly and completed by end
1979. An extension of the Closing Date until December 31, 1979 has, there-
fore, been granted to allow further disbursements for the above studies under
the technical assistance component of the project.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress to date has been good, although the implementation of the
reconstruction project proved to be much more complex than originally esti-
mated. The financial situation of the Borrower is sound; canal traffic and
revenues are both considerably higher than expected at appraisal. Procurement
is proceeding well.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is almost completed (95
percent). Most items are already on site awaiting erection. After initial
difficulties with the civil works contractor the rate of construction has now
somewhat accelerated. However, delay in start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be about 1-1/2 years.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock, despite the receipt of new locomotives and spare parts. ER
is implementing the recommendations of its consultants, TRANSMARK, with regard
to ER's traction and rolling stock maintenance facilities. Track maintenance
is lagging far behind program, principally because of a lack of traction for
work trains but also because effort is directed to the construction of new
lines. The 1979/83 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which economic justification is doubtful. The finan-
cial situation continues to suffer and a deficit of LE 33 million is forecast
for 1978, although freight tariffs of between 70% to 100% have recently been
approved which should ameliorate the situation.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to
the Telecommunications II project. Physical installations are about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement actions and in building construction. Tariffs for inter-
national telecommunications services were increased in July 1978.



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
The credit is now fully committed and $23.8 million have been dis-
bursed as of April 30, 1979.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation was initially slower than expected but is
now active. Consultants have completed the engineering preparation of
dredging and berth construction, and the works are under tender. Procurement
action on Bank-financed equipment and material is underway. Management
consultants are helping to implement the measures recommended in Phase I of
their study.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Windcw Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Work on the drain-
age and irrigation components of the project is proceeding although behind
schedule. The seed component has major problems, which the Bank is now
discussing with Egyptian officials. The Agricultural Development Lending Unit
in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to ensure
that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, and
to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project is now over two years
behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: Janlary 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected. Construction
of open drains is on schedule. Field drainage was delayed by slow procurement
of equipment for making pvc drains (financed by USAID).
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective ])ate: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a year to a year and a half delay
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The
project is now estimated to cost about US$21 million equivalent (all in local
currency) more than appraised, due mostly to increased scope of civil works.
In part this is due to the increased price of building materials recently
approved by the Government; no difficulties are foreseen in financing this,
although some government equity contribution would be required in the next
two years to supplement the companies' internal cash generation in order to
adhere to the financial covenants as well as project costs. Early management



ANNEX II
- 34 -                      Page 6 of 8
problems have now been overcome and both companies have developed effective
project implementation units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated
reflecting initial delays in procurement. However, between 70-85 percent of
contracts for machinery and equipment have now been awarded and the balance
is expected to be awarded in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
With the exception of the water treatment plants and civil works,
all contracts have been awarded for the Bank financed components under the
project. Bids for the treatment plants are now being evaluated and bidding
for civil works is in progress.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation through project units in the different
ministries is proceeding satisfactorily. All technical assistance contracts
have been awarded. Procurement of equipment and furniture under the project
is well advanced. Technical problems have been encountered with the construc-
tion of the two Technical institutes which needed to be redesigned, resulting
in a two year delay for this project item. However, the other 45 institutions
are expected to open classes as scheduled.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Design work for the project is well advanced. Implementation is
behind schedule although construction on the open drains has begun. Tender
documents for the pumping stations have been issued.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Engineering consultants started work in June 1977. All contracts
for electrification equipment and materials have been awarded and construction
has started. Consultants for the extension of the UNDP Power Sector Survey
and for the Tariff Study are in the field. Contracts for the review of
safety and inspection procedures and for training services have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The progress of commitment and disbursement of funds under the
project has been slow because of problems associated with the administration



ANNEX II
- 35 -                    Page 7 of 8
of the loan and procurement difficulties arising from the sub-borrowers' lack
of knowledge of Bank guidelines. Furthermore, until November, 1978, foreign
exchange proceeds of the loan were available to sub-borrowers in the public
sector only against cash payments in local currency which suppressed demand
from firms who were short of cash in local currency. Since November, 1978,
government has been making funds available as subloans which has solved the
resource constraint. The Bank has also agreed to simplify procurement pro-
cedures for private sector sub-projects costing less than $100,000 to expedite
disbursement. As of April 3CI, 1979 about $20 million had been committed and
$12 million disbursed under the project. In addition about $19 million in
projects involving equipment for public firms have been approved by the Bank.
In aggregate, about 56% of ftnds have been committed or approved and about 17%
actually disbursed. At the Government's request the Bank has agreed to
postpone the closing date for the loan to December 31, 1980 to allow for
additional iisbursements.
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies are expected to submit feasibility studies by May 1979.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Both dredging contracts to be financed by the Bank have been awarded.
Dredging arid other civil works are making good progress. Tender documents for
equipment have been drawn up and are currently being reviewed. Project
planning and supervision arrangements are progressing well.
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of D)ecember 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Consultants were mobilized in November 1978 and their interim report
was completed in early April 1979.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As of
April 30, 1979 $1.2 million had been disbursed; $8 million have been committed
and $3.8 million of subprojects are under review. The balance of the Loan is
expected to be committed before the end of 1979.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                        Page 8 of 8
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981.
Project implementation has started. Specifications for the equip-
ment and materials to be financed under the Credit are being prepared. A Gov-
ernment request for reallocation of credit proceeds is under consideration.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The implementing agencies are making satisfactory progress toward
identifying sub-project activities.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Project implementation has started.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project implementation has started.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 5-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
25, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



ANNEX III
- 37 -                            Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
GULF' OF SUEZ GAS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Egyptian General
Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) to prepare
the project:                                         6 months (April-September
1978)
(b)  Agency which has prepared the project:               Egyptian General Petroleum
Corporation
(c)  Project first presented to the Bank:                 November 1977
(d)  First Bank mission to consider project:             May 1978
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:              October 30, 1978
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:                 May 7, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                      December 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Review of plans for the development of oil fields to ensure adequate
gas supply during life of project (para. 52).
2.   Assignment of consultants and additional staff to assist and participate
in project, implementation (paras. 54 and 55).
3.   (i)  Establishment of specific reserve to enable Egyptian General Petro-
leum Corporation (EGPC) to meet loan repayment obligations; (ii) transfer of
assets to EGPC's subsidiaries requiring prior Bank approval; (iii) maintenance
of separal:e project accounts (para. 63).



- 38 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2
4.   Appointment of consultants to review EGPC's and its subsidiaries'
accounting systems and financial practices and review of action plan result-
ing from consultants' report (para. 64).
5.   Debt service obligation (para. 64).



- 39 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 1
GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS
associated gas                   - a hydrocarbon gas (natural gas)
accompanying crude oil production
non-associated gas               - a hydrocarbon gas which is produced
from a reservoir containing no crude
oil
stripped gas                     - a hydrocarbon gas which has had one
or more of its components extracted
such as propane, butane, etc.
LPG                              - Liquified Petroleum Gas, a hydrocarbon
gas consisting mainly of propane and
butane maintained in the liquid state
by refrigeration or in pressurized
containers
condensate recovery              - a liquid which is separated from a
hydrocarbon gas stream as a result
of changes in pressure or temperature
cathodic protection              - a system for preventing electrolytic
corrosion in buried pipelines by
means of impressed currents or
voltages and anodes
telemetry system                 - in pipeline operations, the process of
transmitting data and control functions
between an operations center and remote
units usually through a radio link






i                                         iga t15  /  4ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF EGYPT
GULF OF SUEZ GAS PROJECT
N\  >   /                                                                                    PROJECT
\ \  \          (                                                                                                       - -;N  ~  Maim  Comnpressor StoHon
-                                                                            era~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, LPG Plant
-                                                                                   1-:.    Separatior Stations
N1  X s  r                                                                     Gaus P pelines
IJLY   FItELD           -Y        s                                                      _   _       oiishng Gas Pipelines
-      -        'vi~                                      "n* } >                                                 Existing Oil Pipelines
a  5ia-i~~~~~~, ~~~l  -               aOl-i  //        - ~~~~~~~~A                                      Wtnerf load F-szlites
* \0 SL E F- a  /                                             f      W e ll   P   t f o r i s
Oai\  i   //<  nite /   f  5ar/ s  %                        o      Pr.dUcirg Ol Wells
.7        5eno-a~~~~~~~a-N'aan                                        0 ~~~~~~ Gas Well
\ /         >     ;/             /      /    RAMADAN                                                                      C 0    Oil Wells (not produc ng)
JUIn WealI aad                               N           /                             N                                                      Or/  /  1 Dry Holes
FJu I;sien      AN   / Pal                                                                                                                           01 and Gas Fields
N                      NN~~~~~~~I
Thin ToeP PiadUiai,                                       N                                      N    
TeSIInQFP<II4TIe5                                   N I                                   N                                            /\\ Ro El G3-  S.Ra Ghab
5                                                NNN //                    /          N    S                                            -.
v/   //                                          s                 t M 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                  N
//S C %  'N                                                          M-S                                                                Eon ,'    R- Abu Suweiro
Wi-e, Wel                           Ras Shukheir  6|snorl    H M               =AnE
r.)(<           R/~~MS PiOConn and  <E00L    -  X  Seaborhnil t'al                                                      I-  f 
\ lniogo Fonil en,,/ 19-'         O     5 V     a-                                               AN          fIELD a-
'       /-3
\     SorobonilnNo3?        /Xs                               X \    4 
\  \1 / < hM-Y y }~aasgnQ. ~                                  
Sl Morgoa                                          //
-    eililon -                 /                     /                        /-a
ba.   /                     t g) taclelu s                                            s          ~        ~~~                                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~ /  f@s
a                   ~         </                                                            N    /                                                                r
V anpon, SinNi
? Ras Dib
\                                         ~~~~~~~~~                ~                 ~               ~~/ O~ t  3'/ 
\                                     ~      ~     ~~~~~~~/    -  N
-02
K l L Dh;E T E i 5        \                                                \           ~~~~~~~~~~5 FItE LD
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.  El Sh.bd-6
\V                                           N                   /4fI.
JR DAN              Ras                                                                                                                 RaseEiS
Z  tz   t         \ ..   J O R D A N           Ras Zeit  \ g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 
I  s          AoAarni; oAR AB                                                           b(
CI    R EPUB L IC            PF                         \, AR A RIf A                                                                    W OG326 I    4                                                 Ras Garra
0  t   \     Ras ElI Ush                                   FIIELD                                                      E Sebil
.                r   t             ^ ~~~~~~~~~ < '   0                   .                                                                                                                         > aT~~~~~~~~~' 
N L               r      ~   nN  p .                  -~    *    \  Gri.  tXoj
T" A-N010N                          RanZel 



