Document of
The World Bank
FOR OF:FICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18085
IMPLEMENTAT:[ON COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3305-IND)
June 26, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(November 1997)
US$1.00 = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp) 2,300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD         -             Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AOP          -            Annual Operating Plan
APBD         -            Provincial Budget
APBN         -            National Budget
BANGDA       -            Directorate-General of Regional Development
BAPPEDA                   Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS  -               National Development Planning Agency
BRI          -            Bank Rakyat Indonesia
CP           -            FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
GOI          -             Government of Indonesia
Kabupaten    -            District
Kecamatan   -              Subdistrict
MOA          -            Ministry of Agriculture
MOF          -            Ministry of Finance
MPW          -            Ministry of Public Works
NGO          -            Non-Government Organization
SOE          -            Statement of Expenses
UNDp         -            United Nations Development Program
Vice President                          Jean-Michel Severino, EAP:
Director    :-Dennis de Tray, EACIF
Sector Manager              E-Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRI)
:Task Manager                  -Willliam Cuddihy, EASRD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLANI) AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3305-IND)
Contents
PREFACE .......... ,i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................                                             ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A.  Statement/Evaluation Of Objectives ..............................................I
B.  Achievement Of Objectives ......................2
C.  Implementation Record & Major Factors Affecting The Project ...............................9
D.  Project Sustainability ..................                    .9
E.   Bank Performance ................                                          10
F.   Borrower Performance.0...............t                                       0
G.  Assessment Of Outcome ................                                      10
H. Future Operations ................                                           11
I.   Key Lessons Learned .................11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A: Project Costs .20
Table 8B: Project Financing .20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .23
APPENDICES
Appendix A:  Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B:  Government's Comments
Map          IBRD 22421
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its c:ontents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3305-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Yogyakarta Upland Area
Development Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 3305-IND in the amount of US$15.5 million was
approved in May 1991, and became effective in June 1991.
The Loan closed on 31 December 1997, compared with the original closing date of 31
December 1996. Final disbursements will be, made up to 31 March 1998, bringing the cumulative
total anticipated disbursements to US$13.8 mnillion, and the cancellation of US$1.3 million due to
currency depreciation and savings generated (luring implementation.
The ICR was prepared by the staff of FAO/CP on behalf of EASRD Division of the Asia
Region and reviewed by Messrs. William Cuddihy, Senior Agricultural Economist, EASRD, Wiranto
Soehendro, Senior Task Manager, EACIF ancl Mr. Geoffrey B. Fox, Manager, EASRD. The ICR was
prepared during the period February/March by a mission which visited Indonesia from February 4-
19, 1998. It is based on material in the project files as well as the findings of the ICR mission in the
field.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3305-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
Since the early 1980s, one aspect of the Bank Group's lending to Indonesia has been
aimed at promoting equitable growth through the development of the least developed areas. While a
good deal of attention has been given to the other islands, it has also focused on specific pockets
within the islands of Java and Sumatra, the two most populous and productive islands of the country.
A specific area of focus has been the upland areas in these- islands characterized by a severely
resource constrained environment. Development efforts have attempted multi-sectoral interventions
aimed at both easing the infrastructural constraints and increasing production and incomes. One
dimension of the effort has been strengthening the policy of decentralized administration by
strengthening the capacity of the provincial Governments and local level institutions to implement
area development programmes.
The Yogyakarta Upland Area Development Project was implemented in the upland areas
of the four districts of Yogyakarta (Central Java). The 140 upland villages were defined as those
where at least 30% of the land had slopes exceeding 15%. These villages were spread across 26
subdistricts of the Province. The project's obJective was to improve the incomes and living standards
of upland residents, mainly farmers, on a sustainable basis through better resource management.
These were to include: effective and affordable soil and moisture conservation measures, increased
farm productivity leading to higher farm incomes, essential social services infrastructure, and
institutional support for planning and implementing site-specific change. The objectives were
consistent with the Government's strategy for poverty alleviation and equitable regional
development, as well as with the Bank's overall country assistance strategy. The limited agricultural
potential of the upland areas of the province, the shortage of proven improved technology for
production, the limited institutional capacity for planning and implementing development initiatives
and a poor physical and socio-economic infrastructure, justified the overall project objectives and the
balance between the components.
Project components were clearly focused on the objectives as well as on the key
constraints to long-term improvements in srnallholder incomes. Thus, improving the technological
base for long-term sustainable productivity gains through micro-watershed stabilization based on run-
off control and soil conservation and supported by research and testing of alternative technological
"menus" was a primary component of the project. Physical access constraints, a significant element
for the upland areas, were to be addressed through a roads and bridges improvement programme
accounting for nearly a third of project costs. A very significant aspect of the project has been the



promotion of institutional development by directing financial and technical support, including
training, to provincial, district and subdistrict level agencies.
The relatively large number of interventions supported by the project was implemented
at the provincial, district and subdistrict levels within existing administrative structures. A substantial
input, in the form of training, was provided so as to minimize the potential implementation risks due
to weaknesses in local level institutions. The relative independence of the different implementation
units of the different components, minimized the effect of any delay in one, acting on the
implementation of the other, or on the project as a whole.
Implementation Experience
The project loan was approved in March 1991 and became effective in June 1991.
Project implementation was scheduled over a period of aboult five years with an original closing date
of December 31, 1996. Implementation during the initial years of the project was slow. However, the
pace of implementation improved substantially thereafter and by the end of the project period, most
of the physical targets specified at appraisal had been substantially achieved or exceeded by the
original closing date. The principal justification for-the extension of the Bank loan was to allow the
consolidation and application of the physical, technical and organizational achievements and
capitalize on the momentum generated into effective programlme development.
Total project expenditure at completion, one year after the original closing date of
December 31, 1997, is estimated at about RP 44,792 million as against appraisal estimates of RP
47,640 million or about 93% of total estimated expenditure. The depreciation of the Indonesian
rupiah over the project implementation period however irnplies that in US dollar terms, actual
expenditures were of the order of some US$20.3 million as against the appraisal estimate of US$25.0
million, or about 81% of anticipated total expenditures. Of the total loan of US$15.5 million provided
by the Bank to GOI for the project, US$1.3 million was cancelled due to currency depreciation and
savings generated during implementation. Total disbursements at closing of the Loan Account is
estimated to reach about US$13.8 million or about 97% of thc revised allocation.
The commitment to the project and measures undertaken by the Government for its
implementation at the national, provincial, district and subdistrict levels have been impressive. What
was commendable also was the adequacy and relative timeliness of budgetary allocations from the
national as well as from the provincial levels. The Government was in compliance with all the
covenants of the loan agreement. Some of these covenants had implications for counterpart funding,
as in the assurance by Government of the provision of adequate number of vehicles in a timely
manner and the maintenance of asphalt village roads by Distrlict Public Works, while others related to
management aspects such as the selection of subdistrict, village and hamlet projects, training
institutions and roads in accordance with criteria satisfactoiy to the Bank. Implementing agencies
were generally responsive to the recommendations of the supervision missions except in the case of
research and Technology Display Menus (TDM) where the responses were delayed.
The Bank's performance throughout the project cycle was satisfactory, particularly in its
orientation of support for decentralized decision-making. The project benefited from a high degree of
supervision and monitoring and timely identification and resolution of implementation constraints by
Bank staff. Although there was a high turnover of task managers for the project, project supervisions



were well organized, systematic and consistent, recommending a number of evaluations on specific
activities. An exhaustive mid-term review was held at an appropriate time. Its findings however were
superseded by subsequent substantive improvements in implementation. Implementing agencies were
given considerable flexibility but responded to suggestions made by Bank missions.
Project Outcome, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
The overall outcome and achievements of the project have been satisfactory. In terms of
its goals of establishing the technical parameters for the conservation and utilization of the upland
areas based on a watershed basis, the project was well implemented. Using the watershed as the basic
management unit, the project has demonstrated that physical and vegetative measures can reduce the
level of erosion substantially. The combinecl impact of the measures has resulted in an increase in
crop yields, a small increase in the cropping intensity particularly in the dry season, and a consequent
increase in production and incomes. As against the appraisal target of 500 watersheds, the project
successfully undertook measures on a total of 518 watersheds. Physical implementation of the other
measures relating to technology display menus and hamlet nurseries were exceeded. However, the
impact on their stated objectives have been less than expected.
In terms of establishing its goals of strengthening local level institutions and furthering
the Government's objective of decentralization, the achievement and impact of the project was much
greater. Investments financed under Prokec (project kecamatan) and Prodes (project desa or village)
included small village roads and bridges, small irrigation developments, construction of water
supplies and sanitation facilities, seedling distribution and cattle and goat distribution. In both cases
achievements exceeded appraisal targets. The impact of these measures has been significant and has
also resulted in increased levels of beneliciary contribution to the financing of sub-projects.
Furthermore, the successful operation of the hamlet revolving funds, (produs), has provided the basis
for sustainable micro-finance operations, managed by villagers, with increased loanable funds
through accepting savings deposits from members. New loans using repayments from the revolving
funds plus savings deposits have been utilized by beneficiaries for generating off farm incomes.
Project support for improvements in physical access through improvements to roads and
bridges also exceeded appraisal targets. Over 232 km of road and 39 bridges were improved as
against appraisal targets of 173 km of roads and 22 bridges.
A significant outcome of the project has been in the area of institutional development. It
strengthened subdistrict, district, provincial and national level institutions in their roles in planning,
implementing and coordinating decentralized and multi-sectoral interventions. A large number of
staff were trained and a substantial amount of national and international technical assistance was
provided to the implementing agencies.
The project has directly benefited over 8,000 farm families on the watershed component
and over 175,000 families through the revolving fund component alone. The numbers benefiting
from the investments under the village and kecamatan projects are also substantial. Under the current
volatile situation of the country's exchange rate, the estimation of an economic rate of return for the
upland stabilization component (no overall rate of return for the project was estimated at appraisal)
becomes somewhat speculative. However, two scenarios have been used in the estimation of an
economic rate of return as a basis for comparison. Using the rate of exchange prevailing before the



current financial crisis (i.e. an exchange rate of Rp 2,300 to US$1), the ERR is estimated at 9%,
lower than the appraisal estimate of 12%. This lower rate is due to increased operational costs and
longer period to maturity than estimated at appraisal. However, using an alternative exchange rate (of
Rp 5,500 to US$1), the ERR rises to 13%. This is due to the fact that a lower exchange rate raises the
import parity price and therefore the benefits of the major cotnmodities.
Sustainability of the development initiatives will be dependent as much on the
beneficiaries themselves as on continued support from the national and provincial budgets. As far as
the watersheds and community development projects, including village and hamlet projects, are
concerned, beneficiaries will continue their activities without any further support from the project or
from government. However, sustainability of watershed development in newer areas will require
continued support from the Government. Support for research and the operation and maintenance of
support services will remain dependent on budgetary allocations from the national, provincial and
district budgets (APBD I and APBD II). The government's demonstrated support for the project and
its commitment for poverty alleviation give reasons to believe that reasonable levels of funding will
be maintained. (At this stage, the longer term impact of the financial crisis is not known). The
increased contributions of the communities in cost sharing investments at the local level provides
another reassuring confirmation for project sustainability.
The project has provided a number of useful llessons relating to technology, project
design, supervision and monitoring and evaluation. These are summarized as follows: (i) steeply
sloping land should not be cultivated for annual crops but the Central Java population pressure offers
little alternative and soil conservation measures should be applied; (ii) soil conservation measures
should combine structures (bunds, terraces) with cultivation practices (contour ploughing), and mixed
cropping (grass strips, fruit and fuelwood trees with paddy, corn, beans); (iii) soil conservation is
technology intensive and site-specific and needs to be supported by applied research and extension;
(iv) soil conservation is labor intensive and needs to be supported by farm profitability studies and
farm credit to ensure adequate returns to farmers to make the extra effort worthwhile:  (v) as the
opportunity cost of farm labor rises with development, farmers move from food crops to treecrops
and agricultural service institutions should be adept enough to support the change and not be
restricted by their prime focus (e.g.,food crops), and, (vi) institutions for area development should be
simplified and properly coordinated at the operational level to avoid high farm services delivery costs
and duplication of effort.
In this project, there has been a greater focus on the development of the physical technology
and not as much of an effort on crops. While the current cropping pattern which includes the
integration of annual crops with fruit and multi-purpose tree species appears well suited to the
environment, the prospects for further improvement need attention. There is need for a more
concerted effort with a more direct involvement of research and extension both in the development of
alternative cropping menus as well as the dissemination of existing best practices among farmers.
The support provided for village projects for interventions for common use such as water supplies,
irrigation, roads, in combination with support for off-farm income generation through the provision
of the revolving fund proved to be a critical element for project success. However, in so pursuing the
objectives, the project attempted a large number of approaches and activities resulting in a
complicated organizational structure. Potential implementation problems were minimized by giving a
central role to the provincial and district BAPPEDAS in the planning, coordination and oversight of
local level programmes with implementation responsibilities fully decentralized at the district and



subdistrict levels. An important feature of project design, which is expected to help sustain the
implementation arrangements, was that the project organization was built within the existing
national, provincial, district and subdistrict level structures.  Untied block financial allocations
proved attractive due to their flexibility and facility to being demand responsive, but there was a
tendency towards an involvement in far too many, and often, disparate activities. There is a critical
need for establishing specific criteria and parameters for selecting project activities. Thus, for
instance, local level (kecamatan and village) projects can and should be integrated into one
component. Project supervision was satisfactory but could have been improved by less frequent
changes in responsible project staff (task manager) both at the World Bank and at BANGDA. The
project included a large number of studies on various aspects related to the project not all of which
has been effectively translated into practice. Care should be taken to ensure that project-financed
studies are directly relevant to the project and that results are utilized.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3305-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.        The main objective of the Yogyakarta Upland Area Development Project (YUADP) was
to improve the incomes and living standards of upland residents, mainly farmers, on a sustainable
basis through better resource management. Ais the sequel to an earlier upland development project
(YRDP, CR. 946-IND), the project aimed at addressing the major needs of upland areas through:
effective and affordable soil and moisture conservation measures, increased farm productivity
leading to higher farm incomes, essential social services infrastructure, and institutional support for
planning and implementing site-specific change. The project's objectives were consistent with the
borrower's strategy for poverty alleviation and equitable regional development, as well as the Bank's
overall country assistance strategy. Total project costs including contingencies were estimated at
about US$25.07 million or about Rp 47,671 million, of which US$5.22 million (Rp 9,923 million) or
about 21% was in foreign exchange. About 62%So of project costs was to be provided by the Bank and
the remaining 38% would be provided by the Government and participating beneficiaries.
2.        The project included the following components/activities: (i) improve critical upland
area soil conditions in selected key watersheds; (ii) introduce alternative technology options,
"menus", of improved upland conservation agriculture technology from research programmes; (iii)
strengthen participatory planning process mechanisms and improve community socio-economic
conditions; (iv) improve the accessibility to isolated upland farming areas (rural roads and bridges);
(v) strengthen local district institutions to support decentralization; (vi) institutionalize soil and
moisture conservation action research at the watershed level; and (vii) strengthen area development
capacity and capability in support of decentralization. The limited agricultural potential of the upland
areas of the province, the shortage of proven technology for improving production, the limited
institutional capacity for planning and implementing development initiatives and a poor physical and
socio-economic infrastructure, justified the ovrrall project objectives and the balance between the
components. Project components were clearly focused on the objectives outlined as well as on the
key constraints to long-term improvements in smallholder incomes. Thus, improving the
technological base for long-term sustainable productivity gains through micro-watershed
stabilization based on run-off control and soil conservation and supported by research and testing of
alternative technological "menus" was a primary component of the project. Physical access
constraints, a significant element for the upland areas, were to be addressed through a roads and
bridges improvement programme accounting for nearly a third of project costs. A very significant
aspect of the project has been the promotion of institutional development by directing financial and
technical support (including training, co-ordination and human development) to provincial, district



-2-
and subdistrict (hamlet) level agencies to identify priorities for assistance under the project as well as
to plan and implement them. The nature of the activities supported through the district and
subdistrict/local agencies covered a wide range of investments that were directly productive as well
strengthened the social infrastructure.
3.        The broad-based development approach required the involvement of a number of
agencies, making the organization and management of the project seem complex. The project was
designed for implementation within the existing administrative structure, without the establishment
of any special implementation unit established for the purpose. Project implementation was
undertaken at two levels: research and planning (including overall management) at the national level,
and seven components at the provincial and district levels. The implementation of most elements of
the programme at the provincial and district levels, within exisiting administrative structures, required
the organization of a large number of implementation focal points, giving the perception of a
complicated organization and management structure of the project. A substantial input, in the form of
training, was provided so as to minimize the potential implementation risks due to weaknesses in
local level institutions. The relative independence of the dlifferent implementation units of the
different components, ensured against the prospect of any delay in one, acting on the implementation
of the other, or on the project as a whole.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Financial Objectives
4.        Total project expenditure at completion, one year after the original closing date of
December 31, 1997, is estimated at about Rp 44,792 million as against appraisal estimates of Rp
47,640 million or about 93% of total estimated expenditure. The depreciation of the Indonesian
Rupiah over the project implementation period however implies that in US Dollar terms, actual
expenditures were of the order of some US$20.3 million as against the appraisal estimate of US$25.0
million, or about 81% of anticipated total expenditures. Of the total loan of US$15.5 million
provided by the Bank to GOI for the project, US$1.3 million was cancelled due to currency
depreciation and savings generated during implementation. Total disbursements at closing of the
Loan Account is estimated to reach about US$13.8 million or about 97% of the revised allocation.
5.        The relative composition and absolute amounts of project expenditures on the various
components are substantially different from those stipulated at appraisal. The most significant
differencesl are (a) substantially higher expenditures in three components covering Area
Development Planning Support (SAR expenditures of RP 2486.2 million as against actual
expenditures of about RP 3196 million or an increase of about 28.5%), Kabupaten Planning and
Coordination (RP 2715.2 million versus RP 3349.4 million or an increase of about 23.5%) including
the Provincial Planning and Coordination component (RP 56211 million as against RP 6263 million or
about 11%) and the component of Community Mobilization encompassing training, village projects,
kecamatan projects and hamlet revolving funds (RP 8741.4 million as against RP 10141.4 million or
an increase of about 16%), and (b) lower expenditures in the components of Community
Development- training (RP 700.4 million versus actual expenditure of RP 283 million or a saving of
about 60%), Upland Development Support Teams (RP 1528.5 million as against actual expenditures
I Actual project expenditures compared with SAR estimates of base costs.



-3-
of about RP 470.7 million or a saving of about 70%) and Upland Watershed Action Research (RP
6052.8 million versus actual expenditures of 3678.3 million or a saving of about 40%). Increased
expenditures on community mobilization encompassing training, village projects, kecamatan projects
and hamlet revolving funds were due to the combined impact of an increase in the numbers of
villages supported, an increase in the unit costs of support to each village (from RP 7.5 million to RP
10 million) and an increase in the number of years of project support from two to three years for each
village. There were considerable variations iin expenditures within the component as well. Thus,
within community mobilization, hamlet projects suffered a 42% cost overrun due to the need for
additional inputs for micro-watersheds (micro-DAS) such as multi-purpose terrace strengthening
plants, additional assistance for the maintenance of village nurseries and increasing the number of
micro-DAS coverage.
6.        The implementation of the project's financial expenditure objectives proceeded well.
Actual disbursements exceeded appraisal targets during the first two years, stabilized roughly along
appraisal targets in the following two years and fell slightly behind towards the end of the
implementation period. No serious delays in the release of local funds were experienced. However,
the project's physical targets exceeded appraisal estimates in almost all major categories. The
principal justification for- project extension by one year was to allow the consolidation and
application of the physical, technical and organizational achievements and capitalize on the
momentum generated into effective programme development. The extension of project activities
was limited to specific elements of the project and did not apply to all project activities.
Increasing Farm Incomes
7.        Upland Productivity and Stabilization. The project has been successful in establishing
the basic technical physical parameters for soil stabilization and conservation in the upland areas.
Using the watershed as the basic managemenit unit for soil stabilization and production technology
(identified as micro-DAS), the project
has demonstrated that the use of rain                           C   Icomes/ha
water  run-off  control  structures,                      Without Projct   t  Project
terrace rehabilitation using vegetative..(RP^00                     0    (p0)
measures and limited physical earth  Rice                      7           1,455
moving    and    ground    cover  Maiza                        400          777
improvement through higher annualCsav.42206
crop plant density involving the use of   oae                  4            785
mulches, grasses and more appropriate  Godn (Ws Sao              440" 4    1,340
land  use  in  perennial cropping,  G d  (Dr Ss                28           * 540 
reduces the levels of erosion. The
combined impact of the measures has encouraged a greater use of manure and fertilizer, which in
turn has resulted in a significant increase in crop yields (from an estimated 1.0 ton/ha to 2.0 ton/ha in
the case of rice), a small increase in the cropping intensity (from 164% to 180%), particularly in the
dry season, and a consequent increase in production and incomes as can be seen from the
accompanying table. A further indication of the positive impact has been the increase in the numbers
of livestock holdings by participants given the increased availability of fodder. The critical element
has been in the selection of the watershed; where erosion problems were significant, the measures
have had a visible impact. The enthusiasm and participation of the beneficiaries was notable.
However, despite the positive impact and support to increase the outreach of the technology, the rate



-4-
of adoption among non-participating farmers in the adjacent areas has not been significant because of
two reasons. First, the technology is labor-intensive and many non-participants earn much, if not
most, of their family income from off-farm employment and are not willing to reduce wage labor
income to practice improved farming techniques. Second, initial subsidies and promotion activites
are required to induce farmers to accept the risk that returns will be commensurate with the extra
work involved.
8.        Technology display menus (TDM) were designed with the objective of presenting an
array of alternative technology options allowing farmers to choose the elements of the package best
suited to their own specific financial and labour requirements. There has however been very limited
impact from the TDM measures. The concept of the TDM component was not clearly understood and
while some TDM plots displayed elements of soil conservation management measures, there was
little difference in the technology between them and the average farms and there was no display of
any alternative technology/crop options. While there was a iFocus on the physical aspects of soil
conservation there was not much emphasis on the crops side. The implicit expectation that TDMs
would reflect the joint effort of research and extension was not realized in practice. While the future
prospects for improvements in the cropping technologies fiom a research perspective must be
recognized, it must also be acknowledged that the current cropping pattern is well suited to the
environment. The integration of perennial and horticultural tree species into the cropping system,
carried out as part of watershed development, is likely to have the most direct effect on the product
mix and incomes. The full impact of the integration would however have to wait until the fruit and
multi-purpose tree species reach maturity. However, the large scale introduction of what is a
relatively new crop to the area makes them vulnerable to a wide range of pests and diseases. There
has been a lack of plant protection services specifically for the horticultural tree species and there is a
need to remedy the situation if the full impact is to be achieved and sustained.
9.        Established with the objective of being the principal source for planting material for
conservation measures, hamlet nurseries (KBD) contributed little to the project. The quality of plant
materials produced by the nurseries and the performance of the groups were poor and project impact
has been marginal. Planting materials required for the watershed component were provided largely
by private producers. A very small quantity from these nurseries were provided for the village
projects.
10.       Upland Community Development. Matching its relative success on the technological
side, the project has been equally successful in implementing an impressive array of activities
through the participation of communities at the local level. P'roject funds supplemented resources
already made available to communities under the Desa programme and have been used in activities
that reflected the felt needs of the people. Investments financed under Prokec (project kecamatan)
and Prodes (project desa or village) included small village roads and bridges, small irrigation
developments, construction of water supplies and sanitation fac ilities, seedling distribution and cattle
and goat distribution. The impact of these measures has been significant and has not only covered a
larger number of kecamatans and desas than originally envisaged but has also resulted in increased
levels of beneficiary contribution to the financing of sub-projects. In addition, while a large
proportion of the interventions were for the development and establishment of common use resources
(roads and water supplies, etc.), an increased demand for an in-kind revolving fund based on
livestock distribution (over 17,000 heads of goats) reflected the importance given by beneficiaries to



-5-
direct income generation. However, it is noted that while the activities and participants for both
Prokec and Prodes were the same, two different institutional arrangements for channelling funds
were used and could have been avoided to reduce overhead costs.
I.       In terms of its impact on incomes, one of the most significant success of the project has
been the operation of the hamlet revolving iFunds (Produs). Starting with an initial capital of Rp
700,000, each group was allowed to set its own credit terms. Interest rates ranged at between 2-3%
per month for a period of 5-7 months with amounts ranging between Rp 10,000 - Rp 200,000 with a
modal figure of about Rp 25,000. The rate of interest paid by borrowers are higher than the
institutional lending rate of 33% (I1/2% per month) for the collaterised Kupedes scheme, and
compares favourable with up to 50% for other targeted credit programmes (PHBK, Micro-credit) and
80-100% or higher on the semi-formal or informal market. The default rate, according to a recent
study, is estimated at about 11%. While most groups required a joining fee, the requirement for
compulsory savings varied between groups. With capital growth rates of between 11-28% per year,
partly dependent on whether savings mobilization is included, the project has laid the foundation for
a local level credit operation that has the potential of being the driving force of future development of
the area. Credit funds have been used for income generating activities in home industry including
processing, 16%, small business activity, about 25%, agricultural input related activities, about 37%,
and livestock related activities about 22%. There are however two points that need to be made. First,
the wide range in capital growth rates indicates that a portion of the Produs groups have not
functioned well and there is a need to identify and remedy the causes for their inadequate
performance. Second, both due to increased demand by other participants and to compensate for
inflation, produs groups have resorted to credit rationing due to their inability to increase the size of
their capital. There is scope and a need to link better performing groups with existing institutional
financial sources for the programme to remain sustainable. This could include the BUKP (Badan
Usaha Kredit Pedasan programme) at the kecamatan level as well as the P4K programme of BRI
both of which provide for non-collaterised credit. Given the nature of the distribution of activities
financed through credit, it would be prudent however to recognize that sustainability for the future,
with increasing participation of the people, will require increasing complementary investments in
activities that implicitly increase market access and size, i.e. through the provision of roads and
markets aimed at linking other areas.
12.       Upland Watershed Systems Action Research.  The project was successful in
establishing the essential physical infrastructure and programmes for upland research by establishing
a permanent research station for upland agriculture. Research has focused mainly on the economic
and agronomic responses of multiple cropping patterns to fertilizer (both organic and inorganic), the
impact of various grasses on erosion control, the establishment of various perennial crops and fruit
trees, the production of forage to support the integration of livestock and the establishment of on-
farm reservoirs to support high value vegetable production and seedlings and livestock water
requirements in the dry season. A total of 162 research topics were undertaken. Surveys included
topographic mapping, detailed soil mapping, agro-economic base line studies, slope stabilization
studies, fodder and cover crop research, and pests and diseases research. While the project has
developed technological packages for increasing agricultural productivity and farm incomes for the
upland areas, the limited interaction with extension has restricted a widespread adoption of the
results. A closer interaction between research and extension will remain a critical issue to ensure a
widespread diffusion of the technologies generated by the project.



-6-
13.       Economic Rate of Return. Given the massive fiall and volatility in the value of the
Indonesian Rupiah and the inability to establish a stable exchange rate over the medium term, the
recalculation of the ERR for the project's upland productivity and stabilization component becomes a
function of the rate of exchange assumedl. To permit a comparison with the appraisal estimate, the
ERR for the project's upland productivity and stabilization component (excluding the research
component) was recalculated using the exchange rate prevailing before the current financial crisis, at
Rp 2,300 to the US Dollar, as a base case. The recalculated ERR estimated at about 9% was lower
than the appraisal estimate of 12%. This was primarily due to high operational costs and a longer
period to maturity. The lower return does not include significant, but non-quantifiable external
benefits from the avoidance of siltation downstream. However, using the actual rate of exchange over
the project implementation period (of about Rp 2,300 to the US Dollar) and an alternative rate of Rp
5,5002, over the remaining 23 year project life, the recalculated ERR was estimated at about 13%.
This provides an indication of the sensitivity of the ERR to the exchange rate assumed. No overall
economic analysis for the project was undertaken largely because a significant part of the project's
support and training services for upland community development would extend beyond the project's
activities. No attempt was made to re-calculate the ERR for the roads component which was
estimated at 15% at appraisal. This was because the estimation of benefits from reduced transport
costs, improved access to markets particularly in the rainy season, less spoilage, improved extension
coverage and therefore better production, easier access to health, credit services and employment
opportunities, and the stimulation of non-agricultural activities were considered too speculative for
quantification. The project has directly benefited over 8,000 farm families on the watershed and over
175,000 families through the revolving fund components alone. The numbers benefiting from the
interventions in the village and kecamatan projects are also substantial.
Physical Objectives
14.       The project's physical achievements were substantial and impressive, as shown in Table
5. In a large number of cases it exceeded appraisal targets. Most appraisal targets were achieved by
the original closing date; the extension accorded by the Bank was primarily for enhancing the
development impact and sustainability of project actions and consolidating the key project
interventions. Physical achievements under the prokec and prodes components, although not
specified at appraisal covered an impressive list of activities, directly productive as well as
supportive investments in socio-economic infrastructure.
15.       For the key component of upland productivity and (watershed) stabilization, the project
succeeded in completing conservation measures in 518 watersheds (micro-DAS) as opposed to a
target of 500. Physical conservation measures included bench and contour terraces, improved
waterways and drop structures, infiltration pits and terrace risers. Similarly, of a total of 140 TDM
plots to be implemented in 140 villages, the project had completed work in about 150 villages. The
target of 80 hamlet nurseries (KBD) was also exceeded and a total of III nurseries have been
established.
16.       With respect to community development, the project provided support for 584 villages as
against a target of 475 villages under prodes (village projects) and 99 kecamatans (subdistrict)
The import parity price of rice, for instance, becomes a function of the rate of exchange assumed.
2 This is to be seen against an actual current market rate of between Rp 8,500-11,500.



-7-
against a target of 92 under the prokec programmes. While no projections had been made of the
exact investments to be supported under the two approaches, the achievements were impressive. The
actual physical achievements under both the approaches covered activities of seedling distribution
(approximately 1.5 million), livestock distribution (about 300 cattle and over 17,000 goats),
improvement to rural roads (232 km of new road and 545 km of maintenance of existing roads) and
bridges and culverts (about 113 units including 39 bridges), shopping kiosks (95 units),
improvements to irrigation/water supply (about 17 km), and improvement to sanitation and waste
disposal (nearly 700 units). Although the average number of participants in the hamlet revolving
funds (produs) varied, it is estimated that a total of over 175,000 farm families have benefited from
the programme. The majority of the beneficiaries in the programme were women.
17.       The project rehabilitated a total of about 232 km of roads and improvements to 39
bridges as against SAR targets of 173 km and 22 units, an increase of about 44% and 77%
respectively. Some support for office construction was also provided for the Public Works
Department at the kabupaten level.
Institutional Objectives
18.       Implementation arrangements for YUADP were designed to operate within the structure
and functions of existing government institutions, rather than through new project specific
institutions. Project implementation was undertaken by a total of some 24 focal
coordination/management units, four each in the four districts/kabupaten, seven at the provincial
level and one at BANGDA at the naticnal level. Despite a concern expressed at MTR, the sub-
management units reflected existing functional responsibilities in provincial and district
administration and they performed well. While a large part of the actual implementation was
undertaken by project beneficiaries, the p:roject was somewhat Government staff intensive.
19.       However, in the desire to strengthen local level institutions, project design focused on
strengthening existing institutions rather than on reorganizing and simplifying them to best fit the
interventions themselves. As a consequence, both the village projects and kecamatan projects, at two
different decision levels, supported the irnplementation of the same activities (such as village roads,
small irrigation/water supplies, and goat distribution) for and by the same set of people, i.e. the
villages. The bifurcation of responsibilities between the villages and the kecamatans for the same
interventions amounted to a duplication that would have been best avoided.
20.       The decision not to specify local level interventions has allowed the interventions to be
demand driven, responding to the felt needs of the people. However, it has also involved a
Government line agency in the operation of a revolving fund of animals (goat distribution) in which
it has little capability. The current system of operating through contractors and village sub-groups for
implementation raises questions about beneficiary criteria, animal recoveries and sustainability. The
involvement of an NGO to organize the goat distribution would have been a much better alternative
as it has been undertaken in similar other projects in Indonesia.
21.       The project made significant contributions towards achieving the objective of
strengthening local level institutions and improving multi-sectoral planning at the provincial and
district levels. Virtually the only nationally implemented component was the research component.
The other national level component was that of overall coordination and implementation of the field



-8-
programme and the establishment of a national level MIS by BANGDA (SIMBANGDA). In point of
fact however, the establishment of SIMBANGDA was not achieved and the role of BANGDA was
largely limited to that of providing the necessary budgetary indent/authorization for the provincial
agencies. Decentralized implementation both at the Provincial level and more importantly at the
District and subdistrict level worked well and resulted in noticeable improvements in the capabilities
of local level institutions in programming, implementing, reporting and monitoring of project
activities.
22.       The project's successful achievement of its overall objective of nurturing community-
based development has been reflected in the gradual increase in the financial contribution by
communities under both the village and kecamatan project components. The community's
contribution in the village projects reached nearly 37% with the remaining 63% being financed under
the project while under the kecamatan projects the community participation was at about 31%. The
implication of this in the overall design of rural development projects is profound.
23.       Project objectives of institutional strengthening and human resource development were
supported by a major emphasis on training both for community leaders, farmers and Government
staff involved in implementation. In fact, training was implemented within eight of the nine
components; the only exception being that of the research component. A total of over 36,000
community leaders, farmers and staff of different line agencies of the Government were provided
training on a very wide range of subjects that included leadership training for village and hamlet
development councils, technical training for planning of watersheds, technology display menus and
village seedling nurseries, training in book keeping for project staff and management of the hamlet
revolving funds, planning methodology courses, project management and management information
systems, training in monitoring and evaluation, in computer applications as well as English language
training. An external study tour to the Philippines involved provincial level managers and sub-
managers and key responsible persons such as the District Chiefs (Bupati) and the heads of
BAPPEDA at both the district and Provincial levels. Training was also provided at the national level
at BANGDA covering subjects as Environmental Protection and Management, Public Policy
Evaluation and Planning, City Planning and Urban Affairs ancl general assessment of BANGDAS
operational strengths and weaknesses. There is no doubt that training has had an impact on
implementation. However, training was frequently poorly organized and coordinated. For instance,
the same training, covering village and hamlet level activities, was provided by different agencies
leading to a dispersion in focus. While the overall responsibility of coordination of BANGDA is
recognized, the training provided to it was not directly relevant to project implementation.
24.       -. a total of about 246 man-months of national and expatriate technical assistance, the
project successfully provided about 208 man-months of specialist services in a variety of areas.
Technical specialists were provided for:  (a) community development - training; (b) upland
development support team (UDST); (c) provincial planning coordination and support; and, at the
national level, (d) for area development planning support. The slpecialist services were rendered in a
timely fashion and were fully supported by the borrower. A large number of reports were prepared
and utilized during the implementation period.



-9-
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD & MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
25.       YUAPD was prepared under the FAO-World Bank Cooperative Programme in 1989 and
was appraised in February 1990 and approved in March 1991. The project became effective in June
1991 and was to be implemented over a period of five years. There were some initial delays in
project implementation because of slow recruitment of consultants for technical assistance and
inadequate budgetary provision. Implementation however soon improved substantially and
accelerated after the mid-term review of the project and actual implementation at the end of the
project exceeded appraisal targets in a majority of categories. The one year extension was justified so
as to allow the implementing agencies to: (a) strengthen and consolidate the project's successful and
innovative technical and institutional approaches for upland agricultural development and soil
stabilization programmes; (b) institutionalize project monitoring'and evaluation programmes more
firmly; (c) carry out an impact evaluation; and (d) prepare plans for post-project operation.
26.       An important implementation approach has been the continuous evaluation of all project
activities, particularly in their development impact and relevance to farmer needs. As a direct result
of such evaluation, the distribution of cattle was stopped and an emphasis given to goats for the in-
kind distribution programme. While the village and kecamatan projects covered a wide variety of
interventions, there was a justified focus on activities that improved income prospects directly or
indirectly. The approach to annual work programming provided local level agencies an opportunity
to learn the art of establishing work priorities as well as improved the development impact and
sustainability of project interventions.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.       The structure of the project is such that sustainability of the development initiatives
would largely be the responsibility of the beneficiaries themselves. Thus, farmers within the
watersheds would continue to undertake conservation-based measures aimed to continue their
production objectives. The operational activities that would need to be financed by the Government
relate primarily to the research component, the maintenance of roads and honorariums and incentive
payments to staff, office supplies, utilities and other operational expenditures. The Government's
commitment to poverty alleviation gives reason to believe that reasonable levels of funding would be
made available in the future. (The longer- run impact of the financial crisis is not clear at this time).
The fact that budgetary allocations have been made to provide funds for the continuation of activities
during the remaining period of the fiscal year despite the Bank loan having closed on December 31,
1997, supports the above conclusion.
28.       While the traditional sources of funds for the Provinces originate out of national transfers
to the Provincial and District budgets (APDB I and APDB II) as well as through the allocation of the
various INPRES funds, the increased contribution of the communities in cost sharing investments at
the local level provides a reassuring confiirmation for project sustainability. The financial needs for
sustaining the research component has to be seen from a long term perspective and specific
allocations will need to be made not only to continue the beginnings achieved but also to develop a
wider basis for research in such environments. Financing of these requirements is likely to be
provided in the context of the Government's decentralization plans and plans for the establishment of
one research station in each region of the country.



-10-
29.       Growth in the upland areas is a function both of increased productivity of the land and
increased opportunities for off-farm income generation. The project has put in place a working
mechanism for credit operations that has played a crucial role in the generation of off-farm income
and has improved farm productivity. The groups established under the project have shown that they
are able to function as micro-finance intemediaries. However, the financial resources they can
mobilize are quite small and theses groups should be linked to an appropriate financial institution.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
30.       The Bank's performance throughout the project cycle was satisfactory, particularly in the
orientation of its support for decentralized decision making. The project benefited from a high degree
of supervision and monitoring and timely identification and resolution of implementation constraints
by Bank staff. During the extended implementation period of six years, a total of 11 supervision
missions visited the project. It is surprising however, to find that given the lack of performance of the
nurseries component but the positive contribution of the private nurseries in the development effort,
no statement for abandoning the effort was made by any of the missions. Although there was a high
turnover of task managers for the project, project supervisions were well organized, systematic and
consistent, recommending a number evaluations on specific activities. The mission's aide-mdmoire
brought out the key implementation and development issues and provided clear recommendations for
follow-up actions. An exhaustive mid-term review was held at an appropriate time. Its findings
however were superseded by subsequent substantive improvements in implementation. Implementing
agencies were given considerable flexibility but responded to suggestions made by Bank missions.
31.       Relationships between the Bank and the Government, both at the Centre and in the
Provinces and the Kabupatens were cordial, yet effective throughout the implementation period.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.       The commitment to the project and measures undertaken for its implementation at the
national, provincial, district and subdistrict levels have been impressive. Although the official
responsibility for coordinating the project was at the national level, effective implementation at the
provincial level protected the project from any impact of a high raete of staff turnover (5 coordinators
in five years) at the national level. What was commendable however was the adequacy and relative
timeliness of budgetary allocations from the national as well as from the provincial levels. The
Government was in compliance with all the covenants of the credit agreement. Implementing
agencies were generally responsive to the recommendations of the supervision missions except in the
case of research and TDMs where there was a tendency for a delayed response. Government staff at
the Provincial and District levels including staff from the BAPPE,DAS and the Dinases contributed
actively to the mission's activities.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
33.       On the whole, the overall outcome of the project has been satisfactory and has laid the
foundations for future development. First, it has established the technical parameters for the
conservation and utilization of the upland areas and thereby provided the building blocks for
improved agricultural production and farm incomes on a sustainable basis. This is a very significant



-11-
outcome since the technological base for addressing the problems of agricultural development under
conditions of poor and diverse natural resource endowment and harsh agro-ecological environment
had not been convincingly established. However, prospects for further improvement on the
technological/crop side still remains and research would have to focus on the application of existing
results at the farm level and its further refinement. Second, the project has strengthened local level
institutions in multi-sectoral planning and implementation of development programmes, particularly
the capabilities of provincial and district EIAPPEDAS for overseeing, monitoring and evaluating such
decentralized development initiatives. This has furthered the objectives of decentralized development
administration of the Government's. It has also provided a mechanism for increased beneficiary
participation in prioritizing investments at the local level. Third, the project has laid the framework
for a local level non-collaterised credit operation as a precursor to an eventual possible integration
with institutional sources of finance, and fourth, it has fostered awareness and motivation among
beneficiaries and a feeling of purpose among staff in the line agencies by its emphasis on human
resource development and the creation of a pool of expertise.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
34.       The Bank is already implementing projects in other parts of the country (Nusa Tenggara
Agriculture Area Development Project, Sulawesi Agriculture Area Development Project) that have
been based on principles established under this project. At the same time, three other regional/area
development projects are under various stages of processing (preparation/appraisal/negotiations) in
Maluku, Bengkulu and Kalimantan. The basic principles outlining the on-going and proposed
projects include further strengthening of the decentralization planning process and implementation at
the district and subdistrict levels including improving the framework for effective and broad-based
beneficiary participation as well as integrating gender sensitivities, improving the technical
parameters for the development of agriculture through the establishment of farming systems based
technologies consistent with agro-ecological  and socio-economic diversities that are better
integrated with livestock and available water resources, improving the data-base for more focused
farming systems research, improved agritcultural support services and improving the prospects of
employment and income generation based initially on the provision of non-collaterised credit.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.       Key Lessons. These are (i) steeply sloping land should not be cultivated for annual
crops but where population pressure offers little alternative, soil conservation measures should be
applied; (ii) soil conservation measures should combine structures (bunds, terraces) with cultivation
practices (contour ploughing), and mixed cropping (grass strips, fruit and fuelwood trees with paddy,
corn, beans); (iii) soil conservation is technology intensive and site-specific and needs to be
supported by applied research and extension; (iv) soil conservation is labor intensive and needs to be
supported by farm profitability studies and farm credit to ensure adequate returns to farmers to make
the extra effort worthwhile: and, (v) as the opportunity cost of farm labor rises with development,
farmers move from food crops to treecrops and agricultural service institutions should be adept
enough to support the change.
36.       Technology. A watershed management strategy that includes run-off control and soil
conservation, and farm planning and diversification, can provide the elements for agricultural



-12-
development in the upland areas. However, the full potential of the technological changes developed
by research has yet to be translated into reality on the ground. There has been a greater focus on the
development of the physical technology and not as much of an effort on crops. While the current
cropping pattern including the integration of fruit and multi-purpose tree species appears well suited
to the environment, the prospects for further improvement cannot be ignored. There is a need for a
more concerted effort with a more direct involvement of both research and extension in the
development of alternative cropping menus suitable for adoption by farmers. While the development
of more tree crops is a likely possibility, plant nursery material should be procured from private
nurseries at the local level rather than attempting to establish group nurseries.
37.       Project Design. A conservation-based strategy for the development of upland areas
works best when it is combined with efforts to provide social investment capital and measures to
increase off farm incomes. The support provided for village projects for interventions: for common
use such as water supplies, irrigation, roads, in combination with support for off-farm income
generation through the provision of the revolving fund proved to be a critical element for project
success. However, in so pursuing the objectives, the project attempted a large number of approaches
and activities resulting in a complicated organizational structure. Potential implementation problems
were minimized by giving a central role to the provincial and district BAPPEDAS in the planning,
coordination and oversight of local level programmes with implementation responsibilities fully
decentralized at the district and subdistrict levels. An important feature of project design, which is
expected to help sustain the implementation arrangements, was that the project organization was built
within the existing national, provincial, district and subdistrict level structures. Although project
implementation despite the complexity proceeded reasonably well, this could reflect the particular
situation of the province of Yogyakarta with its historical and educational background and
conclusions on its replicability in the other provinces in Indonesia will have to be made with some
caution.
38.       While block financial allocations are attractive due to their flexibility and facility to
being demand responsive, such as in the village and kecamatan projects, there is a tendency towards
an involvement in far too many, and often, disparate activities. One divisive issue has been the
choice between social investments (development of common property resources) and those that
directly improve incomes. Although some criteria in the selection of activities were provided they
were inadequate and not applied effectively. There is a critical need for establishing specific criteria
and parameters for selecting project activities. Thus, for instance, local level (kecamatan and village)
projects can and should be integrated into one component.
39.       Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation. The project benefited from a high degree of
supervision and monitoring despite several changes in responsible project staff (task manager) both
at the World Bank and at BANGDA. The project has undertaken a large number of studies on various
aspects related to the project not all of which has been effectively translated into practice. Project
monitoring has been particularly elaborate and commendable and considerable data have been
collected. However, the data has not been adequately analysed. Project supervision has been
systematic and consistent, recommending a number of evaluation of specific activities before
deciding to curtail or strengthen them. The focus on appraisal goals dominated supervision efforts.
Attention to component/activities impact would have revealed, early, the inadequacy and non-
sustainability of some of the interventions (such as the nurseries and TDM) so that appropriate
actions could be taken.



-13-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(4)    (w)         (X~~)          0i
Macro policies                       []
Sector policies
Financial objectives                                                          liii
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                                 II]
Gender issues                                     2z
Other social objectives              F            F              z      
Environmental objectives             F] TI
Public sector management             FT I                       K 
Private sector development           K             K            K             K
Other (specify)                      K             K            K             K
B. Project sustainability           Likely        Unlikely    Uncertain
(NI)          (NI)        (NI)
Highly
C. Bank performance              satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
(NI)         (NI)         (NI)
Identification                                  IT]           K]
Preparation assistance             K]                         K]
Appraisal                          K]           E             
Supervision                        K             K            K



-14-
Highl
D. Borrower performance             satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
(4)           (4)          (4)
Preparation                                      F  
Implementation                      E            F              7
Covenant compliance                LI I 
Operation (if applicable)           z             z              J
Higl                                          Highly
E. Assessment of outcome          satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(4)           (4)            (4)              (4)
LIO   WG                                       LI



-15-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                  Purpose               Year of     Status
_ _______________________    approval
Preceding Operations
I  Yogyakarta Rural Development     Improve (i) the incomes and living  1979     Closed
Project                         standards of the people and the
socio-economic and physical
infrastructure in two of the poorest
Kabupaten in province; (ii)
promote soil conservation
measure; and (iii) strengthen local
level institutions and framework
for community participation.
2  Upland Agriculture and           To increase farm production and   1985       Closed
Conservation Project            incomes, while minimizing soil
erosion, in densely populated
uplanct area in Java by improving
farming systems, farm technology
and management.
3  Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Support  To raise smallholder incomes,   1986       Closed
Project                         promote equitable regional
development, strengthen local-
level institutions and improve
multi-sectoral planning and
implementation at both the national
and local levels.
Following Operations
I  Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Area   To raise smallholder incomes,     1996      Ongoing
Development Project             strengthening local level
institutions and foster broad-based
participation at the grassroots level.
2  Sulawesi Agriculture Area        To reduce the incidence of poverty    1996  Ongoing
Development Project             in the provinces of Central and
Southeast Sulawesi through the
increase of rural incomes, the
promotion of equitable regional
development.
3  Maluku Regional Development                                                 Negotiated
Project
4  Bengkulu Area Development                                                   Appraised
Project
5  Kalimantan Area Development                                                   Under
Project                                                                    Preparation



-16-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            |    Date planned     f         Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                    April-May 1986
Preparation                                                                 April 1988-Sept. 1989
Appraisal                                                                      February 1990
Negotiations                                        10 December 1990         28-30 January 1991
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                                             19 March 1991
Signing                                                                         3 May 1991
Effectiveness                                          I April 1991             24 June 1991
First tranche release (if applicable)
Mid-term review (if applicable)                         June 1993               15 April 1994
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion
Loan closing                                        31 December 1996         31 December 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY91       FY92        FY93       FY94        FY95       FY96        FY97
Appraisal estimate             0       1,000      3,646       7,516      10,696     13,632      14,195
Actual                      1,000      1,669       3,521      7,028       9,913     11,993      13,800
Actual as % of estimate     1000         167        96.6       93.5        92.7       87.5          97
Date of final
disbursement           31 March 1998



-17-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Actual
Key Indicators                           Unit         SAR            Number
Target
1. COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION
(a) Dusun Revolving Funds                                hamlet          1,400                1,586          113
(b) Village Project                                        unit            475                 585          123
(c) Potensi Desa Survey                                  village           140                 230           164
2. SLOPE STABILIZATION
(a) Technology Display Menu                                unit            140                 150           107
(b) Village Nursery (KBD)                                  unit             82                  85          104
(c) Micro-DAS                                              unit            500                 518          104
(d) Outreach Program                                       ha              n.a.                793
3. VILLAGE ROAD & BRIDGES
(a) Road Construction/Rehab.                               km              173                 232           134
(b) Bridge Construction                                    unit             22                  39           177
4. KAB, PLANNING & SUPPORT
(a) Kecamatan Project                                     unit             92                  119          129
5. COMMUNITY DEV. TRAINING
(a) Mgt. & Bookkeeping Training                          person          1,400                2,007          143
(b) Community/Leader Training                             person        10,110               28,649         283
(c) Kabupaten Staff                                  _     _
- Extension Field & Staff Training                    person         1,110                3,248         293
- PU Staff Training                                   person           119                   55          46
- Vill. Pot/Mon Ev. Survey Training                   person           350                1,110         317
(d) Cent. & Prov. Staff Mgt. Training                    person          1,365               1,108          81
(e) Local Consultants                                    m/m                -                   8                      l
(f) Intemational Consultants                             ni/m             10                    9          90
6. UPLAND DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT TEAM
(UDST)
(a) Local Consultants                                     m/m               41                  15           37
(b) International Consultants                             ni/m              32                  26           81
(c) RRA: Baseline Data                                   Village           n.a.                 54
Evaluation Data                                  Village          n.a                   40
7. PROV. PLAN. COORD. & SUPPORT
(a) Local Consultants                                      n/m              50                  61          122
(b) International Consultants                             m/m              35                   53          151
(c) Local Training Officer                                tn/m              54                  48           89
(d) Overseas Training                                     person           n.a.                 20
(e) Land-Use & Certification:
- Micro-DAS maps                                       unit            500                 292           58
- Erosion Survey                                      village           82                   82          100
- Special Maps                                         unit             40                  116         290
- Land Certification                                   unit          8,000               12,010          150
8. UPLAND RESEARCH (AARD)
(a) Topographic Mapping                                   unit             21                    8          38
(b) Detailed Soil Mapping                                 unit             21                    7          33
(c) Agro-econ. Baseline Study                             unit             21                   1 1         52
(d) Slope Stabilization Research                          unit             21                   32          152
(e) Fodder & Cover-Crops Research                         unit             18                    4          22
(f) Pest & Diseases Research                              kab.             18                    5          28
(g) Farm Analysis & Marketing                      7      kab.             21                   20          95
(h) Recruitment of TA                                     unit             13                   10          77
9. AREA DEV. PLANNING SUPPORT
(a) Local Consultants                                      Mnim              25                   4           16
(b) Intemational Consultants                               m/m                6                   5           83
(c) MIS Local Consultants                                  n/m              18                   10          56
(c) MIS Intemational Consultants                           ninm              16                   7           44



-18-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Operating Indicators                     SAR Targets                             Actual
1. Community Mobilization
(a) Hamlet Revolving Funds                        n.s.                  Capital growth rate: 10-11% p.a.
(b) Village Projects                              n.s.                  Beneficiary contribution: +3 1%
2. Slope Stabilization                               n.s.                 (i) Improved Erosion Index.
(ii) Increased livestock holding
0.3 f 0.7 cattle
1.1 f 2.5 goat/sheep
3. Roads and Bridges                                 n.s.                 (i) Improved allocations from
provincial authorities.
(ii) Construction of roads under
_____ __ _  village projects.
4. Upland Research                                   n.s.                  162 Research topics covered.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                            at appraisal/reclefined  Status      Impact of study
1. Proyek Pengembangan Wilayah Perbukitan Kritis                               Completed   Used in project
Yogyakarta (YUADP/Bangun Desa II), Laporan Survei Data                                      implementation
Dasar Evaluasi Mikrodas TA 1992/1993, Volume I & II,                                        (Micro-Das).
Pemerintah Propinsi Daerah Istimewa, Badan Perencanaan
Pembangunan Daerah, Yogyakarta, Maret 1993. (Survey
Report on Micro Das Evaluation, 1992-1993, BAPPEDA.
2. Suyadi, Ag. Ir., Menghiting Erosi Tanah Dengan Metoda                       Completed   Used in project
USLE, Bag. Pro. Fendukung Kawasan Perbukitan Kritis                                         implementation
Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta, 1993. (Erosion Methodology                                      (Micro-Das).
Study, 1993)
3. Bambang Agus Sudarmo, Metoda Inderosi, Bag. Pro.                            Completed   Used in project
Pendukung Kawasan Perbukitan Kritis Daerah Istimewa                                         implementation
Yogyakarta, 1993. (Guideline for Erosion Index                                              (Micro-Das).
Measurement)
4. Yayasan Desa Mandiri Yogyakarta, Survei Data Dasar,                         Completed   Used in project
Laporan Akhir Evaluasi Mikro-Das (RRA), BAPPEDA I D.l.                                      implementation.
Yogyakarta, April 1994. (Micro-Das Evaluation, RRA)
5. Yayasan Desa Mandiri Yogyakarta, Pemahaman Pedesaan                         Completed   Used in project
Secara Cepat (RRA) Calon Lokasi Proyek Bangun Desa II                                       implementation.
Tahun Anggaran 1994/1995, BAPPEDA I D.I. Yogyakarta,
February 1995. (RRA for Selected Villages)
6. Yayasan Desa Mandiri Yogyakarta, Laporan Akhir                              Completed   Used in project
Pemahaman Pedesaan Secara Cepat (RRA), Monitoring dan                                       implementation.
Evaluasi Proyek Bangun Desa 11 Tahun Anggaran 1993/1994,
BAPPEDA I D.I. Yogyakarta, January 1996. (Final Report for
RRA on Monitoring Evaluation)
7. Yayasan Desa Mandiri Yogyakarta, Laporan Akhir                              Completed   Used in project
Pemahaman Pedesaan Secara Cepat (RRA), Loasi Proyek                                         implementation.
Bangun Desa 11 Tahun Anggaran 1995/1996, BAPPEDA I
D.I. Yogyakarta, January 1996. (Report RRA)



-19-
Purpose as defined
Study                           at appraisal/redefined  Status     Impact of study
8. Yayasan Desa Mandiri Yogyakarta, Laporan Akhir Kaji                       Completed   Used in project
Ulang Pelaksanaan TDM dan KBD, BAPPEDA I D.I.                                            implementation
Yogyakarta, February 1996. (Study on TDM & KBD)                                          (Micro-Das).
9. Area Development Advisor, Laporan Akhir Pelaksanaart                      Completed   Used in project
Tugas (Final Report) pada Proyek Bangun Desa II (YUAEDP),                                implementation.
PT Intersys Kelola Maju, October 1996.
10. Community Development Advisor, Outreach Program                          Completed   Used in project
Design Specialist and Land-Use Water Management Advisor,                                 implementation.
Appendices to Final Report 1992-1993, Development
Alternative Inc. and MacDonald Agricultural Services Ltcl.,
April 1993.
11. Richard Gnagey, Manual Konstruksi Jalan Pada                             Completed   Used in project
Pembangunan dan Pemeliharaan Jaltan Proyek Bangun Desa 11                                implementation.
(YUADP), BAPPEDA I D.l. Yogyakarta, 1995. (Manual for
Road Construction and Maintenance)
12. Local Management Specialist, YUADP, Mid-Term                             Completed   Used in project
Assignment Report, PT. Intersys Kelola Maju, February 1.993.                              implementation
(Training).
13. Kabul Santoso, Pemahaman Pedesaan Dalam Waktu                            Completed   Used in project
Singkat (RRA), BAPPEDA I D.l. Yogyakarta, February 1992.                                  implementation.
14. Local Area Development Advisor, Review on Project                        Completed   Used in project
Organizational Structure and Management of YUADP,                                        implementation
BAPPEDA I D.I. Yogyakarta, February 1994.                                                (O&M).
15. International Training Specialist, Final Report,                         Completed   Used in project
Development Alternatives Inc., MacDonald Agricultural                                    implementation
Services Ltd., PT. Intersys Kelola Maju, March 1994.                                     (Training).
16. Yayasan Desa Mandiri Yogyakarta, Laporan Akhir                           Completed   Used in project
Evaluasi dan Analisis Proyek Kecamatan, Proyek Desa dan                                  implementation
Proyek Bantuan Dusun 1991/92-1995/96, Direktorat                                         (M&E).
Pembangunan Masyarakat Desa Propinsi D.I. Yogyakarta,
April 1996. (Evaluation and Analysis on Prokec, Prodes ;nd
Bandes)
17. International Training Advisor, Project Training                         Completed   Used in project
Assessment, Development Alternatives Inc.; MacDonald                                     implementation
Agricultural Services Ltd.; PT. Intersys Kelola Maju, February                           (Training).
1994
18. International Road and Bridge Advisor, Technical                         Completed   Used in project
Assistance Final Report, Development Alternatives Inc.;                                  implementation
MacDonald Agricultural Services Ltd.; PT Intersys Kelola                                 (Research).
Maju, July 1994.
19. Jurusan Tanah Fakultas Pertanian Universitas Gajahinada,                 Completed   Used in project
Evaluasi Mikro DAS dan dampaknya, Jurusan Tanah Fakultas                                 implementation.
Pertanian Universita GAMA bekerja sama dengan Bagian
Proyek Pendukung Pengembangan Kawasan Perbukitan Kritis
Propinsi D.I. Yogyakarta, December 1996. (Micro Das
Evaluation and lmpact)



-20-
20. International Area Development Advisor, Technical                      Completed   Used in project
Assistance, Final Report, Development Altematives Inc.,                                implementation.
MacDonald Agricultural Services Ltd., PT. Intersys Kelola
Maju, 1994
21. Local Management Specialist, Technical Report, Final                   Completed   Used in project
Report, Development Alternatives Inc., MacDonald                                       implementation
Agricultural Services Ltd., PT. Intersys Kelola Maju, 1993.                            (O&M).
22. International Training Specialist, Recommendations for                 Completed   Used in project
Improving Training in the YUADP, Technical Assistance,                                 implementation
Development Alternatives Inc., MacDonald Agricultural                                  (Training).
Services Ltd., PT. Intersys Kelola Maju, 1994.
23. Local Area Development Advisor, Fungsi Ekonomi dan                     Completed   Used in project
Keragaan Pelaksanaan Mikro-Das Tantangan Pelaksanaan                                   implementation.
Ushatani Konservasi pada Lahan Kering Miring Berbukit,
Development Alternative Inc., MacDonald Agricultural
Services Ltd., PT. Intersys Kelola Maju, 1994. (Economic
Performance of Micro Das Implementation: Challenge for
Soil Conservation Farming in Upland Areas).
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$'000))       Actual Estimate (US$'000)
Component                  Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total
Cost       Cost                   Cost        Cost
Community Mobilization                 4,802.3        78.2    4,880.5    4,517.0        83.7    4,600.7
Slope Stabilization                    1,125.4      338.6    1,464.0       925.7       295.9    1,248.6
Rural Roads & Bridges                  6,017.8    2,243.3    8,261.1    4,864.7    1,830.3    6,695.0
Kab. Planning & Coord.                 1,268.4       199.0    1,467.4    1,297.8       196.8    1,494.6
Comm. Dev. Training                      222.5      161.3       383.8       76.5        54.8       131.3
Upland Dev. Support Team                 416.9      441.7       858.6       99.3       110.3       209.6
Prov. Planning & Coord.                2,192.7      896.0    3,088.7    1,990.4        848.0    2,838.4
Upland WSA Research                    2,904.3      363.4    3,267.7      1,414.0      207.4     1,621.4
Area Dev. Planning Support               904.2      499.5    1,403.7       948.9       524.2    1,473.1
Total Costs                           19,854.5    5,221.0   25,076.5   16,161.3    4,151.4   20,312.7
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$'000)        Actual Estimate (US$'000)
Component                  Local     Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total
Cost       Cost                   Cost        Cost
IBRD                                                         15,500.()                          12,960.8
Domestic contributions
- Central Government                       n.a.       n.a.          -           -          -    5,120.7
- Provincial Government                   n.a.        n.a.                      -          -       139.9
- Distict Government                       n.a.       n.a.                      -          -    1,204.9
- Inpres Desa                             n.a.        n.a.                      -          -       886.2
Sub-total Domestic                                            9,576.5           -          -    7,351.7
Total                                 19,855.4    5,221.1   25,076.5            -          -   20,312.5



-21-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate                                        Actual
Component                                                                                                                 l
ERR                 Direct Benefit                 ERR                  Direct Benefit
Upland Productivity                12 %                      n.q.                 9% / 13%"                  8,000 ff 2/
and Stabilization                                                                                           175,000 ff3'
Rural Roads and                    15%                       n.q.                     n..q.                     n.q.
Bridges
1/ 9% - using import parity prices based on US$1=Rp 2,300; 13% - using import parity prices based on
US$1= Rp 5,500.
2/ From watershed stabilization.
3/ From revolving funds.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
[Indonesia]
[Yogyakarta Upland Area Development Project]
Original fulfillment   Revised
Agreement       Covenant   Present           date         fulfillment date        Description of
Section         type if    status 2/                                               covenant              Comments
Art. 4.01 (B (II)   1          C          31 Dec. 2000                        Account and Special account    Fulfilled;
audits submitted to the Bank    FY95/96 SA audit
nine months after end of FY.    received August
19/96
Art. 4.01 B (111)   I          C          31 Dec. 2000                        Submit unaudited accounts four Fulfilled.
months after end of fiscal year.
Sch. 1.3 B (1)     4           C          30 April 2000      31 August 2000   Budget allocation 1995/96 for  In compliance.
road maintenance will be
maintained.
Sch. 5.1            10         C          I April 1993                        Upgrade Agric. Research       Completed by
facilities in Yogyakarta to full  June 1992.
capacity.
Sch. 5.2           5           C          n.a.                                Select subdistrict, village and   In compliance.
hamlet project in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank.
Sch. 5.3            10         C          n.a.                                Hamlet funds to be onlent at    In compliance.
annual interest rates not lower
than BRI's Kupedes scheme.
Sch. 5.4(a)        3           C          n.a.                                At least 40% of resources     In compliance.
allocated under the loan for
roads to be provided to
Gn.Kidul.
Sch. 5.4(b)        5           C          n.a.                                Village roads to be selected in  In compliance.
accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.
Sch. 5.4(c)        9           CD         31 Dec. 1991       30 Sept. 1992    Provincial Public Works       Complied by Sept.
authorities to develop and apply  1992
a system to monitor costs and
physical progress of village
roads, satisfactory to the Bank.
Sch. 5.4(d)        9           CD         31 Dec. 1991       30 Sept. 1992    A system and related action   Complied by Sept.
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, of 1992.



-22-
Original fulfillment  Revised
Agreement      Covenant   Present         date         fulfillment date       Description of
Section        type "    status 2'                                             covenant             Comments
rnonitoring requirement of
mnaintaining village road to be
established.
Sch. 5.4(e)       4           CP        n.a.                               District Public Works      In compliance.
authorities to maintain asphalt
village roads.
Sch. 5.4(f)       6           C         n.a.                               Realignment of roads cutting    Complied; so far
into slopes to be preceded by    only I site
satisfactory Environmental  required EIA.
lmpact Assess.
Sch. 5.5          10          CD        30 June 1993      31 March 1994    Mid-Term Review to be carried Completed by
out.                        April 1994.
Sch. 5.6          5           C         n.a.                              Training institution to be   In compliance.
selected in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
Sch. 5.7          4           C         n.a.                              GOI to ensure that adequate    In compliance.
number of vehicles are available
in timely manner.
Sch. 5.8          5           C         n.a.                               Provincial Working Group on   In compliance.
watershed system actions
research to be maintained.
Sch. 5.9(a)       5           CD        30 Nov. 1991                       Completion of design of courses In compliance.
for (i) hamlet council micro-
watershed planning; (ii) micro-
watershed activity group
mobilization; and (iii) village
level planning and management.
Sch. 5.9(b)        10         CD        30 Nov. 1991                       By 30 Nov. 1991 have in place: Complied by
(i) a land and water        January 1992.
management advisor; (ii)
outreach programme specialist;
(iii) research methodology
specialist; (iv) socio-economist;
(v) upland agronomist/soil
conservation planner; (vi) area
development advisor; and (vii)
village development monitoring
advisor.
"Covenant types:
I = Accounts/Audits                                      8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial perfonmance/revenue generation from beneficiaries   9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                                  11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resources allocation
5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants                              13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement
21 Status:
C     = covenant complied with
CD   = complied with after delay
NC   = not complied with
SOON = compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP   = complied with partially
NYD  = not yet due



-23-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There are no OMS relevant to the project that have not been complied with and/or been acted against.
Table 12: Banlk Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                Planned                         Revised                       Actual
project cycle
Weeks            US$            Weeks           US$           Weeks          US$
Preparation to.                      n.a.             n.a.           n.a.              n.a.         n.a.         n.a.
appraisal
Appraisal                            n.a.             n.a.            n.a.             n.a.         n.a.         n.a.
Negotiations through                 n.a.             n.a.            n.a.             n.a.         n.a.         n.a.
Board approval
Supervision                          n.a.             n.a.           n.a.             n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Completion                           n.a.             n.a.           n.a.             n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
TOTAL                               n.a.             n.a.           n.a.             n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                    Number       D             Specialized     Implemen-       Develop-
project cycle      Month/        of        Days In       staff skills      tation          ment         Types of
year      persons       field       represented        status       objectives     problems
Through appraisal     Feb. 90
Appraisal through     Mar. 91
Board approval
Supervision
I              -      June 91        4           10                              2
2                     Oct.91         3            7                               2              1
3                     July 92        2            4                               2              1
4                     Nov. 92         1           4                               2              1
5                     Feb.93         4            8                              HS             2
6                     July 93        3            6                               S             HS
7                     Nov. 94        1            6                              HS             HS
8                     May 95         2            5                               S              S
9                     May 96         4            6                               5             S
10                    Jan.97         1            4                              S              S
1I                    Aug.97         2            5                              S              S
1/ 1 = no problems;  2 = satisfactory;  S = satisfactory; HS = highly satisfactory.



-24 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3305-IND)
Appendix A
Mission's Aide-Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        The following represents the provisional conclusions of a mission1 from the FAO
Investment Centre which visited Indonesia from 4 to 18 February 1998. After initial discussions
with BANGDA in Jakarta, the mission visited the project areas in Yogyakarta where it reviewed
the extent of project implementation and held discussions with relevant Government
implementing agencies and farmers in the project areas. At the end of the mission's stay, two
wrap-up meetings were held, one with Government project personnel in Yogyakarta and the other
under the chairmanship of BANGDA at Jakarta and participated by all relevant agencies of
Government where the mission's conclusions were outlined. This aide-memoire summarizes the
agreed conclusions of the meeting.
2.        The mission would like to record its appreciation for the support provided by the staff
of BAPPEDA (TKI and TKII) and the various Dinases as well as the Camats and Kades of the
Kecamatans and Desas visited by the mission.
B. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project Implementation
Financial
3.        The project, which is a follow-up to the previous Yogyakarta Rural Development
Project, became effective in June 1991 and was to be implemented over a period of six and a half
years; original closing date - December 31, 1996. Project implementation proceeded well, actual
disbursements exceeded appraisal targets during the first two years, stabilized roughly along
appraisal targets in the following two years and fell slightly behind towards the end of the
implementation period. The project was provided with one extension and closed on 31 December
1997. The principal justification for project extension was to allow the consolidation and
application of the physical, technical and organizational achievements and capitalize on the
momentum generated into effective program development. The extension of project activities
1. Sobhan, Mission Leader/Economist and M. Manzoor Khan, Agronomist (Consultant). The mission was
joined in the field by Wiranto Soehendro, Task Manager and W. Cuddihy, Senior Economist of the World
Bank.



-2-5-
was limited to specific elements of the project and did not apply to all project activities. Total
project expenditure as of September 1997 was estimated at about IDR 44,792 million as against
SAR estimates of IDR 47,670 million or about 93% of total estimated expenditure. The
depreciation of the Indonesian rupiah over the project implementation period however implies
that in US dollar terms, actual expenditures were of the order of some US$20.3 million as against
the SAR estimate of US$25.0 million, a saving of about 20%. Of the total loan of US$15.5
million provided by the Bank to GOI for the project, US$1.3 million was cancelled due to
currency depreciation and savings generated during implementation. Project expenditure from the
loan is estimated to reach about US$13.8 mnillion or about 97% of the revised allocation.
4.        The allocations of project costs between components varied significantly from those
envisaged at appraisal. There have been significant cost overruns in three component categories.
The component of community mobilization encompassing training, village projects, kecamatan
projects and hamlet revolving funds hacl a cost overrun of about 16%. This was due to the
combined impact of an increase in the number of villages supported, increase in the unit cost of
support to each village (from IDR 7.5 million to IDR 10 million) and an increase in the number of
years of project support from two to three years for each village. Thus for instance, within
community mobilization, hamlet projects suffered a 42% cost overrun due to the need for
additional inputs for micro-watersheds (miicro-DAS) such as multi-purpose terrace strengthening,
additional assistance for the maintenance of village nurseries and expansion of the micro-DAS
model into expansion areas. The component of Kabupaten Planning and Coordination also
suffered a cost overrun of nearly 25% largely as a consequence of the inclusion of community
development - training within this component. There was also a small increase in the Provincial
Planning and Coordination component. T he component of Area Development Planning Support
implemented by BANGDA suffered a cost overrun of about 30%. This was due to an effort to
establish a national MIS at BANGDA which was unforeseen at the time of appraisal. These cost
overruns were adjusted against savings in the components of community development - training,
upland development support team, and upland watershed action research. A revised allocation of
project costs financed by the loan was made with the agreement of the Bank.
Physical
5.        The project's physical performance has been impressive. The project has achieved
and, in a large number of activities, sigrlificantly exceeded appraisal targets. This is despite the
projects involvement in a large number of separate activities. The most significant of these are the
implementation of watershed conservation and improvement measures, support for village and
kecamatan projects and the provision of hamlet revolving funds. In all of these cases targets have
been exceeded, often significantly. The only component which failed to achieve its target was the
provision of an MIS by the national agency, BANGDA. The comments of a Mid-Term Review,
conducted during the third year of project implementation, with respect to the need for a revision
of the project's physical targets was overtaken by the speed with which project activities were
subsequently implemented.



-26-
Organizational/Institutional
6.        In as much as the project's technical focus related to  the establishment of the
parameters of watershed management, it also had an equally important institutional focus of
strengthening local level institutions. The project was structured at two levels; there were two
components at the national level, research and planning support, and seven components at the
district and provincial level. Reflecting the objectives of dLecentralization, the project has been
implemented virtually entirely by the Provincial and District administration. Decentralized
decision making did not stop with Government agencies alone but included the involvement of
beneficiaries directly by allowing them virtual freedom in the choice of activities in the use of
funds allocated to them. The involvement of the national agency envisaged for overall
coordination and implementation of the field program was in fact limited to that of providing the
necessary budgetary indent/authorization for the provincial agencies.
7.        Project implementation  was  undertaken  by  a  total of some  24  focal
coordination/management units, four each in each of the four districts/kabupaten, seven at the
provincial level and one at BANGDA at the national level. Despite a concern expressed at MTR,
the sub-management units which reflected existing functional responsibilities in provincial and
district administration performed well. However, given that components such as the village
projects and kecamatan projects both supported the implementation of the same activities (such as
village roads, small irrigation/water supplies, and goat distribution) by the same set of people, i.e.
the villages, the bifurcation of responsibilities between the villages and the kecamatans amounted
to a duplication that would have been best avoided.
Project Impact
8.        The project reflects an effort to establish a long term strategy for the development of
areas where the environmental resource base acts as a major constraining factor. In terms of its
goals of establishing the technical parameters for the conservation and utilization of the upland
areas based on a watershed basis, the project was well implemented. In terms of establishing its
goals of strengthening local level institutions and furtheriing the Government's objective of
decentralization, the achievement and impact was much greater. There has been a commendable
increase in contributions to project activities not only by provincial authorities but also by project
beneficiaries themselves. The two national components however had limited impact on the
project or the beneficiaries. Upland action research failed to establish the appropriate linkages
with extension, specifically for instance with the technology display menu activity, and remained
somewhat segregated from the total project. The planning support to be provided by BANGDA
particularly through the establishment of an MIS was not achieved and this too remained
somewhat isolated from the project. Project impact has been assessed through the performance of
seven key indicators reflecting the combined impact of the different project components at the
field or district and provincial level. A summarized review of project impact based on those
indicators is as follows:



-2Y7-
Micro Watershed Stabillization (micro-DAS). There is little doubt that the
basic technical physical dimension underlying the project, watershed
conservation measures and farming demonstrations, have had an impact on
productivity of the farms through its effect on reducing soil erosion. This has
been measured through irnproved scores on the quality of physical conservation
measures (such as bench and contour terraces, improved waterways, drop
structures, infiltration pits and strengthening of terrace risers) and reduced
estimates of erosion levels measured through an estimation of an erosion index.
The critical element has been in the selection of the watershed; where erosion
problems were significant, the measures have had a visible impact. Apart from
the introduction of some perennial and horticultural tree species there has
however been little change in the cropping pattern, although yields have
improved significantly. Wrhile the full impact of the measures would have to
wait until the fruit and multi-purpose tree species reach maturity, monitoring
surveys indicate positive results from about 75% of the watersheds. An index
of the positive impact has also been the increase in the numbers of small stock
by watershed members. hIowever, there has been limited impact on farmers
outside the watershed areas.
Technology Display Menus (TDM). There has been little or no impact from
the TDM measures undertaken by the project. Designed with the objective of
demonstrating alternative and new technologies, TDM plots lacked the
anticipated link with research. As a consequence, the plots remained largely a
reflection of the farmners own fields and have had little bearing for the project
or the farmers.
Hamlet Nurseries (KBD).  Established with the objective of being the
principal source for planting material for conservation measures, the nurseries
contributed little to the project. Planting materials required for the watershed
component was provided largely by private producers. A very small quantity of
planting materials from these nurseries were provided under the village
projects. The quality of plant material produced by the nurseries and the
performance of the groups were poor and the impact on the project has been
marginal.
Rural Roads and Bridges (JALTAN).  The difficulty of the terrain,
particularly in the rainy season, imply a significant impact from the provision
of roads under the project. Project impact would obviously be greater as and
when the full potential of tlhe area is realized.
Subdistrict Project (PROKEC) and Village Project (PRODES). Differing
principally in the operational modality in the channelling of funds, overall
project impact assessed th[rough these two indicators has been very positive.
While the interventions supported provide a measure of the needs of the people,
an equally important elemrent has been the establishment of a process that
responds to the demands of the people. The institutional strengthening has
allowed agencies at the local level to formnulate operational plans and budgets,
furthering the goal of decentralized development. Although initially intended to
be different, investments financed under Prokec and Prodes covered essentially



-28-
the same set of activities for the same set of people. These activities covered a
wide range such as small village roads and bridges, small irrigation, water
supplies and sanitation, seedling distribution and cattle and goat distribution.
Project impact has been significant and the enthusiasm generated has been
translated into increased beneficiary contribution for the sub-projects.
Hamlet Revolving Funds (PRODUS). One of the most significant impact of
the project has been the operation of the hamlet revolving funds. The
establishment of a successful local level credit operation has the potential of
being the driving force of future development for the area. Given the nature of
the distribution of activities financed through credit, it would be prudent
however to recognize that sustainability for the future, with increasing
participation of the people, will require increasing complementary investments
in activities that implicitly increase market access and size, i.e. through the
provision of roads and markets aimed at linking other areas.
Lessons Learned
Technology
9.        The technological basis for a conservation focused watershed based strategy for the
development of upland areas has been shown to be partially successful. A watershed management
strategy which includes run-off control and soil conservation and farm planning and
diversification can provide the elements for agricultural development in the upland areas.
However, long run sustainability in agriculture for those areas can be achieved if changes in the
cropping pattern also take place at the same time. Marginal changes which include improved crop
management and the introduction of some perennial fruit and multi-purpose tree species have
brought about increases in income. However, there is an acute need for the development of a crop
technology to support the physical technology developed under the project. The lack of success in
the development of crop technology indicates first, the need for a more concerted effort with a
more direct involvement of both research and extension in the development of alternative
cropping menus suitable for adoption by farmers, and second, while the development of more tree
crops is a likely possibility, plant nursery material should be procured from private nurseries at
the local level rather than attempting to establish group nurseries.
Project Design
10.       A conservation based strategy for the development of upland areas works best when
it is combined with efforts to provide social investment capital and increase off farm incomes.
The support provided for village projects for common use such as water supplies, irrigation,
roads, in combination with support for off-farm income generation through the provision of the
revolving fund proved to be a critical element for project success. However, in so pursuing the
objectives, the project attempted a large number of approaches and activities resulting in a
complicated organizational structure. This runs counter to the requirement of simplicity in the
design of rural development projects. Although project imnplementation despite the complexity
proceeded reasonably well, this could reflect the particular situation of the province of
Yogyakarta with its historical and educational background and may not be conducive for



-29 -
replicability in the other provinces in Indonesia. Local level (kecamatan and village) projects can
and should, for instance, be integrated into one component.
II.       While block financial allocations are attractive due to their flexibility and facility to
being demand responsive, such as in the village and kecamatan projects, there is a tendency
towards an involvement in far too many, and often, disparate activities. Although some criteria in
the selection of activities were provided they were inadequate and not applied effectively. There
is a critical need for establishing criteria and parameters for selecting project activities.
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
12.       The project benefited from a high degree of supervision and monitoring despite
several changes in responsible project staff (task manager) both at the World Bank and at
BANGDA. The project has undertaken a large number of studies on various aspects related to the
project not all of which have been effectively translated into practice. Project monitoring has been
particularly elaborate and commendable and considerable data have been collected. However, the
data has not been adequately analyzed. Project supervision has been systematic and consistent,
recommending a number of evaluation of specific activities before deciding to curtail or
strengthen them. The focus on appraisal goals dominated supervision efforts. Attention to
component/activities impact would have revealed, early, the inadequacy and non-sustainability of
some of the interventions (such as the nurseries and TDM) so that appropriate actions could be
taken.
Operational Plan
13.        The project closed on 31 December 1997. The mission was pleased to note that the
Government had provided sufficient funds for the continuation of project activities to the end of
the Indonesia financial year at the end of March 1998. This is an index of the importance and
commitment attached by the Government as well as the District and Provincial authorities. The
financing of operational activities beyond tlhe project will largely be carried out by project
beneficiaries. Government support would be required only for the research component and the
maintenance of roads established under the project. The proportion of funds required for
supporting maintenance/operational expenditures would be a small percentage of total resources
available at the Provincial level for each Kabupaten. A commitment for such support has been
provided both at the national, BANGDA, level and at the Provincial/District, BAPPEDA, levels.



-30-
APPENDIX B
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMMENTS ON THE ICR REPORT
(Report No. 98/027 Cl?-INS)
In general we fully accept and very much appreciate with the report presentation, because
the report has submitted a comprehensive understanding and evaluation concerning the
essence of Project's success. And the fact that the findings and the evaluation results of
the ICR Preparation Study done by Project (1997), in this case it's conducted by
Directorate General of Regional Development, has been well considered in this Bank's
report.
2.    This Bank's report had obviously noted that many Project's goals have been well
achieved and implemented, and some key lessons had learned, beside there are some
activities had not been carried out properly. The facts still should be given serious
attention.
3.    As mentioned in the SAR that the Project would be a model of the kinds, and also as it is
described in the report para 34, the similar projects as regional/area development projects
are at status of on-going in Nusa Tenggara and Sulawesi, and three other regional projects
are under various stages of project's processing (preparation/appraisal/negotiations) in
Maluku, Bengkulu and Kalimantan. It is remarkable important and for the benefit of
those projects, if this Bank's report could also appraise more detail and specific
concerning the success factors of YUADP which could be adopted for a model in similar
other projects in the provinces outside Yogyakarta. The appraisal is also important in
preparing project's guidelines which would be prepared by the Ministry/Directorate
General of BANGDA.



IBD 22421
INDONESIA
YOGYAKARTA UPLAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(BANGUN DESA II)
IM        Project Area                                               Elevations in, meters:
Landform Classes                                               2900
Isolsyets in mm/yr                                         10
500
Railroads                                                  200
Subdistrict IKecamatanl Boundlareis 
District IKabapateal Boundaries                            La     r,Classes:
J A  W    A                     ~~~~~~~Province Boundaries
Woncsori Plaias (1 5% slope)
\ T E N  GAH                    0             5I                         n1            20                     Karst (Land of a thousand hills)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~>15% slope, internally drained
KILOMETERS                             ~~~~~~~Unstable Uplands (>1 5% slope)
)(   Irrigated Rice Plains
Volcanic Sail Uplands
1> 15% slope)
S   Volcanic Soil Dryland
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mo
OCEAN D    Ar (> QO Dh                                                        I      -  >
WAM~~~~,z  ASAI
;P, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   0



